April 
1934 


3 

2 


i 


ONE  HUNDRED  FOURTH 

Annual  Qonference 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

April  6,  7,  8, 1934 

With  Report  of  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


A  THRILLING  STORY 

of  Century  One  of 

CHURCH  HISTORY 

ERE  is  a  new  story  of  "Mormonism,"  told  with  a  com- 
pleteness and  charm  that  will  thrill  Latter-day  Saints 
with  a  pride  of  achievement  and  at  the  same  time 
win  the  admiration  of  the  critic,  be  he  friend  or  foe.  In  a 
COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH,  B.  H. 
Roberts  has  done  a  masterful  piece  of  research  and  has  set 
down  the  record  of  Century  One — 1830  to  1930 — in  a  bril- 
liant appraisal  of  momentous  events.  The  reader  with  a 
sentimental  interest  will  be  fascinated  with  this  narrative 
of  truth  stranger  than  fiction;  the  reader  who  approaches 
the  new  work  with  the  critical  vision  of  the  historian  will 
find  it  fair  in  statement,  authentic  in  fact,  copious  in  detail 
and  sound  in  judgment. 

A  COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH  was 
written  by  Elder  Roberts  at  the  instance  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church,  with  a  commission  to  make  it  exhaus- 
tively complete,  from  the  remotest  beginnings  to  the  close 
of  the  Centennial  Conference  of  April  6,  1930.  The  final 
volume  ends  with  an  account  of  the  Conference  itself,  mak- 
ing the  history  technically  inclusive  of  all  that  happened  in 
Century  One  of  the  organized  existence  of  the  Church.  Thus 
it  is  a  fitting  commemoration  of  one  hundred  years  of  strug- 
gle and  achievement. 

This  monumental  work  is  not  to  be  confused  with  any  former 
history,  journal  or  chronicle.  Though  its  nucleus  is  the  his- 
tory of  "Mormonism"  published  a  few  years  ago  in 
AMERICANA,  running  serially  for  six  years  through  that 
magazine,  yet  this  History  is  NEW — new  in  its  wealth  of 
material,  new  in  method  of  treatment  and  new  in  its  physical 
representation  of  the  book  maker's  art. 

Cash  Price  $30.00 

For  further  information  address  your  inquiry  to 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


One  Hundred  and  Fourth  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  and  Fourth  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  April  6,  7,  and  8,  1934. 

The  proceedings  of  the  various  sessions  of  the  Conference  were 
broadcast  by  radio,  through  the  courtesy  of  Station  KSL  of  Salt  Lake 
City,  for  the  benefit  of  the  general  public. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  'J.  Grant,  Anthony  W.  Ivins,  and 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed 
Smoot,  George  Albert  Smith,  *,  David  O.  McKay,  Joseph  Fielding 
Smith,  2,  Richard  R.  Lyman,  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  John  A.  Widtsoe,  , 
and  Charles  A.  Callis. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy :  J.  Golden  Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells, 
\  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins,  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  and  John 
H.  Taylor. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric:  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  David  A.  Smith, 
and  John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants :  Andrew  Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  counselors,  Patriarchs,  and  numerous 
High  Priests,  Seventies,  and  Elders,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Education,  and  General,  Stake, 
and  Ward  officers  of  the  auxiliary  organizations. 

Mission  Presidents:  Don  B.  Colton,  Eastern  States;  George  S. 
Romney,  Northern  States ;  Arthur  Welling,  North  Central  States ;  Elias 
S.  Woodruff,  Central  States ;  Miles  L.  Jones,  East  Central  States ; 
LeGrand  Richards,  Southern  States ;  Charles  E.  Rowan,  Jr.,  Texas ; 
Joseph  J.  Daynes,  Western  States ;  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley,  California ; 
William  R.  Sloan,  Northwestern  States ;  John  V.  Bluth,  Canada ;  Harold 
W.  Pratt,  Mexico ;  Joseph  S.  Peery,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

'George  F.  Richards  was  absent  because  of  illness. 

2Stephen  L.  Richards  was  absent  because  of  illness1. 

"Joseph  F.  Merrill  was  absent,  presiding  over  the  European  Mission. ' 

'Charles  H.  Hart  was  absent  because  of  illness. 


FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  large  auditorium  and  galleries  of  the  great  Tabernacle  were 
filled  almost  to  capacity  with  men  and  women  from  the  stakes  and  mis- 
sions of  the  Church. 

The  opening  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  promptly  at  10 
o'clock,  Friday  morning,  October  '6,  1934,  with  President  Heber  J. 
Grant  presiding. 

The  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Come,  come,  ye 
Saints." 

Elder  John  B.  Reed,  President  of  the  San  Luis  Stake,  offered  the 
invocation. 

A  soprano  solo,  "Fear  not  ye,  O  Israel,"  was  sung  by  Jessie  Williams. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

presented  for  the  vote  of  the  Conference  the  General  Authorities  and 
Officers  of  the  Church,  also  the  General  Auxiliary  Officers,  who  were 
unanimously  sustained,  as  follows  : 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthony  W.  Ivins,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  Stephen  L.  Richards 

Reed  Smoot  Richard  R.  Lyman 

George  Albert  Smith  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

George  F.  Richards  John  A.  Widtsoe 

David  O.  McKay  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Charles  A.  Callis 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency  and  the  Twelve  Apostles 
as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


3 


FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Levi  Edgar  Young 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Charles  H.  Hart  Samuel  O.  Bennion 

John  H.  Taylor 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH  HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants :  Andrew 
Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 


CHURCH  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

David  O.  McKay 
Stephen  L.  Richards 
Richard  R.  Lyman 
John  A.  Widtsoe 
Adam  S.  Bennion 
Franklin  S  Harris 


Heber  J.  Grant 
Anthony  W.  Ivins 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 
Willard  Young 
Rudger  Clawson 
Joseph  F.  Merrill 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 


Henry  H.  Rolapp 


COMMISSIONER  OF  EDUCATION 

John  A.  Widtsoe 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Orval  W.  Adams 


John  W.  Hart 


TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

David  A.  Smith,  President;  Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor;  B. 
Cecil  Gates,  Assistant  Conductor. 

ORGANISTS 

Edward  P.  Kimball  Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper  Wade  M.  Stephens,  Assistant 

CLERK  OF  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Joseph  Anderson 
GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Louise  Y.  Robison,  President 
Amy  Brown  Lyman,  First  Counselor 
Julia  A.  Child,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


i 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

David  O.  McKay,  General  Superintendent 
Stephen  L.  Richards,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
George  D.  Pyper,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  MEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

George  Albert  Smith,  General  Superintendent 
Richard  R.  Lyman,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
Melvin  J.  Ballard,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  LADIES'  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Ruth  May  Fox,  President 
Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  First  Counselor 
Clarissa  A.  Beesley,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Anderson,  Superintendent 
Isabelle  S.  Ross,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
Edith  Hunter  Lambert,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


FINANCIAL  AND  STATISTICAL  REPORT 

At  the  request  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  Elder  David  O.  McKay 
read  the  financial  and  statistical  report  of  the  Church  as  follows : 

FINANCIAL  STATEMENT 

The  expenditures  by  the  Church  for  the  year  1933  : 
Stake  and  Ward  Purposes: 

There  has  been  returned  from  the  tithes  to  the  stakes  and 
wards  for  the  construction  of  ward  and  stake  meeting 

houses  $  123,458.48 

For  ward  maintenance  expenses   646,408.44 

For  stake  maintenance  expenses   189,296.04 


$  959,162.96 

Education : 

Expended  for  the  maintenance  of  Church  school  system.  .$  530,243.19 
Temples : 

Expended  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  temples.  .$  136,457.70 
Charities : 

For  the  care  of  the  worthy  poor  and  other  charitable  pur- 
poses, including  hospital  treatment  $  157,208.88 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


5 


Missionary  Work : 

For  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  all  the  missions  and 
for  the  erection  of  places  of  worship  and  other  build- 
ings in  the  missions  $  597,577.42 


Total   $2,380,650.15 

which  has  been  taken  from  the  tithes  and  other  Church 
funds  and  returned  by  the  Trustee-in-trust  to  the  Saints 
for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  the  stakes  and 
•wards,  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  Church 
schools  and  temples,  for  charities  and  mission  activities. 

Other  Charities: 

In  addition  to  charities  paid  from  the  tithes  as  before 
named,  there  has  also  been  disbursed  the  fast  offerings, 
other  charities,  and  assistance  rendered  by  the  Relief 
Society,  in  the  sum  of  $355,566.71,  which  amount, 
added  to  the  $157,208.88  paid  from  the  tithes,  makes  * 
the  total  charity  assistance  rendered  by  the  Church.  .$  512,775.59 

Expended  for  the  maintenance  of  missionaries: 

There  has  been  collected  by  the  various  wards  of  the  Church 

and  paid  to  missionaries  to  assist  in  their  maintenance .  $  43,799.02 

Average  cost  per  missionary  in  the  missions  during  the  year 
1933,  $29.77  per  month,  or  a  total  of  $357.24  per  year 
per  missionary.  There  was  an  average  of  1,016  mis- 
sionaries in  the  various  missions  during  1933,  making 
a  total  average  expense  for  the  year,  ($357.24  x 
1,016)   $  362,955.84 

Estimated  average  earnings  per  missionary  $900.00  per  year 
x  1,016,  average  number  of  missionaries,  makes  an 
estimated  total  of  what  these  missionaries  might  have 

earned  if  at  home  of   $  914,400.00 

making  a  total  estimated  contribution  of  missionaries 
and  their  families  to  the  Church  for  the  preaching  of 
the  Gospel   $1,321,154.86 

STATISTICS  AND  OTHER  DATA  COMPILED  FROM  THE  ANNUAL  REPORTS  FOR 

THE  YEAR  1933 

There  are  at  the  present  time:  105  stakes  of  Zion;  935  wards; 
79  independent  branches;  36  dependent  branches,  or  a  total  of  1,050 
wards  and  branches  in  the  stakes  of  Zion.  There  are  31  missions 
(including  the  European  Mission),  875  mission  branches,  and  206 
districts. 

CHURCH  GROWTH 

Children  blessed  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the  Church  in  the 

stakes  and  missions   19,528 

Children  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions   15,480 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Converts  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions   7,889 

Number  of  long-term  missionaries  from  Zion,  Dec.  31,  1933. . . .  971 

Number  of  short-term  missionaries  from  Zion,  Dec.  31,  1933 . .  31 

Number  of  local  missionaries    61 


Total  number  of  missionaries  on  foreign  missions   1,063 

Number  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  the  stakes    1,585 


Total  Missionaries    2,648 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  at  the  Missionary 

Home   409 

Persons  recommended  to  the  temples  from  the  stakes  74,357 


SOCIAL  STATISTICS 

Birth  rate,  27.3  per  thousand 

Marriage  rate,  15.5  per  thousand 

Death  rate,  6.7  per  thousand 

Families  owning  their  own  homes,  62  per  cent. 

CHANGES  IN  STAKE  AND  MISSION  OFFICERS  SINCE  LAST  OCTOBER 
CONFERENCE 

Mission  Presidents  Appointed : 

Joseph  J.  Daynes  appointed  President  of  the  Western  States  Mis- 
sion to  succeed  Elias  S.  Woodruff. 

LeGrand  Richards  appointed  President  of  the  Southern  States 
Mission  to  succeed  Charles  A.  Callis. 

Reuben  M.  Wiberg  appointed  President  of  the  Tongan  Mission 
to  succeed  Verl  L.  Stubbs  (who  was  acting-president). 

Harold  W.  Pratt  appointed  President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 
to  succeed  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

William  G.  Sears  appointed  President  of  the  Samoan  Mission  to 
succeed  Willard  L.  Smith. 
Temple  President  Appointed : 

Robert  D.  Young  appointed  President  of  the  Manti  Temple  to 
succeed  Lewis  Anderson  who  passed  away. 
New  Stake  Organized : 

Wells  Stake  organized,  formerly  part  of  Grant  Stake. 
Stake  Presidents  Appointed : 

Thomas  E.  Towler  appointed  President  of  Wells  Stake. 

Charles  W.  Fagg  appointed  President  of  the  Grant  Stake  to  suc- 
ceed Joseph  J.  Daynes. 

Claudius  Bowman  appointed  President  of  the  Juarez  Stake  to 
succeed  Ralph  B.  Keeler. 

David  H.  Cannon  appointed  President  of  the  Hollywood  Stake 
to  succeed  LeGrand  Richards. 

Charles  C.  Heaton  appointed  President  of  the  Kanab  Stake  to  suc- 
ceed Heber  J.  Meeks. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


7 


Wallace  Eugene  Poulson  appointed  President  of  the  Sevier  Stake 
to  succeed  Robert  D.  Young. 
Stake  President  who  has  died : 

Heber  J.  Meeks  of  the  Kanab  Stake. 
New  Wards  Organized:' 

Fairfield  Ward,  Blaine  Stake  (formerly  an  independent  branch). 

Springfield  Ward,  Blackfoot  Stake  (formerly  an  independent 
branch). 

N ew  Branch  Organized : 

Morgan  Independent  Branch,  San  Luis  Stake. 
Wards  and  Branch  Disorganized : 

Manard  Ward,  Blaine  Stake. 

Cedarview  Ward,  Roosevelt  Stake. 

Hollister  Branch.  Twin  Falls  Stake. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

It  is  a  source  of  great  pleasure  to  me  to  meet  this  vast  audience. 
I  think  that  this  is  the  largest  audience  that  I  recall  having  seen  in  this 
house  at  a  Friday  conference  meeting.  It  is  very  gratifying  to  me  to 
see  the  interest  that  the  people  have  in  our  conferences. 

I  appreciate  the  remarkable  and  wonderful  growth  of  the  Church. 
When  I  look  back  fifty-one  years  ago  this  coming  October  conference,  to 
the  time  when  I  became  one  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church — 
at  which  time  as  I  recall  it  we  had  less  than  thirty  stakes,  and  now 
we  have  one  hundred  and  five — I  am  grateful  for  the  growth  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

RECALLS  EARLY  TRIP 

I  recall  my  first  trip  fifty  years  ago  this  coming  May  up  into  the 
Rexburg  country.  Rexburg  at  that  time  was  a  branch  of  one  of  the 
wards  in  Cache  Valley,  and  there  were  fewer  than  1300  people  belong- 
ing to  the  Church  residing  north  of  the  Oneida  Stake  of  Zion.  Today 
we  have  more  than  100,000  I  am  sure,  if  we  go  north  and  west,  and  up 
into  Canada. 

I  also  recall  that  just  before  I  was  made  a  member  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve,  I  visited  Oakley  and  other  towns  in  the  vicinity  of  Oakley. 
One  year  previous  to  that  time  I  visited  Oakley  when  it  was  a  branch  of 
the  Grantsville  Ward  of  the  Tooele  Stake  of  Zion.  I  had  to  travel  to 
Salt  Lake  City,  through  the  Salt  Lake,  the  Davis,  the  Weber  and  the  Box 
Elder  stakes  to  Brigham  City,  and  then  two  days  and  a  fraction  west- 
ward to  get  to  a  branch  of  the  Grantsville  Ward  of  the  Tooele  Stake  of 
Zion.  We  now  have  about  half  a  dozen  stakes  between  Brigham  City 
and  that  section. 

DIVINE  AUTHORITY  RESTORED 

Each  and  every  year  the  Church  is  stronger  than  it  was  the  year 
before.  The  Church  is  progressing,  it  is  not  going  backward.  Men 
may  make  mistakes,  but  the  Church  stands  firm. 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  Gospel  is  in  very  deed  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation.  God 
has  spoken  again  from  the  heavens.  God  himself  has  introduced  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ,  the  Savior  of  the  world,  to  the  boy  Joseph  Smith. 
John  the  Baptist  has  laid  his  hands  upon  the  heads  of  Joseph  Smith 
and  Oliver  Cowdery  and  given  them  the  authority  to  baptize,  then  com- 
manding them  to  baptize  each  other. 

Peter,  James,  and  John,  the  Apostles  of  Jesus  Christ  during  his 
ministry  and  after  his  death,  have  laid  their  hands  upon  the  heads  of 
Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  and  restored  again  the  apostleship 
to  earth.  Every  gift,  every  grace,  every  endowment,  every  privilege,  and 
every  authority  that  was  enjoyed  in  early  days  by  the  Saints  of  God 
during  the  administration  of  Jesus  Christ  and  following  his  crucifixion 
belong  to  and  are  enjoyed  today  by  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

CHAPELS  DEDICATED 

Nearly  every  Sunday  during  the  past  six  months  I  have  dedicated  a 
meeting  house  or  met  with  various  branches  in  the  missions  of  the 
Church.  During  the  past  six  months  we  have  dedicated  a  magnificent 
chapel  in  Washington,  D.  C,  a  credit  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  a 
credit  to  that  great  city,  acknowledged  by  all  with  whom  I  have  talked — 
although  not  so  expensive  as  some  other  church  buildings  which  cost 
perhaps  two,  three  or  four  times  as  much — to  be  a  building  equal  in 
beauty  and  construction,  for  its  size,  to  any  of  the  fine  buildings  in 
Washington.  At  the  first  meeting  of  the  branch  some  years  ago  in 
Washington  there  were  five  in  attendance.  More  than  two  thousand 
people  attended  the  dedication  of  our  chapel — of  course  some  of  them 
came  a  second  time,  and  perhaps  a  third,  but  people  were  requested  to 
attend  but  one  meeting.  It  is  a  matter  of  satisfaction,  to  realize  that  we 
have  one  of  the  very  finest  churches  in  our  chief  city,  the  capital  of  our 
nation. 

HAVE  TRUTH  TO  GIVE 

It  is  a  source  of  satisfaction  that  I  can  say  that  I  believe  that 
every  true  Latter-day  Saint,  or  every  Latter-day  Saint  who  is  actually 
living  his  or  her  religion,  sustains  in  his  or  her  heart,  with  prayers  and 
good  works,  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church.  I  am  very  grateful 
for  the  truth. 

I  remember  distributing  some  pamphlets — in  fact  several  thousand 
— during  the  Christmas  season,  entitled,  "The  Power  of  Truth."  We 
have  the  truth  to  give  to  the  world,  and  no  other  people  has  the  truth, 
the  actual  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  established  by  Him.  This  little 
pamphlet  says  regarding  truth  : 

Truth  is  the  rock  foundation  of  every  great  character. 

And  truth  is  the  rock  foundation  of  the  Church  of  Christ,  and  you 
and  I  have  been  blessed  with  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  it. 

It  is  loyalty  to  the  right  as  we  see  it;  it  is  courageous  living  of  our  lives 
in  harmony  with  our  ideals ;  it  is  always — power. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


9 


TESTIMONY  REMAINS 

When  we  live  in  harmony  with  our  high  ideals  we  never  lose  the" 
testimony  of  the  Gospel.  We  are  ever  ready  and  willing  to  sustain 
those  who  in  the  providence  of  the  Lord  have  been  called  upon  to 
preside  over  the  Church.  Those  who  fail  to  keep  the  commandments 
of  the  Lord  and  who  indulge  in  fault-finding  and  criticism  are  the  only 
ones  who  lose  their  faith. 

From  my  childhood  until  the  present  time  I  have  no  recollection  of 
any  individual  with  whom  I  have  been  acquainted,  who  was  an  honest, 
conscientious  tithe-payer,  who  was  listening  to  and  obeying  the  instruc- 
tions given  by  the  president  of  the  Church,  and  by  the  various  presidents 
of  stakes  and  bishops  of  wards,  having  lost  his  or  her  faith.  On  the 
contrary  I  have  seen  many  lose  their  faith  who  have  failed  to  live  up  to 
Latter-day  Saint  ideals  and  their  Gospel  knowledge.  Some  one  has  said 
that  "knowledge  without  practice  is  like  a  glass  eye,  all  for  show  and 
nothing  for  use." 

Truth  ever  defies  full  definition.  Like  electricity  it  can  only  be  explained 
by  noting  its  manifestation.  It  is  the  compass  of  the  soul,  the  guardian  of  con- 
science, the  final  touchstone  of  right.  Truth  is  the  revelation  of  the  ideal ;  but 
it  is  also  an  inspiration  to  realize  that  ideal,  a  constant  impulse  to  live  it. 

MISSIONARIES  HAPPY 

In  no  part  of  the  work  of  God  here  upon  the  earth  at  the  present 
time  is  there  such  a  band  of  happy,  contented,  peaceful  people  as  those 
who  are  engaged  in  missionary  service.  Service  is  the  real  key  to  joy. 
When  one  is  giving  service  for  the  advancement  of  humanity,  when 
one  is  working  without  money  and  without  price,  with  no  hope  of 
earthly  reward,  there  comes  a  real,  genuine  joy  into  the  human  heart 
that  I  am  convinced  only  those  who  have  experienced  the  inspiration  » 
of  the  Holy  Ghost  which  comes  to  them  in  the  mission  field  know  any- 
thing about. 

I  can  testify  in  all  humility  that  the  three  years  that  stand  out  most 
prominently  in  my  life  are  the  three  years  when  I  was  laboring  as 
the  president  of  the  European  Mission. 

LYING  SCORED 

Lying  is  one  of  the  oldest  vices  in  the  world — it  made  its  debut  in  the  first 
recorded  conversation  in  history,  in  a  famous  interview  in  the  garden  of  Eden. 
Lying  is  the  sacrifice  of  honor  to  create  a  wrong  impression.  It  is  masquerading 
in  misfit  virtues.  Truth  can  stand  alone,  for  it  needs  no  chaperone  or  escort. 
Lies  are  cowardly,  fearsome  things  that  must  travel  in  battalions.  They  are 
like  a  lot  of  drunken  men,  one  vainly  seeking  to  support  another.  Lying  is'  the 
partner  and  accomplice  of  all  other  vices.  It  is  the  cancer  of  moral  degeneracy 
in  an  individual  life. 

Truth  is  the  oldest  of  all  virtues ;  it  antedated  man,  it  lived  before  there  was 
man  to  perceive  it  or  to  accept  it.  It  is  the  unchangeable,  the  constant.  Law 
is  the  eternal  truth  of  nature — the  unity  that  always  produces  identical  results 
under  identical  conditions.  When  a  man  discovers  a  great  truth  in  nature  he  has' 
the  key  to  the  understanding  of  a  million  phenomena ;  when  he  grasps  a  great 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


truth  in  morals  he  has  in  it  the  key  to  his  spiritual  re-creation.  For  the  individual, 
there  is  no  such  thing  as  theoretic  truth;  a  great  truth  that  is  not  absorbed  by 
our  whole  mind  and  life,  and  has  not  become  an  inseparable  part  of 
our  living,  is  not  a  real  truth  to  us.  If  we  know  the  truth  and  do  not  live  ift, 
our  life  is — a  lie. 

May  the  Lord  help  each  and  every  one  of  us  to  live  the  truth  is 
my  humble  prayer. 

CHURCH  MAKES  NO  MISTAKES 

I  am  very  happy  indeed  to  feel  that  the  Church  does  not  make 
mistakes ;  that  the  Church  has  been  true  to  its  divine  commission  from 
the  martyrdom  of  the  Prophet  Joseph,  and  in  fact  from  the  time  of  the 
organization  of  the  Church  until  the  present. 

I  have  heard  quite  frequently  of  the  inability  of  your  humble 
servant,  not  having  sufficient  knowledge  and  ability,  to  preside  over  the 
Church. 

PRESIDENT  SMITH'S  LAST  MESSAGE 

I  will  read  the  following  statement — and  have  no  recollection  of 
having  done  so  before — written  at  my  request,  by  Bishop  David  A. 
Smith,  Nov.  19,  1918: 

President  Grant  came  into  the  Beehive  House  yesterday  afternoon  to 
inquire  as  to  father's  condition,  and  I  suggested  that  he  go  in  and  speak  to  him, 
but  he  said  he  did  not  want  to  disturb  him.  I  said,  "You  had  better  wait  and 
see  him,  as  it  may  be  your  last  chance  to  speak  to  him." 

Father  being  awake,  I  told  him  Brother  Grant  was  there,  and  he  directed 
me  to  tell  Brother  Grant  that  he  wanted  to  see  him,  and  when  Brother  Grant 
entered  the  room  he  took  him  by  the  hand  and  said : 

"The  Lord  bless  you,  my  boy,  the  Lord  bless  you,  you  have  got  a  great 
responsibility.  Always  remember  this  is  the  Lord's  work,  and  not  man's.  The 
Lord  is  greater  than  any  man.  He  knows  whom  he  wants  to  lead  his  Church, 
and  never  makes  any  mistake.   The  Lord  bless  you." 

This  was  the  last  message  that  President  Smith  delivered  to  any  one. 

(Signed)    DAVID  A.  SMITH. 

WHILE  PRESIDING  IN  TOOELE 

It  fell  to  my  lot  before  I  was  twenty-four  years  of  age  to  be  called 
to  preside  over  the  Tooele  Stake  of  Zion.  I  had  never  made  a  speech 
of  ten  minutes  in  a  Church  meeting  up  to  that  time.  I  felt  then  my  own 
weakness,  but  look  back  with  pleasure  to  having  fulfilled  the  pledge 
made  in  the  short  speech  delivered  in  seven  and  a  half  minutes.  I  ran 
out  of  ideas  at  the  end  of  that  time.  That  night  in  the  dark  I)  heard 
a  man  say  in  a  contemptuous  way,  "It  is  a  pity  that  if  the  Authorities 
of  the  Church  had  to  send  a  boy  out  here  to  preside  over  our  stake, 
they  could  not  have  found  one  with  sense  enough  to  talk  for  ten  minutes." 

They  were  correct,  I  lacked  the  knowledge  to  talk  ten  minutes.  I 
ran  out  of  ideas  in  seven  and  a  half  minutes  by  the  watch,  having  timed 
myself. 

We  find  recorded  in  the  twenty-ninth  chapter  of  Alma  that  the  Lord 
granteth  unto  men  according  to  their  desires,  whether  they  be  unto 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


11 


life  or  death,  joy  or  remorse  of  conscience.  I  desired  to  do  my  duty. 
I  pledged  myself  there  and  then  to  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom  to  the 
best  of  my  ability ;  to  labor  as  diligently  as  any  man  in  Tooele ;  to  donate 
of  my  means  as  liberally  as  any  man ;  and  to  the  best  of  my  ability  to 
fulfil  the  duties  and  obligations  devolving  upon  me.  The  man  who 
criticized  me  was  looking  for  an  opportunity  to  find  fault,  and  found  it. 

GROWTH  THROUGH  OBSERVANCE  OF  DUTY 

I  know  nothing  in  the  Church  that  is  more  serious  than  fault- 
finding ;  and  on  the  contrary  nothing  that  inspires  men  so  much  as  to 
be  observers  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  to  be  honest  and  conscientious 
with  God  in  the  payment  of  their  tithes,  and  to  be  honest  with  their 
fellow  men.  I  have  seen  men  grow  and  increase  in  light,  knowledge 
and  intelligence  when  they  do  their  duty. 

I  was  astounded  when  one  as  weak  as  myself  was  called  to  be  an 
apostle.  It  seemed  almost  beyond  anything  believable  that  I  could 
become  the  president  of  the  Church.  But  I  am  very  thankful  indeed 
today  at  being  able  to  sleep  with  a  clear  conscience.  I  am  very  thankful 
that  I  have  no  fault  to  find  except  with  my  lack  of  ability  and  my  lack 
of  knowledge,  but  not  with  my  lack  of  energy,  or  my  lack  of  deter- 
mination and  willingness  to  labor.  I  am  grateful  for  the  little  that  I 
have  accomplished,  and  rejoice  that  in  all  my  labors  I  have  found  nothing 
that  has  in  the  slightest  degree  weakened  my  faith  in  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ. 

POSSESSES  KNOWLEDGE 

I  do  not  need  to  say  faith,  for  I  can  say  knowledge.  I  know  that 
God  lives;  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ;  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet 
of  the  true  and  the  living  God,  and  that  Mormonism,  so-called,  is  in 
very  deed  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation, 
revealed  again  from  heaven,  and  that  all  authority  existing  on  the  earth 
at  any  time  has  been  bestowed  again  upon  men  by  messengers  from 
heaven. 

I  rejoice  in  the  marvelous  work  that  is  being  accomplished  in  our 
temples,  in  the  restoration  to  the  earth  of  the  privilege  of  baptizing, 
by  the  authority  of  the  living  God,  in  behalf  of  those  who  have  passed 
away,  and  of  performing  ordinances  which  if  accepted,  will  lead  the 
dead  to  life  eternal  and  to  salvation,  although  they  may  have  died 
without  a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel. 

THE  LORD  PREPARES  THE  WAY 

I  rejoice  that  as  a  young  man  I  fell  in  love  with  Nephi,  and  more 
than  any  other  character — of  course  excepting  always  the  Savior — 
his  life,  his  example,  his  teachings  have  been  the  guiding  stars  of  my  life. 

I  have  believed,  accepted,  and  preached  the  following : 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  Nephi,  said  unto  ray  father,  I  will  go  and  cflo 
the  things  which  the  Lord  hath  commanded,  for  I  know  that  the  Lord  givefth 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


no  commandment  unto  the  children  of  men  save  he  shall  prepare  a  way  for  them 
that  they  may  accomplish  the  thing  which  he  commandeth  them. 

I  have  no  fear  but  that  I  can,  with  the  help  of  the  remarkable  and 
wonderful  men  who  are  associated  with  me,  fulfil  every  duty  and  obli- 
gation, every  requirement,  and  commandment  that  God  may  give  to  me. 

THANKFUL  FOR  WISE  COUNSELORS 

I  thank  God  for  Anthon  H.  Lund  and  Charles  W.  Penrose — men 
who  had  a  marvelous  and  wonderful  store  of  knowledge;  marvelous 
knowledge  of  the  scriptures,  wonderful  comprehension  of  the  plan  of  life 
and  salvation;  men  who  had  ability  to  write  about  and  to  teach  the 
Gospel  such  as  I  do  not  possess.  But  they  gave  me  all  they  had ;  they 
gave  me  the  best  that  was  in  them. 

I  rejoice  in  having  for  my  counselor,  my  cousin,  Anthony  W.  Ivins. 
I  rejoice  in  his  wisdom  and  his  devotion;  I  rejoice  in  the  remarkable 
mind  and  ability  that  was  possessed  by  Brother  Charles  W.  Nibley. 
I  rejoice  in  the  wonderful  ability  of  Brother  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  who 
is  now  one  of  my  counselors.  I  am  grateful  for  these  men,  for  their 
stores  of  knowledge  far  beyond  my  own. 

CONFIDENT  CHURCH  WILL  TRIUMPH 

I  acknowledge  my  own  lack  of  great  ability,  but  I  do  not  lack 
confidence  in  God.  I  do  not  lack  in  the  blessing  given  to  me  by  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith.  I  do  not  fear  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  will  fail  to  go  on,  and  on,  and  on,  as  it  has  'been 
doing,  and  prosper ;  while  all  those  who  fail  to  do  their  duty  will  fall 
by  the  wayside. 

AN  EARLY  EXPERIENCE  WITH  PLANCHETTES 

I  recall  that  when  I  was  a  child  there  was  a  great  apostasy  in  the 
Church,  known  as  the  Godbeite  movement,  called  the  New  Move.  I 
remember  that  my  dear  sainted  mother  had  to  sew  with  needle  and 
thread  for  a  living,  and  finally  she  did  a  great  deal  of  sewing  in  homes 
of  people  who  were  rich  enough  to  have  sewing  machines.  When  she 
would  go  to  one  of  these  homes  to  operate  a  sewing  machine  and  spend 
the  day,  often  late  into  the  night,  I  was  always  invited  to  go  there  to 
have  dinner.  Upon  one  occasion  I  was  in  William  Godbe's  home,  known 
as  the  Octagon  House — located  on  the  corner  of  Second  South  and 
Second  East — which  has  since  disappeared  and  where  there  is  now 
a  large,  fine  gas  station. 

These  people  were  having  a  glorious  time,  laughing  and  screeching, 
in  the  room  in  the  center  of  the  house  which  was  surrounded  by  eight 
rooms.  They  had  a  planchette,  and  were  receiving  messages.  They 
came  into  the  bedroom  where  mother  was  sewing  and  said :  "Come  in 
Rachel,  and  have  a  fine  time." 

She  said,  "No,  President  Brigham  Young  said  that  any  person  who 
would  fool  with  one  of  those  planchettes  would  be  led  into  spiritualism ; 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


13 


and  spiritualism  was,  of  course,  apostasy ;  and  the  fruits  of  spiritualism 
were  insanity  and  suicide.   I  will  not  go  in." 

Finally  they  came  into  the  bedroom  and  brought  the  machine  with 
them,  but  it  did  not  work.  Later  they  came  back  again  and  said :  "Come 
in,  Rachel."  They  had  gone  back  into  the  other  room  and  were  laughing 
and  screeching.   To  my  utter  astonishment  she  went  in. 

You  know  children  occasionally  criticize  their  parents,  as  was  the 
case  with  a  certain  good  man.  One  of  his  little  children  spoke  up  one 
day  and  said:  "Papa,  we  never  have  prayers,  do  we,  unless  we  have 
company  ?"  As  we  were  walking  home  that  night  I  said  to  my  mother : 
"What  did  you  go  into  that  room  for  when  Brother  Brigham  told  you 
not  to  have  anything  to  do  with  such  things  ?" 

She  laughed  and  said,  "My  boy,  did  you  notice  that  the  machine 
did  not  work  in  the  bedroom  when  they  brought  it  there?"  I  said,  "Yes." 

"I  want  to  tell  you  the  reason  it  did  not  work.  I  told  the  Lord  that 
I  could  not  prevent  their  bringing  it  in  there,  but  to  please  shut  it  up, 
and  he  did.  When  they  asked  me  to  go  into  the  parlor  I  told  the  Lord 
that  if  he  would  give  me  the  impression  in  my  heart  that  I  could  go 
in  there  and  shut  up  their  machine,  that  it  could  not  work  in  my  presence, 
I  would  go  in.  And  I  received  the  impression,  so  I  went  in,  and  it 
did  not  work." 

RESULT  OF  GODBEITE  MOVEMENT 

What  was  the  result  of  the  Godbeite  movement?  The  final  result 
was  spiritualism  on  the  part  of  those  who  remained  with  it.  I  was 
told — I  do  not  know  how  true  it  is — that  William  Godbe's  wife  lost 
her  mind — the  wife  with  whom  he  lived.  Of  course  he  had  a  mani- 
festation that  he  should  not  live  with  the  other  woman  whom  he  had 
married.  William  Godbe  received  a  revelation  that  his  brother-in-law, 
my  cousin-in-law,  Ben  Hampton,  was  to  be  an  apostle  of  the  Church. 
He  went  up  to  the  toll-bridge  over  the  Bear  river,  where  Ben  had  a  fine 
large  adobe  house,  and  served  meals.  It  was  the  outfitting  place  for 
people  who  were  going  up  into  Montana. 

Godbe  read  this  revelation  to  Ben.  You  know  that  some  people 
say  that  "damn"  is  not  swearing,  it  is  only  emphasis;  well,  with 
emphasis  Ben  said : 

If  all  the  rest  of  your  revelations — with  emphasis — are  as  big  lies  as  that, 
you  ought  to  go  right  down  to  Brother  Brigham  and  make  peace  with  him, 
because  you  are  getting  revelations  from  the  devil. 

The  idea  of  you,  a  hard-headed  business1  man,  who  built  the  first  three-story 
rock  building  ever  built  in  Salt  Lake  City,  who  has  built  smelters  and  engaged 
in  mining  and  other  business,  thinking  that  the  Lord  would  call  me  to  be  an 
apostle — a  man  who  never  paid  any  attention  to  religion,  a  man  who  drinks  when 
he  wants  to,  smokes  when  he  wants  to,  and  chews  tobacco  when  he  wants  to, 
a  man  who  gets  mad  and  swears  occasionally — he  lived  a  clean  life  otherwise — 
Billie,  go  right  down  to  Salt  Lake  and  have  it  out  with  Brother  Brigham.  You 
are  getting  revelation  from  the  wrong  source. 

Years  later  I  was  in  the  Williams  hotel  in  Mil  ford,  upon  the  hill 
there,  having  been  over  to  Beaver  as  I  remember  it  attending  a  con- 


i 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ference,  and  William  Godbe  and  his  son  and  others  were  stopping  at 
that  hotel  that  night.  They  were  on  their  way  from  Salt  Lake  to 
Bullionville,  as  I  remember  it,  or  coming  from  Bullionville  where  they 
had  mining  interests.  The  next  morning  we  could  not  find  his  son, 
and  we  hunted  all  over  for  him.  Finally  we  found  his  body  about 
1,500  feet  away  from  the  hotel.  He  had  gone  out  there  and  committed 
suicide. 

RECALLS  OTHER  INSTANCES 

I  remember  preaching  in  Los  Angeles  on  one  occasion  the  same  as  I 
am  doing  here  now,  and  after  the  meeting  a  woman  came  to  Brother 
Joseph  W.  McMurrin  and  said  she  had  an  ouija  board — that  is  what  they 
call  it  now,  it  used  to  be  called  a  planchette — and  she  thought  it  was  very 
remarkable,  but  she  would  never  use  it  again.  He  tried  to  get  her  to  let  him 
have  it  and  burn  it.  Oh  no,  she  did  not  want  to  burn  it.  She  later  com- 
menced using  it  again.  She  was  in  Los  Angeles  on  a  visit  from  Arizona  at 
the  time  I  made  this  talk.  She  finally  landed  in  the  insane  asylum  in 
Arizona. 

The  fruits  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  are  health  and  vigor  of 
body  and  of  mind  and  of  spirit,  and  the  fruits  of  spiritualism  are  insanity 
and  suicide. 

I  remember  that  some  of  the  Elders  over  in  England  had  rented 
a  hall  on  one  floor  of  a  building  where  spiritualistic  mediums  had 
their  seances.  They  kept  inviting  the  boys  to  come  to  their  meetings. 
I  told  them  to  stay  away,  saying,  "You  cannot  handle  a  nasty  dirty 
stovepipe  without  soiling  your  hands,  and  you  have  no  business,  to  be 
on  the  devil's  ground,  so  stay  away.  You  know  you  have  the  truth; 
go  on  proclaiming  and  living  it,  and  let  them  alone." 

Finally  the  boys  pleaded  with  me  to  let  them  go.  I  said:  "All 
right,  you  can  go  on  one  condition" — it  was  a  night  meeting — "that  is 
that  you  do  not  eat  anything  that  day,  and  that  you  go  there  fasting 
and  praying  to  the  Lord  to  prevent  them  from  carrying  on  their  spirit- 
ualistic operations." 

They  went  to  the  meeting,  and  the  spiritualists  were  unable  to  have 
any  seance  that  night. 

THE  TESTIMONY  OF  WILFORD  WOODRUFF 

I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  of  President  Wilford  Woodruff.  One 
night  he  was  at  a  meeting  where  they  had  been  having  remarkable 
spiritualistic  manifestations.  Brother  Woodruff  went  there  and  rebuked 
the  spirits  and  commanded  them  not  to  operate  through  this  medium. 
Finally,  after  they  had  been  assembled  for  some  time  and  had  a  Quaker 
meeting,  the  man  who  was  the  medium  came  down  off  the  platform, 
walked  through  the  audience  to  where  Brother  Woodruff  was,  shook 
his  fist  in  his  face  and  said:  "You  are  the  man  who  is  olpposing  me 
and  preventing  me  from  doing  anything  here  tonight." 

Brother  Woodruff  said :  "Yes,  T  have  the  Priesthood  of  God  and 
have  rebuked  the  evil  spirits." 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


15 


They  pleaded  with  Brother  Woodruff  to  please  leave,  and  he  did  so, 
and  they  had  the  devil's  own  time,  all  right. 

A  TRIBUTE  TO  MOTHERS 

I  rejoice  in  the  remarkable  meeting  held  here  yesterday  by  our  sis- 
ters, the  faithful  and  diligent  mothers  of  the  Church.  I  happened  to 
pick  up  a  book  this  morning  before  getting  out  of  bed,  and  read  from 
it  a  tribute  to  mothers — to  your  mother,  to  every  fine  Latter-day  Saint 
mother : 

The  sweetest  word  in  the  Language  of  Languages  is  that  of — Mother.  There 
is  in  each  letter  of  this  word  a  wealth  of  music  so  divine — there  are  vibrating  chords 
of  Love  so  Angelic — that  the  whole  world  often  pays  homage  to  Mothers  whom 
it  honors. 

Nancy  Hanks — the  mother  of  Lincoln;  Frances  Willard  and  Jane  Addams1 — 
mothers  of  the  motherless ;  Queen  Victoria — the  mother  of  a  nation  of  mothers. 

You — whoever  you  are — your  greatest  asset  is  your  mother.  You — bankrupt, 
discouraged,  failure-riddled,  hope-wasted,  heart-wrenched,  self-estranged — there 
remains  still  a  day,  glorious  in  sunsets  for  you  if  you  will  but  get  back  again, 
in  thought,  or  heart,  or  person — to  your,  mother. 

The  most  wonderful  event  in  the  history  of  the  world  was  when  the  first 
woman  became — a  mother.  Human  life  has  become  a  beautiful  thing  because 
the  world  has  had  its  mothers. 

HONORED  BY  CHURCH 

No  other  Church  has  ever  honored  mothers  as  has  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints — through  the  instrumentality  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  by  establishing  the  female  Relief  Society. 

The  greatest  men  in  any  community  are  those  who  render  the  highest 
tribute  to  motherhood.  No  one  ever  has  surpassed,  or  ever  will  surpass  the 
achievement  of  a  woman  when  she  becomes  a  mother.  When  did  you  last  write 
to  your  mother?  If  she  has  gone  from  you,  how  often  do  you  think  of  her? 
Do  you  realize  that  all  you  are  or  ever  hope  to  be  started  back  in  the  years 
when  your  mother,  her  whole  being  pulsating  with  pride,  held  you  tight,  with  eyes 
lustered  and  watered  with  love,  watched  your  every  breath,  and  kept  pace,  over 
the  hours,  with  your  faintest  heart  throbs?  Think  of  how,  all  through  these  days 
she  wrapped  you  in  her  unselfishness  and  her  sacrifices. 

The  measure  of  your  success  will  be  the  degree  of  honor  you  pay  to  your 
mothers  and  to  motherhood. 

PRAISES  OWN  MOTHER 

I  stand  here  today  as  one  whose  mother  was  all  to  him.  She  was 
both  father  and  mother  to  me ;  she  set  an  example  of  integrity,  of  de- 
votion and  love,  of  determination,  and  honor  second  to  none.  I  stand 
here  today  as  the  president  of  the  Church  because  I  have  followed  the 
advice  and  counsel  and  the  burning  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the 
work  of  God,  which  came  to  me  from  my  mother. 

There  came  into  my  home  when  I  was  a  child  a  great  man  of  the 
world,  a  man  of  great  importance,  a  man  who  once  offered  me  a  magni- 
ficent position  carrying  $40,000  a  year  as  salary,  and  who  thought 
I  was  very  foolish  not  to  take  it  when  the  Church  at  that  time  did  not 
allow  me  a  tithing  of  that  amount.   This  man  wrote  me  from  London ; 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


he  was  at  that  time  manager  for  the  entire  United  Kingdom  of  the 
great  New  York  Life  Insurance  Company.  He  said,  "What  has 
become  of  your  cousin?  I  often  said  to  my  wife"  .  .  (and  by  the  way 
this  man  came  into  our  home  when  he  was  a  young  unmarried  man, 
he  came  here  on  the  overland  stage;  later  he  came  with  his  wife,  and 
finally  his  first  child  was  born  in  our  home.  He  became  one  of  the 
dearest  and  best  friends  the  Latter-day  Saints  ever  had.) 

INQUIRED  FOR  ELDER  IVINS 

He  said:  "I  often  said  to  my  wife,  Mrs.  Hawes"  (this  man  was 
Col.  Alexander  G.  Hawes)  "that  those  two  boys,  Anthony  W.  Ivins 
and  Heber  J.  Grant,  will  some  day  stand  right  at  the  top  of  the  'Mor- 
mon' Church,  it  is  in  them.  Here  you  are,  an  apostle,  and  president 
of  a  bank,  and  I  haven't  heard  of  your  cousin.  What  has  become  of 
him  ?"  I  answered,  "Colonel,  he  has.  gone  to  Mexico.  He  has  filled 
two  missions  in  Mexico,  and  if  there  is  any  place  in  the  world  he  did 
not  want  to  go,  it  was  Mexico.  But  he  has  gone — why?  Because  he 
has  been  called  to  go  there,  and  he  will  stay  there  and  live  and  die  there 
unless  he  is  called  back." 

THANKFUL  FOR  TESTIMONY 

I  thank  God  for  a  testimony  that  came  to  me,  the  eternal  part  of 
me,  the  day  Brother  Ivins  was  called  to  Mexico.  Brother  George  Q. 
Cannon  made  the  remark,  "I  do  not  want  Brother  Ivins  to  go  to  Mexico, 
we  need  him  here.  He  is  the  outstanding  man  in  his  party  in  Utah, 
but  I  believe  the  Lord  wants  him  there."  When  he  was  called  I  felt 
a  little  sad,  and  while  thinking  about  it,  the  Lord  saw  fit  to  give  me 
this  word :  "You  need  not  feel  bad,  he  is  going  where  the  Lord  wants 
him  to  go  and  you  shall  have  the  exquisite  joy  of  welcoming  him  back 
into  this  room  as  one  of  the  Apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ."  I 
was  in  the  Apostles'  room  in  the  temple  at  the  time.  I  turned  my  head 
and  wept  for  joy. 

COLONEL  HAWES'  TRIBUTE 

I  rejoice  that  Brother  Ivins  had  such  a  wonderful  mother — my  own 
mother's  sister.  Two  women  more  true,  two  women  with  greater  serenity, 
two  women  who  lived  finer  lives,  always  speaking  well  of  every  one 
or  keeping  still,  I  have  never  known.  This  same  Col.  Hawes  wrote  to 
me  when  my  mother  died — he  was  agnostic — and  said :  "If  the  God  of 
nature  ever  did  stamp  peace,  nobility,  and  serenity  upon  any  human 
countenance,  he  did  upon  the  face  of  dear  Aunt  Rachel."  My  cousin 
Caddie  Ivins  waited  on  the  table  at  the  time  of  Col.  Hawes'  visit  and 
she  balled  mother  "Aunt  Rachel,"  and  the  boarders  adopted  that  title. 
The  Colonel  told  the  president  of  that  great  insurance  company  with 
which  he  was  associated,  that  of  all  the  women  he  had  ever  known  in  his 
life,  barring  only  his  sister,  his  mother  and  his  wife,  he  had  never  met 
a  woman  that  he  admired  and  loved  so  much  as  he  did  my  mother.  The 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


17 


president  of  the  company  told  me  this,  and  extended  his  sympathy  to  me 
when  I  met  him  after  the  death  of  my  mother. 

Talk  about  sacrifice !  Why,  the  sacrifice  of  the  women  of  this 
Church  and  their  devotion  are  beyond  the  power  of  pen  and  tongue 
of  man  to  pay  proper  tribute. 

May  God  help  us  to  follow  the  teaching  and  example  of  our 
mothers  who  are  true  Latter-day  Saints,  and  there  will  be  an  eternity 
of  joy  and  an  exaltation  in  store  for  each  and  every  one  of  us ;  and  that 
we  may  receive  it  is  my  humble  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
our  Savior,  our  Redeemer,  even  so.  Amen. 

At  the  request  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant  the  congregation  arose 
and  sang  the  hymn,  "The  Spirit  of  God  like  a  fire  is  burning." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  appreciate  very  much  the  excellent  testimony  that  has  been  given 
to  us  this  morning  and  the  wonderful  tribute  paid  by  President  Grant 
to  his  mother.  So  I  also  can  pay  a  tribute  to  my  mother,  and  I  treasure 
in  my  heart  her  teachings,  which  have  helped  me  so  wonderfully  and  have 
been  a  guide  to  my  path,  and  I  think  that  most  of  us  could  testify  likewise. 

This  morning  I  would  like  to  address  my  remarks  more  particularly 
to  the  presidents  of  stakes  and  bishops  of  wards,  and  all  presiding 
officers,  and  the  clerks  who  are  called  upon  to  keep  the  records  in  the 
stakes  and  wards  and  missions  of  the  Church. 

IMPORTANCE  OF  RECORD-KEEPING 

Record-keeping  is  very  important.  When  the  Church  was  organ- 
ized one  of  the  first  revelations  that  the  Lord  gave  was  to  the  effect  that 
records  should  be  kept,  a  record  of  the  members,  a  record  of  events, 
everything  of  importance,  and  one  of  the  brethren  was  chosen  to  be  the 
recorder.  He  was  Oliver  Cowdery.  Later,  because  of  other  duties,  this 
responsibility  was  placed  upon  the  shoulders  of  another.  But  the  Lord 
has  emphasized  from  the  beginning  the  need  of  keeping  records  in  the 
Church.  In  fact  we  read  in  the  marvelous  records  that  have  come  to  us 
through  revelation  that  in  the  beginning  the  Lord  gave  this  command- 
ment to  men. 

I  want  to  read  a  verse  from  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  perhaps  more 
than  one : 

And  then  began  these  men  to  call  upon  the  name  of  the  Lord,  and  the  Lord 
blessed  them 

This  was  in  the  days  of  Adam  and  his  immediate  posterity. 

And  a  book  of  remembrance  was  kept,  in  the  which  was  recorded,  in  the 
language  of  Adam,  for  it  was  given  unto  as  many  as  called  upon  God  to  write 
by  the  spirit  of  inspiration ; 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


And  by  them  their  children  were  taught  to  read  and  write,  having  a  language 
which  was  pure  and  undefiled. 

Now  this  same  priesthood,  which  was  in  the  beginning,  shall  be  in  the  end  of 
the  world  also. 

Now  this  prophecy  Adam  spake,  as  he  was  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost, 
and  a  genealogy  was  kept  of  the  children  of  God.  And  this  was  the  book  of  the 
generations  of  Adam,  saying:  In  the  day  that  God  created  man,  in  the  likeness 
of  God  made  he  him ; 

In  the  image  of  his  own  body,  male  and  female,  created  he  them,  and 
blessed  them,  and  called  their  name  Adam,  in  the  day  when  they  were  created  and 
became  living  souls  in  the  land  upon  the  footstool  of  God. 

Abraham  has  also  given,  in  the  writings  that  have  come  to  us  from  _ 
him,  a  statement  that  I  also  want  to  read : 

But  the  records  of  the  fathers,  even  the  patriarchs,  concerning  the  right  of 
Priesthood,  the  Lord  my  God  preserved  in  mine  own  hands ;  therefore  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  beginning  of  the  creation,  and  also  of  the  planets,  and  of  the  stars, 
as  they  were  made  known  unto  the  fathers,  have  I  kept  even  unto  this  day,  and 
I  shall  endeavor  to  write  some  of  these  things  upon  this  record  for  the  benefit  of 
my  posterity  that  shall  come  after  me. 

We  are  very  fortunate  in  the  fact  that  these  worthies  who  held  the 
Priesthood  and  were  in  communication  with  God  in  those  ancient  times 
did  receive  inspiration  and  revelation,  and  recorded  the  word  of  the  Lord 
to  them  which  has  come  down  to  us,  much  of  it  of  course  in  a  corrupted 
form,  but  nevertheless  the  word  of  the  Lord,  and  we  have  profited  be- 
cause of  it. 

Today  the  Lord  has  spoken  and  has  again  given  revelations  to  the 
Church,  and  is  now  giving  revelations  to  the  Church ;  in  fact  we  have 
received  more  apparently  than  we  are  willing  to  keep,  and  yet  the  Lord 
is  willing  and  ready  to  bless  us  with  inspiration  and  knowledge  and  truth. 

In  section  fifty-nine  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  he  says  that  he 
will  give  us  commandments  not  a  few  when  we  are  ready  to  receive  them. 

Now  I  want  to  impress  upon  those  who  are  keeping  records  in  this 
Church  the  importance  of  record-keeping.  We  are  trying  to  get  the 
clerks  to  follow  the  instruction  which  has  been  given  them  and  send  to 
us  a  detailed  history  of  the  stakes,  and  we  want  the  clerks  in  the  wards 
to  keep  a  detailed  history  of  the  wards,  and  furnish  information  to  us 
quarterly,  that  we  may  file  it  in  the  archives  of  the  Church.  We  are 
asking  presidents  of  stakes  and  bishops  of  wards,  also  mission  presi- 
dents, to  carefully  supervise  and  scrutinize  these  prepared  histories  of 
the  missions  and  stakes  and  wards,  and  then  sign  with  their  own  names 
the  history  before  it  comes  to  be  filed  in  the  archives  of  the  Church, 
stating  that  to  their  best  knowledge  and  understanding  that  which  is 
written  is  correct.  We  want  them  to  see  that  everything  of  importance  is 
recorded.  We  are  under  the  necessity  very  frequently  of  sending  letters 
out  to  a  great  many  of  the  stakes  and  some  of  the  missions  and  asking 
them  to  see  that  the  history  which  is  delinquent  is  forwarded.  We  would 
like  to  have  these  records  sent  to  us  on  time. 

INFORMATION  FURNISHED  BY  HISTORIAN 

Frequently,  yes,  hardly  a  week  passes  that  people  do  not  write 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


19 


to  us  or  come  into  the  office  seeking  information  concerning  themselves. 
They  want  to  know  when  they  were  baptized,  they  want  to  know  when 
they  were  ordained,  and  sometimes  they  want  to  know  when  they  were 
born — that  isn't  a  joke,  it  is  an  actual  fact.  We  receive  communications 
from  the  Government  sometimes  asking  us  to  verify  records  of  this  kind. 
I  think  that  every  member  of  the  Church  ought  to  keep  a  record  of  vital 
things  for  himself.  When  a  man  is  baptized  he  should  make  a  record 
of  it.  When  he  is  confirmed,  when  he  is  ordained,  when  other  duty  or 
responsibility  or  call  comes  to  him  he  should  make  a  record  of  it  and  keep 
it  himself ;  but  it  is  also  the  duty  of  the  clerk  in  the  ward  or  in  the 
stake,  as  the  case  may  be,  to  also  make  a  record  of  this  and  have  it  put  into 
the  history  of  the  ward  or  stake,  where  it  can  be  preserved. 

We  can  furnish  a  great  deal  of  information  for  people  if  they  do 
not  want  us  to  go  back  too  far.  The  early  records  of  the  Church  were 
not  kept  as  thoroughly  as  they  should  have  been.  We  have  learned  a 
great  many  things  by  experience.  Today  our  records  are  kept  in  a  much 
better  way,  and  yet  at  times  things  escape  the  notice  of  those  who  are 
called  to  make  the  records. 

Now  this  is  a  vital  problem.  We  should  not  depend  solely  upon  the 
Church  to  keep  our  individual  records,  and  yet  the  individual  record  of 
each  member  of  the  Church  today  is  kept.  The  Presiding  Bishop's 
office  is  working  in  full  harmony  with  the  Historian's  office  in  regard  to 
matters  of  this  kind  and  through  them  we  are  enabled  to  keep  in  better 
touch  with  these  officers  who  are  appointed  to  keep  the  records  than  we 
would  be  if  we  did  not  have  the  machinery  of  the  bishops  often  at  our 
command. 

recorder's  office  an  important  one 

Now,  brethren,  I  am  appealing  to  the  presidents  of  stakes  and 
bishops  to  see  that  these  records  are  properly  kept.  Let  me  say  further 
that  the  choosing  of  a  clerk  and  recorder  is  a  very  important  thing. 
Sometimes  we  think  that  anybody  can  keep  a  record.  It  requires  intel- 
ligence to  do  so.  A  man  ought  to  have  keen  discernment,  he  ought  to 
be  able  to  segregate  facts,  he  ought  to  be  able  to  choose  and  record  the 
things  that  are  important  and  separate  them  from  the  things  that  are 
perhaps  unimportant,  and  make  a  record  of  them.  Our  custom  in  record- 
ing is  to  take  more  than  we  need  rather  than  less.  We  can  always  elimi- 
nate if  something  is  recorded  that  we  do  not  need,  but  it  is  sometimes  a 
very  difficult  thing  to  find  something  that  we  have  overlooked. 

INDIVIDUAL  RECORDS 

And  so  I  am  making  this  appeal  at  this  general  conference  of  the 
Church  to  all  the  members  of  the  Church  to  keep  their  records,  the 
records  of  their  families,  to  look  after  the  interests  of  their  families  in 
regard  to  their  temple  work  as  well  as  to  their  individual  records.  The 
Lord  has  called  upon  us  to  look  after  our  dead,  to  seek  out  their  gene- 
alogy.  This  spirit  has  gone  forth,  the  keys  that  were  bestowed  by  Elijah 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


are  here,  and  the  hearts  of  the  children  have  turned  to  their  fathers.  One 
of  the  greatest  evidences  of  the  truth  of  the  story  told  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  that  Elijah  came  to  him  and  Oliver  Cowdery  is  the  fact 
that  people  who  are  not  connected  with  this  Church,  who  have  no  sym- 
pathy perhaps  with  the  Church,  are  gathering  the  records  of  the  dead. 
Their  hearts  have  turned  to  the  fathers.  Our  duty  of  course  is  to  seek 
after  our  dead.  We  have  a  department  in  the  Church,  the  Genealogical 
Society  of  Utah,  where  we  are  gathering  in  these  records  for  the  benefit 
of  the  members  of  the  Church,  where  we  can  receive  information,  and 
are  able  to  give  help  and  encouragement  in  relation  to  these  matters  that 
pertain  to  the  salvation  of  our  families. 

PATRIARCHAL  RECORDS  AND  PRIVATE  JOURNALS 

All  patriarchal  records  belong  to  the  Church  and  not  to  the  patri- 
archs who  gave  the  blessings.  Neither  do  they  belong  to  the  families 
of  the  patriarchs.  When  a  patriarch  has  completed  his  record,  or  when 
he  dies,  the  record  should  be  sent  to  the  Historian's  office  to  be  filed. 
Many  of  these  records  have  not  been  received,  and  in  some  instances 
the  descendants  of  the  patriarchs  have  claimed  them  as  personal  property, 
and  this  is  wrong.  Moreover,  there  are  many  important  private  journals 
scattered  about  which  we  would  like  to  obtain  for  preservation  and  for 
historical  purposes.  We  discover  that  when  these  are  left  in  the  keep- 
ing of  the  descendants  of  the  pioneers,  they  frequently  are  lost,  or  lose 
their  value  by  the  time  they  reach  the  third  or  fourth  generation,  and  are 
thrown  away.  If  they  are  given  to  us  we  will  file  them  away  where  they 
will  be  preserved. 

May  the  Lord  bless  and  guide  us  in  these  things.  They  are  important. 
We  sometimes  look  upon  them  as  being  trivial.  The  Lord  expects  us 
to  keep  records  and  to  put  in  permanent  form  all  things  that  pertain  to 
our  welfare  in  relation  to  our  history,  individually  as  well  as  the  history 
of  the  Church.  May  we  be  guided  in  it,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  'Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

It  is  just  twenty-eight  years  since  I  was  called  into  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve.  As  I  listened  to  President  Grant  this  morning  I  looked 
introspectively  into  my  own  soul,  and  thought  this  : 

"Never  before  in  my  life  have  I  felt  so  grateful  for  my  membership 
in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Never  before  have 
I  felt  more  intensively  how  beneficial  the  Church  has  been  to  me  and  my 
loved  ones.  Never  before  has  my  testimony  been  stronger.  Never 
have  I  felt  so  deeply  in  every  fiber  of  my  being  that  this  Church  was 
established  by  God  the  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  the 
men  who  have  guided  its  destiny  have  been  inspired  by  the  revelations 
of  God  to  them." 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


21 


PAYS  TRIBUTE  TO  OFFICERS  AND  TEACHERS 

I  desire  to  say  a  word  this  morning  about  the  Church  and  the  oppor- 
tunity it  offers  to  the  young  people  of  the  Church.  I  should  like  to  pay 
a  tribute  to  these  bishops  and  to  other  ward  officers  who  are  working 
so  unselfishly  and  conscientiously  for  the  establishment  of  truth  in  the 
hearts  of  men.  I  should  like  to  express  a  word  of  appreciation  to  the 
officers  and  teachers  of  the  auxiliary  associations  who  are  rallying  around 
them  the  army  of  young  people  and  instilling  into  the  hearts  of  the  youth 
faith  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  want  to  express  also  a  word  of 
appreciation  to  the  leaders  in  Priesthood  quorums.  I  think  that  never 
before  has  there  been  such  a  quorum  consciousness  manifested  as  is 
manifested  at  the  present  time. 

SUCCESSFUL  CONVENTIONS 

Since  January  1st,  1934,  the  General  Board  of  the  Sunday  Schools 
has  held  a  number  of  conventions.  In  the  stakes  of  Zion  we  havte 
approximately  21,000  officers  and  teachers  enrolled.  Of  these  21,000 
invited  to  attend  the  conventions  already  held  we  have  had  an  average 
attendance  of  eighty-three  per  cent.  That  is  a  good  response.  Seven 
stakes,  comprising  eighty-four  wards,  have  been  in  attendance  one 
hundred  per  cent.  That  is  not  counting  the  presidencies  of  stakes,  high 
councilors,  bishoprics,  and  members  of  Priesthood  quorums  who  were 
invited  and  in  many  cases  were  in  attendance  with  a  perfect  record.  We 
have  had  a  total  of  172  wards  who  have  had  a  perfect  attendance  at 
these  conventions.  Estimating  an  average  of  about  fifteen  officers  and 
teachers  to  a  ward,  these  conventions  have  been  attended  by  more  than 
two  thousand  five  hundred  young  people.  Most  of  these  people  who 
have  been  attending  these  meetings  are  young  men  and  young  women 
between  the  ages  of  eighteen  and  twenty-seven. 

More  gratifying  even  than  this  outstanding  record  of  attendance, 
is  the  attitude  of  these  young  people  towards  the  theme  presented  and 
expounded  in  the  various  sessions.  This  theme  is  expressed  in  the  first 
article  of  the  "Children's  Charter" — "For  every  child  spiritual  and  moral 
training  to  help  him  to  stand  firm  under  the  pressure  of  life." 

SEEKING  AND  DESIROUS  OF  LIVING  THE  TRUTH 

We  hear  a  good  deal  of  talk  about  our  young  people  these  days. 
Some  say  that  they  are  indifferent,  that  they  are  losing  their  interest  in 
the  Church.  I  do  not  agree  with  this  accusation.  My  experience  with 
the  young  leads  me  to  believe  that  there  was  never  a  time  when  youth 
more  sincerely  sought  the  truth,,  when  they  were  more  responsive  to 
assignments  made  in  the  Church,  when  they  were  more  observant  of  the 
ideals  for  which  this  Church  stands. 

Oh,  I  am  not  blind  to  the  fact  that  there  are  those  who  are  wavering. 
I  also  know  that  there  were  young  people  during  our  youth  who  wavered. 
I  realize  that  there  are  those  who  stand  on  the  side  lines,  and  arro- 
gating to  themselves  superior  wisdom  which  they  do  not  possess,  would 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


fain  guide  and  dictate,  but  there  have  always  been  such.  The  great 
majority  of  our  young  people  are  desirous  of  living  the  truth. 

WIELDING  AN  INFLUENCE  FOR  GOOD 

I  realize  that  temptations  were  never  stronger  than  they  are  today ; 
but  the  young  people  who  resist  these  temptations  deserve  all  the  greater 
credit.  We  hear  about  young  boys  and  young  girls  who  indulge  in 
things  contrary  to  the  teachings  of  their  parents  and  the  officers  of  the 
Church,  and  contrary  to  the  ideals  of  the  Gospel,  but  we  too  seldom 
hear  about  the  much  larger  group  who  are  exerting  an  influence  for  good 
upon  their  fellow-workers  and  upon  their  associates. 

If  time  permitted  I  might  narrate  several  specific  instances  in  which 
our  girls  have  wielded  an  influence  upon  their  associates  and  led  not 
only  members  of  the  Church  but  people  outside  of  the  Church  to  lay 
aside  violations  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and  to  conform  to  the  ideals 
and  principles  of  purity  of  life. 

AS  A  RESULT  OF  RELIGIOUS  CONVICTIONS 

Religion  is  the  most  potent  power  in  life.  Spiritual  development 
and  moral  integrity  are  fundamental  in  the  lives  not  only  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  but  of  all  who  would  build  a  community  that  will  contribute 
to  the  safety  and  advancement  of  our  republic  or  of  any  other  nation. 
President  Calvin  Coolidge  truly  said  that  "the  government  of  a  country 
never  gets  ahead  of  the  religion  of  a  country.  There  is  no  way  by  which 
we  can  substitute  the  authority  of  law  for  the  virtue  of  man.  Of  course 
we  can  help  to  restrain  the  vicious  and  furnish  a  fair  degree  of  security 
and  protection  by  legislation  and  police  control,  but  the  real  reforms 
which  society  in  these  days  is  seeking  will  come  as  a  result  of  our  re- 
ligious convictions,  or  they  will  not  come  at  all.  Peace,  justice,  humanity, 
charity — these  cannot  be  legislated  into  being.  They  are  the  results  of 
a  Divine  Grace." 

LATTER-DAY  SAINT  STANDARDS 

I  have  observed  during  the  past  few  months  a  most  hearty  response 
by  the  young  people  of  our  Church  to  spiritual  ideals.  Generally  speak- 
ing youth  are  anchored.  Sometimes  they  seem  to  waver  and  digress 
from  the  standards.  Some  of  them  it  is  true  lose  their  virtue,  the  most 
benighting  and  cankering  condition  that  can  contaminate  young  people's 
lives.  I  know  that  there  is  a  looseness  in  sexual  morality  which  is  dan- 
gerous, which  indeed  is  threatening.  I  know  too  that  such  breaking  down 
of  moral  standards  is  manifested  not  alone  among  the  young  people, 
and  I  warn  the  Church  to  guard  against  unchastity.  Keep  yourselves 
unspotted  from  the  world,  the  fundamental  element  in  pure  religion. 

No,  we  are  not  shutting  our  eyes  to  the  dangers,  but  I  want  to  tell 
you  we  must  not  shut  our  eyes  to  the  virtues  of  the  tens  of  thousands  of 
those  who  are  true  and  valiant. 

Spirituality  and  morality  as  taught  by  the  Latter-day  Saints  are 
firmly  anchored  in  fundamental  principles,  principles  from  which  the 
world  can  never  escape  even  if  it  would,  and  the  first  fundamental  is  a 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


23 


belief — with  Latter-day  Saints  a  knowledge — in  the  existence  of  a  per- 
sonal God.  Latter-day  Saint  children  have  been  taught  to  recognize 
him,  and  to  pray  to  him  as  one  who  can  listen  and  hear  and  feel  just  as 
an  earthly  father  can  listen,  hear  and  feel,  and  they  have  absorbed  into 
their  very  beings,  from  their  mothers  and  their  fathers,  the  real  testimony 
that  this  personal  God  has  spoken  in  this  dispensation.  There  is  a  reality 
about  it. 

THE  PERSONALITY  OF  GOD 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  but  a  youth,  did  not  argue  upon  the 
personality  of  God,  he  did  not  speculate  upon  that  eternal  source  of  energy, 
and  intelligence  from  which  all  life  gets  its  being,  he  merely  stated  the 
truth.  Nearly  a  hundred  years  later  another  man  through  thought  and 
reason  confirmed  this  truth  as  follows : 

Religion  standing  on  the  known  experience  of  the  race,  makes  one  bold  and 
glorious  affirmation.  She  asserts  that  this  power  that  makes  for  truth,  for  beauty, 
for  goodness1,  is  not  less  personal  than  we.  This  leap  of  faith  is  justified  because 
God  cannot  be  less  than  the  greatest  of  his  works ;  the  cause  must  be  adequate  to 
the  effect.  When  therefore,  we  call  God  personal,  we  have  interpreted  him  by 
the  loftiest  symbol  we  have.  He  may  be  infinitely  moral,  he  cannot  be  less.  When 
we  call  God  a  spirit,  we  use  the  clearest  lens  we  have  to  look  at  the  everlasting. 
As  Herbert  Spencer  has  well  said,  "The  choice  is  not  between  a  personal  God 
and  something  lower,  but  between  a  personal  God  and  something  higher." 

Thus  anchored  in  the  faith,  our  young  people  have  the  foundation 
of  spirituality  and  the  teachings  of  materialistic  philosophy  cannot  dis- 
lodge them.  Next  to  this  belief  in  a  Supreme  Being  is  the  testimony 
they  have  that  God  is  revealed  through  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  the  one 
perfect  being  who  is  the  light  and  life  of  the  world. 

A  MEANS  OF  CONSUMMATING  GODJS  PURPOSES 

The  third  anchor  of  the  young  people  is  in  the  realization  that  the 
Church  is  established  as  a  means  of  consummating  God's  purposes ;  and 
they  realize  too,  even  if  they  have  not  thought  it  out  as  they  will  some 
day,  that  there  is  nothing  in  the  world  to  compare  with  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  as  an  effective  organization  in  alleviating  the  ills  of  mankind. 

And  now,  young  people,  thus  anchored  in  the  faith,  and  thus 
organized,  we  ask  you  to  join  the  organizations  in  your  wards,  to  heed 
the  advice  of  the  President  of  the  Church,  to  affiliate  with  your  quorums, 
with  your  auxiliary  organizations,  in  your  fast  meetings,  and  there 
in  these  local  groups  express  your  thoughts,  express  your  doubts,  seek 
after  the  truth,  apply  measures  that  will  appeal  to  those  of  your 
associates,  and  when  you  prove  those  measures  to  be  effective  and 
satisfying  to  the  soul,  then  can  the  central  organizations  take  those 
measures  and  adapt  them  to  the  whole  as  a  universal  benefit.  In  that 
way,  and  in  that  way  only,  will  progress  and  efficiency  be  fostered. 
Don't  stand  out  on  the  side  lines,  and  say  "This  quorum  is  not  doing 
its  work,"  but  get  into  the  quorum  and  help  it  do  its  work.  That 


24  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

is  the  way  which  God  intends  people  to  work  in  this  Church,  and  it 
offers  to  you  one  of  the  best  opportunities  in  the  world. 

AS  A  MEANS  OF  ACCOMPLISHING  SPECIFIC  OBJECTIVES 

Finally  the  consummation  of  God's  purposes  is  put  in  these  words : 
"My  work  and  my  glory  is  to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  the 
eternal  life  of  man."  This  divine  purpose  may  be  achieved  by  using 
the  Church  as  a  means  of  accomplishing  the  following  specific  objectives 
in  the  achievement  of  which  lies  a  sufficient  challenge  for  the  brightest 
minds  in  the  world  : 

First,  physical  strength,  virility,  cleanliness.  When  therefore  you 
hear  carping  critics  say  that  the  Church  Authorities  over-emphasize  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  you  may  know  that  they  have  not  studied  very  deeply 
the  significance  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  Fundamentally,  physical 
strength  and  virility  are  essential  factors  in  the  progress  of  humanity. 

Secondly,  economic  security.  When  you  hear  a  young  man  say  we 
lay  too  much  stress  on  tithing,  you  may  know  he  does  not  realize  the 
relation  of  tithing  and  fast  offerings  to  the  economic  security  of  every 
man,  woman  and  child  in  the  Church. 

Thirdly,  social  justice.  Go  into  any  quorum  and  see  who  are  meet- 
ing there — your  lawyers,  your  doctors,  your  farmers,  all  meeting  on  a 
social  plane.  In  the  Chruch  of  God  every  man  and  woman  has  equal 
privileges  to  every  other  man  and  woman. 

Fourthly,  spiritual  enlightenment.  Cultivating  the  fruits  of  the 
Spirit  which  are  love,  joy,  peace,  kindness,  long-suffering,  gentleness,  etc. 

THE  PRINCIPLES  OF  TRUE  CHRISTIANITY 

In  conclusion,  let  me  say  that  now,  if  ever,  is  the  time  to  make 
practical  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  to  strive  to  live  up  to  the  prin- 
ciples of  true  Christianity.  Wm.  P.  King  in  "The  Practice  of  the  Prin- 
ciples of  Jesus"  says : 

Mankind  has  tried  everything  except  Christianity.  The  world  has  tried  hatred, 
greed,  impurity,  graft,  self-interest,  and  has  been  brought  to  the  brink  of  perdition. 
It  is  curious  that  we  must  stand  up  in  the  twentieth  century  and  plead  with  the 
people  who  bear  his  name,  that  Jesus  Christ  was  not  a  foolish  ruler,  a  visionary 
leader,  that  His  word  is  the  illuminating  word;  that  His  way  is  the  living  way; 
that  it  is  only  safe  to  trust  and  follow  Him.  The  church  must  liepent  of  her 
lukewarmness  and  rebuke  with  prophetic  wrath  the  selfishness  of  men  and  break 
her  cowardly  silence  and  say  to  the  world,  "We  have  let  you  run  affairs  after 
selfish  pagan  methods  until  you  have  come  unto  the  brink  of  ruin.  Unless  you 
Christianize  your  industrial  system  it  cannot  last.  Unless  you  Christianize  your 
institutions  they  cannot  endure.  Other  foundations  can  no  man  lay  than  that  is 
laid  which  is  Jesus  Christ."  Too  long  have  we  imagined  that  the  principles  of 
Christ  were  for  some  other  world.  We  have  put  the  kingdom  He  came  to  establish 
beyond  the  stars,  but  this  was  not  the  purpose  of  His  mission,  this  is  not  the 
meaning  of  His  gospel.  His  laws  are  to  be  followed  in  the  world  in  which  we  live, 
now  and  here,  in  street  and  market  and  factory.  It  will  only  be  through  obedience 
to  moral  law,  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount  and  the  Golden  Rule  and  wholehearted 
response  to  the  Fatherhood  of  God  and  the  Brotherhood  of  man  and  a  suffering 
love  of  Jesus  Christ  that  there  can  ever  be  frictionless  society  in  our  world. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


25 


God  be  thanked  and  praised  for  his  Church,  for  the  authority  of 
the  Priesthood,  for  the  opportunity  it  offers  to  young  people  of  the 
Church  to  obtain  happiness  through  service.  May  they  have  power  and 
interest  to  take  advantage  of  these  opportunities,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  hymn,  "Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  salvation,"  was  sung 
by  the  congregation. 

Elder  Charles  Wl  Fagg,  President  of  the  Grant  Stake,  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

President  Heber  J,  Grant  called  the  second  session  of  the  Confer- 
ence to  order  at  2  o'clock,  and  announced  that  The  Singing  Mothers, 
(Relief  Society  Chorus)  under  the  direction  of  Sister  Charlotte  O. 
Sackett,  would  furnish  the  music  for  this  meeting. 

The  Chorus  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "God  moves  in  a 
mysterious  way." 

Elder  Charles  C.  Heaton,  President  of  the  Kanab  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

A  sacred  selection,  "Sleepers  wake,"  was  sung  by  The  Singing 
Mothers  Chorus. 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  am  very  grateful  today  to  be  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
in  this,  the  second  session  of  our  conference.  I  trust  that  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  will  continue  with  us,  that  we  may  be  edified  under  the  influence 
of  the  same,  and  that  when  we  go  from  here  we  may  feel  that  it  has  been 
profitable  and  that  we  have  indeed  waited  upon  the  Lord. 

A  DIMINISHING  FAITH  IN  GOD 

During  the  last  few  months  some  things  have  occurred  that  have 
been  more  or  less  distressing  to  me,  one  being  the  evidence  that  there  is 
a  diminishing  faith  in  God.  Only  a  few  weeks  ago  I  read  in  one  of  the 
large  daily  papers  a  statement  of  the  result  of  a  questionnaire  that  had 
been  sent  out  to  500  Protestant  ministers,  men  who  are  leaders  in  the 
churches  of  the  world,  and  I  was  very  much  disappointed  to  discover  that 
there  were  those  among  them  who  did  not  believe  in  a  personal  God, 
who  did  not  believe  in  the  divinity  of  Jesus  Christ,  who  did  not  believe 
that  there  is  a  heaven,  and  54  per  cent  did  not  believe  in  a  personal  devil. 
I  might  mention  other  things,  Bible  teachings,  that  were  discredited  by 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


these  men,  who  have  been  educated  to  teach  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
in  the  Christian  world. 

Recently  I  have  met  quite  a  number  of  missionaries,  many  of  them 
young  men,  some  young  women,  representing  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  They  have  been  able  when  they  were  called  upon, 
to  stand  on  their  feet  and  testify  to  the  truth  of  these  things  that  are 
doubted  by  the  men  who  are  supposed  to  be  leaders  in  Christian  churches. 

AN  UNDERSTANDING  OF  THE  PURPOSE  OF  LIFE 

I  fear  that  the  condition  of  the  world  is  due  to  a  lack  of  understand- 
ing of  the  purpose  of  our  being.  They  do  not  know  about  pre-existence. 
There  are  so  many  that  seem  to  have  no  conception  of  it,  and  have  no 
desire  to  know  where  we  are  going  when  our  mortal  life  is  ended. 

That  was  the  condition  which  prevailed  in  the  world  when  the 
Gospel  was  restored  in  the  latter  days.  The  Savior,  in  the  meridian  of 
time,  delivered  his  message  and  gave  to  the  people  an  understanding  of 
the  truth.  Then,  when  he  finished  his  work,  after  having  organized  his 
church,  he  left  them,  went  back  to  his  Heavenly  Father  and  is  enthroned 
in  the  heavens.  We  are  the  recipients  of  the  benefits  and  blessings  enjoy- 
ed by  humankind  as  a  result  of  his  marvelous  life  here  upon  the  earth. 

A  little  over  a  hundred  years  ago  there  were  few  people  in  the  world 
who  believed  in  a  personal  God  with  a  body.  But  a  manifestation  came 
at  that  time  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  when  he  was  only  a  boy,  not 
yet  fifteen  years  of  age,  and  he  saw  the  Father  and  the  Son  and  so 
testified.  He  also  received  visitations  from  other  heavenly  beings,  and 
the  Lord,  through  them  gave  him  additional  information  for  the  children 
of  men,  and  he,  in  his  own  way,  gave  to  us,  or  to  those  who  preceded  us 
in  the  Church,  an  understanding  of  the  purpose  of  life.  The  Lord 
blessed  him  in  his  ministry,  but  like  many  of  the  prophets  who  had  lived 
before  him,  he  became  a  martyr  for  the  truth. 

DIVINE  TRUTHS  REVEALED  THROUGH  A  PROPHET 

Before  his  death  thousands  of  good  men  and  women  accepted  him 
as  a  prophet  and  gathered  at  Nauvoo,  Illinois,  and  erected  a  beautiful 
Temple.  Mob  violence  deprived  them  of  their  homes  and  they  were 
driven  to  the  wilderness,  arriving  in  this  then  desolate  valley  July  24, 
1847.  They  believed  in  God  the  Eternal  Father  and  in  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ  and  accepted  his  Gospel  as  the  only  plan  that  would  insure  them 
a  place  in  the  Celestial  kingdom.  His  description  of  heaven  inspires 
us  with  a  desire  to  foe  worthy  of  a  home  there  when  our  earthly  lives 
are  finished.  A  literal  resurrection  and  a  description  of  heaven  and  hell 
are  made  so  plain  that,  to  use  a  scripture,  "a  wayfaring  man,  though  a 
fool,  need  not  err  therein." 

All  that  information  that  was  given  to  Joseph  a  little  over  a  hundred 
years  ago  has  been  passed  on  by  a  community  of  people  that  were  driven 
from  their  homes  in  the  East,  who  came  to  this  western  land  and  estab- 
lished themselves  here.    They  have  been  subduing  the  land,  building 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


27 


homes  and  cities,  and  in  the  meantime  they  have  been  sending  mission- 
aries into  all  parts  of  the  world  to  disseminate  the  truth. 

OUR  RESPONSIBILITY  TO  MANKIND 

I  can  understand  how  careless  men  might  be  with  the  rights  of 
others,  if  they  believe  that  in  this  life  only  we  have  hope.  They  would 
not  be  as  considerate  of  their  fellows  if  they  did  not  understand  the  pur- 
pose of  life.  There  has  been  bequeathed  to  us  who  are  here  today,  and 
our  associates  in  this  Church,  the  responsibility  of  delivering  a  message 
to  the  children  of  men,  carrying  it  into  all  the  world  so  that  others  will 
understand  it,  and  so  that  those  who  do  not  know  may  be  brought  to 
repentance  of  sin,  and  turn  to  righteousness. 

I  asked  myself  today,  as  I  looked  into  the  faces  of  this  fine  congre- 
gation, how  many  of  us  have  performed  our  part  ?  How  many  of  these 
men  who  are  in  presiding  positions  have  been  in  the  world,  and  given 
their  time  and  their  means  to  divide  with  our  Father's  children  the  truth 
that  has  been  restored  again  in  this  latter  day  ?  There  are  thousands  of 
men  in  this  audience,  and  it  is  probable  that  by  far  the  majority  of  those 
who  are  here,  holding  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  have  been  in  the 
mission  field.  You  have  not  only  given  two  or  more  years  of  your  lives 
as  ambassadors  of  our  Lord  but  you  have  borne  the  expense  necessary 
to  accomplish  your  missions,  for  which  you  may  receive  an  eternal  bless- 
ing. 

It  is  our  duty  to  teach  the  truth.  The  Lord  has  called  us  to  do  that 
and  we  should  qualify,  not  only  to  teach  it  to  the  world,  but  to  live  it  in 
our  own  homes,  in  all  our  communities.  Only  in  proportion  to  our  ob- 
servance of  the  teachings  of  the  Lord  will  happiness  come  into  our  lives. 

To  believe  that  we  are  the  children  of  the  Lord,  that  he  is  the  Father 
of  our  spirits,  that  we  are  living  eternal  lives,  is  surely  a  comfortable 
feeling.  To  know  that  we  may  have  the  companionship  of  those  we  love 
throughout  the  ages  of  eternity  is  an  inspiration.  These  blessings  have 
come  to  us.  The  Lord  has  bestowed  them  upon  us  to  prepare  us  to  take 
advantage  of  our  opportunities  here,  and  to  exemplify  in  our  lives  those 
precious  truths  that  enrich  us  here  and  bless  those  with  whom  we  asso- 
ciate. 

THE  ONLY  MEANS  OF  SECURING  PEACE  AND  HAPPINESS 

There  is  much  confusion  in  the  world  and  there  seems  to  be  no  way 
to  remove  it  except  by  the  power  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  The  wisdom 
of  the  world  is  failing,  the  scripture  is  fulfilled,  and  today  the  wisest  of 
all  men  are  seeking,  by  means  of  legislation,  to  bring  about  a  better  con- 
dition and  a  more  wholesome  life  among  the  human  family.  They  may 
strive  in  that  way,  but  unless  men  have  faith  in  God,  unless  they  under- 
stand the  purpose  of  life,  they  will  not  go  very  far.  The  people  of  the 
world  must  repent  of  their  sins  before  the  Lord  can  give  to  them  the 
peace  and  happiness  desired.   No  other  plan  will  succeed. 

OUR  PRIVILEGE  AND  DUTY 

So  upon  you,  my  brethren,  who  hold  the  Priesthood,  much  respon- 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


sibility  is  placed.  We  have  an  understanding  of  the  truth.  It  is  your 
duty  and  mine  to  live  the  Gospel,  and  to  disseminate  the  truth  as  we 
have  opportunity.  It  is  your  privilege  and  mine  to  carry  the  message  of 
life  and  salvation  to  the  children  of  men.  There  are  many  who  have 
no  idea  of  the  purpose  of  this  Church.  I  have  had  men  ask  me:  "Of 
what  benefit  is  your  church  more  than  some  other  church  ?"  I  have  tried, 
in  a  tactful  way,  to  explain  to  them  the  difference.  Any  organization 
may  band  together  for  worship,  but  that  does  not  give  them  divine  author- 
ity. Any  group  of  churches  may  mass  together  and  organize  community 
churches.  That  does  not  confer  divine  authority.  Men  may  unite  for 
good  purposes,  but  authority  from  our  Heavenly  Father  is  only  obtained 
in  his  way,  and  his  way  in  former  days  was  by  calling  and  ordaining 
men  and  setting  them  apart  for  the  work.  The  same  thing  is  true  in 
our  day. 

PREPARATION  FOR  CELESTIAL  GLORY 

So  while  we  may  see  the  beauties  of  other  faiths,  and  they  may  teach 
precious  truth,  and  many  wonderful  people  are  identified  with  the  vari- 
ous churches,  we  must  understand  that  only  the  Lord's  plan  will  prepare 
them  for  a  place  in  the  Celestial  kingdom.  The  purpose  of  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  is  to  prepare  us  for  the  Celestial  kingdom.  The  Lord  has 
revealed  to  us  that  there  are  other  kingdoms  of  glory,  and  other  king- 
doms not  of  glory;  but  in  order  that  men  might  be  prepared  for  the 
Celestial  kingdom  he  sent  his  Only  Begotten  Son  into  the  world.  He 
overcame  death  and  found  the  way  of  the  resurrection,  and  delivered 
the  message  of  life  and  salvation  to  the  children  of  men.  We  know  that, 
brethren,  but  our  Father's  children  in  the  world  do  not  understand  it. 

Think  of  the  responsibility  that  is  upon  us,  if  in  carelessness  or  in- 
difference we  live  our  lives,  not  seeking  to  divide  the  truth  with  those 
whom  the  Lord  loves  as  much  as  he  loves  us,  and  who  are  precious  in 
his  sight.  I  feel  that  there  should  be  an  awakening  among  some  of  the 
members  of  this  Church.  I  think  a  greater  effort  should  be  made  to 
divide  with  our  Father's  children  all  the  truth  that  is  deposited  with  this 
Church. 

DIVINE  AUTHORITY  NECESSARY 

People  should  be  made  to  understand  that  just  to  bow  before  the 
Lord  in  prayer  does  not  give  them  divine  authority.  To  live  up  to  the 
requirements  that  are  made  of  honesty,  virtue,  truth,  etc.,  does  not  give 
them  divine  authority.  Our  Heavenly  Father  has  made  it  plain  to  the 
children  of  men  that  only  under  the  hands  of  those  who  possess  divine 
authority  may  we  obtain  the  power  to  become  members  of  the  Celestial 
kingdom.  Knowing  that,  how  anxious  we  ought  to  be  to  disseminate 
that  information  and  divide  it  with  those  who  live  in  the  world. 

I  stand  here  today,  fully  convinced  of  the  divinity  of  the  mission  of 
Jesus  Christ.  I  know  it  as  I  know  that  I  live.  If  I  were  recreant  to 
that  knowledge,  if  I  failed  to  do  my  part,  knowing  that,  what  would  my 
condemnation  be  ? 

I  am  grateful  that  in  this  day  and  age  the  Lord  has  revealed  the 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


29 


Gospel  again.  The  Father  and  the  Son  appeared,  men  who  held  the 
Priesthood  formerly  came  and  conferred  that  Priesthood  upon  humble 
men  and  they  in  turn  were  commanded  to  confer  it  upon  others.  So  the 
Gospel  and  the  Priesthood  have  been  made  available  to  all  who  will 
qualify  to  receive  the  same,  and  that  is  the  Lord's  way. 

It  is  not  sufficient  that  we  pray,  that  we  attend  church.  It  is  necessary 
that  we  possess  divine  authority,  and  it  is  the  claim  that  we  possess  that 
authority  that  has  brought  upon  this  Church  much  of  the  persecution 
that  has  followed  it  from  the  beginning.  But  it  is  the  truth  and  many  of 
our  Father's  children  are  beginning  to  observe  the  effect  of  divine  author- 
ity in  this  Church.  They  see  the  development  that  is  made  in  the  lives 
of  men  and  women  and  I  think  there  is  more  inquiry  today  after  the 
truth,  as  taught  by  the  Redeemer  of  mankind,  than  there  has  been 
during  the  last  hundred  years.  I  believe  the  way  is  opening,  and  the 
Lord  is  preparing  the  hearts  of  men,  that  they  will  be  willing  to  hear 
the  truth  and  accept  it. 

PROGRESS  OF  CHURCH  CAN  NOT  BE  IMPEDED  BY  MAN 

What  a  glorious  opportunity  is  ours  !  The  Gospel  has  been  preached 
in  this  very  structure,  from  this  pulpit,  for  more  than  half  a  century  and 
we  are  the  fourth,  fifth  and  sixth  generations  in  the  Church  now  living, 
and  all  this  time  the  adversary  has  opposed  the  truth,  and  he  will  continue 
to  oppose  it,  but  it  is  our  duty  to  exemplify  the  beauty  of  it  in  our  lives, 
that  men,  seeing  our  good  works,  will  be  constrained  to  accept  the 
Gospel  and  to  glorify  the  name  of  the  Redeemer. 

Think  of  the  men  who  have  presided  over  this  Church — Joseph 
Smith  gave  his  life  without  hesitation,  when  the  time  came,  but  he  had 
finished  his  work.  The  men  who  have  succeeded  him  in  the  presidency 
have  possessed  divine  authority.  Each  of  them  in  their  turn  has  been 
criticized.  Fault  has  been  found  with  their  ministry,  but  they  have  been 
servants  of  the  Lord  and  he  has  recognized  them,  and  they  have  lived 
long,  useful  lives,  and  have  blessed  the  people. 

The  conditions  are  just  the  same  today.  The  same  influences  that 
destroyed  the  life  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  crucified  the  Savior.  The 
same  influences  that  have  betrayed  the  servants  of  the  Lord  in  the  past 
are  in  the  world  today.  Knowing  that  and  realizing  how  futile  men  have 
been  to  impede  the  progress  of  this  Church  how  grateful  we  ought  to 
be  to  know  that  this  work  is  not  the  work  of  man,  but  it  is  the  work  of 
the  Lord;  that  this  Church,  that  bears  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  is 
directed  by  him,  and  he  will  permit  no  man  or  group  of  men  to  destroy 
it.  He  will  not  permit  the  men  who  preside  over  his  Church  to  lead 
the  people  into  error,  but  he  will  sustain  them  with  his  almighty  power. 
He  will  magnify  them  in  the  eyes  of  good  and  great  men  and  women. 
He  will  bless  their  ministry  and  it  will  be  fraught  with  success.  Those 
who  oppose  and  find  fault  will  not  find  joy  in  their  opposition.  Those 
who  criticize  and  seek  to  destroy  the  influence  of  the  leaders  of  the  Church 
will  suffer  the  result  of  their  wrong-doing. 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


THE  ONLY  PLAN 

But  let  us  who  know,  those  of  us  who  have  a  testimony,  go  forth 
day  by  day  and  with  love  and  kindness  unfeigned  go  among  these  men 
and  women,  whether  they  be  in  the  Church  or  out  of  the  Church,  and  find 
a  way  to  touch  their  hearts  and  lead  them  into  that  pathway  that  will 
insure  them  a  knowledge  of  the  truth. 

This  is  the  Lord's  work.  As  I  said  before,  men  may  unite  for 
prayer  and  thanksgiving,  but  that  does  not  confer  upon  them  divine 
authority.  All  the  churches  of  the  world  might  unite  and  agree  upon 
one  plan  of  worship,  but  that  would  not  give  them  divine  authority. 
And  if  all  the  churches  of  the  world  did  agree  to  some  plan,  and  decide 
that  that  plan  would  be  sufficient  for  us  here  upon  earth,  that  would  not 
prepare  men  for  the  Celestial  kingdom.  The  only  plan  that  will  prepare 
men  for  the  Celestial  kingdom  is  the  plan  that  has  been  given  by  Jesus- 
Christ,  our  Lord ;  and  the  only  authority  that  will  qualify  men  to  teach 
and  to  officiate  in  the  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  properly  is  the  authority 
of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord. 

SHOULD  MAGNIFY  OUR  CALLING 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  knowing  that,  how  grateful  we  ought 
to  be ;  realizing  that,  how  anxious  we  should  be  to  go  about  doing  good. 
It  is  a  slothful  servant  who  waits  until  he  is  commanded  in  all  things. 
Our  Heavenly  Father  expects  us  to  magnify  our  calling,  no  matter  where 
it  may  be,  no  matter  how  humble  our  lot  in  life  may  be.  Let  us  improve 
our  talents,  so  that  when  the  time  comes  for  the  Master  to  reward  us 
according  to  what  we  have  done,  we  may  receive  the  blessing  that  was 
given  to  two  of  the  three  men  referred  to  in  the  parable  of  the  talents : 
"Well  done,  good  and  faithful  servant." 

REJOICES  IN  COMPANIONSHIP  OF  CHURCH  AUTHORITIES 

Again  I  say  I  know  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  am  thankful 
for  the  companionship  of  the  men  with  whom  I  am  associated.  I  am 
grateful  to  stand  at  the  side  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  and  among 
the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  and  bear  witness  that  I  know  that  this  is 
God's  work.  I  am  thankful  for  my  heritage,  grateful  for  the  love  and 
kindness  that  have  been  extended  to  me  by  those  with  whom  I  have 
associated. 

I  pray  God,  our  Father  in  heaven,  that  we,  his  people,  may  see  and 
understand  all  truth,  attune  our  lives  to  the  righteousness  of  the  teachings 
of  the  Gospel,  and  conduct  ourselves  in  such  a  way  that  everywhere  we 
go  men  may  rejoice  in  our  companionship.  If  we  will  do  that  our  homes 
will  be  the  abiding  place  of  peace ;  our  towns  and  cities  and  our  country- 
side will  be  blessed  of  the  Lord.  If  we  will  observe  the  commandments 
of  our  Heavenly  Father  we  will  not  suffer  for  the  necessities  of  life, 
beyond  what  we  can  bear,  we  will  not  lose  the  faith,  we  will  not  fall  into 
darkness,  but  the  light  and  joy  of  the  testimony  that  comes  from  our 
Heavenly  Father  will  fill  our  souls.  That  it  may  do  so,  I  humbly  pray, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


31 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 
I  will  read  the  platform  on  which  I  stand  as  a  member  of  the  Church. 
There  is  one  Lord,  one  faith,  one  baptism, 

One  God  and  Father  of  all,  who  is  above  all,  and  through  all,  and  in  you  all. 

******* 

And  he  gave  some,  apostles ;  and  some,  prophets ;  and  some,  evangelists ;  and 
some,  pastors  and  teachers ; 

For  the  perfecting  of  the  saints,  for  the  work  of  the  ministry,  for  the  edifying 
of  the  body  of  Christ. 

Till  we  all  come  in  the  unity  of  faith,  and  of  the  knowledge  of  the  Son 
of  God  unto  a  perfect  man,  unto  the  measure  of  the  stature  of  the  fulness  of 
Christ.    (Ephesians  4) 

On  August  6,  1842,  Joseph  Smith  prophesied  to  the  Saints : 

Some  of  you  will  live  to  go  and  assist  in  making  settlements  and  build  cities 
and  see  the  Saints  become  a  mighty  people  in  the  midst  of  the  Rocky  Mountains. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  gave  instructions  to  the  Apostles  at  the 
last  meeting  prior  to  their  leaving  on  missions  : 

I  have  sealed  upon  your  heads  all  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  God.  I  have 
sealed  upon  you  every  key,  power  and  principle  that  the  God  of  heaven  has 
revealed  unto  me. 

President  Brigham  Young  said  after  the  martyrdom  of  the  Prophet : 
Thank  God,  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  are  here. 
President  Woodruff  said : 

We  have  already  revelations  enough  to  lead  this  Church  into  the  Celestial 
kingdom  of  God.  We  are  not  without  revelation.  The  heavens  are  full  of  it  and 
so  also  is  the  priesthood  of  God. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  established  and  perfectly 
organized,  and  the  keys  will  remain  with  the  Church  until  the  coming  of  the  Son 
of  Man,  which  means  until  the  coming  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  the  cl'ouds 
of  heaven,  to  reward  every  man  according  to  the  deeds  done  in  the  body. 

The  machinery  of  the  Church  is  working  perfectly :  Semi-annual, 
stake,  and  ward  conferences  are  being  held ;  auxiliary  organizations  are 
doing  their  part  as  helps  in  the  Church.  The  people  are  taught  and 
fully  instructed. 

Thank  God  we  have  in  our  Church  men  whom  God  hath  chosen,  who 
have  a  genius  for  expression,  and  who  are  so  vivid  that  when  such  men 
talk  to  people  they  repent  of  their  sins  and  serve  God  and  keep  his  com- 
mandments. 

Our  Eternal  Father,  the  Ruler  of  the  Universe,  is  working  for  his  children 
daily.  He  is  rolling  up  the  sun  of  morning,  making  wheat,  and  fruit  and  vegetables 
grow ;  keeping  our  hearts  and  lungs  going ;  carrying  water  from  the  ocean  and 
sprinkling  it  Over  the  land.  In  short,  he  too  goes  on  loving  again  and  again  as 
long  as  we  live,  and  he  too  finds  joy  in  service  to  his  children  who  are  thankless 
and  unappreciative  most  of  the  time.' 

Jesus  Christ  in  his  ministry  could  have  built  up  a  kingdom.  He 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


could  have  built  cities,  temples,  tabernacles,  and  ivory  palaces,  had  armies 
and  navies,  and  forcefully  proclaimed  himself  a  king,  a  ruler.  He  could 
have  won  the  crowds,  could  have  filled  his  time  with  appointments  with 
rich  and  influential  folk,  who  would  have  contributed  to  the  establish- 
ment of  a  temporal  kingdom. 

Jesus  Christ  taught  the  people  a  simpler  way.  Some  of  the  out- 
standing wayside  ministries  of  Jesus,  some  of  the  incidents  which  reveal 
Christ's  methods  of  teaching,  were  his  conversation  with  the  woman  at 
the  well,  his  approval  of  Mary's  lavish  outpouring  of  the  precious  oint- 
ment in  expression  of  her  love,  the  turning  of  the  water  unto  wine, 
the  healing  of  Simon's  wife's  mother,  the  washing  of  the  disciples'  feet, 
the  stilling  of  the  storm-tossed  waves. 

Jesus  took  time  to  heal  the  sick  and  to  bless,  to  talk  with  the  heart- 
weary,  to  comfort  the  discouraged.  His  time  was  largely  spent  in 
kindly  "wayside  ministries"  and  it  was  not  counted  as  wasted  time. 

We  can  hardly  think  of  Jesus  Christ  as  feeling  himself  interrupted 
by  the  sick  and  weary  who  at  eventide  crowded  around  the  house  where 
he  tarried. 

The  visit  from  the  rich  young  ruler,  the  midnight  meeting  with 
Nicodemus,  the  time  of  the  service  at  the  wedding  feast,  are  just  as  im- 
portant as  are  those  incidents  where  he  preaches  to  the  crowds  or  feeds 
the  hungry  multitudes. 

The  more  we  think  of  and  study  Christ's  way  of  living  and  preach- 
ing the  more  we  are  impressed  that  there  was  a  lack  of  fixed  formalities 
or  haste  in  his  plan  of  work.  There  were  no  false  standards  of  time,  no 
statistics,  no  wrong  estimates  of  the  great  importance  of  numbers.  His 
mission  was  to  minister  to  seeking  hearts  anywhere  and  at  any  time.  The 
only  time,  so  far  as  we  know,  that  Jesus  excluded  himself  was  when 
he  went  aside  alone  to  pray. 

How  strikingly  in  contrast  with  our  modern  conception  of  the 
value  of  time,  and  of  organization,  and  of  efficiency,  which  so  completely 
fills  our  days  with  one  pressing  engagement  after  another,  running  hither 
and  thither,  until  we  have  little  or  no  time  to  minister  to  the  needy,  the 
hungry,  the  naked,  the  disconsolate  ones  who  are  ever  with  us.  It  would 
almost  seem  that  materialism  and  selfishness  and  greed  have  nearly 
driven  out  of  us  that  Christlike  spirit. 

We  as  Latter-day  Saints,  holding  the  Priesthood  as  we  do,  should 
become  more  intimately  acquainted  with  Jesus  Christ,  who  is  the  Way, 
the  Truth,  the  Life,  and  let  Christ's  spirit  of  self-forgetfulness  and 
service  take  possession  of  us  and  "seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and 
his  righteousness." 

It  is  disquieting  to  talk  about  it. 

"Many  are  called  and  few  are  chosen." 

The  people  who  were  in  a  hurry  crucified  Christ.  What  was  Christ 
thinking  about  when  he  was  nailed  to  the  cross  ? 

"There  is  safety  in  thought,  but  great  danger  in  the  expression  of 
one's  thoughts."  The  idea  some  have  is  to  think  and  study  but  keep 
still  and  not  talk.  That  is,  you  just  sit  on  the  fence  and  be  a  cud-chewing 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


33 


cow  and  watch  the  procession  go  by.  You  listen  and  hearken  and  let 
knowledge  sink  into  your  soul,  just  as  a  sponge  absorbs  water,  and 
answer  in  monosyllables.  Some  wise  men  never  express  a  thought. 
Why?  Because  they  trust  in  the  arm  of  flesh.  Fear  creeps  into  their 
hearts. 

That  is  to  say,  you  assume  an  air  of  owlish  wisdom  and  get  a  plaster- 
cast  expression  on  your  face  and  conclude  that  silence  and  mental  dryness 
are  indicative  of  wisdom,  but  such  people  seldom  if  ever  get  a  bright  idea 
in  their  heads  or  a  generous  sentiment  in  their  hearts.  Such  men  are  half- 
way men.  In  a  million  years  they  couldn't  prophesy.  If  God  put  the 
words  into  their  mouths  fear  of  criticism  and  misunderstanding  would 
put  them  to  silence.  Heber  C.  Kimball  in  1848,  or  near  that  time,  proph- 
esied that  goods  would  be  sold  on  the  main  street  of  Salt  Lake  City  as 
cheap  as  in  New  York. 

Arthur  Henry  Young  believes  "that  thought  is  the  most  sacred 
thing  in  the  world."  Of  what  use  is  thought  if  there  is  no  way  of  giving 
expression  to  thought?  There  never  was  genius  without  inspiration. 

In  a  revelation  to  Joseph  Smith  in  1831  the  Lord  said  : 

But  with  some  I  am  not  well  pleased,  for  they  will  not  open  their  mouths, 
but  they  hide  the  talent  which  I  have  given  unto  them,  because  of  the  fear  of  man. 
Wo  unto  such,  for  mine  anger  is  kindled  against  them. 

And  it  shall  oome  to  pass',  if  they  are  not  more  faithful  unto  me,  it  shall 
be  taken  away,  even  that  which  they  have.    (Doctrine  and  Covenants  60:2-3) 

This  ought  to  be  an  ensample  unto  all  those  who  are  ordained  to 
the  holy  Priesthood  and  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  more  es- 
pecially to  those  whose  mission  is  appointed  unto  them  to  preach  the 
Gospel.  Because  the  instruction  is  that  "they  shall  speak  as  they  are 
moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost." 

And  whatsoever  they  shall  speak  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost  shall 
be  scripture,  shall  be  the  will  of  the  Lord,  shall  be  the  mind  of  the  Lord,  shall 
be  the  word  of  the  Lord,  shall  be  the  voice  of  the  Lord,  and  the  power  of  'the 
Lord  unto  salvation. 

Behold,  this  is  the  promise  of  the  Lord  unto  you,  O  ye  my  servant?,  (Doc- 
trine and  Covenants  68:3-4) 

President  Wilford  Woodruff  said  : 

There  is  not  a  man  on  God's  footstool  that  is  sent  forth  into  the  world  to 
preach  the  Gospel  but  ought  to  have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  upon  him  and  the 
revelation  of  God  to  him.  The  holy  Priesthood  and  power  of  God  does  not  stop 
with  the  prophet,  seer,  revelator,  Apostle,  or  just  leading  men  of  the  Church, 

The  reason  for  this  is,  that  every  man  who  is  honored  by  holding 
this  holy  Priesthood  and  receives  an  appointment  under  the  hands  of  those 
having  authority,  the  Holy  Ghost  should  be  with  him.  That  is,  if  he 
lives  his  religion  and  does  his  duty  and  lives  a  clean  life. 

Brother  Woodruff  continues : 

The  Bible  is  all  right.  The  Book  of  Mormon  is'  all  right.  The  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  is  all  right,  and  they  proclaim  the  word  of  God.  But  the  holy 
priesthood  is  not  confined  to  these  books ;  that  is,  the  revelations  of  G^d  did 
not  cease  when  these  books  were  written. 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Heber  C.  Kimball  expressed  a  thought  when  he  said : 

I  do  not  know  that  this  can  be  found  in  the  Bible,  but  it  is  just  as  good  and 

true. 

Thought,  with  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  is  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  the  most  sacred  thing  in  the  world.  Oliver  Cowdery,  how- 
ever gifted,  did  not  understand  the  great  secret  of  thought  and  study. 
He  supposed  that  the  Lord  would  give  it  unto  him  when  he  took  no 
thought  save  it  was  to  ask.   But  the  Word  of  the  Lord  came  to  him : 

Behold,  I  say  unto  you,  that  you  must  study  it  out  in  your  mind ;  then  you 
must  ask  me  if  it  be  right,  and  if  it  is  right  I  will  cause  that  your  bosom  shall 
burn  within  you ;  therefore  you  shall  feel  that  it  is  right. 

Jesus  gives  a  perfect  answer : 

My  doctrine  is  not  mine,  but  His  that  sent  me.  If  any  man  will  do  his  will, 
he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself. 

"Ask,  and  it  shall  be  given  you ;  seek  and  ye  shall  find ;  knock,  and  it  shall 
be  opened  unto  you. 

We  have  men  who  can  look  into  the  future.  Men  of  vision  is  what 
the  world  needs.  Three  thousand  years  ago  it  was  written:  "Where 
there  is  no  vision  the  people  perish." 

Today,  at  the  dawn  of  the  twentieth  century,  we,  as  Latter-day 
Saints,  are  in  sore  need  of  a  vision  of  the  future  which  will  uplift  us 
above  and  beyond  the  petty,  sordid  interests  of  the  moment,  viz :  That 
money  devil,  intemperance,  and  immorality,  are  some  of  the  evils  which 
are  lying  right  across  the  highway  of  our  future.  It  is  riches,  automo- 
biles, oriental  rugs,  fashion,  social  functions,  class  distinction,  and  other 
worldly  things  that  appeal  to  our  covetousness  more  than  just  doing 
right,  for  they  are  advertised  better  and  have  a  stronger  appeal  to  our 
sordid  natures. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  been  in  this  work  a  long  time.  I  pray 
God  that  I  may  have  his  Spirit  always.  There  is  only  one  way  for  me 
to  get  out  of  this  Church,  and  that  is  by  doing  wrong.  I  hope  I  shall 
never  live  long  enough  or  say  anything  that  there  will  be  taken  from  me 
that  which  I  have.  God  bless  you,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

A  solo  and  Chorus,  "Ave  Maria,"  was  sung  by  Emma  Lucy  Gates 
Bowen  and  the  Singing  Mothers. 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

In  contemplating  the  attitude  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  as  a  body 
of  religious  worshipers  towards  their  fellowmen,  my  mind  is  led  in 
serious  reflection  to  the  great  mission  on  which  we  lay  a  divinely  author- 
ized claim.  We  present  ourselves  as  messengers  of  life  and  salvation 
binder  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  to  all  with  whom  we  come  in  contact. 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


35 


We  fit  our  calling  to  the  present  day,  this  scripturally  known  Dispensa- 
tion of  the  Fulness  of  Times.  As  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  our  claim  is  that  we  are  divinely  commissioned 
to  perform  Gospel  ordinances  in  the  name  and  by  the  authority  of  Jesus 
of  Nazareth,  the  Son  of  the  living  God. 

FULFILLMENT  OF  GOD'S  PROMISES 

We  particularly  lay  stress  today  upon  a  culminating  feature  of  the 
Gospel  revelation  for  the  salvation  of  the  living  and  of  the  dead  of 
God's  children  who  have  dwelt  on  the  earth  in  ages  past.  We  point 
out  that  through  the  channel  of  divine  revelation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  that  culminating  feature  was  in  fulfillment  of  God's  promise 
recorded  in  the  closing  words  of  the  Old  Testament,  that  he  would  send 
Elijah  the  prophet  before  the  coming  of  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of 
the  Lord  to  turn  the  heart  of  the  fathers  to  the  children  and  the  heart 
of  the  children  to  their  fathers.  In  proof  of  the  validity  of  our  claim 
we  cite,  among  other  things: 

1.  That  the  present  disturbed  condition  of  the  world,  more  general 
than  ever  known  before,  is  evidence  of  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the 
Lord  now  being  upon  us. 

WORK  FOR  THE  DEAD 

2.  That  early  in  the  present  dispensation  of  the  Gospel,  and  now 
about  a  century  ago,  the  Prophet  Elijah  did  come;  and  that  following 
that  coming,  the  genealogical  researchers  have  grown  to  millions  in 
numbei  among  the  civilized  peoples  of  the  earth,  and  are  seeking, 
records  of  their  ancestors  back  to  the  patriarchs  Abraham,  Isaac 
and  Jacob. 

3.  That  in  the  temples  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  among  that 
people  only,  are  performed  the  higher  Gospel  ordinances  for  the 
salvation  of  the  living  and  of  the  dead  of  ages  past. 

4.  That  while  those  ordinances  are  no  part  of  the  strictly  Mosaic 
law,  they  are  a  necessary  part  of  the  fulness  of  the  Gospel  for  this  age 
and  time,  and  for  the  dead  who  have  died  without  law  as  well  as  for 
the  living  today,  as  resultant  upon  the  statement  of  Jesus  of  Nazareth : 
"The  hour  is  coming,  and  now  is,  when  the  dead  shall  hear  the  voice 
of  the  Son  of  God:  and  they  that  hear  shall  live."  (John  5:25.)  The 
reason  for  this  is  given  by  the  Apostle  Peter:  "For  for  this  cause 
was  the  gospel  preached  also  to  them  that  are  dead,  that  they  might  be 
judged  according  to  men  in  the  flesh,  but  live  according  to  God  in 
the  spirit."    (1  Peter  4:6.) 

To  my  mind  this  is  a  serious,  a  marvelous  claim,  carrying  not 
only  to  the  Church  as  a  body,  but  to  the  individual  members  thereof, 
a  stupendous  and  weighty  responsibility  which  cannot  be  lightly  turned 
aside.  In  early  days,  now  nearly  thirty-three  centuries  ago,  those 
children  of  Israel  who  had  come  out  of  Egypt,  and  were  traveling  in 
the  desert  between  that  place  and  their  promised  land,  failed  in  a 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


degree  to  meet  the  requirements  of  the  higher  Priesthood  law,  and  were 
placed  under  the  lesser  law  known  as  the  Mosaic  covenant. 

UNDER  THE  HIGHER  PRIESTHOOD 

But  such  is  not  the  case  with  the  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are 
under  the  covenant  with  Christ,  which  is  the  higher  Priesthood,  and 
are  amenable  thereto  in  our  individual  as  well  as  in  our  collective 
capacity.  The  authority  of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  is  conferred 
upon  us.  The  ordinances  of  that  higher  Priesthood  are  ours.  The 
requirements  of  its  responsibilities  are  upon  us  individually,  and  admit 
of  no  justifiable  evasion  on  our  part.  They  come  under  the  explicit 
saying  of  the  Savior:  "If  ye  love  me,  keep  my  commandments." 
(John  14:15.) 

Jesus  further  said  to  his  disciples : 

This  is  my  commandment,  That  ye  love  one  another,  as  I  have  loved  you. 
Greater  love  hath  no  man  than  this,  that  a  man  lay  down  his  life  for  his 
friends. 

Ye  are  my  friends,  if  ye  do  whatsoever  I  command  you. 

Henceforth  I  call  you  not  servants';  for  the  servant  knoweth  not  what  his 
lord  doeth ;  but  I  have  called  you  friends ;  for  all  things  that  I  have  heard 
of  my  Father  I  have  made  known  unto  you. 

Ye  have  not  chosen  me,  but  I  have  chosen  you,  and  ordained  you,  that  ye 
should  go  and  bring  forth  fruit,  and  that  your  fruit  should  remain:  that  whatso- 
ever ye  shall  ask  of  the  Father  in  my  name,  he  may  give  it  you. 

These  things  I  command  you,  that  ye  love  one  another.    (John  15:12-17). 

FREE  AGENCY 

Men  have  their  free  agency.  Under  the  full  and  proper  exercise 
thereof,  they  are  free  to  think,  free  to  act  within  reasonable  restrictions. 
This  freedom  of  agency  places  upon  them  the  responsibility  of  both 
thought  and  action  as  individuals.  Their  opportunity  is  to  choose  to 
follow  either  the  good  or  the  evil  in  life.  Those  of  us  who  have  aligned 
ourselves  sincerely  with  the  Church  of  Jesus  .  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  have  made  choice  of  the  good,  and  have  become  messengers  of 
salvation  in  ourselves  and  to  others.  We  have  become  followers  of 
Jesus  of  Nazareth,  the  Son  of  God.  As  such  followers,  integrity  of 
word  and  deed  should  be  the  cornerstone  of  our  efforts. 

NECESSITY  OF  LABOR 

To  be  a  true  disciple  of  Jesus,  we  must  needs  be  workers  in  his 
great  cause.  It  is  said  in  one  of  the  Proverbs,  "Seest  thou  a  man 
diligent  in  his  business?  He  shall  stand  before  kings."  This  necessity 
of  labor  is  a  mainspring  in  what  we  call  progress  by  individuals  as 
well  as  in  civilization.  To  labor,  to  actually,  definitely  labor  in  the  cause 
of  Christ  produces  its  effects  in  righteous  growth  and  development. 
The  Apostle  Peter  once  said  to  believers  in  his  day :  "Ye  are  a  chosen 
generation,  a  royal  priesthood,  a  holy  nation,  a  peculiar  people." 
(1  Peter  2:9.)  A  "do-nothing"  people  cannot  fill  that  calling.  In- 
dustry, integrity,  application,  self-respect,  in  the  spiritual  as  well  as  in 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


37 


the  material  things  of  life,  are  essential  qualites.  "Ye  shall  know 
them  by  their  fruits." 

INDIVIDUAL  RESPONSIBILITY 

In  the  quotation  here  made  from  the  Apostle  John's  record  of  the 
sayings  of  Christ,  two  elements  may  be  selected  for  definite  thought. 
One  of  these  is  that  in  and  of  our  own  volition,  we  assume  the  respon- 
sibility of  doing  something  ourselves,  rather  than  be  always  seeking 
to  depend  wholly  upon  the  advice  and  direction  of  others.  This  advice 
is  timely  in  degree,  but  it  has  its  limit  in  often  burdening  others  beyond 
necessity.  In  proper  degree  it  is  timely  in  that  it  complies  with  the 
design  of  Providence.  Yet  let  us  remember  that  the  inspiration  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  for  us  to  proceed  upon  our  own  individual  initiative  is 
worth  something;  and  acting  under  that  inspiration  is  an  obligation 
aptly  expressed  by  the  Apostle  James :  "Be  ye  doers  of  the  word, 
and  not  hearers  only,  deceiving  your  own  selves."  Wherein  we  seek 
over-guidance  or  over-government  from  human  sources,  we  develop 
in  ourselves  a  tendency  to  helplessness.  That  which  is  put  into  us  by 
others  is  always  far  less  ours  than  that  which  we  acquire  by  our  own 
diligent  and  persevering  effort.  It  is  not  luck  nor  accident  that  helps 
a  man  in  the  world  so  much  as  purpose  and  persistent  industry. 

These  aphorisms  are  among  those  which,  so  far  as  my  ability  to 
apply  them  in  my  own  life  has  been  concerned,  have  been  to  me  of 
great  and  durable  value.  But  to  be  of  the  highest  value,  we  must 
remember  our  duty  and  service  to  God.  That  is  the  supreme  calling 
which  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  accepted  and  assigned  to  them- 
selves in  the  choice  they  have  made  within  their  free  agency.  By 
thus  assuming  our  individual  responsibility,  our  example  becomes  not 
only  helpful  to  others,  but  definitely  removes  us  from  the  classification 
indicated  in  the  verdict:  "Every  tree  that  bringeth  not  forth  good 
fruit  is  hewn  down,  and  cast  into  the  fire."  (Matt.  7:19-20.)  Those 
Latter-day  Saints  who  have  the  spirit  of  their  calling  aim  to  bring 
forth  good  fruit  in  the  Gospel  of  Christ,  materially  and  spiritually. 
Therein  they  do  manifest  their  love  for  their  fellowmen  as  the  love 
of  Christ  comes  into  their  hearts. 

Jesus  himself  found  occasion  to  lay  particular  stress  upon  the 
individual  responsibility  for  action  by  those  who.  professed  his  name. 
He  thus  did  so  in  these  words :  "Ye  are  the  light  of  the  world.  A  city 
that  is  set  on  a  hill  cannot  be  hid.  *  *  *  Let  your  light  so  shine  before 
men,  that  they  may  see  your  good  works,  and  glorify  your  Father 
which  is  in  heaven."  (Matt.  5:14,  16.) 

SOME  ACHIEVEMENTS 

It  is  in  the  history  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  they  have  done  much 
in  harmony  with  this  divine  injunction.  In  a  spiritual  way,  they  have 
engaged  in  extensive  missionary  service  for  bringing  souls  into  the  fold 
of  Christ.    Yet  it  cannot  be  said  that  they  have  been  idle  in  helpful 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


material  things.  Since  coming  to  these  valleys,  now  nearly  eighty-seven 
years  ago,  they  have  been  wonderful  colonists ;  their  mission  of  coloni- 
zation has  opened  up  to  an  advanced  civilization  this  intermountain 
country,  from  their  settlements  in  Canada  to  their  settlements  in  Mexico, 
as  well  as  easterly  and  westerly  to  a  considerable  extent.  Individually 
and  collectively  they  have  established  and  carried  on  home  industries 
which  reach  into  every  city  and  hamlet,  bringing  useful  and  congenial 
employment  in  the  production  of  life's  necessities  and  comforts.  By 
both  individual  and  cooperative  effort  they  have  developed  irrigation 
projects  that  aid  in  "subduing  the  earth"  in  this  intermountain  region, 
until  it  has  become  desirable  for  man's  habitation.  By  similar  effort  they 
have  encouraged  educational  institutions  and  an  educational  system  of 
which  any  community  may  be  proud.  By  their  moral  training  of  both 
young  and  old,  they  have  attained  a  standing  in  character  that  is  an  honor 
•to  the  commonwealth.  As  temple  builders  they  have  adopted  different 
types  of  architecture  into  a  class  of  strikingly  beautiful  edifices  regarded 
as  especially  sacred.  As  a  community  of  home-makers  they  have  brought 
to  comfortable  homes  thousands  of  families  from  the  civilized  nations, 
and  have  molded  those  people  of  different  tongues  and  nationalities  into 
a  uniform  community  sentiment.  Yet,  in  their  responsibilities  under  the 
higher  law  of  the  Gospel  which  they  have  received,  these  achievements 
are  not  at  an  end.  They  are  just  begun,  to  be  continued  until  the  Zion  of 
God  is  established  in  the  land,  as  the  Lord  has  foretold  through  his 
prophets.  Their  work  as  individuals  may  be  humbly  done,  but  in  right- 
eousness it  is  age-during,  to  the  glory  of  the  God  of  Israel  whom  they 
seek  to  serve. 

As  Jesus  invited  his  followers  anciently  to  voluntary  and  coopera- 
tive effort  for  all  good,  so  in  this  dispensation  he  has  given  explicit 
instruction  which  applies  to  such  voluntary  action  by  each  Church  mem- 
ber.   On  one  occasion,  he  expressed  such  lesson  in  these  words : 

For  behold,  it  is  not  meet  that  I  should  command  in  all  things ;  for  he  that  is 
compelled  in  all  things,  the  same  is'  a  slothful  and  not  a  wise  servant;  wherefore 
he  receiveth  no  reward. 

Verily  I  say,  men  should  be  anxiously  engaged  in  a  good  cause,  and  do 
many  things  of  their  own  free  will,  and  bring  to  pass  much  righteousness ; 

For  the  power  is  in  them,  wherein  they  are  agents  unto  themselves.  And 
inasmuch  as  men  do  good  they  shall  in  nowise  lose  their  reward. 

But  he  that  doeth  not  anything  until  he  is  commanded,  and  receiveth  a 
commandment  with  doubtful  heart,  and  keepeth  it  with  slothfulness,  the  same 
is  damned.     (D.  &  C.  58  -.26-29.) 

RESULTS  FOLLOWING  NEGLECT 

Yet  it  is  wise  to  recall  that  sometimes,  in  our  own  human  weakness, 
we  become  neglectful  even  of  our  supreme  obligations.  As  told  in 
Bible  history,  the  Israel  of  olden  time  did  this  on  different  occasions, 
and  called  forth  reprimands  therefor.  Our  knowledge  of  such  instances 
may  serve  as  warnings  to  us,  to  avoid  similar  mistakes,  and  to  keep  the 
Gospel  light  shining  within  our  hearts.  The  Israel  of  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon record  also  had  occasions  of  neglect.   The  book  of  Helaman  in  the 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


39 


Book  of  Mormon  makes  record  of  such  event,  wherein  the  words  of  that 
writer  present  a  timely  lesson  to  us,  were  we  to  become  neglectful  of 
God's  word.  The  writer  says  that  the  people  to  whom  he  refers  had  been 
prospered  "in  the  increase  of  their  fields,  their  flocks  and  their  herds, 
and  in  gold  and  in  silver,  and  in  all  manner  of  precious  things  of  every 
kind  and  art."  They  also  had  been  relieved  from  the  active  antagonism 
of  their  enemies,  and  presented  a  scene  of  "exceedingly  great  prosperity." 
Then  they  became  lifted  up  in  pride,  and  were  given  to  boasting.  When 
in  their  situation  of  ease,  they  began  to  forget  God,  they  fell  under 
affliction  arising  from  their  own  neglect  of  responsibility  to  the  divine 
word.  The  historian  then  goes  on  to  say  of  them : 

Behold,  they  do  not  desire  that  the  Lord  their  God,  who  hath  created  them, 
shruld  rule  and  reign  over  them ;  notwithstanding  his  great  goodness  and  his  mercy 
towards  them,  they  do  set  at  naught  his  counsels,  and  they  will  not  that  he  should 
he  their  guide.     (Helaman  12:6.) 

REMEMBER  THE  LORD' 

In  these  days  of  distorting  the  plain  words  of  scripture,  of  atheistic 
teachings,  of  chaotic  social  propaganda,  and  of  general  economic  uncer- 
tainty, it  may  be  well  for  us,  in  our  private  contemplation,  to  give  at 
least  a  passing  heed  to  the  conditions  cited  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and 
for  us  to  seek  more  earnestly  than  ever  to  remember  God,  that  his  bless- 
ings and  protecting  care  may  come  to  us  still  more  abundantly  in  our 
time  of  special  need,  such  as  seems  to  be  upon  us  today.  Though  the 
efforts  of  men  may  be  frustrated,  God's  promise  does  not  fail  wherein 
he  says  to  those  who  draw  near  to  him :  "I  will  have  respect  unto  you, 
and  make  you  fruitful,  and  multiply  you,  and  establish  my  covenant 
with  you."  (Lev.  26:9.)  It  is  our  own  responsibility,  individually  as 
well  as  collectively,  to  thereby  gain  our  own  welfare,  and  the  welfare 
of  others,  under  our  divine  call  in  this  age. 

FRIENDS  OF  JESUS 

Referring  again  to  the  quotation  hereinbefore  made  from  the 
Apostle  John's  record  of  the  sayings  of  Christ,  a  second  element  for 
present  definite  thought  is  in  the  Savior's  words :  "Ye  are  my  friends  if 
ye  do  whatsoever  I  command  you.  *  *  *  These  things  I  command  you, 
that  ye  love  one  another."  This  command  to  "love  one  another"  was 
not  narrowed  to  family  or  social  relationships,  or  even  to  Church  mem- 
berships. Its  scope  was  broad  indeed,  for  bringing  the  Gospel  message 
to  all  who  would  give  heed.    Jesus  himself  thus  explains  it : 

Ye  have  heard  that  it  hath  been  said,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor,  and 
hate  thine  enemy. 

But  T  say  unto  you,  Love  your  enemies,  bless  them  that  curse  you,  do  good 
to  them  that  hate  you,  and  pray  for  them  that  dcspitefully  use  you,  and  persecute 
you ; 

That  ye  may  be  the  children  of  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven:  for  he 
maketh  his  sun  to  rise  on  the  evil  and  on  the  good,  and  sendeth  rain  on  the  just 
and  on  the  unjust. 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


For  if  ye  love  them  which  love  you,  what  reward  have  you?  Do  not  even 
the  publicans  the  same  ? 

And  if  ye  salute  your  brethren  only,  what  do  ye  more  than  others  ?  Do  net 
even  the  publicans  so?     ( Matt.  5  :43-47 ;    3  Nephi  13 :44,  45.) 

In  the  present  hectic  discussions  of  religious  and  social  questions 
especially,  it  is  well  to  be  careful  in  personal  criticisms,  that  we  may 
not  be  unjust.  There  may  be  faults,  but  who  is  without  them?  These 
can  be  corrected  without  either  growing  angry  or  scolding  each  other. 
The  scold  may  make  an  enemy,  but  never  a  convert.  Sometimes  we 
meet  the  suggestion  that  Jesus  himself  administered  severe  rebuke  to 
certain  persons.  (Matt.  23:15.)  He  did  more.  He  denounced  them.  They 
were  seeking  his  life,  and  the  lives  of  his  followers.  It  was  open  war- 
fare. It  was  his  affair,  not  ours.  Theirs  were  the  grosser  sins.  To  us 
he  says :  ''Judge  not." 

As  Latter-day  Saints  we  wish  to  be  recognized,  and  to  be  in  reality 
as  friends  of  Jesus,  by  keeping  his  commandments.  That  is  the  condition 
he  has  prescribed.  Even  our  little  Sunday  School  children  are  taught 
his  command  "that  ye  love  one  another,"  and  to  "oft  speak  kind  words 
to  each  other."  For  myself,  I  do  sincerely  trust  that  as  Latter-day  Saints, 
whether  of  high  or  low  degree  in  membership,  yet  all  being  under  the 
Gospel  law  in  the  covenant  with  Christ,  we  will  seek  diligently  and 
honestly  to  speak  kind  words  to  and  of  each  other,  that  the  love  of  God, 
the  love  of  our  associate  members  in  the  Church  and  the  love  of  our 
fellowmen  may  increase  among  us  for  the-  furtherance  of  the  kingdom 
of  God  and  his  righteousness.  Let  us  not  forget  the  divinely  given  words 
which  I  have  quoted  to  you  today,  and  also  the  further  words  of  our  Lord : 

Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul, 
and  with  all  thy  mind. 

This  is  the  first  and  great  commandment. 

And  the  second  is  like  unto  it :  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself. 
On  these  two  commandments  hang  all  the  law  and  the  prcphets.    ( Matt.  22 : 
37-40.) 

May  the  grace  of  the  Father  and  his  boundless  love  be  with  you 
evermore,  is  my  humble  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Chirst.  Amen. 

ELDER  MILES  L.  JONES 

President  of  the  East  Central  States  Mission 

I  feel  my  weakness,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  standing  before  you 
this  afternoon,  realizing,  as  I  do,  the  great  responsibility  that  rests  upon 
those  who  undertake  to  speak  in  the  name  of  the  Lord. 

I  am  indeed  happy  to  report  to  you  this  afternoon  the  activities  of 
the  East  Central  States  Mission.  I  am  pleased  to  say  that  the  mission- 
aries are  enjoying  good  health.  They  are  enjoying  their  labors.  There 
are  new  fields  being  opened  up  from  time  to  time,  and  they  have  the 
privilege  and  the  opportunity  of  explaining  the  Gospel  to  many  people, 
and  many  are  being  brought  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth,  and  are  receiv- 
ing the  ordinance  of  baptism  by  immersion,  for  the  remission  of  sins ; 


ELDER  MILES  L.  JONES 


41 


and  after  that,  the  birth  of  the  Spirit  by  the  laying  on  of  hands  for  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

I  have  had  the  privilege,  while  laboring  in  the  mission,  of  meeting 
many  men  and  women  of  prominence  in  various  communities  and  have 
had  the  privilege  of  explaining  the  Gospel  to  them. 

Just  a  few  days  ago,  in  the  city  of  Louisville,  in  conversation  with  a 
very  influential  man  whom  I  had  met  several  times  before,  and  with 
whom  I  had  left  some  literature — he  put  this  question : 

"Mr.  Jones,  do  all  members  of  your  church  have  the  same  abiding 
faith  and  assurance  that  some  of  you  have?"  To  which  I  answered  that 
that  testimony  comes  through  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  is  conferred  upon 
the  baptized  believer  by  those  who  hold  the  authority.  Having  been 
divinely  commissioned  and  holding  the  holy  Priesthood,  they  have  the 
authority  to  perform  that  ordinance  in  the  name  of  the  Lord.  Those 
who  receive  the  ordinance  of  baptism  and  then  the  birth  of  the  Spirit, 
through  the  laying  on  of  hands,  do  have  that  abiding  faith  and  that 
testimony  burning  within  their  souls,  provided  they  live  worthy  of  that 
blessing. 

Conditions  have  arisen  that  have  given  me  a  great  deal  of  satisfac- 
tion. Just  recently  we  had  an  application  from  three  persons  who  desired 
to  enter  the  waters  of  baptism.  Not  desiring  to  wait  until  the  weather 
was  more  pleasant  so  that  we  could  retire  to  the  river,  I  called  upon  a 
very  influential  man  who  I  knew  was  a  member  of  the  Board  of  Con- 
trol of  the  First  Christian  Church.  I  had  talked  with  him  a  number  of 
times,  I  had  learned  some  of  his  views,  and  I  knew  the  position  that  he 
held.  I  called  upon  him  and  asked  if  it  would  be  possible  for  us  to 
arrange  for  the  use  of  their  baptismal  font  for  this  particular  occasion, 
to  which  he  answered  very  readily :  "Yes,  sir.  I  can  make  the  arrange- 
ment for  you,  and  will  be  very  glad  to  do  it,"  which  he  did.  We  had 
the  privilege  of  going  into  the  finest  chapel  in  the  city  of  Louisville,  and 
those  three  persons  entered  the  waters  of  baptism. 

I  wish  to  say  that  the  feeling  that  went  out  upon  that  occasion,  and 
the  spirit  manifested,  bore  witness  to  all  who  were  there  of  the  divinity 
of  the  work;  and  the  director  and  others,  as  well  as  the  minister  in 
charge,  assured  us  that  we  could  have  the  use  of  the  font  any  time  that 
we  desired,  absolutely  free  of  charge,  and  that  we  were  entirely  welcome 
to  the  use  of  it. 

That  is  the  spirit  that  is  being  manifested  among  the  people  of  the 
world,  generally  speaking.  A  wonderful  change  has  come  over  the 
people,  and  I  am  very  thankful  indeed  for  conditions  as  they  exist.  I 
want  to  say  that  there  are  thousands  in  the  world  today  that  are  earnestly 
seeking  after  truth,  and  as  the  Gospel  message  is  brought  to  their  atten- 
tion it  is  making  an  impression  upon  their  minds.  It  is  almost  a  daily 
occurrence  that  I  receive  letters  from  various  parts  of  the  mission,  asking 
tor  more  literature  and  more  information  in  regard  to  our  teachings. 
Thus  we  have  the  opportunity  of  corresponding  with  these  people  after 
which  the  Elders  visit  them  in  their  homes  and  explain  the  Gospel  to 
them ;  in  this  way  many  are  being  brought  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth. 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


As  I  view  it,  there  is  a  wonderful  harvest  before  us,  not  only  for 
this'  year  but  for  time  to  come  because  of  the  change  that  is  coming 
among  the  children  of  men;  and  I  ask  you  who  are  here  in  the  land  of 
Zion,  where  you  have  the  privilege  and  the  opportunity  of  attending 
your  meetings,  your  Sunday  Schools,  and  the  various  organizations, 
if  you  realize  and  appreciate  to  the  fullest  extent  the  blessings  that  you 
are  enjoying.  You  should  be  thankful  for  the  opportunity  that  you 
have,  compared  to  that  which  prevails  in  the  world.  It  is  a  great  blessing 
to  you  and  a  blessing  to  all  those  who  have  this  privilege  and  this  oppor- 
tunity. 

I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  have  had  the  opportunity 
of  laboring  in  the  work  of  the  Lord  for  a  third  time  in  the  mission  field, 
something  over  five  years  now.  It  seems  a  short  time,  but  I  have  seen 
many  things  that  have  strengthened  my  testimony,  and  I  have  witnessed 
conditions  upon  several  occasions  that  have  been  beyond  the  power  and 
the  wisdom  of  man  to  solve,  but  God  has  come  to  the  rescue,  the  way 
has  been  opened,  and  the  work  has  been  carried  on,  I  hope  and  trust, 
in  a  way  that  is  pleasing  to  our  Heavenly  Father. 

I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  that  I  have  of  the  divinity  of  this  great 
latter-day  work,  for  I  know,  as  I  know  that  I  stand  before  you  this 
afternoon,  that  it  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  that  it  is  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation ;  that  God  lives ;  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Savior  and 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world ;  and  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  the 
instrument  in  the  hands  of  Almighty  God,  in  establishing  this  work  upon 
the  earth  for  the  last  time.  It  will  never  more  be  thrown  down  nor  given 
to  another  people,  but  will  stand  forever ;  and  those  who  have  succeeded 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  down  to  the  President  who  stands  at  the  head 
today,  even  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  have  been  and  are  God's  mouth- 
pieces upon  the  earth. 

God  bless  you.  Peace  be  with  you,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  ELIAS  S.  WOODRUFF 

President  of  the  Central  States  Mission 

I  appreciate  the  opportunity  that  is  mine,  to  represent  the  division 
of  the  Church  known  as  the  Central  States  Mission  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  have  never  permitted  myself  to 
aspire  to  such  a  position,  or  to  even  think  about  it,  but  the  Lord,  through 
his  servants,  has  graciously  permitted  me  to  enjoy  this  opportunity.  To 
me  it  is  a  rare  privilege.  I  hope  to  be  worthy  of  the  confidence  and  the 
trust  imposed  in  me. 

The  people  of  the  Central  States  Mission,  most  of  them  having  been 
converted  and  brought  into  the  Church  under  the  presidency  of  Presi- 
dent Samuel  O.  Bennion,  are  God-fearing,  humble,  sincere  people.  There 
are  twenty-three  organized  branches  and  a  considerable  number  of  Sun- 
day Schools  in  addition  to  the  branches,  with  the  usual  Relief  Society 


ELDER  ELI  AS  S.  WOODRUFF 


43 


organizations  and  the  Primaries  that  are  common  to  each  of  the  missions. 

These  good  people  are  faithful  tithe-payers.  They  observe  the 
Word  of  Wisdom  as  well  as  the  people  do  in  the  stakes  of  Zion.  They 
are  trying,  in  their  own  way,  and  it  is  a  good  way,  to  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord.  They  are  well  organized.  We  have  a  mission 
stake  organization,  so  to  speak,  that  is,  a  union  board,  which  supervises 
the  auxiliary  work  of  the  mission. 

During  the  month  of  May  there  will  be  a  Mutual  Improvement 
contest,  which  is  held  annually  in  Kansas  City,  Missouri,  from  which  we 
hope  to  have  the  honor  of  sending  a  few  delegates  to  join  with  you  in 
your  June  conference. 

It  occurred  to  me  that  it  might  be  of  interest  to  many  people  who 
know  Horace  Ensign  very  well,  to  have  me  tell  you  that  he  presides 
over  our  Wichita  branch,  and  that  delightful  and  rich  voice  of  his,  which 
has  cheered  and  gladdened  the  hearts  of  many,  is  frequently  heard  in 
that  humble  congregation,  and  enjoyed  by  them.  He  is  their  spiritual 
father  and  their  music  master.  They  love  him,  and  he  devotes  himself 
as  assiduously  to  that  work  as  if  he  were  presiding  over  the  most  im- 
portant branch  of  the  Church.  I  know  he  would  like  to  have  me  give 
you  his  greetings,  because  I  can  remember  many  a  conference,  in  days 
gone  by,  when  his  voice  has  added  to  the  pleasure  of  our  conference. 
Others  formerly  prominent  among  you  are  living  here  and  there  in  por- 
tions of  our  mission. 

As  you  know,  the  mission  headquarters  are  in  that  city  of  early 
romance  in  church  history,  Independence,  Jackson  County,  Missouri.  I 
think  I  have  never  been  in  a  community  where  the  business  men  seem  to  be 
more  united  and  of  higher  character  than  they  are  at  Independence.  They 
hold  our  people  in  high  esteem.  This  has  been  made  so,  I  am  sure,  by 
the  very  splendid  public  service  rendered  by  President  Bennion  and  his 
wife  in  that  community.  I  find,  in  going  about  Independence,  when  I  have 
to  introduce  myself,  if  I  merely  say  I  am  the  successor  to  President 
Bennion  the  door  is  open  for  me,  and  I  am  made  welcome  everywhere. 
Those  good  people  send  greetings  to  him.  The  thing  I  have  noticed 
about  the  people  of  Independence  is  their  devotion  to  high  ideals. 

I  remember,  at  a  recent  meeting  of  the  Kiwanis  Club,  listening  to 
a  lecturer  from  Kansas  City,  who,  in  the  course  of  his  lecture,  saw  fit 
to  tell  a  few  stories  that  may  not  be  properly  told  in  a  drawing  room, 
among  ladies  and  gentlemen,  and  he  was  not  very  well  received.  I  re- 
member particularly  that  at  the  close  of  the  gathering,  as  we  were  separ- 
ating to  go  to  our  occupations,  the  editor  of  the  paper  said  to  me:  "Mr. 
Woodruff,  how  did  you  enjoy  the  talk?"  "Oh,"  I  said,  "I  have  enjoyed 
things  better  than  that." 

"Well,"  he  said,  "I  didn't  like  it  at  all.  I  don't  see  why  it  was  neces- 
sary for  him  to  impose  his  stories  upon  us." 

I  mention  that  because  I  want  you  to  know  that  the  people  who 
now  live  in  Jackson  County,  Missouri,  are  high-minded,  clean-minded 
people,  and  they  esteem  the  Latter-day  Saints.   They  regard  us  as  worthy 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


people,  and  would  welcome  us  back  there  in  numbers  if  we  should 
happen  to  want  to  go. 

The  mission  is  in  a  prosperous  condition.  The  people  are  happy. 
I  am  honored  to  represent  them  and  happy  to  labor  among  them.  I 
hope  to  be  worthy  of  their  love  and  confidence. 

I  am  happy  to  tell  you  that  the  missionaries  are  well  and  enjoying 
their  labors,  and  they  are  laboring  with  reasonable  zeal  and  diligence  to 
carry  the  message  of  the  Gospel  to  those  to  whom  they  have  been  sent. 
The  harvest  is  great  and  the  laborers  are  few.  Through  the  Bureau  of 
Information  we  receive  many  leads,  many  names  of  people  upon  whom 
we  are  asked  to  call.  We  can  visit  only  a  few  of  them.  All  over  the 
mission  people  are  calling  and  asking  for  Elders — can't  we  send  some 
Elders  ?  We  can  send  them  only  those  that  we  have,  as  far  as  they  can 
go.  They  often  become  wandering  Elders,  at  the  present  time.  Only  a 
few  of  them  settle  down  in  any  community  to  labor  locally.  In  order 
to  cover  the  districts  it  is  necessary  for  them  to  move  about  a  great  deal. 
But  they  enjoy  their  labors,  and  as  I  say,  they  are  all  well. 

We  have  no  persecution  at  home  or  abroad  apparently,  that  is, 
nothing  to  speak  of.  It  seems  to  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the 
danger  in  the  Church  today  is  within  it.  I  have  found,  as  I  go  aboiut 
the  mission  and  over  the  Western  States  Mission,  to  some  extent,  the 
same — a  disposition  on  the  part  of  the  people  to  want  to  find  fault  with 
each  other,  rather  than  to  be  happy  with  each  other.  I  do  not  mean  all  of 
them;  I  mean  some  of  them.  When  I  come  home  I  find  the  same  condi- 
tion here. 

I  wonder,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  if  we  cannot  be  more  united,  if 
we  cannot  have  more  confidence  in  our  leaders,  those  who  preside  over 
us,  locally  and  generally;  if  we  cannot  live  so  that  we  may  enjoy  the 
spirit  that  comes  to  those  who  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  and 
who  want  to  sustain  his  servants  who  preside  over  them  and  be  in  har- 
mony with  them.  I  am  trying  to  teach  the  people,  as  far  as  it  lies  within 
my  power,  to  examine  themselves,  to  ask  themselves  the  question :  "Am 
I  enjoying  the  Holy  Spirit?"  And  in  order  to  ascertain  whether  they 
do  or  not  I  say :  "Find  out  whether  or  not  you  have  the  fruits  of  the 
Spirit  in  your  lives,  for  the  fruits  of  the  Spirit  are  love  and  joy  and  peace 
and  long-suffering  and  patience,  and  kindred  qualities.  If  you  are  happy 
and  at  peace  with  all  men,  if  you  love  your  neighbor,  then  you  enjoy 
the  Spirit;  but  if  you  are  unhappy  and  discontented,  and  if  things  are 
not  going  the  way  you  think  they  should  go,  and  you  feel  like  you  must 
reach  out  your  hand  to  steady  the  ark,  then  perhaps  the  fault  is  yours." 

So  the  people  are  being  urged  to  examine  themselves,  to  see  whether 
there  is  something  the  matter  with  them.  I  ask  myself  the  question :  What 
is  the  matter  with  Elias  Woodruff?  If  I  can  find  out  what  is  the  matter 
with  myself,  and  keep  myself  in  harmony  with  the  Holy  Spirit,  then  I 
feel  like  I  am  reasonably  safe.  Let  me  ask  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters 
at  home,  as  well  as  I  would  ask  those  people  in  the  mission :  Examine 
yourselves  and  see  if  you  are  in  the  faith.  Do  you  believe  the  Gospel  ? 
Do  you  believe  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God  ?  Do  you  believe 


ELDER  ELI  AS  S.  WOODRUFF 


45 


that  President  Heber  J.  Grant  is  a  prophet  of  God  ?'  Are  you  willing  to 
take  his  counsel  and  advice,  and  follow  it  ?  Or  are  you  a  law  unto  your- 
self, guiding  and  charting  your  own  course  in  life,  determining  what 
you  think  is  right  and  what  you  think  is  the  wrong  thing  to  do  ?  It 
seems  to  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  there  is  the  danger  in  the 
Church  today.  Let  us  examine  ourselves.  Let  us  be  happy  in  our 
worship.  "Adam  fell,"  we  are  told,  "that  men  might  be ;  and  men  are 
that  they  might  have  joy."  If  we  are  not  joyful  and  happy,  then  we 
ought  to  be. 

God  bless  you,  I  ask,  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  Amen. 

ELDER  ARTHUR  WELLING 

President  of  the  North  Central  States  Mission 

I  am  very  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  again  bring  greetings 
from  the  mission  field,  and  to  join  in  testimony  of  the  truth  and  im- 
portance of  this  great  latter-day  work.  I  know,  as  I  know  that  I  live, 
that  this  is  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  am  grateful  that  we  of  the 
mission  fields  have  the  privilege  semi-annually  of  coming  up  here  "To 
the  mountain  of  the  Lord's  house, — to  be  taught  of  his  ways,  and  to  walk 
in  his  paths."  I  am  increasingly  thankful  for  this  testimony  and  privi- 
lege, and  for  my  calling  in  the  mission  field. 

Some  one  has  said  that  what  men  most  need  is  something  to  hold 
them  always  at  their  best.  Mormonism  and  the  missionary  system  of 
this  Church  do  just  that.  A  story,  abbreviated  within  time  limits  allowed, 
will  illustrate : 

In  a  hall  at  Northwestern  University  is  a  bronze  tablet  memorial  to 
"The  Man  Who  Did  His  Best."  And  the  legend  accompanying  it  is  as 
follows : 

A  storm  of  unusual  violence  had  swept  Lake  Michigan,  destroying 
or  disabling  practically  all  vessels  and  strewing  the  shore  with  wreckage. 
As  the  storm  abated,  watchers  ashore  could  see,  far  out  on  the  lake,  a 
group  of  survivors  clinging  helplessly  to  the  wreckage  of  their  crafts. 

For  want  of  other  means  of  rescue,  one  young  man,  a  student  at 
Northwestern,  renowned  among  his  fellows  for  his  prowess  in  the  water, 
resolved  to  bring  what  help  was  possible  to  those  in  distress  by  swimming 
to  their  aid.  Stripped  of  excess  clothing,  he  swam  out  and  back,  out  and 
back,  eighteen  times,  each  time  bringing  to  safety  a  sufferer  from  the 
wreck,  until,  completely  exhausted,  he  fell  unconcious  among  his  fellows 
ashore.  Admiring  friends  worked  over  him,  and  as  consciousness  re- 
turned, he  looked  into  their  anxious  faces,  his  own  brother  among  the 
number,  and  feebly  asked:  "Did  I  do  my  best?" 

In  like  manner,  I  repeat,  Mormonism  and  the  missionary  system  of 
the  Church  encourage  the  youth  of  the  Church  to  do  their  best.  They 
go  into  the  mission  field  imbued  with  a  testimony  of  the  truth  and  with 
a  feeling  of  responsibility  to  you,  to  the  Church  and  to  the  Lord.  They 
read  with  new  meaning  the  first  great  commandment.  "Thou  shalt  love 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart  and  with  all  thy  soul  and  with  all 
thy  mind. — And  thy  neighbor  as  thyself."  And  they  begin  really  to 
live  up  to  that  standard. 

They  learn  afresh  that  "The  worth  of  souls  is  great  in  the  sight  of 
God ;"  and  they  go  out  and  try  humbly  to  reclaim  some  of  these  souls. 

They  begin  to  realize  the  meaning  of  the  Savior's  words:  "He  that 
findeth  his  life  shall  lose  it;  but  he  that  loseth  his  life  for  my  sake, 
shall  find  it."  In  borrowed  phrase,  "Who  gives  himself  with  his  gift 
feeds  three,  himself,  his  hungry  neighbor,  and  Me."  And  so,  unselfishly 
serving  this  great  latter-day  cause,  they  grow  as  never  before,  and  pos- 
sibly never  again ;  and  "the  power  of  God  is  in  them."  They  love  their 
work,  and  are  magnified  in  the  eyes  of  the  people.  Small  wonder  they 
remember  these  experiences  as  the  happiest  of  their  lives. 

And  while  the  missionary  is  thus  serving  at  his  best  in  the  field, 
what  is  happening  here  at  home?  Devoted  parents  follow  anxiously  the 
progress  of  the  one  away.  Brothers  and  sisters  often  make  little  sacri- 
fices that  the  missionary  work  may  continue.  Thus,  each  at  his  best,  all 
share  in  the  spirit  of  service  and  in  the  rare  privilege  and  opportunity 
of  carrying  this  great  Gospel  message  to  the  world. 

I  concur  and  rejoice  in  the  testimony  that  friendliness  is  increasing 
in  the  world.  There  never  was  a  better  time  for  preaching  the  Gospel 
than  now.  Everywhere,  among  the  better  informed  classes,  this  Church 
and  people  are  held  in  high  regard.  But  I  venture  the  thought  that 
friendliness  alone  is  not  enough.  Salvation  cometh  not  by  sufferance  of 
former  critics;  but  by  obedience  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  That 
good  men  everywhere  may  come  to  know  and  love  the  truths  of  the 
restored  Gospel,  that  our  friends  of  the  world  may  be  induced  seriously 
to  examine  the  claim  that  God  has  again  spoken  from  the  heavens,  and 
that  this  is  verily  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  established  again  upon  the 
earth,  for  the  perfecting  of  the  Saints,  and  for  the  benefit  and  blessing 
of  all  who  believe  and  obey  its  teachings, — all  this  is  part  of  the  high 
purpose  and  obligation  of  Mormonism's  message  to  the  world. 

In  conclusion,  I  can  think  of  no  more  fitting  expression  of  the  mis- 
sionary spirit  than  Howard  Arnold  Walter's  "My  Creed" : 

I  would  be  true,  for  there  are  those  who  trust  me; 
I  would  be  pure,  for  there  are  those  who  care ; 
I  would  be  strong,  for  there  is  much  to  suffer ; 
I  would  be  brave,  for  there  is  much  to  dare. 

I  would  be  friend  of  all — the  foe,  the  friendless ; 
I  would  be  giving,  and  forget  the  gift ; 
I  would  be  humble,  for  I  know  my  weakness  ; 
I  would  look  up — and  laugh,  and  love,  and  lift. 

On  my  honor,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  will  do  my  best  to  live  up 
to  the  high  privilege  of  missionary  service. 

May  the  Lord  continue  his  blessings  upon  the  missionary  work  of 
his  Church,  and  upon  the  people  of  the  world,  that  they  may  find  the 
truth  and  obey  it,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


ELDER  ARTHUR  WELLING 


47 


The  Singing  Mothers  Chorus  sang  the  anthem,  "The  Lord  now- 
victorious,"  after  which  the  congregation  joined  with  the  Chorus  in 
singing  the  hymn,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet." 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Wallace  E.  Poulson, 
President  of  the  Sevier  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  Saturday  morning,  April  7. 


SECOND  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

Saturday  morning,  April  7. 

The  Conference  reconvened  promptly  at  10  o'clock,  with  President 
Heber  J.  Grant  presiding. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Guide  us,  O  thou  great  Jehovah." 

Elder  Thomas  E.  Towler,  President  of  the  Wells  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

A  tenor  solo,  "Then  shall  the  righteous  shine  forth,"  was  sung  by 
Herbert  Bluck. 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

The  Lord  giveth  men  weakness  that  they  may  be  hurrible.  In  hu- 
mility I  earnestly  invoke  his  aid  this  morning. 

The  words  of  the  poet  come  to  my  mind.    They  are  as  follows : 

On  Christ  the  solid  rock  we  stand ; 
On  other  ground  is  sinking  sand. 

What  is  there  for  our  salvation  outside  of  our  Heavenly  Father, 
our  Savior,  and  the  glorious  Gospel  which  they  have  provided  ?  There 
is  nothing  of  real  worth  to  the  soul. 

A  VISION  OF  DEITY 

It  is  a  remarkable  thing  that  two  of  the  greatest  prophets  that  ever 
lived  commenced  their  prophetic  ministry  with  a  vision  of  Deity.  The 
prophets  referred  to  are  Isaiah  and  Joseph  Smith.  In  the  sixth  chapter 
of  Isaiah — and  many  commentators  think  this  chapter  should  have  been 
placed  first  in  the  P>ook  of  Isaiah — the  Prophet  says  : 

[  saw  the  Lord  sitting  upon  a  throne  *  *  *  mine  eyes  have  seen  the  King, 
the  Lord  of  Hosts  *  *  *  I  heard  the  voice  of  the  Lord. 

Xo  quibbling  here.  This  is  direct  evidence,  the  highest  form  of 
testimony.  No  living  being  can  successfully  challenge  the  truth  of  that 
statement.  Every  Christian  soul  accepts  it  as  the  truth,  but  can  that 
testimony  be  proved  ?  It  can.  It  is  proved  by  the  fulfilment  of  prophecy, 
and  the  fulfilment  of  prophecy  is  one  of  the  strongest  evidences  that  a 
man  is  sent  of  God. 

That  the  prophet  in  the  vision  saw  Christ  in  human  form,  as  the 
brother  of  Jared  saw  him,  there  can  be  no  doubt  when  the  passage  is 
deliberately  compared  with  John  1 2 :41 .  "These  things  said  Esaias,  when 
he  saw  his  glory,  and  spake  of  him."    Isaiah  was  preeminent  among  the 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


49 


noble  band  of  Old  Testament  prophets.  His  clear  and  striking  represen- 
tation of  Jesus  Christ  and  prophetic  delineation  of  the  person,  work,  and 
character  of  the  Messiah  deserved  the  praise  the  Savior  bestowed  upon 
him  when  in  quoting  his  prophecies  he  said:  "For  great  are  the  words 
of  Isaiah.!'    (3  Nephi  23:1.) 

THE  WORDS  OF  ISAIAH 

Centuries  before  the  birth  of  the  Savior,  Jsaiah  predicted  that 
wonderful  event  in  this  stately  language : 

For  unto  us  a  child  is  born,  unto  us  a  son  is  given :  and  the  government  shall 
be  upon  his  shoulder :  and  his1  name  shall  be  called  Wonderful,  Counsellor,  The 
mighty  God,  The  everlasting  Father,  The  Prince  of  Peace. 

Isaiah  predicted  the  sufferings,  death,  and  the  resurrection  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  so  vividly  that  his  prophecy  adds  strength  to  the  truth 
of  the  old  axiom  that  prophecy  is  but  history  reversed.  The  prophecy 
as  every  Bible  student  knows  was  literally  fulfilled.  The  prophet  fore- 
told the  coming  of  the  locomotive  and  the  airplane.  In  the  29th  chapter 
of  his  book  Isaiah  predicts  the  coming  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
We  testify  that  that  prophecy  has  also  been  literally  fulfilled,  and  that 
Joseph  Smith  translated  that  sacred  record  by  the  power  of  God. 

PROPHECIES  THAT  HAVE  BEEN  FULFILLED 

Is  it  not  reasonable  to  conclude  that  if  Isaiah's  predictions  concern- 
ing the  Savior  have  been  fulfilled,  his  prediction  concerning  the  Book 
of  Mormon  has  likewise  been  fulfilled?  The  Latter-day  Saints  know  of 
a  certainty  that  the  prophecies  concerning  the  Savior  and  the  Book  of 
Mormon  have  been  fulfilled  to  the  enlightening  of  their  understanding 
and  the  salvation  of  their  souls. 

The  Creator  said : 

So  shall  my  word  be  that  goeth  forth  out  of  my  mouth;  it  shall  not  return 
unto  me  void,  but  it  shall  accomplish  that  which  I  please,  and  it  shall  prosper  in 
the  thing  whereto  I  sent  it. 

A  SOLID  FOUNDATION 

Consider  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  He  beheld  in  glorious  vision 
the  Father,  and  the  Son.  Can  any  man  on  earth  successfully  contradict 
the  testimony  Joseph  Smith  gave  of  that  vision?  No,  it  stands  as  firm 
as  the  Rock  of  Ages.  His  witness  is  supported  by  the  fulfilment  of 
prophecy.  The  same  source  of  Isaiah's  prophetic  power  was  the 
source  from  which  Joseph  Smith  derived  his  prophetic  gifts. 

When  the  Apostle  Paul  stood  before  Agrippa  and  Festus,  he  said : 

Having  therefore  obtained  help  of  God,  I  continue  unto  this  day,  witnessing 
both  to  small  and  great,  saying  none  other  things  than  those  which  the  prophets 
and  Moses  did  say  should  come : 

That  Christ  should  suffer,  and  that  he  should  be  the  first  that  should  rise 
from  the  dead. 

That  was  the  yardstick  that  the  Apostle  Paul  used.  That  should  be 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  standard  of  measurement  that  the  Elders  of  Israel  should  always  use 
to  keep  their  feet  firmly  upon  the  foundation  of  the  Bible,  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  the  teachings  of  ancient  and 
modern  prophets.  And  when  they  preach  from  this  foundation  they 
stand  on  solid  ground,  and  the  souls  of  the  people  are  fed.  - 

PROPHECIES  OF  A  MODERN  PROPHET 

Joseph  Smith  was  an  inspirer  of  souls.  He  said  he  did  nothing  but 
what  the  ancient  prophets  said  he  would  do.  He  was  a  fulfiller  of  Bible 
prophecy.  Consider  some  of  the  prophecies  which  he  uttered :  The 
exodus  of  the  Saints  to  the  Rocky  Mountains,  where  they  would  become 
a  great  and  a  mighty  people;  his  prediction  of  the  Civil  War,  twenty- 
eight  years  before  it  occurred — and  only  a  month  before  that  bloody 
conflict,  statesmen  were  saying,  "Peace,  peace,  there  will  be  no  war." 
But  the  God  of  heaven  had  spoken  and  desolation  swept  over  the  land. 
Oh,  if  those  statesmen  had  only  heeded  the  words,  if  they  had  only 
accepted  the  remedy,  the  solution  which  the  great  statesman-prophet, 
Joseph  Smith,  gave  to  them,  a  million  lives  would  have  been  spared  and 
eight  billions  of  dollars  in  property  would  not  have  been  destroyed ! 

TESTIMONIES  OF  THOSE  NOT  OF  US 

Joseph  Smith  founded  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  A  great  American  statesman,  on  the  floor  of  the  House  of 
Representatives,  referring  to  this  great  organization,  said :  "It  is  magni- 
ficent in  its  priestly  organization  and  rivaled  by  no  other  institution  in 
the  world." 

Charles  Dickens,  the  celebrated  novelist,  whose  "Life  of  Our  Lord" 
is  appearing  in  some  of  the  daily  papers,  declared  before  he  visited  a  ship- 
load of  Mormon  emigrants  bound  for  America  that  he  was  going  there  to 
bear  testimony  against  them.  But  when  he  saw  the  order,  the  neatness, 
the  cleanliness,  the  prayerful  spirit  which  prevailed  there  he  said : 

There  is  a  power  in  that  Church,  there  is  a  remarkable  influence  among  those 
people  that  is  not  witnessed  in  other  institutions  in  the  world. 

AN  EXPERIENCE  IN  ATLANTA,  GEORGIA 

Some  years  ago  President  Grant  was  in  Atlanta,  Georgia.  A  Uni- 
versalist  minister  had  converted  his  chapel  into  a  sort  of  public  forum, 
the  ministers  of  the  various  religious  denominations  of  the  city  were 
invited  to  occupy  his  pulpit  and  preach  their  religious  sentiments.  He 
propounded  several  questions  that  he  requested  them  to  answer,  and  two 
of  these  questions  were  as  follows :  "Do  you  believe  that  Jesus  Christ 
is  divine  and  the  Son  of  God  ?"  "Do  you  believe  that  there  is  a  life  after 
death  ?"   The  answers  were  not  satisfying. 

Hearing  of  President  Grant's  presence  in  that  great  city  the  minister 
invited  him  to  deliver  a  sermon  and  he  placed  in  President  Grant's  hands 
the  same  questions  that  he  had  earnestly  entreated  the  pastors  to  answer. 
President  Grant  did  answer  all  the  questions,  and  not  in  a  negative  way. 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


51 


He  did  not  say,  "It  may  be,"  or  "I  believe  that  such  is  the  case,"  but  stand- 
ing before  that  mixed  congregation  the  President  said :  "I  know  of  a  cer- 
tainty that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God.  I  know  that 
there  is  life  after  death,  and  that  the  soul  is  immortal."  The  other  ques- 
tions he  answered  in  an  equally  frank,  authoritative  way. 

At  the  close  of  President  Grant's  address  the  minister  approached 
him  with  extended  hands.  I  fancied  that  there  was  a  trembling  in  his 
voice ;  there  was  a  longing  in  his  heart  for  something  better  than  he  had, 
for,  as  he  held  President  Grant's  hand  he  said  to  him :  "I  wish  I  had 
your  earnestness,  your  sincerity,  your  faith,  and  your  testimony."  There 
was  sadness  in  my  heart  for  that  man. 

WITH  NO  UNCERTAIN  SOUND 

President  Grant  has  always  sounded  the  Gospel  trumpet  with  no 
uncertain  sound,  so  that  the  children  of  men  could  prepare  themselves 
for  the  battle.  In  line  with  Joseph  Smith  and  the  Apostle  Paul  and  all 
the  prophets  our  President  is  speaking  and  doing  the  things  that  the 
ancient  prophets  declared  would  be  done.  We  are  rallying  around 
President  Grant  and  listening  to  his  inspired  counsels.  The  Gospel 
message  is  sounding  in  our  hearts.  With  the  help  of  the  Lord,  by  keeping 
his  commandments,  we  will  go  with  the  First  Presidency  and  the  rest  of 
our  leaders  into  the  Celestial  kingdom  of  God,  which  I  humbly  pray, 
through  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  said  this  morning  to  one  of  the  brethren  who 
is  yet  to  speak,  "Brace  up,  brother,  brace  up." 

He  said,  "Yes,  Brother  Clawson,  I  feel  a  little  exercised  about  it,  a 
little  timid.   I  feel  as  if  I  need  some  stimulant.   What  shall  I  take?" 

I  said :  "Take  the  strongest  within  your  reach." 

Of  course  that  would  be  a  glass  of  cold  water. 

If  any  of  you  brethren  think  it  is  a  simple  matter  to  stand  before 
a  vast  assemblage  of  people  like  this,  I  can  only  wish  that  you  might 
have  the  opportunity.  It  is  a  great  responsibility.  I  must  needs  look  to 
the  Lord  to  assist  me,  and  I  ask  for  your  faith  and  prayers. 

THE  ARTICLES  OF  FAITH 

I  have  in  mind  just  at  this  moment  the  Articles  of  Faith  that  were 
given  to  the  Church  by  its  founder  under  the  Lord,  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  and  I  submit  to  you  that  this  is  a  very  wonderful  instrument,  that 
these  Articles  of  Faith  were  set  forth  in  simple  language  and  with  great 
clearness  and  cannot  very  well  be  misunderstood. 

The  first  Article  of  Faith  reads  as  follows : 

We  believe  in  God  the  Eternal  Father,  and  in  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  in 
the  Holy  Ghost. 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Let  me  say  to  you  that  there  is  very  much  of  supporting  scripture 
that  is  placed  behind  this  first  article  and  the  twelve  articles  which  follow. 
I  call  your  attention  briefly  to  article  eleven,  which  reads  like  this : 

We  claim  the  privilege  of  worshiping  Almighty  God  according  to  the  dictates 
of  our  own  conscience,  and  allow  all  men  the  same  privilege,  let  them  worship  bow, 
where  or  what  they'  may. 

You  will  notice  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  is  very  liberal  in  its  attitude  towards  other  beliefs.  As  a  Church 
and  as  individual  members  of  the  Church  we  do  not  attack  other  people, 
we  do  not  hold  their  religious  views  up  to  ridicule,  but  since  their  articles 
of  faith  are  set  forth  and  published  to  the  world  we  take  that  to  mean  an 
invitation  to  investigate  them  and  to  investigate  their  views.  That  is 
our  attitude  in  relation  to  the  Gospel  that  is  set  forth  in  our  Articles  of 
Faith. 

These  Articles  are  published  to  the  world  and  we  invite  them  to  in- 
spect them  and  carefully  consider  them,  and,  if  they  choose,  to  offer 
friendly  criticism.  So  when  we  observe  conditions  that  obtain  in  the 
world  and  as  set  forth  in  the  daily  papers  we  take  that  to  mean  that  we 
are  invited  individually  and  as  a  community  to  consider  these  conditions. 

MINISTERS  ANSWER  QUESTIONS 

I  remember  a  few  years  ago  that  President  Heber  J.  Grant  spoke 
of  a  questionnaire  that  had  been  sent  out  by  Albert  J.  Beveridge,  a  mem- 
ber of  Congress,  and  the  results  of  that  questionnaire  were  quite  re- 
markable. President  Grant  made  comments  on  it  that  were  enlightening 
and  instructive. 

Recently  another  questionnaire  was  sent  out  by  the  Chicago  North- 
western School  of  Education.  The  presumption  is  that  the  said  school 
was  sincere  in  this  matter  and  sent  out  this  questionnaire  for  enlighten- 
ment and  for  study.  If  you  will  pardon  me  I  will  take  a  few  moments 
to  read  the  results  growing  out  of  that  particular  questionnaire  as  pub- 
lished in  one  of  the  daily  papers  in  February  of  this  year.  Answers  were 
given  in  percentages  by  the  paper  that  published  them,  but  I  have  reduced 
these  percentages  to  actual  figures.  The  questionnaire  was  submitted  to 
500  Protestant  ministers.  205  of  that  number  did  not  believe  that  there 
is  a  heaven ;  345  did  not  believe  that  hell  is  a  place  having  existence ;  and 
so  far  as  those  two  questions  were  concerned,  as  you  will  see,  heaven 
and  hell  were  swept  away.  270  did  not  believe  there  is  a  devil,  and  yet  we 
see  the  works  of  the  devil  on  every  side  and  all  around  us.  195  did  not 
believe  there  would  be  a  judgment  day.  I  fancy  some  men  perhaps  are 
fearful  that  there  will  be  a  judgment  day.  370  did  not  believe  that  God 
keeps  a  record  of  an  individual's  bad  deeds,  and  130  did  not  believe  in  the 
deity  of  Jesus  Christ. 

THE  BIBLE  A  PRECIOUS  BOOK 

Now  the  Latter-day  Saints  as  a  people  have  regarded  the  Bible  as  a 
sacred  volume  of  scripture,  and  we  look  upon  it  as  a  holy  book — 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


53 


Holy  Bible,  book  divine, 
Precious  treasure,  thou  art  mine. 

And  furthermore,  the  Bible  is  one  of  the  standard  works  of  our  Church. 
We  cannot  get  along  without  it,  we  cannot  spare  it,  it  is  invaluable  to  the 
Church.  Brother  Callis  has  just  been  quoting  wonderful  words  from  the 
Bible,  words  spoken  by  the  prophet  Isaiah.  Marvelous  predictions  were 
given  by  that  holy  prophet,  and  in  the  New  Testament  we  have  a  very 
elaborate  and  reasonably  full  account  of  the  life  and  works  of  Jesus 
Christ,  the  Savior  of  the  world,  one  who  has  atoned  by  the  shedding  of 
his  precious  blood,  for  the  sins  of  the  world,  which  sins  are  to  be  washed 
away  by  repentance  and  reformation  and  the  application  of  the  blood  of 
Christ. 

And  yet  there  are  134  Protestant  ministers  who  have  apparently 
abandoned  the  Bible.  They  do  not  believe  in  the  deity  of  Christ.  Did 
you  notice,  brethren  and  sisters,  the  remarks  that  have  already  been  made 
in  this  meeting  and  in  the  former  sessions  of  this  conference  in  regard 
to  religious  matters,  in  regard  to  our  faith,  how  direct  and  to  the  point 
these  remarks  have  been  and  will  be  throughout  this  conference  ?  There 
will  be  no  uncertain  word  go  from  this  pulpit,  you  may  depend  upon  it. 
We  invite  the  world  at  large  and  everywhere  to  investigate  our  teachings, 
to  go  right  to  the  bottom  of  them,  and  if  they  discover  any  errors,  and  can 
persuade  us  that  they  are  errors,  we  will  gladly  abandon  them.  Our 
Articles  of  Faith  have  stood  the  test  of  one  hundred  years. 

MEETING  OF  MISSION  PRESIDENTS 

Now  briefly  let  me  call  your  attention  to  an  incident  that  occurred 
on  Wednesday  last.  The  presidents  of  the  Latter-day  Saint  missions 
met  with  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  and  the  First  Council  of  Seventy, 
thirteen  of  them,  representing  the  missions  in  the  United  States,  and 
one  in  Canada  and  one  in  Mexico.  These  mission  presidents  preside 
over  about  537  missionaries  at  the  present  time.  They  came  together  to 
make  report  of  their  labors  and  of  the  labors  of  the  missionaries  in  the 
field,  and  I  will  say  to  you  we  had  a  glorious  time  together.  And  I  might 
add  in  this  connection  that  seven  of  the  Apostles  of  the  Church  have 
been  mission  presidents,  and  six  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  have 
been  mission  presidents.  The  other  member  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy  has  filled  a  mission  and  presided  over  a  district  within  the  mis- 
sion. So  that  in  fact  it  was  a  gathering  of  mission  presidents  through- 
out. 

In  making  their  reports,  which  were  brief  and  to  the  point  and  yet 
quite  comprehensive,  we  discovered  that  these  mission  presidents  are 
attentive  to  their  duties  and  active  and  progressive,  and  are  well  posted. 
They  reported  the  activities  of  the  Elders  and  lady  missionaries  in  the 
field.  These  young  men  and  young  women  under  their  charge  are  very 
much  devoted  to  the  work,  and  most  of  them,  if  not  all,  have  a  testimony 
of  the  Gospel.  They  could  not  very  well  fill  their  appointments  success- 
fully without  a  testimony  of  the  Gospel.    There  may  be  a  few  among 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


them  who,  if  they  have  not  yet  received  a  testimony,  still  say  they  believe 
the  Gospel  is  true.   In  those  cases  the  testimony  soon  comes  to  them. 

SPIRIT  OF  TESTIMONY  WITH  LEADERS  AND  PEOPLE 

Before  we  closed  our  meeting  and  as  it  progressed  these  thirteen 
mission  presidents  bore  their  testimonies  and  each  and  all  of  them  said 
that  they  knew  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Savior  of  the 
world ;  that  Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  a  prophet  sent  of  God,  standing  at 
the  head  of  this  great  last  dispensation.  That  was  their  testimony  uni- 
formly, no  exception  to  the  rule.  And  be  it  remembered,  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  that  same  spirit  of  testimony  rests  upon  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church.  We  will  not  soon  forget  the  powerful  testimony  that  was 
given  by  President  Grant  at  the  opening  of  this  conference.  The  same 
spirit  is  with  his  counselors,  I  assure  you,  and  this  testimony  is  with  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles. 

I  am  happy  to  say  that  the  Twelve  are  active,  diligent  and  faithful 
in  the  performance  of  their  duties.  They  are  a  body  of  men  who  make 
quick  response.  They  do  not  hesitate,  there  is  no  shirker  in  that  Council, 
they  are  alive  to  the  situation.  I  think  you  will  agree  with  me  that  they 
are  men  of  wisdom,  men  of  counsel,  and  I  believe  I  can  say  as  the  presi- 
dent of  the  Twelve  that  they  are  as  nearly  one  as  a  Council  of  Twelve 
could  be,  and  that  they  give  to  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  their  entire 
support.  They  recognize  them  as  their  file  leaders  and  are  laboring  con- 
stantly under  their  jurisdiction.  If  we  go  into  the  stakes  of  Zion — 
and  we  are  a  traveling  high  council — we  go  to  represent  the  Presidency 
of  the  Church  because  we  are  laboring  under  their  direction.  I  am  very- 
happy  to  bear  this  testimony  to  you.  So  far  as  I  know  there  is  no  divi- 
sion of  sentiment  in  the  Council  of  the  Apostles. 

The  same  testimony  rests  not  only  upon  the  Twelve,  but  upon  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy,  and  not  only  upon  them  but  upon  the  quorums 
of  the  holy  Priesthood — High  Priests,  Seventies  and  Elders — and  upon 
the  presidencies  of  stakes  and  high  councils,  also  bishoprics  of  wards 
and  lesser  officers  in  the  Church. 

And  may  I  be  permitted  to  say  that  this  testimony  as  to  the  truth  of 
the  Gospel  is  in  the  hearts  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  the  entire  people  of 
this  Church,  and  there  is  no  uncertainty  about  it  either.  They  know  it  is 
the  truth.  They  know  it  is  the  pearl  of  great  price.  They  know  it  is 
most  precious  indeed. 

I  am  speaking  now,  as  perhaps  I  have  a  right  to,  of  the  Twelve.  We 
know  that  except  we  are  one  we  are  not  Christ's.  And  further  let  me  add 
that  except  the  people  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  one  they  are  not 
Christ's,  because  he  is  not  the  author  of  doubt  or  disbelief  or  contention 
or  false  doctrine. 

I  bear  testimony  to  you  that  this  is  a  glorious  work  in  which  we  are 
engaged,  and  this  is  a  glorious  occasion  and  a  glorious  time.  I  know 
there  is  a  depression  and  we  have  suffered  and  are  suffering  every  day 
more  or  less  from  it,  but  behind  and  above  it  all  is  the  Lord  God  of  Israel 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


55 


and  we  are  getting  experiences  that  may  be  profitable  to  us.  If  the  Lord 
will  sanctify  it  to  our  good,  we  will  surely  be  more  careful  in  the  future, 
will  be  a  little  more  economical,  will  not  be  wasteful  and  spend  our  means 
foolishly,  and  we  will  stand  by  the  principles  of  liberty  and  by  the  Declara- 
tion of  Independence  and  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  May  the  Lord  bless  the 
Presidency  of  the  Church,  all  of  which  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

Sister  Elizabeth  S.  Cushing  sang  a  solo,  "My  Western  Home." 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

What  a  remarkable  age  is  this  in  which  we  live!  It  seems  to  me 
that  it  is  most  wonderful,  and  I  feel  grateful  that  the  Lord  has  permitted 
me  to  live  in  an  age  and  time  when  such  wonderful  progress  has  been 
made,  in  an  age  that  surpasses  all  previous  periods  in  the  history  of  the 
world,  and  yet  the  preacher  tells  us  there  is  no  new  thing  under  the  sun 
— things  which  were,  which  are  now,  and  will  be  in  the  future.  Some- 
times I  almost  doubt  that,  and  yet  when  I  contemplate  it  still  further, 
I  believe  that  all  of  our  progress,  the  advancement  of  science,  all  our 
new  inventions  and  discoveries,  the  great  things  that  are  taking  place 
in  the  world  today,  mean  simply  this,  that  we  are  approaching  nearer 
to  the  ultimate  truth,  that  truth  however  which  is  eternal,  and  always 
has  been,  and  always  will  be. 

None  of  the  great  principles  of  progress  is  changed.  Many  things 
are  changing.  We  change  our  views  with  regard  to  many  things,  and 
in  these  changes  lie  the  principles  of  progress,  we  do  not  remain  just 
where  we  are.  We  are  going  onward,  but  that  progress  is  that  we  are 
approaching  more  nearly  to  the  truth. 

We  want  to  keep  abreast  with  all  the  various  things  we  see  around 
us ;  we  do  not  want  to  be  accused  at  any  time  of  not  progressing.  We 
ought  to  adapt  ourselves  more  or  less  to  the  times  in  which  we  live  and 
not  be  what  some  people  call  those  who  do  not  change  at  all,  "old  fogies." 
Old  fogies  ?  Oh,  no,  but  there  are  some  things  that  do  not  change,  and 
one  thing  is  the  truth,  and  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  the 
truth.  Whenever  we  see  people  who  undertake  to  make  changes  in  the 
fundamental  things  that  have  been  revealed  from  heaven  they  are  under- 
taking to  change  God's  truth. 

The  Lord  has  said,  "I  am  the  Lord,  and  I  change  not."  His  word 
shall  endure  forever.  The  Lord  has  so  ordained  that  a  number  of  gen- 
erations shall  be  contemporary  in  sojourning  upon  this  earth.  What  a 
wise  provision  is  this!  What  a  wonderful  thing  is  wedlock,  the  home 
where  father  and  mother  rear  their  family  of  children  !  What  a  splendid 
thing  it  is  to  have  grandfathers  and  grandmothers,  and  even  great  grand- 
fathers and  great  grandmothers,  four  or  five  generations  sometimes  con- 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


temporary,  living  upon  the  earth  at  the  same  time !  What  a  wonderful 
advantage  that  is  to  mankind,  an  advantage  to  the  aged,  and  an  advan- 
tage to  the  young,  to  live  and  to  mingle  together  and  to  partake  of  each 
other's  feeling  and  spirit!  Youth — how  eager  they  ought  to  be  to 
profit  by  the  experience  of  Age !  The  aged — what  a  wonderful  and  ele- 
vating influence  it  must  have  upon  them  as  they  ponder  over  the  lives 
and  characters  of  their  own  children !  What  a  development  of  all  the 
Christian  virtues  is  involved  in  this  contact  or  association  with  those  you 
love — your  own  kindred !  It  always  brings  a  certain  amount  of  regret 
when  this  association  is  lacking. 

Old  age  can  learn  much  from  youth.  They  keep  us  abreast  with 
the  times  ;  they  keep  us  alive  to  the  burning  questions  of  the  day.  There- 
fore, you  fathers  and  mothers,  let  us  listen  to  the  young  with  sympathetic 
hearts  while  they  endeavor  to  instruct  us,  which  they  sometimes  feel 
themselves  quite  competent  to  do.  But,  oh  youth,  you  have  much  to 
learn  from  old  age!  Out  of  the  rich  experiences  of  many  years  your 
elders  are  surely  able  to  instruct  you  in  the  way  of  life,  in  the  principles 
of  truth. 

The  Psalmist  says :  "I  have  been  young,  and  now  am  old,  yet  have 
I  not  seen  the  righteous  forsaken,  nor  his  seed  begging  bread."  There- 
fore youth  should  hearken  and  give  heed  unto  the  counsels  of  old  age ; 
they  should  seek  the  counsel  of  their  fathers  and  their  mothers.  Remem- 
ber the  Lord's  commandment :  "Honor  thy  father  and  thy  mother,  that 
thy  days  may  be  long  upon  the  land  which  the  Lord  thy  God  giveth  thee." 
How  greatly  then  we  ought  to  appreciate  the  privilege  of  living  with 
them  and  seeking  their  counsel,  and  we  ought  not  to  regard  them  as  "old 
fogies,"  or  somebody  not  up  to  the  times.  How  can  one  be  up  to  the 
times  unless  he  can  benefit  by  the  experience  he  has  ?  How  could  there 
be  any  progress  without  experience  ? 

"There  is  a  spirit  in  man,  and  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty 
giveth  them  understanding,"  and  whatever  understanding  we  have  it 
comes  from  the  Almighty.  There  is  no  other  source  of  knowledge.  He 
is  the  great  fountain  of  all  truth,  the  inspirer  of  all  discoveries ;  they  all 
come  from  him.  I  am  aware  that  sometimes  we  find  inventors,  dis- 
coverers and  scientists  that  are  not  always  willing  to  admit  the  source 
of  their  inventions  and  their  discoveries,  but  nevertheless  it  is  true.. 
We  do  not  always  appreciate  when  the  Lord  is  making  known  his  truth. 

I  remember  in  my  school  days  many  years  ago  reading  the  story 
of  a  Greek  philosopher,  Archimedes,  who  was  making  a  study  of  specific 
gravity,  the  relative  weight  of  things.  Upon  one  occasion  while  he  was 
bathing  in  a  pool  of  water  he  observed  that  his  body  in  the  water  was 
much  lighter  than  it  was  out  of  the  water,  and  as  he  pondered  upon  it 
a  flash  of  light  came  to  him  and,  greatly  elated  over  his  discovery,  and 
forgetting  that  he  was  naked,  he  rushed  out  into  the  street  crying 
"Eureka,  Eureka, — I  have  found  it!" 

Now  what  was  that  ?  There  was  a  spirit  in  the  man  and  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Almighty  had  given  him  understanding.  It  does  not 
detract  from  the  honor  that  is  due  to  the  scientist,  the  discoverer,  or  the 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


57 


inventor  to  say  that  God  has  used  him  in  bringing  truth  to  light.  And 
what  is  true  of  secular  knowledge  and  of  the  things  that  pertain  to  our 
temporal  salvation  is  likewise  true  of  religion.  God  uses  scientists  and 
philosophers,  inventors  and  discoverers — for  they  are  also  his  servants 
— in  bringing  secular  truth  to  light ;  but  he  also  uses  his  servants,  the 
prophets,  in  bringing  spiritual  truth  to  light. 

What  a  wonderful  flood  of  light  came  into  this  world  with  the 
advent  of  the  Gospel,  with  the  coming  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that 
prophet  of  the  latter  days  1  What  wonderful  discoveries  have  come  to 
us  and  to  all  mankind !  The  same  almighty  being  who  overrules  all 
things  is  bringing  to  pass  his  mighty  purposes,  and  a  flood  of  spiritual 
light  has  come  to  the  world  through  the  instrumentality  of  the  prophet 
of  God  in  the  day  and  age  in  which  we  live.  That  is  another  source  of 
joy  and  gladness  to  me  that  I  live  in  this  glorious  day,  notwithstanding 
the  fact  the  world  seems  to  be  changing.  We  are  merely  discovering 
more  truth. 

How  eager  we  should  be  to  keep  abreast  of  the  times  and  come  to 
a  knowledge  of  the  truth,  both  secular  and  spiritual,  scientific  and 
religious.  Be  assured  that  when  we  do  there  will  be  no  conflict  between 
the  two.  Doctor  John  A.  W'idtsoe  tells  us  in  that  excellent  little  book 
"In  Search  of  Truth"  that  "the  way  to  truth  may  be  found  by  anyone 
who  desires  it."  "But,"  says  he,  "he  must  desire  it  with  all  his  might, 
mind  and  strength." 

We  often  sing  the  words  of  our  inspired  poet,  John  Jacques : 

Yes,  say,  what  is  Truth?    Tis  the  brightest  prize 

To  which  mortals  or  Gods  can  aspire; 

Go  search  in  the  depths  where  it  glittering  lies, 

Or  ascend  in  pursuit  to  the  loftiest  skies, 

'Tis  an  aim  for  the  noblest  desire. 

And  let  me  add  the  following  words  found  in  the  closing  paragraphs 
of  the  Lord's  preface  to  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

Search  these  commandments  for  they  are  true  and  faithful,  and  the  prophecies 
and  promises  which  are  in  them  shall  all  be  fulfilled. 

What  I  the  Lord  have  spoken,  I  have  speken,  and  I  excuse  not  myself;  and 
though  the  heavens  and  the  earth  pass  away,  my  word  shall  not  pass  away,  but 
shall  all  be  fulfilled,  whether  by  mine  own  voice  or  by  the  voice  of  my  servants, 
it  is  the  same. 

For  behold,  and  lo,  the  Lord  is  God,  and  the  spirit  beareth  record,  and  the 
record  fs  true,  and  the  truth  abideth  forever  and  ever. 

But  other  things  do  change.  I  am  reminded  of  a  little  sentiment  I 
read  in  an  autograph  album  in  the  German  language  when  I  was  upon 
my  first  mission.    Slightly  paraphrased  it  reads  like  this : 

Es  wechselt  Zeit  und  Glueck 
Es  aendert  alles  sich 
Doch  Gottes  Liebe  bleibt 
Stets  unveraenderlich. 

Translated  into  English,  without  any  attempt  at  rhyming,  it  means 


■  58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


this :  Time  and  fortune  change,  everything  changes,  but  the  love  of 
God  remains  always  unchangeable. 

'And  so  it  is  with  his  glorious  Gospel.  It  is  the  means  of  advance- 
ment, it  is  the  means  of  progressing  along  spiritual  lines.  If  we  would 
be  better  men  and  better  women,  and  lay  hold  on  eternal  life,  let  us 
render  obedience  to  those  principles  which  God  has  revealed,  and  which 
have  remained  the  same  from  eternity  to  eternity,  never  changing.  If 
we  have  fallen  by  the  way  and  made  mistakes  and  feel  almost  depressed 
and  discouraged,  resort  again  to  those  principles.  There  never  was  a 
time  when  genuine  faith  and  sincere  repentance  would  not  bring  a  bless- 
ing and  a  change  for  better  in  one's  life.  There  never  can  be  a  time  when 
these  principles  will  not  bring  progress  and  advancement.  There  never 
will  be  a  time  when  we  can  grow  in  the  knowledge  of  God  and  good 
works  without  the  application  of  these  principles.  Be  not  discouraged 
or  fall  by  the  way,  but  if  we  have  made  mistakes  repent  and  (if  not 
already)  be  baptized,  every  one  of  us,  for  the  remission  of  our  sins,  and 
we  shall  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  These  principles  are 
applicable  to  all  mankind  and  they  never  change  worlds  without  end. 

May  God  bless  us  and  our  children  to  the  latest  generation  and  help 
us  to  live  in  accordance  with  them,  that  we  may  come  to  the  knowledge 
of  the  Truth.   I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

Yesterday  afternoon  I  stood  in  uniform  on  the  parade  grounds  at 
Fort  Douglas.  That  uniform  indicated  that  I  held  a  position  of  some 
importance  in  the  United  States  Army.  On  each  shoulder  I  had  insignia 
showing  my  rank ;  on  the  lapels  of  my  coat  the  insignia  showing  the 
branch  to  which  I  belong.  Men  in  uniform  honored  that  insignia  by 
saluting  me,  many  of  them  did  not  know  me,  they  were  showing  their 
respect  for  the  authority  as  indicated  by  my  uniform.  I  had  wit- 
nessed death-dealing  instruments  and  machinery,  while  overhead  air- 
planes were  roaring,  diving  to  the  earth,  turning  and  looping,  to  show 
their  power  and  strength.  In  the  guard-house  were  confined  men  who 
had  been  disobedient  to  orders,  on  the  parade  grounds  were  men  forming 
for  review. 

As  the  commanding  officer  gave  orders,  which  were  passed  from  one 
to  another,  all  executed  them  with  precision  and  accuracy.  They  had  been 
well  trained  and  knew  what  to  do.  Every  man  was  in  his  place,  and 
rendered  the  service  required  of  him  without  hesitation  or  confusion. 

During  the  time  I  was  there  I  had  in  my  mind  another  picture.  I 
had  left  this  building  and  hurried  to  that  place  to  take  part  as  an  officer 
during  the  celebration  of  the  state  department  of  the  Reserve  Officers 
Association  of  the  U.  S.  A.  Here  was  a  marked  contrast.  There  I 
found  a  group  of  men  trained  and  equipped  to  battle  an  enemy  if  an 
enemy  should  come  upon  us.    They  were  soldiers  and  that  was  their 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


59 


calling  and  duty.  Some  of  my  brethren  have  inferred  that  it  was  not 
very  becoming  for  one  of  my  position  to  be  engaged  in  such  work.  It  is 
not  of  my  choosing.  I  went  in  at  the  request  of  this  government  and 
have  remained  because  we  are  all  expected  to  do  our  duty.  For  the  dura- 
tion of  eighteen  years  I  have  been  at  times  under  training.  During  that 
time  I  have  never  heard  one  of  them — and  I  have  mingled  with  men  of 
the  line  and  officers  of  every  rank,  up  to  that  of  commanding  general — 
ever  express  a  desire  that  we  go  into  action.  But  I  have  heard  them 
say  that  they  wanted  to  be  prepared  to  defend  themselves  should  an 
enemy  make  it  necessary  for  them  to  go  into  action.  The  Army  of  the 
United  States  is  not  training  to  invade  the  country  of  another,  but  they 
are  training  to  be  ready  and  prepared  to  defend  their  country  if  an 
enemy  should  come  upon  them. 

Now,  as  to  this  army  which  I  see  before  me.  The  officers  are  not 
in  uniform,  no  insignia  of  rank  to  designate  their  authority,  but  they  are 
men  nevertheless  who  have  authority  to  serve  and  to  give  orders  in  a 
greater  army,  one  commanded  by  our  Lord  and  Savior.  These  officers 
are  devoted  to  the  great  cause  in  which  they  are  engaged.  They  are  men 
who  are  self-sacrificing,  men  who  are  full  of  faith  and  of  love.  And 
when  I  say  men  I  speak  of  our  sisters  also,  for  I  am  quite  sure  if  it  were 
not  for  the  devotion  of  our  wives  and  our  mothers  and  our  sisters,  we 
would  find  it  far  more  difficult  to  carry  on  the  work  that  is  required  of  us. 

This  army  is  made  up  of  deacons,  teachers,  priests,  elders,  seventies 
and  high  priests,  with  power  far  greater  than  that  which  comes  to  those 
who  are  engaged  in  this  other  army. 

I  believe  that  Joseph  Smith  saw  God  the  Father  and  Jesus  Christ, 
his  Son,  and  conversed  with  them.  I  believe  that  the  Priesthood  of  God 
was  bestowed  upon  him  and  his  associates,  and  that  that  Priesthood  has 
been  passed  down  to  us.  iWe  enjoy  power  and  privileges  through  it. 
I  say  power,  because  in  the  Priesthood  there  is  a  power  as  witnessed  daily 
where  the  Priesthood  is  found  and  exercised  in  harmony  with  the  plan 
and  promise  of  God.  To  have  this  Priesthood  conferred  upon  one  is  not 
only  a  privilege  but  a  great  honor,  and  one  who  receives  it  and  disregards 
its  sacredness  is  a  deserter. 

Some  among  us  are  asking  for  new  revelations.  I  am  not  concerned 
as  to  whether  new  revelation  is  coming  or  not.  I  am  just  a  little  fearful 
that  should  new  revelation  come,  especially  if  it  should  be  of  the  type 
that  some  people  feel  we  should  have,  too  many  of  us  would  not  be  in  a 
position  to  stand  up  under  it,  as  evidenced  by  the  failure  to  understand 
and  follow  that  which  has  been  given  to  us.  I  am  concerned  with  that 
which  has  been  received  and  the  question  of  whether  or  not  I  am  living 
in  harmony  with  those  teachings  which  have  come  to  us  through  revela- 
tion by  the  power  of  the  Priesthood. 

I  am  not  so  sure  that  we  as  a  people  as  yet  are  sufficiently  familiar 
with  the  revealed  word  which  has  been  given  to  us  to  be  in  a  position  to 
receive  new  revelation ;  and  I  am  quite  sure  that  when  we  reach  a  point 
where  we  fully  understand  and  observe  that  which  has  been  given  to  us 
new  revelation  will  come,  and  those  whom  the  Lord  has  endowed  with 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


authority  to  receive  revelations  will  receive  them.  For  more  than  a  quar- 
ter of  a  century  it  has  been  my  good  fortune,  privilege  and  blessing  to 
meet  almost  daily  with  the  men  whom  we  sustain  as  the  Presidency  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  whom  we  sustain 
as  prophets,  seers  and  revelators.  With  that  acquaintance  and  that 
association  there  is  no  question  in  my  soul  but  that  when  the  time  comes 
for  us  to  receive  more  than  the  Lord  has  already  revealed,  it  will  come 
through  them,  or  their  successors. 

One  of  my  brethren  working  in  the  Church  Historian's  office,  said 
to  me :  "Brother  Smith,  I  have  been  going  over  your  sermons  and  com- 
piling them.  You  have  something  human  about  that  which  you  say. 
You  are  constantly  appealing  for  help  for  the  young  man."  It  may 
seem  that  that  is  the  only  thought  I  have  to  express  in  these  meetings. 
We  are  of  necessity  limited  as  to  time.  There  are  many  other  subjects 
I  could  use,  but  as  a  member  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  a  member  of 
the  presidency  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  there  has  been  placed  upon  me  a  responsibility, 
and  as  I  visit  with  you  and  see  the  reports  that  come  in  I  think  I  sense 
that  responsibility,  and  I  don't  want  to  be  held  to  account  for  my  failure 
to  encourage  my  brethren  to  see  that  which  I  think  I  see. 

We  have  accomplished  a  most  wonderful  missionary  work,  and  yet 
there  is  much  more  to  be  done.  We  don't  have  a  guard-house.  In  this 
army  punishment  is  of  our  own  making.  We  go  out  to  battle,  and, 
unlike  the  Army  of  the  United  States,  we  are  in  a  great  conflict.  Some 
of  us  don't  know  it,  but  we  are.  We  have  an  enemy,  an  enemy  we  can't 
always  see,  an  enemy  which  we  don't  always  feel,  because  we  have  not 
been  trained  to  see  and  feel.  When  we  who  hold  the  Priesthood  and  are 
honoring  it  and  magnifying  our  calling  in  it,  come  in  contact  with  that 
enemy,  we  are  given  to  understand  that  he  is  an  enemy  and  that  we  must 
defend  ourselves  with  all  the  vigor  and  power  of  our  manhood.  We  don't 
always  do  it. 

I  dislike  to  make  this  statement,  and  would  not  do  so  were  it  not 
for  the  fact  that  I  have  heard  it  several  times  during  the  past  year  in 
different  stakes  of  this  Church :  "But  Brother  Smith,  we  can't  do  it," — 
speaking  of  laboring  with  men  who  have  become  indifferent  to  the  work 
of  the  Church  and  are  falling  away — "We  are  a  little  community.  We 
know  each  other.  All  we  do  when  we  go  to  visit  is  'kid'  each  other." 
What  justification  is  there  for  such  a  thought?  If  we  permit  it,  are  we 
prepared  ?  To  me  it  has  the  ear  mark  of  a  slacker.  I  think  a  prophecy 
made  centuries  ago  might  give  us  some  encouragement.  The  prophet 
Haggai  said : 

Ye  have  sown  much,  and  bring  in  little ;  ye  eat,  but  ye  have  not  enough ;  ye 
drink,  but  ye  are  not  filled  with  drink;  ye  clothe  you,  but  there  is  none  warm ;  and 
he  that  earneth  wages  earneth  wages  to  put  it  into  a  bag  with  holes. 
Thus  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts;  Consider  your  ways.  (Haggai  1  :6-7. ) 

Are  we  not  in  that  condition?  Why  is  it?  What  has  brought  about 
this  condition  ?  How  are  we  to  overcome  it  or  change  it  ?  Just  one  way. 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


61 


and  only  one,  and  that  is  to  be  true  to  the  Gospel  teachings  and  honor 
the  Priesthood  which  has  been  conferred  upon  us.  And  those  who  are 
afraid  to  kneel  in  prayer  with  a  wayward  brother  should  first  set  their  own 
houses  in  order;  then  when  we  have  developed  faith,  manifest  that  faith 
through  our  works.  When  we  do  exercise  our  faith  in  our  work  the 
Spirit  of  God  is  manifest,  whether  in  our  own  home  or  in  the  home  of  our 
neighbor,  or  in  the  lives  of  our  neighbors,  and  the  better  the  acquaintance 
the  greater  the  opportunity  for  carrying  into  the  life  of  our  brother  who 
is  wayward  that  which  will  save  him  from  the  error  of  his  ways.  It  can 
be  done  only  through  the  spirit  of  prayer,  not  by  "kidding,"  not  by  being- 
afraid. 

Remember  the  statement  of  Paul  to  Timothy : 

I  thank  God  whom  I  serve  .  .  .  that  without  ceasing  I  have  remembrance 
of  thee  in  my  prayers  night  and  day; 

Wherefore  I  put  thee  in  remembrance  that  thou  stir  up  the  gift  of  God, 
which  is  in  thee  by  the  putting  on  of  my  hands. 

For  God  hath  not  given  us  the  spirit  of  fear ;  but  of  power,  and  of  love, 
and  of  a  sound  mind. 

Be  not  thou  therefore  ashamed  of  the  testimony  of  cur  Lord.  .  . 

Who  hath  saved  us,  and  called  us  with  an  holy  calling,  not  according  to 
our  works,  but  according  to  his  own  purpose  and  grace,  which  was  given  us  in 
Christ  Jesus  before  the  world  began.    (2  Tim.  1 :3-9) 

The  Savior  said : 

Whosoever  therefore  shall  confess  me  before  men,  him  will  I  confess1  also 
before  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven. 

But  whosoever  shall  deny  me  before  men,  him  will  I  also  deny  before  my 
Father  which  is  in  heaven. 

And  he  that  taketh  not  his  cross,  and  followeth  after  me,  is  not  worthy  of 
me.  (Matt.  10:32,  33,  38.) 

It  is  my  opinion  that  if  we  want  to  succeed,  if  we  want  to  bring  peace 
in  the  earth  we  should  stir  up  the  spirit,  the  gift  which  is  in  us,  by  the 
laying  on  of  hands  by  those  who  are  in  authority,  being  not  afraid.  Let 
us  go  into  the  homes  of  these  our  brethren  who  are  wayward,  and  who 
because  of  inactivity  have  been  blinded  and  see  not  the  light,  and  pray 
with  them  and  plead  with  them,  that  God  may  give  them  again  the  spirit 
of  the  work,  that  they  may  return  into  the  spiritual  light,  and  praise  him 
for  his  goodness  and  his  mercy.  That  will  bring  peace.  That  will  put 
love  into  the  hearts  of  men,  and  is  the  only  way  in  the  world  in  which 
peace  and  happiness  and  prosperity  can  come  to  the  children  of  God  in 
the  earth. 

What  doth  it  profit,  my  brethren,  though  a  man  say  he  hath  faith,  and  have 
not  works  ?   Can  faith  save  him  ? 

Even  so,  faith,  if  it  hath  not  works,  is  dead,  being  alone. 

Shew  me  thy  faith  without  thy  works,  and  I  will  shew  thee  my  faith  by  my 
works. 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Thou  believest  that  there  is  one  God ;  thou  doest  well ;  the  devils  also  believe, 
and  tremble. 

But  wilt  thou  know,  O  vain  man,  that  faith  without  works  is  dead  ?.  .  .  . 
By  works  was  faith  made  perfect. 

Ye  see  then  how  that  by  works  a  man  is  justified,  and  not  by  faith  only. 
For  as  the  body  without  the  spirit  is  dead,  so  faith  without  works  is  dead. 
(James  2:14-26) 

May  the  Lord  help  us,  I  pray.  May  his  Spirit  rest  upon  us.  May 
we  understand  that  this  Priesthood  which  is  in  the  Church  today  has 
power  and  is  manifest  in  the  Church,  through  those  who  serve,  not  only 
as  leaders,  known  as  the  general  authorities  of  the  Church,  but  you  who 
labor  in  the  stakes. 

God  bless  you,  and  bless  those  who  serve  with  you,  that  we  may 
carry  the  spirit  of  this  work  into  every  home,  into  the  life  of  every  indi- 
vidual, continuing  untiring  and  unafraid,  until  we  shall  have  won  the 
battle  and  brought  them  back  into  the  fold.  God  so  help  us,  I  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  DON  B.  COLTON 

President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  the  last  six  months  have  been  eventful  ones 
in  the  Eastern  States  Mission.  We  have  dedicated  three  chapels  in  that 
mission.  A  member  of  the  Council  of  Twelve,  Elder  Stephen  L.  Rich- 
ards, has  visited  practically  every  district  in  the  mission.  President 
Grant,  during  his  stay  in  the  East  this  winter,  also  went  into  many  of  the 
branches  and  districts  of  the  mission,  all  of  which  we  feel  sure  has 
resulted  in  great  good. 

Reference  has  been  made  in  this  conference  to  the  dedication,  last 
November,  of  the  Washington  chapel.  We  regard  it  as  one  of  the  great 
agencies  for  missionary  service  in  the  Eastern  States.  Brother  Edward 
P.  Kimball  has  given  an  organ  recital  every  day,  I  think,  except  one, 
since  the  chapel  was  dedicated.  More  than  six  thousand  people  have 
attended  these  exercises.  They  consist  not  only  of  the  organ  recital,  but 
also  a  speech  by  Brother  Kimball  and  in  most  cases  the  escorting  of  the 
company  through  the  building.  Between  five  and  six  thousand  tracts 
have  been  distributed  at  the  chapel. 

This  does  not  include  the  many  people  who  visit  the  chapel  during 
the  day,  nor  the  special  clubs  and  organizations  which  have  held  their 
gatherings  there. 

Recently  one  organization  of  the  Government,  with  a  membership 
of  about  four  hundred  was  entertained  there.  The  Rotarians  of  Wash- 
ington recently  held  their  weekly  dinner  in  our  chapel.  Some  of  the 
leading  ladies'  clubs  of  Washington  have  met  there  and  have  listened 
more  or  less  to  the  story  of  Mormonism,  which  is  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  as  explained  by  our  brethren  in  charge  of  the  chapel.  We  feel 
very  grateful  for  this  great  agency  for  good  in  our  mission. 


ELDER  DON  B.  COLTON 


63 


I  have  rejoiced  in  the  exercises  of  this  conference.  There  is  an 
ancient  Arabian  proverb  which  reads  something  like  this:  "If  thou  hast 
two  loaves  of  bread,  sell  one  quickly  and  buy  a  rose.  Something  beautiful 
is  as  essential  to  the  welfare  of  man  as  is  bread."  So  I  thought  today, 
and  also  yesterday,  particularly  while  listening  not  only  to  the  inspired 
remarks  but  to  the  excellent  music,  that  the  spirit  of  all  those  who  come 
to  these  conferences  is  being  fed — fed  with  food  as  essential  to  the  soul 
as  that  which  is  needed  to  nourish  and  strengthen  the  body. 

Two  thoughts  have  been  running  through  my  mind  ever  since  Presi- 
dent Grant  spoke.  Religion  is  the  master  passion  in  the  life  of  a  man 
who  believes  in  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  the  mainspring  of  his  life,  the  motor 
that  carries  him  forward.  Today  there  are  two  great  influences  at  work 
to  encourage  and  develop  religion  within  men.  The  mothers  of  Israel 
are  doing,  in  my  judgment,  one  of  the  greatest  services  possible  for  this 
Church.  May  I  speak  to  the  mothers  particularly  who  have  sons  upon 
missions.  Continue,  I  pray  you,  to  write  them.  Tell  them  of  the  deep 
feelings  in  your  soul.  It  does  them  good.  Let  them  know  your  feelings 
concerning  the  Gospel. 

One  boy,  speaking  to  me  just  a  few  days  ago,  referred  to  the  fact 
that  he  had  written  home  and  expressed  some  doubt  as  to  whether  or  not 
he  was  acquiring  all  that  he  should  acquire  upon  his  mission.  His  good 
mother  wrote  back  and  said  :  "My  son,  if  you  are  acquiring  a  testimony 
of  the  Gospel,  if  in  your  soul  there  is  coming  a  conviction  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ,  and  that  his  Gospel  has  been  restored  for  the  salvation  of  the 
souls  of  men — if  you  are  acquiring  that,  you  are  acquiring  sufficient  to 
justify  your  being  upon  a  mission." 

I  would  like  to  say  to  that  mother,  and  hope  it  will  encourage  all 
mothers,  that  boy,  on  that  occasion,  with  tears  in  his  eyes  and  emotion 
in  his  voice,  said :  "That  much  I  am  acquiring.  I  do  know,  as  I  know 
that  I  live,  that  Jesus  lives  and  that  his  work  is  true." 

I  am  grateful  for  my  mother,  now  gone  to  her  reward.  I  am 
grateful  that  from  her  I  acquired  the  first  feeling  that  led  me  to  seek  God. 
How  glad  I  am  for  parents  who  knew  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ ! 

The  love  of  mother  and  its  influence  for  good  in  the  earth  is  perhaps 
only  surpassed  by  the  love  of  Jesus  Christ.  The  power  which  he  has 
exercised  and  is  exercising  in  the  world  is  the  other  great  influence  for 
good. 

Paraphrasing  and  abbreviating  the  words  of  another:  Jesus  was 
born  in  obscurity;  never  traveled  more  than  two  hundred  miles  from 
the  place  of  his  birth ;  never  attended  a  university ;  had  no  newspaper ; 
never  wrote  a  book ;  the  only  property  he  owned  of  which  we  have  any 
record  was  divided  at  the  time  of  his  death,  at  the  end  of  a  quarrel 
between  soldiers  ;  dying  between  two  thieves ;  buried  in  a  borrowed  grave ; 
— yet  he  has  exercised  an  influence  in  the  world  that  exceeds  that  of  all 
the  armies  that  ever  marched,  all  the  navies  that  were  ever  built,  all 
the  parliaments  that  ever  assembled,  all  the  kings  and  queens  that  ever 
ruled.    The  influence  of  Jesus  in  the  earth  has  exceeded  them  all,  and 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


it  is  a  glorious  thing  to  be  an  ambassador  of  the  being  whose  influence 
has  been  and  is  so  potent  in  the  world. 

We  have  been  accused  of  not  being  Christians.  Well,  what  does 
it  matter  anyway,  if  the  accusation  is  without  foundation  ?  In  this  case 
it  isn't  true.  We  know  that  in  his  name  and  in  his  love  and  in  his  great 
Gospel  plan  is  salvation,  and  in  reality  we  are  preaching  his  message  to 
the  world.  And  we  say  now — I  say — that  if  the  nations  of  the  world 
would  accept  Christ  and  his  teachings  as  taught  by  the  Latter-day  Saints 
all  the  problems  of  this  weary  world  would  be  solved  in  a  single  day. 

God  bless  us  and  help  us  to  know  the  truth.  I  know  it  and  bear 
witness  to  you  of  its  truthfulness  today.  God  help  us  to  know  it  and  to 
live  it,  for  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  I  know  whereof  I  speak, 
and  bear  this  witness  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  S.  ROMNEY 

President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission 

I  trust  that  the  Lord  will  give  me  strength  to  say  the  things  I  should 
say  to  you  on  this  occasion.  I  have  been  deeply  impressed  during  this 
conference,  and  especially  with  the  remarks  of  our  President  at  the  first 
session. 

President  Grant,  in  speaking  of  some  criticisms,  made  reference  to 
the  fact  that  he  acknowledged  his  own  lack  of  information.  When  he 
said  this  I  remembered  that  two  thousand  years  ago  the  most  learned 
men  among  the  nation  of  the  Jews  went  to  the  court  of  Pilate,  the  Roman 
governor,  and  there  they  said  of  our  Savior :  "Crucify  him ;"  and  they 
emphasized  it  by  repeating  it  three  times.  They  also  said :  "Let  his 
blood  be  upon  us  and  upon  our  children."  And  I  remember  that  just 
before  this  the  Lord  had  asked  Peter  whom  he  thought  that  he,  the  Son 
of  God,  was,  and  Peter  said :  "Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  Living- 
God."  Then  our  Savior  told  him  that  that  knowledge  came  direct  from 
God  through  revelation.  Then  I  thought  of  the  two  thousand  years  since 
then,  when  the  sequel  has  proved  that  the  great  revelation  which  Peter 
had,  though  he  was  but  a  poor  fisherman,  without  the  learning  of  the 
world — I  say  time  has  proved  that  that  knowledge  was  worth  a  thousand 
times  more  than  all  the  knowledge  of  the  learned. 

I  have  had  the  privilege  of  sitting,  as  a  student,  at  the  feet  of  some  of 
the  most  learned  men  in  this  world.  Or  at  least  some  who  have  the  repu- 
tation of  being  the  most  learned.  I  remember  that  one  of  these  great 
educators — the  man  who  translated  the  Old  Testament  most  recently, 
and  whose  translation  is  said  to  be  the  most  learned  translation  of  the 
Bible  that  we  have, — in  reviewing  the  events  in  the  Old  Testament  this 
gentleman  said  that  he  had  recently  been  to  Palestine  with  the  archaeo- 
logical expedition  which  his  school  had  sent  there.  He  was  speaking  of 
that  story  in  the  Bible  which  tells  of  the  walls  of  Jericho  falling  when 
the  army  of  Israel  marched  around  the  city.   He  said  that  in  the  explora- 


ELDER  GEORGE  S.  ROMNEY 


65 


tions  of  Jericho  they  had  found  that  the  walls  had  never  fallen ;  and  in 
rather  a  light  mood  made  light  of  that  and  other  stories  in  the  Bible. 

Of  course,  I  do  not  feel  that  it  is  my  duty,  nor  the  duty  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  nor  is  it  their  responsibility,  to  prove  the  truth  of  all  the 
stories  in  the  Bible.  Yet,  I  was  impressed  greatly  only  a  month  or  two 
later  when  I  read  that  that  very  expedition  from  his  school,  in  exca- 
vating farther,  had  found  that  part  of  the  walls  of  Jericho  had  fallen. 

Paul  spoke  of  those  who  were  ever  learning  but  never  coming  to  a 
knowledge  of  the  truth.  I  respect  the  scientists,  I  respect  the  great  men  of 
learning,  but  I  respect  more  than  them  those  who,  like  the  prophets  of 
God,  have  obtained  that  light  which  comes  direct  from  God, — that  which 
can  never  be  changed,  even  though  another  archaeological  discovery 
may  be  made. 

It  is  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ — the  spirit  that  is  manifest 
by  the  missionaries  in  the  mission  field  in  their  devotion  to  the  great 
eternal  truths  which  God  has  revealed,  that  will  save  this  world  from  the 
ills  which  now  encompass  us.  It  is  the  same  spirit  which  Abraham 
Lincoln  had  when,  in  reference  to  the  laws  of  our  country,  he  wrote  the 
following  words : 

Let  every  American,  every  lover  of  liberty,  every  well  wisher  to  his  posterity, 
swear  by  the  blood  of  the  Revolution  never  to  violate  in  the  least  particular  the  laws 
of  the  country,  and  never  to  tolerate  their  violation.  Let  every  man  remember  that 
to  violate  the  law  is  to  trample  on  the  blocd  of  his  father,  and  to  tear  the  charter 
of  his  own  and  his  children's  liberty.  Let  reverence  for  the  law  be  breathed  by 
every  American  mother  to  the  lisping  babe  that  prattles  on  her  lap.  Let  it  he 
taught  in  schools,  in  seminaries,  and  in  colleges ;  let  it  be  written  in  primers, 
spelling  books,  and  in  almanacs ;  let  it  be  preached  from  the  pulpit,  proclaimed 
from  legislative  halls,  and  enforced  in  courts  of  justice.  And,  in  short,  let  it 
become  the  political  religion  of  the  nation,  and  let  the  old  and  young,  the  rich  and 
poor,  the  grave  and  the  gay  of  all  sexes  and  tongues  and  colors  and  conditions 
sacrifice  unceasingly  upon  its  altars. 

Your  sons  and  daughters  in  the  Northern  States  Mission  are  full 
of  this  type  of  devotion  which  was  advocated  by  our  great  President 
Lincoln.  Their  devotion  is  to  the  laws  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  that 
sacred  truth  that  the  Lord  has  given  to  us  as  a  people. 

I  bring  that  message  to  you,  and  trust  that  throughout  Zion  that 
same  love  of  truth,  in  the  acting  and  doing  of  a  thing,  may  come  to  all 
of  us,  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "High  on  the  mountain  tops." 
Elder  Claudius  Bowman,  President  of  the  Juarez  Stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 


SECOND  DAY 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  fourth  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  at  2  o'clock. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant,  who  presided,  announced  that  the  music 
for  this  meeting  would  be  furnished  by  the  Liberty  Stake  Mutual  Im- 
provement Association  Chorus,  under  the  leadership  of  Dr.  David  E. 
Smith. 

The  Chorus  sang  as  an  opening  number,  "The  heavens  resound." 
The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Joseph  S.  Peery,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Temple  Block  Mission. 

The  song,  "Carry  on,"  was  sung  by  the  Chorus. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Fifty  years  ago  this  summer  my  soul  was  deeply  stirred  when,  with 
groups  of  others,  I  went  to  the  railroad  station  in  Logan  to  receive  home 
the  body  of  Elder  Gibbs,  who  with  his  companion,  Elder  Berry,  had 
been  assassinated  while  doing  missionary  work  in  the  Southern  States. 
I  shall  never  forget  the  memory  of  that  night,  and  the  emotions  that 
swelled  through  my  soul  in  contemplation  of  the  sacrifice  of  these  noble 
missionaries. 

A  MARVELOUS  CHANGE 

I  have  heard  since  then  the  story  of  the  whipping  and  the  mobbing  of 
many  others.  Since  the  last  conference  I  paid  my  first  visit  to  the 
Southern  States  Mission.  In  company  with  President  Callis  we  were 
officially  visiting  that  mission,  and  what  a  change  in  the  fifty  years  !  We 
held  over  thirty  public  meetings,  attended  by  more  than  ten  thousand 
people ;  not  a  bit  of  opposition  anywhere.  There  were  no  newspapers, 
from  the  large  city  dailies  to  the  country  papers,  that  were  not  willing 
to  carry  all  the  space  we  asked,  and  they  gave  us  notices  and  reports  of  our 
meetings  that  were  as  satisfactory  as  anything  we  could  secure  here 
at  home. 

In  one  of  the  large  cities  of  the  South  a  public  reception  was  held 
which  was  attended  by  the  mayor  of  the  largest  city  in  that  state,  and  he 
gave  a  eulogy  on  the  Mormon  people.  Radios  were  offered  to  us.  It  did 
seem  to  me  that  the  change  was  marvelous  and  I  could  not  but  thank  God 
for  it.  The  condition  is  similar  elsewhere,  so  that  we  have  indeed 
reached  a  new  day. 

ENEMY  SEEKING  NEW  MEANS 

What  is  the  meaning  and  significance  of  all  this  ?  There  may  be  some 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


67 


who  are  disturbed  because  the  world  speaks  well  of  us.  I  am  not  alarmed 
at  that.  I  rejoice  in  it,  because  I  do  see  a  new  day  dawning  for  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  We  had  to  have  our  struggles  and  fight  for  the  right 
to  exist.  We  have  won  and  achieved  our  objectives  up  to  this  point, 
and  now  we  look  forward  to  a  glorious  day  that  is  yet  to  come. 

I  would  not  have  you  think,  however,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
the  enemy  of  all  righteousness  has  quit  the  fight.  By  new  means  he  is 
seeking  to  destroy  that  which  mob  violence  and  martyrdom,  bonds  and 
imprisonment  and  slander,  could  not  destroy.  Every  means  that  has 
been  heretofore  successfully  used  in  the  destruction  of  God's  work  in  the 
dispensations  that  have  preceded  ours,  has  failed  to  date.  The  old 
prophets  saw  it  fail,  for  they  declared  that  in  the  last  days — I  am  quoting 
now  from  a  prediction  of  Daniel — "In  the  days  of  these  kings," — these 
latter  kings — "shall  the  God  of  heaven  set  up  a  kingdom,  which  shall 
never  be  destroyed :  and  the  kingdom  shall  not  be  left  to  other  people. 
Rut  it  shall  break  in  pieces  and  consume  all  these  kingdoms,  and  it  shall 
stand  forever." 

DAWNING  OF  A  NEW  DAY 

There  was  to  be  a  new  day.  Nothing  like  it  has  happened  heretofore, 
and  so  I  am  not  alarmed  that  the  kingdom  is  prosperous,  and  that  at  the 
end  of  an  hundred  years  we  discover  it  has  achieved  certain  desirable  goals. 
In  the  revelations  of  the  Lord  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  after  having 
given  us  the  fulness  of  the  Gospel  and  established  the  Church  with  all 
the  institutions  and  the  doctrines  necessary  to  perfect  the  lives  of  the 
people,  he  enjoins  upon  us  to  arise  and  shine  and  to  become  a  light  unto 
the  nations.   The  old  prophet  saw  this  condition  when  he  declared . 

In  the  last  days  the  mountain  of  the  Lord's  house  shall  be  established  in 
the  top  of  the  mountains  and  shall  be  exalted  above  the  hills;  and  all  nations 
shall  flow  unto  it. 

And  many  people  shall  go  and  say,  Come  ye,  and  let  us  go  up  to  the  moun- 
tain of  the  Lord,  to  the  house  of  the  God  of  lacob;  and  he  will  teach  us  of  his 
ways,  and  we  will  walk  in  his  paths. 

All  this  indicates  a  change  that  will  come  over  the  hearts  of  the 
children  of  men  toward  the  work  of  God.  They  shall  not  come  to  per- 
secute, but  they  shall  come  to  learn  of  the  ways  of  the  Lord  and  to  walk 
in  his  paths. 

satan's  allurements 

I  said  a  moment  ago,  however,  that  the  enemy  of  this  Church  has 
not  quit  the  fight.  Nephi  saw — and  you  will  find  it  recorded  in  the  twenty- 
eighth  chapter  of  II  Nephi — that  in  these  days  Satan  would  rage  in  the 
hearts  of  the  children  of  men,  and  that  one  of  the  methods  by  which 
he  would  seek  to  destroy  God's  work  would  be  to  induce  men  who  had 
entered  into  covenants  to  serve  God  to  commit  a  little  sin ;  to  steal  a  little ; 
to  commit  whoredoms  a  little ;  then  he  would  assure  them  that  they  would 
be  beaten  with  a  few  stripes,  but  that  it  would  be  all  right.  Thus  he 
would  deceive  them  and  lure  them  away  from  their  standards. 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Among  other  things  Nephi  said :  "They  have  all  gone  astray  save 
it  be  a  few,  who  are  the  humble  followers  of  Christ ;  nevertheless  they  are 
led,  that  in  many  instances  they  do  err  because  they  are  taught  by  the 
precepts  of  men," — warning  that  the  enemy,  by  new  tactics,  by  new 
methods,  would  seek  to  destroy  the  work.   I  see  the  evidences  of  it. 

A  CHANGING  WORLD 

In  this  changing  world — and  we  are  in  the  midst  of  change — no 
standards  are  so  sacred  or  so  old  but  that  they  are  being  questioned  today. 
I  am  not  disturbed  over  this  questioning  age.  I  think  it  is  the  greatest 
age  the  truth  has  ever  known,  and  that  the  truth  could  never  grow  as  it 
should  grow  unless  men  are  open-minded  and  are  willing  to  ask  ques- 
tions and  to  receive  light  and  information.  Yet  I  recognize  that  there  is 
great  peril  and  danger  that  in  the  changes  that  are  occurring  we  may 
discard  many  true,  good,  and  beautiful  things.  So  that  there  is  need,  as 
never  before,  to  lift  our  standards  in  this  changing  world,  and  to  rally 
our  people  to  them. 

But  we  parents  and  teachers  must  be  able  to  give  a  reason  for  every- 
thing we  ask  our  children  and  our  people  to  do.  Thank  the  Lord  there 
are  good  reasons  for  everything  the  Lord  has  asked  us  to  do.  I  see 
danger,  however,  that  in  the  desire  for  change  many  thoughtless  ones 
will  want  to  change  stable,  eternal  practices  and  principles.  I  see  the 
spirit  of  the  enemy  at  work  in  seeking  to  destroy  the  standards  of  mor- 
ality among  men.  From  the  time  of  my  childhood,  at  my  mother's 
knee,  and  in  the  Church,  I  was  taught  to  keep  myself  as  clean  and  as 
pure  .as  the  girl  I  asked  to  be  my  wife,  the  mother  of  my  children; 
that  next  to  the  crime  of  murder  was  the  crime  of  adultery.  Yet  there 
are  those  who  would  have  the  thoughtless  believe  that  improper  sex 
relations  are  all  right  as  long  as  one  is  not  exposed.  The  devil  surely 
has  paved  the  way  with  promises  of  immunity  to  those  who  would  follow 
after  his  standards. 

TRUE  TO  OUR  STANDARDS 

But  will  the  world  come  to  learn  of  this  people  if  we  live  like  the 
world?  Suppose  they  abandon  their  standards,  shall  we  do  so  too?  No ; 
no,  we  will  carry  on,  loyal  and  true  to  our  standards.  You  young  men, 
descendants  of  that  Joseph  who  was  sold  into  Egypt,  think  upon  him 
in  the  hour  of  his  temptation,  how  he  stood  for  chastity  and  for  virtue ! 

Let  us  be,  therefore,  men  and  women  who  are  standard  makers,  not 
like  the  world.  Any  man  or  any  nation  who  imagines  that  one  can 
depart  from  these  standards  that  the  Lord  established  when  he  uttered 
the  Ten  Commandments  and  find  peace  and  the  solution  of  human 
happiness  is  sadly  mistaken. 

We  are  also  in  danger  from  the  spirit  of  abandonment,  having  re- 
pealed the  Eighteenth  Amendment.  Some  folks  may  be  of  the  notion 
that  the  Word  of  Wisdom  is  also  repealed,  but  thank  the  Lord  that  this 
Church  still  has  a  high  standard  to  guide  it,  and  not  by  compulsion  or  by 
force,  but  by  persuasion,  by  appeal,  with  precious  promises.  These 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


69 


principles  stand  and  will  stand  forever,  and  will  continue  to  appeal  to  our 
people  to  live  up  to  them.  They  are  standards  of  honesty,  standards  of 
uprightness  that  will  make  any  people  great  if  they  will  only  observe 
them. 

god's  work  shall  triumph 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  ought  to  be  aware  of  the  new 
menace.  I  am  not  afraid  of  it.  If  the  Latter-day  Saint  teachers  and 
parents  and  leaders  will  forewarn  the  youth,  I  feel  sure  they  will  be  as 
loyal  and  true  to  the  truth  as  their  fathers  and  mothers  were,  and  that 
this  new  manner  of  assault  and  attack  made  upon  the  membership  of  the 
Church  will  be  no  more  successful  in  destroying  this  work  than  have 
been  mob  violence,  bonds  and  imprisonment,  because  God  has  decreed 
that  this  work  shall  triumph  and  shall  not  be  left  to  another  people.  It 
is  true  that  Satan  will  give  revelations  to  lead  the  people  away  from  the 
truth — pretended  revelations  to  lead  them  into  open  violation  of  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord — but  I  have  confidence  in  the  outcome.  We 
have  been  through  this  long  period  of  struggle  to  secure  certain  rigrhts 
and  privileges.  We  have  been  through  the  day  of  colonization,  of  mi- 
gration and  immigration ;  the  settlement  of  the  waste  places  ;  of  building 
temples  and  tabernacles ;  of  subduing  the  desert  and  securing  the  com- 
forts and  necessities  of  life,  and  the  Lord  has  been  with  us  in  all  these 
changing  scenes. 

There  are  some  who  would  be  disturbed  because  they  see  no  im- 
mediate objective  before  the  Church.  I  grant  you  that  where  there  is  no 
vision  the  people  will  perish.  But  there  is  a  vision  before  us  if  only  our 
eyes  are  turned  toward  it,  a  vision  of  the  most  glorious  things  to  be 
accomplished  by  this  Church.  We  have  reached  a  new  day,  and  all  these 
changes  that  have  occurred,  changing  the  attitude  toward  the  Church, 
were  necessary  in  order  that  we  might  be  prepared  for  that  new  day  that 
is  before  us.  The  day  of  demonstration  has  come  to  the  Church,  the  day 
for  it  to  arise  and  shine,  in  a  world  which  has  been  crushed  and  humbled 
to  the  very  dust — a  world  that  is  full  of  doubt  and  uncertainty  and  that 
is  questioning  and  abandoning  the  creeds  of  men. 

Perhaps  some  of  you  have  been  reading  articles  such  as  "God  save 
the  Church,"  "What  is  Wrong  with  the  Church  ?"  and  other  articles  that 
have  been  appearing  recently,  measuring  the  institutions  of  man  and 
finding  them  wanting.  One  author  says :  "We  waited  eighteen  hundred 
years  for  Christianity  to  reach  the  zenith  of  its  power,  and  then  it  was 
utterly  helpless  to  save  the  world  from  one  of  the  greatest  catastrophes 
which  have  happened — the  world  war.  Why  wait  for  Christianity  to 
help  us  out  of  our  troubles?" 

CHURCH  NOT  FOUND  WANTING 

But  the  Church  of  Christ  has  not  been  weighed  in  the  balance  and 
found  wanting.  I  grant  you  that  men  have  done  the  best  they  could 
during  the  ages  that  are  past,  with  the  small  measure  of  light  they  have 
had.  But  never  since  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  in  the  sacred  grove,  said  of  the 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


institutions  of  men,  that  they  had  the  form  of  godliness  but  lacked  the 
power  thereof,  have  these  words  been  more  generally  accepted  as  true. 
Without  the  power  to  accomplish  what  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  was 
destined  to  do  men  did  the  best  they  could.  Joseph  Smith  could  have  done 
no  better  had  he  not  received  divine  authority  and  the  perfect  Gospel  plan 
at  the  hands  of  divinely  appointed  messengers  from  God. 

Now,  for  the  first  time  in  the  history  of  the  world,  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  has  an  opportunity  to  demonstrate  that  it  has  indeed  the  pow- 
er, the  knowledge,  and  the  strength  to  meet  and  solve  the  problems  of  this 
world,  and  the  world  is  willing  to  listen.  They  have  been  humbled  so 
that  the  wisdom  of  the  wise  has  perished  and  the  understanding  of  the 
prudent  is  hid,-  and  men  are  willing  to  listen  today  as  they  never  have 
been  heretofore. 

Oh,  you  Latter-day  Saints,  to  your  standards!  Talk  about  abandon- 
ing the  Word  of  Wisdom  ?  Now  is  the  time  to  rally  to  it  and  then  show 
the  world  a  race  of  men  and  women  of  physical,  mental,  spiritual,  and 
intellectual  strength,  the  like  of  which  we  have  not  seen.  And  that  will 
come  if  we  shall  adhere  to  these  Gospel  standards. 

Those  of  you  who  are  anxious  to  see  the  Church  move  forward 
in  the  solution  of  the  economic  problems  and  the  establishment  of  that 
vision  which  once  was  given  to  the  Church,  known  as  the  United  Order 
— then  immediately  afterwards  the  Lord  saw  the  necessity  for  training 
us,  preparing  us,  and  he  gave  us  the  law  of  tithing,  which  he  called  a 
schoolmaster — if  you  want  to  see  that  other  thing  come,  pay  your  tithes 
and  offerings,  be  honest  before  the  Lord,  for  no  man  can  live  the  Order 
of  Enoch  who  has  not  learned  how  to  honestly  live  the  law  of  tithing. 
If  you  want  to  promote  that  glorious  day,  live  the  law  of  tithing.  If  you 
want  to  see  the  realization  of  all  these  glorious  things  spoken  of  by  the 
prophets  of  old,  subscribe  to  these  Gospel  standards. 

The  world  will  come  up  to  the  top  of  the  mountains  to  learn  of  the 
ways  of  such  a  people.  Our  opportunity  I  say,  therefore,  is  to  demon- 
strate what  we  believe — not  so  much  by  what  we  say  as  by  what  we  do, 
for  that,  after  all,  is  the  most  effective  argument  we  can  present  to  the 
world.   That  opportunity  is  ours  today. 

A  GLORIOUS  FUTURE 

I  see  the  hand  of  the  Lord  moving  rapidly  in  the  events  of  the  world. 
He  is  preparing  for  our  mission  to  be  carried  on,  not  only  among  this 
small  handful  of  people  that  we  have  been  an  hundred  years  gathering  up 
—we  have  been  an  hundred  years  gathering  up  but  one  branch  of  the 
house  of  Israel — but  the  day  for  the  rest  of  that  favored  house  is  at  hand. 
God  is  preparing  the  way.  The  day  is  soon  to  dawn  for  those  who  are 
of  our  family  and  of  other  branches  of  it.  Activity  such  as  we  have 
never  dreamed  of  will  presently  be  ours  if  we  shall  succeed  in  realizing 
the  hope  the  Lord  had  in  establishing  this  work.  Missionaries?  We 
will  need  ten  where  we  have  needed  one.  I  see  no  diminution,  I  see  no 
end,  but  I  see  a  glorious  future  awaiting  God's  work. 

I  bear  witness  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Lord  hasn't 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


71 


gone  off  and  left  the  Church.  He  is  working,  preparing  the  way  for  it 
to  function,  to  fill  its  mission,  to  come  out  of  its  isolation,  to  arise  and 
shine.  God  is  not  retarding  the  work  but  there  are  some  of  us  who  are 
not  living  up  to  our  covenants  and  our  privileges.  We  might  speed  it  on. 
Do  not  worry  about  the  Church.  The  good  ship  is  sailing  on  in  the 
charted  course  God  marked  for  it.  The  light  is  in  the  ship.  The  captain 
is  not  asleep. 

I  bear  witness  to  you  that  no  man  has  ever  presided  over  this 
Church  who  has  been  more  willing  to  do  what  the  Lord  wants  him  to  do 
than  the  man  who  presides  today.  God  bless  him  and  God  bless  the 
people,  and  help  men  to  see  the  new  highways  that  are  ready  for  our 
feet,  the  new  deceptions  that  will  be  offered,  that  we  may  escape  the  pit- 
falls that  would  lure  us  from  our  standards,  that  we  may  continue  to  be 
loyal  and  true,  and  go  marching  on  victoriously  with  God's  work,  I  pray, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

I  am  impressed,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  with  this  wonderful  con- 
gregation, and  with  the  spirit  of  this  meeting,  as  well  as  those  that  have 
preceded  it.  This  is  a  representative  congregation  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  Here  are  represented  practically  all  of  the  officers  of  the  Church 
and  a  goodly  number  of  the  members  thereof.  I  am  happy  to  be  with 
you.  Yet  I  feel  keenly  the  difficulty  of  speaking  in  the  midst  of  this  vast 
gathering. 

LABORS  OF  PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

I  desire  briefly  to  report  to  you  my  stewardship  in  the  position  that 
I  fill,  as  a  servant  of  this  people  and  as  one  of  the  servants  of  the  Lord. 
The  labors  and  duties  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  are  varied  and  extensive. 
I  desire  to  state  to  you  that  we  are  doing  our  best  to  fulfil  the  duties  and 
responsibilities  thereof,  to  exercise  judgment,  accuracy  and  economy  in 
all  the  matters  entrusted  to  our  care ;  and  to  see  that  honesty  and  integ- 
rity are  maintained  in  every  department  of  the  work.  While  the  duties 
and  labors  are  many  and  diverse,  we  are  endeavoring  to  so  organize  and 
systematize  the  affairs  that  you  may  be  assured  that  every  phase  of  the 
work  with  which  we  have  to  do  is  being  carried  forward  promptly  and 
thoroughly,  and  the  most  effective  results  possible  obtained  in  every 
division  thereof.  I  rejoice  in  this  duty.  I  may  say  to  you  that  I  have 
never  worked  so  hard  in  my  life  as  during  the  time  that  I  have  been  in, 
this  place ;  and  I  have  never  enjoyed  work  so  greatly  as  I  have  in  this 
department.  I  realize  that  the  Lord  has  blessed  me  more  than  I  have 
been  justified  in  receiving.  I  desire  to  carry  on  under  the  direction  of  my 
brethren  of  the  First  Presidency,  and  to  do  my  best  to  advance  the  pur- 
poses of  the  Lord. 

PROGRESS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

In  addition  to  what  has  been  presented  in  the  financial  and  statistical 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


report  of  the  progress  of  this  work  during  1933,  and  since  the  last  con- 
ference, I  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  in  general  there  is  an  increase 
in  the  activities,  and  as  far  as  can  be  determined,  in  the  faith  of  the 
people.  Notwithstanding  the  very  seriously  unfavorable  economic  con- 
ditions of  the  past  year,  there  was  a  slight  increase  in  the  tithes  of  the 
people  of  the  Church.  There  was  quite  a  material  increase  in  the  number 
who  paid  tithing,  which  indicates  the  faith  of  those  who  have  taken  upon 
them  these  covenants.  Unfortunately,  there  was  not  an  increase  in  the 
fast  offerings.  Why  that  should  be  I  cannot  quite  understand  ;  because  of 
the  need  of  donations  that  should  come  through  the  fasting  of  the  people, 
and  their  willingness  to  give  for  those  who  are  in  need.  In  other  respects 
the  activities  have  generally  increased.  There  was  a  slight  increase  in  the 
attendance  at  sacrament  meetings  and  at  ward  Priesthood  meetings. 

GROWTH  OF  THE  PRIESTHOOD 

There  was  an  increase  in  the  number  who  bear  the  Priesthood  of 
the  Church,  both  in  the  Melchizedek  and  the  Aaronic  Priesthoods.  The 
Aaronic  Priesthood  members  now  total,  over  90,000.  I  believe  that  those 
who  have  the  responsibility  of  these  young  men  throughout  the  Church, 
in  the  stakes  and  wards  and  missions,  are  appreciating  more  and  more 
the  importance  of  training  these  young  men  and  giving  them  personal 
consideration,  so  that  they  may  become  imbued  with  the  spirit  and  power 
of  their  Priesthood,  and  be  prepared  for  the  responsibilities  that  will 
come  to  them  in  the  future. 

GREAT  MISSION  OF  THE  CHURCH 

About  a  year  before  the  Church  was  organized  various  men  received 
revelations  from  the  Lord  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  some 
of  which  a  particular  expression  was  used.  In  the  revelation  given  to 
David  Whitmer  the  following  words  occur:  "Seek  to  bring  forth  and 
establish  my  Zion."  Now,  I  appreciate  the  fact  that  this  work,  which 
was  declared  to  them  in  a  prospective  way,  before  the  Church  was  organ- 
ized, and  which  was  revealed,  at  the  time  of  the  organization  of  the 
Church,  as  a  great  and  marvelous  work  that  was  about  to  come  forth — I 
realize  that  this  work  has  a  great  destiny  and  a  great  mission  before  it. 
It  has  already  been  expressed  in  our  hearing  during  these  gatherings. 
That  mission  is  especially  to  promulgate  the  Gospel  to  all  mankind— to 
bring  those  who  desire  to  know  the  truth  to  a  knowledge  and  acceptance 
of  the  same ;  to  promote  generally  the  welfare  and  progress  of  mankind  ; 
to  build  better  communities  in  which  to  live ;  and  to  prepare  the  way  for 
the  coming  of  the  reign  of  peace. 

GREAT  MISSIONARY  WORK  OF  THE  PAST 

Consider  for  a  moment  the  fact  that  during  the  one  hundred  years 
that  have  elapsed  since  the  Church  was  organized  a  marvelous  work  has 
been  accomplished.  The  leadership  of  the  Church,  and  all  the  officers  and 
members  thereof,  in  the  past  hundred  years,  have  done  a  great  pioneer- 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


73 


ing  work,  first  in  the  promulgation  of  the  Gospel ;  second  in  colonization 
and  empire  building ;  and  third,  in  cultural  growth.  Consider  the  tremen- 
dous effort  that  was  put  forth  to  open  the  doors  of  the  many  nations  to 
the  Gospel  in  those  times  when  they  were  lacking  in  means  and  in  men, 
with  the  unfavorable  means  of  transportation  and  communication  !  What 
a  wonderful  achievement  in  the  spread  of  the  Gospel  message  in  that 
hundred  years ! 

PIONEERING  AND  EMPIRE  BUILDING 

Again,  in  the  building  of  the  settlements  and  the  advancement  of  the 
people  in  a  temporal  way,  what  a  splendid  pace  they  set !  We  follow  them 
from  New  York,  through  Ohio,  Missouri,  Illinois  and  Iowa ;  and  then 
out  to  the  Rocky  Mountains  ;  and  we  remember  the  growth  and  develop- 
ment that  has  occurred  throughout  the  intermountain  empire  in  the  mean- 
time. It  is  marvelous  to  appreciate !  They  were  real  pioneers.  These 
men  and  women  were  not  daunted  by  any  unfavorable  conditions.  They 
carried  on  under  the  most  adverse  circumstances.  They  had  persecu- 
tions to  meet.  Yet  new  communities  were  built  and  the  borders  of  the 
Church  extended.  Here  they  were  taught  to  build  and  beautify  homes, 
farms,  towns  and  cities,  and  to  promote  their  local  interests. 

SPIRITUAL  AND  CULTURAL  GROWTH 

Then,  in  addition  to  the  material  growth,  the  Church  members  were 
being  given  spiritual  and  cultural  development  through  the  facilities  of 
the  Priesthood,  the  schools  that  were  organized,  the  auxiliary  associations, 
and  through  musical,  dramatic  and  social  features,  even  in  the  midst  of 
frontier  hardships  such  as  we  can  scarcely  appreciate.  So  the  work  has 
gone  on,  and  the  way  has  been  prepared,  in  a  measure  at  least,  for  the 
coming  of  the  reign  of  peace. 

ANOTHER  ERA 

Now  we  stand  at  the  beginning  of  another  hundred  years — another 
era.  What  shall  be  the  achievements  of  this  people  during  that  era  ?  We 
are  one  hundred  years  nearer  the  reign  of  peace  and  the  millennium.  The 
results  will  depend  largely  upon  our  initiative — individual  and  collective. 
Conditions  at  the  present  time — men's  thoughts  and  ideas — are  changing 
rapidly.  We  realize  to  some  extent  from  past  experience  how  the 
thoughts  and  sentiments  of  mankind  can  be  changed,  but  we  also  realize 
what  remarkable  changes  must  occur  in  human  nature  before  mankind 
can  be  prepared  for  universal  peace. 

FUNDAMENTAL  PRINCIPLES 

As  has  been  expressed  here,  there  are  certain  things  that  are  funda- 
mental,— that  do  not  change  so  far  as  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  con- 
cerned. Among  others  the  law  of  morality  does  not  change  in  any  age. 
The  ordinance  of  baptism,  as  a  means  of  bringing  people  into  the  fold  of 
Christ,  does  not  change  at  any  time.  And  so  with  other  eternal  principles. 
Only  by  obedience  thereto  will  promised  blessings  follow.    It  has  been 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


said  that  there  is  nothing  so  constant  as  change.  There  are  policies  that 
may  change,  habits  and  customs  that  may  change,  in  the  progress  of 
civilization,  to  which  men  must  adapt  themselves.  The  Latter-day  Saints 
are  most  progressive  in  adopting  and  adapting  conditions  to  the  situations 
under  which  we  live,  and  that  without  sacrificing  anything  that  is  funda- 
mentally important  in  the  Gospel.  We  accept  these  changing  temporal 
conditions.  But  the  nature  of  these  conditions  which  affect  our  temporal 
welfare  must  conform  in  principle  to  our  spiritual  ideals. 

THE  CHALLENGE  TO  US 

Now,  in  what  respects  can  we,  as  Latter-day  Saints  today,  looking 
forward,  carry  on  just  as  effectively  as  have  those  who  have  carried  on 
this  work  from  the  beginning  ?  It  seems  to  me  that  there  are  three  ways 
in  which  we  should  particularly  direct  our  thought  and  effort  not  only 
toward  ourselves  as  a  people,  but  to  the  welfare  and  progress  of  men 
generally,  and  toward  the  preparation  for  the  coming  of  the  reign  of 
peace.  These  three  ways  are  similar  to  those  referred  to  in  the  past 
history  of  this  people. 

BUILD  FAITH  AND  RIGHTEOUSNESS 

First,  we  should  seek  to  establish  the  cause  of  Zion  more  firmly  in 
the  hearts  and  lives  of  the  younger  members  of  the  Church.  We  should 
continue  to  build  a  structure  of  faith  upon  the  solid  foundations  already 
laid.  It  is  our  obligation  to  increase  the  courage  and  determination  such 
as  has  been  evidenced  by  those  who  have  led  the  people  throughout  the 
history  of  the  Church.  The  establishment  of  Zion  now  justifies  and 
demands  even  more  whole-hearted  effort.  The  entire  freedom  from  per- 
secution which  we  now  enjoy  should  cause  us  to  put  forth  our  energies 
in  larger  measure  to  the  solution  of  various  problems  which  confront  us, 
and  which  interfere  with  our  progress.  We  should  be  thankful  that 
we  are  now  enjoying  the  friendliness  and  consideration  of  men  generally. 
But  we  do  not  need  in  any  way  to  sacrifice  any  principle  in  which  w« 
believe,  in  order  to  enjoy  that  respect  and  regard.  Being  free  from  perse- 
cution, we  should  not  be  lulled  to  sleep,  nor  in  any  way  slacken  our  efforts 
in  behalf  of  the  cause  of  truth.  The  development  of  greater  faith  will 
lead  to  a  fuller  observance  of  all  Gospel  principles  and  to  greater  unity. 
Likewise,  in  these  perilous  times  we  should,  as  a  people,  teach  more  ex- 
tensively and  practice  the  highest  standards  of  virtue  and  morality. 
If  we  enjoy  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel  it  will  produce  greater  tolerance  and 
consideration  on  the  part  of  everyone  of  us  toward  our  fellowmen  every- 
where. In  the  same  manner  we  should  be  willing  to  forgive  and  have 
the  desire  to  be  forgiven  of  our  shortcomings  which  will  be  the  means 
of  producing  finer  lives  by  all  who  practice  such  principles. 

ADVANCEMENT  OF  MISSIONARY  WORK 

In  the  missionary  work,  just  as  has  been  done  in  the  hundred  years 
that  have  passed,  it  seems  to  me  that  there  is  a  tremendous  opportunity 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


75 


and  responsibility.  We  have  new  means  of  transportation  and  commu- 
nication, whereby  time  can  be  saved  and  the  Gospel  can  be  spread  in  wider 
circles  than  ever  before.  I  think  those  means  need  to  be  adopted  as 
fully  as  possible.  It  would  appear  that  every  appropriate  facility  for  the 
spreading  of  the  Gospel  should  be  carefully  considered  and  applied  in 
the  most  effective  way.  There  is  a  fine  opportunity  for  initiative  on  the 
part  of  those  who  have  the  direction  of  the  missionary  work,  to  do  it  in 
such  a  way  that  it  shall  be  advanced  most  profitably.  Yet  there  is  a  fun- 
damental feature  of  missionary  work  which  we  cannot  neglect.  That 
is  the  teaching  of  the  Savior,  both  in  the  time  when  he  was  upon  the 
earth,  and  in  these  days  by  revelation  from  the  Lord,  that  we  should 
preach  the  Gospel  as  nearly  as  .possible  without  purse  and  scrip.  Ex- 
perience has  everywhere  proven,  I  think,  that  generally  the  missionaries 
who  spend  the  least  do  the  best  work  and  have  the  greatest  success  among 
the  people.  The  personal  contact  and  conversations  of  the  missionary 
with  those  who  may  be  interested  in  the  Gospel  message  is  the  important 
thing  for  which  to  strive.  The  personal  testimony  of  the  man  who  goes 
out  in  the  power  and  spirit  of  his  calling  is  most  effective.  Therefore, 
it  seems  to  me  that  the  distribution  of  literature  and  other  efforts  should 
be  a  means  to  the  important  end  which  is  to  get  Gospel  conversations  with 
the  people. 

DEVELOPMENT  OF  FINER  CIVILIZATION 

The  second  way,  I  think,  in  which  we  can  help  to  establish  Zion  is 
through  the  development  of  a  finer  civilization  than  has  ever  previously 
existed  in  the  world.  Wjhat  makes  a  good  civilization?  I  conceive  it 
to  be  that  condition  of  society  in  which  every  man,  woman  and  child 
enjoys  in  fairness,  equity  and  justice,  the  opportunity  for  steady  progress 
in  material,  cultural  and  spiritual  things,  and  protection  against  tyranny, 
oppression  and  evils  of  every  nature.  It  is  a  condition  where  everyone 
is  willing  to  do  his  or  her  part,  and  where  good  will  and  mutual  helpful- 
ness prevail.  To  the  extent  that  any  or  all  of  these  conditions  are  lacking 
today  it  is  our  opportunity  to  work  together  to  endeavor  to  bring  them 
about.  The  Church  stands  for  the  progress  and  welfare  of  humanity. 
Let  us,  therefore,  apply  the  Gospel  teachings  to  the  improvement  oi 
social  conditions. 

IMPROVEMENT  IN  EDUCATION 

We  should  strive  to  promote  even  better  general  education  for  our 
young  people,  wherein  will  be  inculcated  in  larger  measure  an  apprecia- 
tion of  moral  and  ethical  principles  and  practices.  We  need  to  provide 
also  for  the  application  of  theoretical  instruction,  to  the  problems  which 
prevail  in  our  various  communities.  There  should  be  more  vocational 
and  applied  courses  suited  to  the  conditions  in  the  different  localities,  so 
that  the  young  people  may  have  the  opportunity  to  fit  into  the  local  situa- 
tions, and  not  have  to  drift  away  to  other  places  and  probably  lose  oppor- 
tunities that  might  be  theirs.  It  is  to  be  expected  that  the  teachers  in  all 
schools  shall  have  characters  above  reproach  and  temperaments  and  habits 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


such  that  their  lives  will  prove  a  powerful  stimulus  for  good  with  their 
students  in  their  preparation  for  life's  activities. 

IMPROVEMENT  IN  EMPLOYMENT  CONDITIONS 

Again,  there  is  much  room  for  improvement  in  employment  condi- 
tions. It  is  important  to  strive  to  provide  for  every  worker,  first,  gainful 
occupation ;  second,  opportunities  for  recreation ;  and  third,  opportunities 
for  religious  activities.  There  should  be  worked  out  a  basis  of  fair  deal- 
ing applicable  to  all  relations  affecting  employers  and  employees.  There 
should  be  adequate  means  of  conciliation  and  arbitration  in  all  industrial 
disputes,  in  order  to  avoid  the  strife  which  results  from  failure  to  do 
this.  I  think  we  should  work  for  conditions  which  will  promote  better 
protection  for  old  age  and  for  those  who  are  incapacitated. 

WELFARE  OF  WOMEN  AND  CHILDREN 

Considerable  is  being  done  for  the  welfare  of  mothers.  There  can 
be  still  better  care  and  protection  provided  for  them.  Those  who  pass 
through  the  shadow  of  the  valley  of  death  to  bring  forth  life  are  entitled 
to  enjoy  safeguards  to  their  health  and  that  of  their  children.  There 
should  be  suitable  regulation  of  working  conditions  for  women  in  order 
to  insure  the  physical  and  moral  health  of  the  community.  There  should 
be  assurance  of  the  fullest  positive  development  of  every  child.  All  chil- 
dren should  be  protected  against  unreasonable  labor  conditions  and  ex- 
ploitation. But  we  must  also  remember  the  importance  of  training  children 
under  proper  conditions  to  learn  the  value  of  work  and  the  danger  of 
idleness.  I  am  not  convinced  of  the  desirability  of  the  proposed  federal 
child  labor  amendment,  as  it  is  drawn,  which  is  now  before  the  various 
states.  It  provides  that  "Congress  shall  have  power  to  limit,  regulate, 
and  prohibit  the  labor  of  persons  under  eighteen  years  of  age."  I  think 
those  provisions  are  extreme.  As  former  President  Lowell  of  Harvard 
has  wisely  said :  "We  all  want  to  stop  the  exploitation  of  children  in  fac- 
tories, mines  and  industries  of  that  nature.  But  we  do  not  want  inter- 
ference with  the  home,  or  with  the  healthy  and  improving  occupations 
of  youth.  Some  people  have  no  objection  to  confer  such  a  power  on  the 
national  government,  trusting  it  will  not  be  used.  Some  of  us  feel  that 
to  do  so  would  be  a  mistake  that  we  might  hereafter  greatly  regret." 

BETTER  COMMUNITY  BUILDING 

A  third  way  in  which  I  think  we  can  help  materially  to  "establish 
Zion"  is  by  the  promotion  of  better  community  building,  following  up 
what  the  pioneers  so  splendidly  started.  There  are  so  many  ways  in 
which  we  can  work  with  all  of  our  neighbors  and  fellow  citizens  to  bring 
about  better  conditions.  For  instance,  water  is  the  very  life  blood  in  the 
growth  of  these  intermountain  communities.  Therefore  we  should  under- 
take as  rapidly  as  conditions  will  permit  to  save  every  drop  of  waste  water 
by  possible  storage.  This  present  dry  season  only  emphasizes  this  neces- 
sity. Careful  geologic  study  should  be  given  to  possible  sources  of  under- 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


77 


ground  water.  The  conservation  of  water  supplies  from  year  to  year 
is  very  important.  Further,  there  needs  to  be  greater  care  and  economy 
in  the  use  of  irrigation,  power  and  municipal  water  supplies,  to  avoid,  as 
far  as  possible,  losses  by  seepage,  evaporation  and  waste.  Again,  greater 
conservation  of  soil  moisture  in  the  maintenance  of  fertility  spells  the  con- 
tinued welfare  and  progress  of  our  various  communities. 

DEVELOPMENT  OF  LOCAL  INDUSTRIES  AND  RESOURCES 

The  progress  of  every  community  depends  upon  the  opportunities 
for  employment  either  in  agriculture,  industry  or  business.  Notwith- 
standing the  fact  that  the  manufacturing  industries  are  not  as  general 
in  our  communities  as  in  some  other  sections,  every  possible  product  that 
can  be  manufactured  locally  and  sold  profitably  should  be  undertaken. 
Everyone  in  our  local  communities  should  undertake  to  thoroughly  sup- 
port our  local  industries  by  using  their  products.  This  is  a  very  essen- 
tial requirement  for  growth.  Also  we  need  to  promote  more  real  co- 
operative enterprises  in  this  territory  among  producers  as  well  as  among 
consumers  so  that  local  people  shall  get  the  most  direct  benefit.  The 
State  of  Utah,  for  example,  is  one  of  the  richest  in  natural  resources. 
Other  surrounding  states  are,  in  many  ways,  similarly  blessed.  These 
resources  should  be  developed,  as  far  as  possible,  for  the  benefit  of  the 
citizens  thereof  and  for  the  general  progress  of  this  commonwealth. 

MAKE  OUR  COMMUNITIES  ATTRACTIVE 

I  think  we  should  continue  the  pioneering  plans  of  the  early  settlers 
in  the  building  of  desirable  communities.  The  planning  should  be  to- 
ward providing  for  the  welfare  and  opportunities  of  the.  local  people 
rather  than  toward  increasing  the  population,  with  consequently  greater 
unemployment.  We  should  exercise  care  in  the  planning  of  tree-plant- 
ing so  as  to  provide  pleasing  effects  through  the  proper  location  of  trees 
on  the  streets  and  surrounding  the  homes,  and  through  the  selection  of 
the  proper  hardwood  trees  to  produce  the  best  results.  Setting  apart 
of  suitable  property  for  natural  parks  and  recreation  grounds  under 
conditions  which  will  permit  of  very  little  cost  for  maintenance  would 
mean  much  to  the  inhabitants  and  prove  attractive  to  visitors.  Much 
can  be  done  by  the  united  effort  of  all  the  residents  in  promoting  public 
health,  securing  good  water  supplies,  installing  sewer  facilities,  maintain- 
ing sanitary  conditions  and  preventing  nuisances. 

BETTER  HOMES  MORE  NEIGHBOURLINESS 

The  future  welfare  of  this  people  as  church  members  and  as  citizens 
of  this  nation  depends  upon  the  spirit  manifested  in  our  homes.  Irrespec- 
tive of  the  cost  or  the  extent  of  comforts  in  our  homes,  the  important 
thing  is  that  there  should  be  love,  kindly  consideration  and  mutual  con- 
fidence among  all  members  of  the  household.  No  matter  how  humble 
the  cottage  may  be,  only  the  desire  of  improvement  and  attractiveness 
therein  will  produce  the  growth  and  unity  necessary  for  the  greatest  joy 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and'  welfare  of  the  family.  In  like  manner,  as  love  and  kindliness  pro- 
duce peace  and  unity  among  the  members  of  the  family,  so  the  practice 
of  these  same  qualities  in  our  relations  with  our  neighbors  and  all  those 
among  whom  we  live  will  help  to  produce  the  same  results  in  the  com- 
munity. As  we  learn  to  live  in  good  will  under  these  conditions  we 
shall  be  spreading  the  spirit  of  peace  in  ever-widening  circles. 

May  our  efforts  constantly  be  to  strive  in  all  possible  ways  to  help 
to  "establish  Zion,"  is  my  earnest  prayer,  Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

In  one  of  the  large  rooms  of  the  Dresden  Art  Gallery  in  Germany 
hang  two  pictures.  One  is  of  the  Emperor  Napoleon  Bonaparte,  and  the 
painting  bears  the  legend :  "Napoleon,  The  Greatest  Man  of  War."  On 
the  opposite  wall  is  that  of  Jesus  the  Master,  which  has  this  inscription : 
"Jesus  Christ,  The  Greatest  Man  of  Peace."  Those  two  pictures  are 
suggestive  of  the  two  great  forces  that  mankind  is  confronted  with  today. 
The  world  is  at  war;  and  the  world  is  at  peace.  Wrong  is  contending 
against  right  for  the  mastery  of  the  souls  of  men ;  and  our  problems  are 
greater  now  than  they  ever  were  before.  This  is  a  congregation  of  peace, 
joy,  and  sunshine,  because  we  have  come  up  to  the  tabernacle  of  God  to 
hear  the  word  of  life  and  salvation.   This  is  truly  a  house  of  God. 

An  ancient  psalmist  once  asked:  "Lord,  who  shall  abide  in  thy 
tabernacle  ?  who  shall  dwell  in  thy  holy  hill  ?"  Jehovah  answered  and  said : 
"He  that  walketh  uprightly,  and  worketh  righteousness,  and  speaketh 
truth  in  his  heart."  What  a  power  the  world  would  have  for  right,  if 
these  principles  as  taught  to  the  psalmist  were  lodged  deeply  in  our 
hearts  to  influence  our  lives  every  day.  Such  a  thing  can  be  if  we  begin 
to  teach  our  children  properly  in  the  home.  I  fear  that  we  are  leaving 
the  teaching  of  our  children  too  much  to  the  school  and  church,  and  that 
parents  are  not  careful  enough  what  they  say  and  how  they  teach  their 
children  within  the  precincts  of  the  home.  It  is  the  home  that  is  the 
center  of  our  social  lives ;  it  is  the  cathedral  of  our  religious  lives,  where 
the  Lord  has  imparted  to  us  the  knowledge  of  the  immortality  of  his 
spiritual  values :  It  is  character  that  we  must  build ;  and  in  Jesus  as 
in  no  other  soul,  humanity  has  found  its  ideal  of  character  before  which 
the  noblest  of  the  sons  of  men  in  all  generations  since  his  day  have  bowed 
their  heads  in  reverence. 

The  Old  and  New  Testaments  are  full  of  the  spirit  of  joy  and 
thanksgiving  which  comes  into  the  hearts  of  the  people  who  are  seeking 
to  do  the  ways  of  Jehovah.  I  am  always  impressed  with  the  thought 
when  I  stand  before  you  good  people  that  you  are  living  upright  lives, 
and  in  the  battle  of  life  you  are  playing  your  parts  well.  The  great  need 
today  is  that  we  teach  our  children  the  finer  truths  of  life,  and  impress 
them  with  the  ideal  that  each  and  every  one  must  perfect  himself  in  his 
spiritual  power.    Each  one  must  perfect  oneself  in  the  sphere  in  which 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


79 


one  is  working.  One  must  be  taught  the  glorious  words  of  the  Master : 
"Be  ye  perfect  even  as  your  Father  in  heaven  is  perfect."  Wle  parents  are 
learning  from  day  to  day,  and  as  we  learn  we  are  able  to  impart  knowl- 
edge to  our  children.  It  is  in  the  home  that  God  makes  his  covenant 
with  us,  and  we  have  always  new  opportunities  and  new  duties.  When 
Jesus  bade  his  disciples  to  receive  the  kingdom  as  little  children,  he  meant 
that  they  should  place  their  faith  in  God  as  children  place  their  faith 
in  him,  because  of  their  conscious  helplessness. 

I  am  reminded  here  of  a  character  in  history  who  to  me  stands  next 
to  the  Master  in  power,  faith,  and  understanding.  I  refer  to  John  the 
Baptist.  John  had  been  in  the  wilderness  of  Judea  teaching  repentance 
and  the  kingdom  of  God.  "Repent  ye,"  said  he,  "for  the  kingdom  of  God 
is  at  hand."  John  was  speaking  to  living  Jews,  delivering  to  them  for 
all  time  a  message  from  their  God.  "Let  us  prepare  our  souls,"  Baruch 
said,  "that  we  may  have  hope  and  be  not  put  to  shame,  that  we  may  reap 
with  our  fathers,  and  be  not  punished  with  our  foes."  Now  the  time 
had  come.  A  prophet  had  risen  once  more  in  Israel.  "Prepare  ye  the 
way  of  the  Lord."  John  had  given  all ;  he  had  won  all.  One  day  while 
he  was  teaching  his  people  on  the  banks  of  the  river  Jordan,  he  saw 
someone  coming  towards  him.  John  turned  to  his  congregation,  and 
said :  "Behold  the  Lamb  of  God  who  taketh  away  the  sin  of  the  world." 
John  knew  the  Master  the  minute  he  saw  him.  And  why?  Because  he 
had  the  spirit  of  truth  and  faith  which  manifests  all  things  divine.  Jesus 
was  baptized  by  John,  and  then  retired  into  the  wilderness.  The  time 
was  fulfilled,  the  kingdom  of  God  was  at  hand.  This  kingdom  could 
come  to  earth  only  through  souls  that  hungered  and  thirsted  after  right- 
eousness. 

Jesus  began  his  work  among  humanity  to  build  it  into  a  civilization 
the  like  of  which  the  world  has  never  known.  That  work  we  are  con- 
tinuing today.  That  fine  truth  that  we  may  know  God  only  by  the  spirit 
of  the  Master  is  the  truth  that  I  fear  we  forget  today.  This  truth,  how- 
ever, is  an  eternal  verity.  Jesus  told  us  to  be  "Perfect  even  as  our  Father 
in  Heaven  is  perfect." 

We  speak  of  the  great  changes  that  have  come  about  in  the  world. 
It  is  an  ever-changing  world  ;  and  there  will  be  more  changes.  Our  great 
problem  will  be  whether  or  not  our  moral  and  spiritual  lives  will  grow  as 
the  world  moves  on. 

Yes,  the  world  will  change  for  the  best,  spiritually  and  morally,  as 
we  come  to  know  that  God  has  laid  his  hand  on  souls  to  whom  the  Gospel 
has  become  a  burning  fire  within  them,  and  they  speak  the  word  of  the 
Lord  which  has  been  entrusted  to  them.  In  other  words,  the  finer  spirit- 
ual life  will  be  brought  about  by  men  of  faith.  They  will  go  forth  with 
the  spirit  of  the  eternal  truths  of  morality  as  expressed  in  the  Ten  Com- 
mandments and  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount.  These  moral  truths  are 
eternal.  They  will  teach  that  the  "pure  in  heart  shall  see  God,"  and  that 
Jesus  died  for  the  sins  of  the  world. 

You  and  I,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  have  come  up  to  this  tabernacle 
and  to  this  holy  altar  to  hear  the  word  of  God  and  to  hear  about  the 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


spiritual  truths  that  live  forever.  .We  wish  to  show  Jehovah  that  we  walk 
uprightly,  and  speak  truth  in  our  hearts.  My  faith  is  that  the  world  is 
growing  better,  and  that  mankind  will  be  more  closely  united  in  divine 
faith.   Truth  will  prevail,  and  the  kingdom  of  God  will  come. 

There  is  a  beautiful  lesson  in  a  part  of  the  German  writer's  play 
called  "Nathan  the  Wise."  It  was  written  by  Lessing,  a  celebrated  Jew 
of  the  days  of  Goethe.  There  is  a  conversation  between  a  Christian  and 
^a  Jew.  The  Jew  says  in  substance,  "I  know,  O  Christian,  by  the  spirit 
of  Jehovah  that  the  message  of  Christ  to  the  world  is  one  of  fatherhood 
and  brotherhood,  of  spirit  and  truth."  The  Christian  replies  to  the  Jew 
and  says :  "And  I  know  by  the  same  spirit  that  the  Jew  has  borne  the 
same  great  message  to  the  world !  We  will  be  brought  together  by  the 
same  illumination,  by  the  same  spirit." 

So  we  realize  that  truth  and  goodness  can  inspire  in  men  an  affection 
infinitely  more  creative  and  unconquerable  than  anything  else  in  life. 
The  transcendance  of  the  human  spirit  can  conquer  all  things. 

May  God  bless  us  all.  May  the  world  understand  the  word  of  truth. 
May  we  all  come  closer  together  by  the  illumination  of  truth  and  the 
spirit  of  Jehovah,  and  walk  uprightly  and  speak  truth  in  our  hearts,  I 
ask  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

A  selection,  "Calm  as  the  night,"  was  sung  by  a  ladies  chorus. 

ELDER  WILLARD  L.  SMITH 

Former  President  of  the  Samoan  Mission 

I  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  may  have  your  faith  and 
prayers  during  the  few  moments  I  shall  stand  in  your  presence  to  report, 
briefly,  the  labors  in  the  Samoan  Mission.  I  bring  greetings  to  you  from 
the  members  of  the  Church  in  Samoa.  I  believe  I  am  safe  in  saying  that 
they  are  one  of  the  finest  groups  of  people  we  have  anywhere,  in  any  of 
the  mission  fields  in  the  Church.  Naturally,  they  are  a  different  type 
from  the  people  we  have  here  in  Zion.  They  are,  however,  at  heart  one 
of  the  finest  races  of  people,  as  far  as  they  have  an  understanding  of  the 
things  required  at  their  hands  by  our  Father  in  Heaven.  My  little  stay 
here  in  Zion,  since  returning,  has  caused  me  to  feel  far  prouder  of  them 
as  a  race  than  I  did  during  my  association  with  them. 

I  thank  the  Lord  that  I  have  had  the  opportunity  of  bearing  my 
testimony  to  the  sons  and  daughters  of  Lehi,  who  I  firmly  believe  were 
led  into  that  land  by  divine  providence.  It  is  my  firm  belief  that  the 
native  peoples  in  the  islands  of  the  sea  are  direct  descendants  of  Father 
Lehi,  who  left  Jerusalem  six  hundred  years  before  Christ.  I  realize 
that  it  is  impossible  to  find  external  evidence  sufficient  to  prove  that  this 
is  the  case.    In  spirit,  however,  I  think  we  all  agree  with  this  thought. 

We  read  in  the  appendix  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  that  it  is 
necessary  to  carry  the  Gospel  even  to  the  islands  of  the  sea.  It  has 
fallen  to  my  lot  to  labor  and  preside  twice  in  the  islands  of  the  sea.  I 


ELDER  WILLARD  L.  SMITH 


81 


presided  at  one  time  over  the  Tongan  Mission  and  returned  home  not 
very  strong  physically.  I  was  there  during  the  World  War.  I  returned 
to  Canada,  and  while  laboring  there,  trying  to  make  a  living  for  myself 
and  family,  word  came  to  President  Wood  that  we  were  asked  to  return, 
not  to  Tonga  but  to  Samoa.  This,  of  course,  was  a  very  great  surprise 
to  me.  I  thought  that  if  I  ever  should  return  again  to  those  lands  it 
would  possibly  be  to  the  islands  where  I  was  best  acquainted. 

After  I  had  consented  to  go  I  asked  President  Wood  if  he  had 
forgotten  that  I  returned  home  unable  to  carry  my  suitcase  from  the 
station.  He  said  he  had  forgotten  all  about  it.  I  returned  home,  how- 
ever, this  time  perfectly  well. 

I  thank  the  Lord,  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart  for  the  testimonies 
which  have  come  to  me  and  my  family  while  laboring  among  that  people. 
We  have  in  the  land  of  Samoa  at  this  time  more  than  four  thousand 
members  on  our  records.  We  have  baptized,  during  the  time  that  I  have 
been  there,  1,231  souls.  So  we  have  been  somewhat  successful,  so  far. 
as  performing  baptisms  is  concerned.  They  find  it  very  difficult,  how- 
ever, under  the  trying  conditions  in  that  land,  to  always  live  the  Gospel 
as  we  would  have  them  do.  . 

I  wish  to  report  this,  however,  that  those  who  have  received  the 
Aaronic  and  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  are  functioning  with  a  great 
deal  of  efficiency.  While  there  I  undertook  to  labor  with  the  Priesthood. 
I  felt  that  was  necessary.  Now  we  have  only  three  branches  in  all  that 
land  that  are  directed  by  our  Elders.  We  are  operating  now  in  some 
forty-two  villages,  and  all  the  work  in  these  villages  can  be  carried  on 
and  supervised  and  directed  by  our  native  brethren. 

We  also  use  the  young  men  in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  to  teach 
schools,  where  the  government  of  that  land  is  not  able  to  carry  on  the 
secular  education  as  is  required.  I  feel  now  that  I  was  directed,  in  a 
sense,  to  labor  with  these  brethren  bearing  the  Priesthood,  that  they 
might  be  able  to  discharge  the  responsibilities  which  have  come  to  them. 
We  have  not  as  yet  sufficient  capable  men  in  that  land  to  meet  the  require- 
ments, but  I  feel  that  we  have  made  progress  there,  although  it  may  have 
been  slow.  Although  we  have  been  far  away,  we  have  been  directed  by 
the  same  good  spirit  that  has  directed  the  work  here  in  Zion. 

It  is  not  my  purpose  to  take  up  more  of  your  time,  but  I  bear  my 
witness  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  this  is  the  true 
Gospel  and  that  it  shall  never  again  be  taken  from  the  earth.  My  prayer 
is  that  my  household  and  I  may  be  able  to  remain  firm  and  Steadfast 
and  support  those  who  preside  over  us.  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jestis 
Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  have  been  deeply  interested  in  the  teachings  of  the  Gospel  during 
this  conference,  and  I  am  grateful  for  the  privilege  of  being  present. 
During  troublesome  times  like  the  present,  I  believe  we  draw  nearer  to 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


our  Father  in  heaven  and  to  each  other.  This  thought  has  been  expressed 
to  me  a  number  of  times  when  visiting  stakes  of  Zion.  I  have  also  heard 
many  expressions  of  appreciation  for  the  blessings  which  we  are  enjoy- 
ing. While  we  may  be  poor  in  the  things  of  the  world,  after  all  we  still 
have  with  us  the  most  worthwhile  things  of  life — the  Gospel,  our  testi- 
monies of  its  divinity,  our  loved  ones,  and  our  associations  in  the  Church. 
We  have  much  to  be  thankful  for.  Henry  Van  Dyke  has  said  these 
words : 

We  should  be  glad  to  live  because  it  gives  us  a  chance  to  love  and  to  work 
.  ...  to  be  satisfied,  but  net  content,  until  we  have  made  the  best  of  our  oppor- 
tunities ;  to  despise  nothing  in  the  world  except  falsehood  and  meanness',  and  to 
fear  nothing  except  cowardice ;  to  covet  nothing  of  our  neighbors  except  their 
kindness  of  heart  and  gentleness  of  manner ;  to  think  seldom  of  our  enemies  and 
often  of  our  friends. 

I  believe  that  the  teaching  of  the  Gospel  is  essential  in  our  homes. 
Here  there  should  be  implanted  in  the  hearts  of  our  children  a  love  of 
God,  a  love  of  fellow  men,  a  love  of  service  in  this  church,  and  loyalty 
to  those  who  preside  over  us.  The  statement  that  "example  is  better 
than  precept"  is  good,  but  example  is  not  enough,  for  the  teaching  of 
the  Gospel  is  vital  for  the  development  of  the  lives  of  our  young  people. 

Quite  recently  I  heard  the  following  remark  by  a  young  man  who 
was  reared  in  a  Latter-day  Saint  home.  He  said,  "I  wish  I  were  con- 
verted to  the  principle  of  tithing."  He  was  reminded  that  he  had  before 
him  always  the  example  of  his  parents.  Their  example  was  not  sufficient. 
There  may  be  many  young  people  in  the  Church  who  feel  as  did  this 
young  man.  As  parents,  we  have  long  since  learned  that  the  Lord  re- 
quires of  all  those  who  earn  or  acquire  means,  one-tenth  of  their  interest 
to  be  used  for  the  maintenance  of  the  Church  in  its  various  departments 
and  for  the  support  of  the  poor  and  needy;  that  it  is  a  voluntary 
offering ;  that  the  payment  of  tithing  should  accomplish  two  things : 
By  it  we  honor  the  Lord  as  the  giver  of  all,  and  we  subject  our  will  to  his 
law.  As  parents  we  are  familiar  with  the  law  of  tithing,  but  are  we 
teaching  it  to  our  children  and  training  them  to  observe  it? 

The  auxiliary  organizations  and  quorums  of  the  Priesthood  are 
assisting  us  in  our  family  life  in  teaching  the  Gospel  to  our  children,  but 
the  responsibility  of  training  a  child  "in  the  way  he  should  go"  is  the 
duty  of  his  parents.  Some  people  consider  that  they  have  done  their  full 
duty  to  their  children  when  they  have  fed  and  clothed  them,  given  them 
shelter  and  education,  and  have  put  away  money  for  them  to  inherit. 
More  than  this  is  required  of  Latter-day  Saint  parents. 

Children  were  regarded  by  the  Hebrews  as  "gifts  from  God."  At 
the  age  of  five  years,  the  Hebrew  boy  was  placed  under  the  special  care 
of  the  father  and  was  taught  not  only  the  duties  of  life,  but  was  care- 
fully instructed  in  the  law  and  in  religious  obligations  and  devotions.  We 
Latter-day  Saints  consider  that  our  children  are  "an  heritage  from  the 
Lord." 

Let  us  consider  the  word  of  the  Lord  pertaining  to  the  responsibility 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


83 


of  parents,  as  given  in  Section  68  of  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

And  again,  inasmuch  as  parents  have  children  in  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her  stakes 
which  are  organized,  that  teach  them  not  to  understand  the  doctrine  of  repentance, 
faith  in  Christ  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  and  of  baptism  and  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  hands,  when  eight  years  old,  the  sin  be  upon  the  heads 
of  the  parents. 

After  baptism  the  duty  of  the  parents  is  continued : 

And  they  shall  also  teach  their  children  to  pray,  and  to  walk  uprightly 
before  the  Lord. 

The  late  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  expressed  himself  in  these 
words : 

A.  great  and  important  duty  devolving  upon  this  people  is  to  teach  their 
children  from  their  cradle  until  they  become  men  and  women  every  principle  of 
the  Gospel ;  to  endeavor  as1  far  as  it  lies  in  the  power  of  parents  to  instill  into  their 
hearts  a  love  for  God,  for  truth,  virtue,  honesty,  honor,  and  integrity.  It  does 
not  need  argument  to  convince  our  minds  that  our  children  will  be  just  about 
what  we  make  them.  The  little  one  begins  to  learn  after  it  is  born,  and  all  that 
it  knows  depends  upon  its  environment  and  the  influences  under  which  it  is 
reared. 

Too  great  emphasis  cannot  be  placed  upon  the  early  training  of  the 
child.  It  is  the  duty  of  parents  to  fit  and  qualify  him  for  life.  Habits 
are  acquired  and  come  from  repetition.  Doing  a  thing  over  and  over 
again  tends  to  make  it  a  habit.  Horace  Mann  says,  "Habit  is  a  cable ; 
we  weave  a  thread  of  it  every  day,  and  at  last  we  cannot  break  it."  This 
thought  is  emphasized  in  the  following : 

I  took  a  piece  of  plastic  clay, 

And  idly  fashioned  it  one  day, 

And,  as  my  fingers  pressed  it  still, 

It  moved  and  yielded  to  my  will. 

I  came  again  when  days  were  past, 

This  bit  of  clay  was  hard  at  last, 

The  form  I  gave  it,  still  it  bore, 

And  I  could  change  that  form  no  more. 

I  took  a  piece  of  living  clay, 
And  gently  fashioned  day  by  day 
And  moulded  with  my  power  and  art, 
A  young  child's  soft  and  tender  heart. 
I  came  again  when  years  were  gone — 
'Twas  now  a  man  I  looked  upon ; 
He  still  that  early  impress  bore, 
And  I  could  change  him  nevermore. 

Faith  in  this  great  latter-day  work  and  a  knowledge  of  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel  should  be  instilled  in  the  hearts  of  the  boys  and 
girls  in  their  homes. 

While  visiting  in  one  of  the  stakes  within  the  past  few  months,  a 
mother  of  a  family  of  four  boys  and  two  girls  gave  me  her  experiences 
in  teaching  tithing  in  the  home.  She  was  left  a  widow  and  had  the  respon- 
sibility or  rearing  this  family  of  six  children.  On  the  day  of  each  child's 
baptism  the  mother  provided  a  small  box  into  which  the  child  was 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


trained  to  deposit  as  tithing  one-tenth  of  its  gifts  or  earnings.  She  made 
it  a  point  to  see  that  the  child  received  small  sums  of  money  for  work 
about  the  farm,  and  whether  ten  cents  or  more,  the  mother  was  prepared 
to  change  the  money  so  that  the  proper  amount,  one-tenth,  could  be 
placed  in  the  box  by  her  child  as  the  Lord's  tenth.  This  training,  she 
said,  has  had  a  lasting  effect  upon  the  lives  of  her  children.  They  are 
now  grown ;  all  are  married ;  several  have  filled  missions ;  all  are  active 
in  the  Church ;  and  all  are  full  tithepayers.  She  testified  that  this  early 
training  in  the  principle  of  tithing  and  its  strict  observance  by  her  chil- 
dren has  developed  in  them  a  living  faith.  Is  not  this  method  applicable 
in  the  home  of  every  Latter-day  Saint  family? 

Through  our  example  and  teachings  in  the  home  can  we  not  make 
this  principle  a  habit  in  the  lives  of  our  boys  and  girls?  If  the  child 
commences  to  pay  tithing  on  its  small  earnings  or  income,  it  will  not  be 
difficult  for  it  to  pay  on  larger  earnings.  Parents  should  encourage  their 
children  to  pay  their  tithing  regularly  to  the  bishop,  and  he  should  give 
the  child  who  makes  the  small  payment  the  same  courteous  attention 
and  consideration  that  he  would  give  to  those  who  pay  him  on  larger 
incomes. 

To  be  a  tithepayer  will  strengthen  the  child's  faith  in  God,  for  faith 
grows  by  works.  It  will  increase  his  interest  in  the  Gospel.  He  will 
feel  a  partnership  in  this  great  Latter-day  work  when  he  contributes  of 
his  means  for  the  purpose  of  supporting  the  Church.  It  will  develop 
in  the  child  honesty,  integrity,  loyalty,  and  an  appreciation  of  his  parents 
and  of  the  Gospel,  and  from  this  training  there  will  come  happier  and 
better  and  more  devoted  men  and  women. 

Let  us  be  diligent  in  teaching  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  the 
home.  Let  us  with  kindness  and  patience  train  our  young  people  in  the 
payment  of  their  tithes  and  offerings,  so  they  will  be  fully  converted  to 
this  principle  and  enjoy  the  lasting  benefits  and  blessings  that  come 
through  obedience  to  this  law.  May  we  not  only  teach  the  principle  of 
tithing  by  example  in  the  home,  but  also  by  precept.  This  is  one  of  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel  with  which  I  am  familiar.  I  know  its  blessings 
in  my  own  life. 

I  am  happy  to  testify  that  I  know  this  great  latter-day  work  of 
Mormonism  is  the  work  of  God,  brought  forth  through  the  instrumen- 
tality of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  who  was  ordained  and  appointed 
in  the  Celestial  world  to  this  great  work  of  establishing  the  Dispensation 
of  the  Fulness  of  Times,  preparatory  to  the  coming  of  the  Savior  to 
rule  and  reign  on  the  earth.  Amen. 

ELDER  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 

President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  no  words  at  my  command  to  ade- 
quately express  my  appreciation  for  the  honor  that  has  come  to  me  in 
being  considered  worthy  to  preside  over  the  great  Southern  States 


ELDER  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 


85 


Mission  of  this  Church,  to  succeed  President  Charles  A.  Callis,  who  has 
been  called  to  labor  as  a  member  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve. 

I  have  always  enjoyed  missionary  work.  This  is  the  fourth  time  I 
have  had  the  privilege  of  going  into  the  mission  field,  and  I  have  loved 
that  work,  and  love  it  dearly. 

During  this  conference,  reference  has  been  made  to  the  great  work 
which  has  been  established  in  these  latter  days,  and  especially  to  the 
mission  of  the  Prophet  Elijah,  who  came  to  turn  the  hearts  of  the  fathers 
to  their  children,  and  the  hearts  of  the  children  to  their  fathers ;  and  the 
work  of  Moses,  the  prophet,  who  visited  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and 
brought  the  keys  of  the  gathering  of  Israel  in  these  the  latter  days.  Ref- 
erence has  been  made  to  the  establishment  of  the  Church  here  in  the 
valleys  of  the  mountains,  demonstrating  how  the  spirit  of  Moses  has 
moved  upon  the  membership  of  this  Church  when  they  have  heeded  the 
testimony  of  the  Elders  in  foreign  lands.  Many  of  those  who  are  here 
today  have  been  gathered  from  the  lands  of  the  earth,  through  the  call 
of  the  missionaries. 

Testimony  has  been  given  showing  how  marvelously  those  in  the 
world,  not  only  members  of  the  Church,  but  men  and  women  every- 
where, have  contributed  of  their  means  for  the  gathering  of  genealogy, 
and  genealogical  societies  have  been  organized  and  records  kept,  all 
through  the  spirit  that  came  by  the  restoration  of  the  keys  brought  by- 
Elijah  the  prophet.  This  great  revelation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
was  given  in  the  Kirtland  temple  ninety-eight  years  ago  last  Tuesday, 
at  which  time  the  Prophet  Elias  who  conferred  upon  him  and  Oliver 
Cowdery  the  keys,  of  the  Gospel  of  Abraham,  and  told  them  that  through 
them  and  their  seed  all  generations  after  them  should  be  blessed.  As  I 
understand  it,  the  mission  of  Elias,  the  prophet,  relates  to  the  missionary 
work  of  the  Church,  to  cry  repentance  to  the  world,  and  prepare  the  way 
for  the  coming  of  the  Lord. 

During  the  last  three  months  that  I  have  spent  in  the  Southern 
States  Mission  it  has  been  a  great  joy  to  me  to  meet  the  missionaries 
who  are  laboring  there,  to  hear  their  experiences,  to  feel  of  their  faith, 
and  to  listen  to  their  testimonies.  I  have  gone  into  the  various  districts 
of  that  mission  and  have  brought  together  the  missionaries,  told  them 
to  unburden  their  hearts  and  let  me  know  their  feelings  toward  the 
Church,  even  from  their  very  youth.  I  want  to  bear  witness  to  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  if  the  fathers  and  mothers  of  those  missionaries 
could  have  attended  our  meetings  and  listened  to  the  testimonies  of  their 
boys  and  girls,  they  would  have  been  grateful  to  the  Lord  for  the  manner 
in  which  this  spirit  of  Elias,  the  prophet,  of  preaching  the  gospel  of 
preparation,  is  in  their  hearts. 

I  have  in  mind,  at  the  present  time,  the  testimony  given  by  one  of 
the  young  men  in  South  Carolina,  who  bore  a  beautiful  testimony  of 
the  Gospel.  After  the  meeting  was  over  he  drew  from  his  pocket  the 
picture  of  a  man  sitting  in  a  wheel  chair,  a  cripple.  He  said  he  was  a  boy 
of  a  large  family  at  home,  and  that  he  could  see  no  opportunity  of  going 
into  the  mission  field.    One  day  this  brother  approached  him  and  asked 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


him  if  he  would  be  willing  to  go  on  a  mission,  if  the  bishop  would  call 
him,  and  he  would  pay  the  expenses.  He  said :  "That  man  will  never 
know  the  feeling  of  gratitude  I  have  in  my  heart  toward  him,  that  he 
has  made  it  possible  for  me  to  have  this  wonderful  experience."  This 
good  brother  is  laboring  at  home  here  in  Zion,  working  as  a  tailor,  and 
has  chosen  this  course  of  gathering  up  "treasures  in  heaven,  where  moth 
and  rust  doth  not  corrupt,  nor  thieves  break  through  and  steal." 

This  spirit  of  missionary  work,  I  believe,  has  penetrated  into  every 
home  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  almost  into  every  heart.  From  the 
day  we  carry  our  little  ones  up  to  be  blessed  in  the  sacrament  meetings, 
we  rejoice  when  the  Elders  of  the  Church  pray  for  our  boys  and  girls, 
that  they  might  grow  up  to  become  ambassadors  of  truth  in  the  earth. 

I  met  another  young  man  presiding  over  one  of  the  districts,  who 
related  this  incident:  He  said  there  was  a  good  Scandinavian  sister  in 
his  town,  who  wanted  to  send  a  missionary  into  the  mission  field,  so  she 
came  to  him  and  asked  him  if  he  would  be  willing  to  go  and  represent 
her.  He  is  a  wonderful  missionary,  and  after  he  arrived  in  the  field 
this  good  sister  passed  away,  but  before  doing  so,  she  left  enough  money 
in  the  bank  for  him  to  complete  his  mission.  When  I  heard  him  bear 
witness  to  the  Saints  that  his  missionary  work  had  been  the  very  happiest 
time  of  all  his  life,  I  could  not  help  but  wonder  if  this  good  sister  might 
not  be  aware  of  the  wonderful  contribution  she  had  made,  in  making  this 
great  experience  possible  for  him. 

This  spirit  of  sacrifice  for  missionary  work  is  not  confined  to  the 
older  members  of  the  Church.  One  young  man  stated  that  when  he  was 
attending  college,  he  and  his  young  lady  discussed  the  advisability  of 
getting  married,  since  he  had  a  brother  in  the  mission  field  in  Europe, 
and  felt  that  it  would  not  be  possible  for  him  to  go  on  a  mission  for  years. 
This  young  lady  said :  "You  go  on  your  mission  and  I  will  earn  the  money 
to  keep  you  in  the  mission  field."  I  believe  that  young  lady  is  laying 
away  treasures  in  heaven. 

I  met  a  young  lady  here  yesterday  who  has  the  spirit  of  this  mis- 
sionary work.  She  was  preparing  to  go  on  a  mission,  and  the  bishop 
spoke  to  her  married  brother  about  going,  but  he  didn't  see  how  he 
could  go  without  help.  So  this  young  woman  not  only  agreed  to  help 
him  on  his  mission,  but  also  to  help  his  wife  and  little  babies  while  he 
is  away. 

One  lady  missionary  bore  witness  that  when  she  was  called  to  go 
into  the  mission  field  she  was  in  the  beauty  parlor  business  with  her 
sister,  and  that  they  owed  $2000.  The  sister  said:  "You  go,"  and  she 
went.  She  said  that  her  sister  had  not  only  been  able  to  keep  her,  but  had 
also  paid  off  the  $2000  while  she  had  been  in  the  mission  field. 

One  young  man  said  that  his  mother  died  when  he  was  a  very  small 
boy.  Before  she  passed  away  she  called  him  to  her  bedside.  She  said : 
"My  boy,  I  will  never  leave  you ;"  and  he  bore  witness  that  he  was 
convinced  that  his  mother  had  been  with  him  during  all  his  missionary 
labors.   He  said :  "The  greatest  hope  I  have  in  my  life" — and  tears  flowed 


ELDER  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 


87 


from  his  eyes  as  he  said  it — "is  that  I  might  return  home  and  have  my 
father  put  his  arms  around  me  and  say :  'Well  done'." 

Another  boy  said  that  all  his  life  he  had  wanted  to  go  on  a  mission. 
His  father  had  wanted  him  to  go,  but  his  father  died  recently.  He  said 
when  he  received  his  call  he  had  a  dream  in  which  he  saw  his  father, 
and  he  said :  "My  son,  I  will  share  this  mission  with  you." 

This  spirit  of  missionary  work  is  not  only  felt  in  the  mission  field, 
but  one  of  our  young  men  testified  that  after  he  had  gone  into  the  mission 
field,  two  of  his  older  brothers  had  become  active  in  the  Church  because 
of  the  letters  he  had  written  home. 

Another  young  man  said  his  bishop  called  him  to  bear  his  testimony, 
before  leaving.  He  told  the  bishop  he  had  no  testimony.  When  he 
finally  wrote  a  letter  home  and  said  he  had  received  a  testimony  of  the 
Gospel,  his  brother,  who  had  been  inactive  in  the  Church  said:  "The 
Gospel  must  be  true  or  he  would  never  say  it  is." 

Now  my  time  is  up.  I  rejoice  in  the  marvelous  spirit  of  this  mis- 
sionary work.  I  know  this  work  is  true,  and  I  thank  God,  from  the 
bottom  of  my  heart,  for  the  privilege  of  laboring  with  these  fine  young 
men  and  women,  your  sons  and  daughters,  in  the  Southern  States  Mis- 
sion.   God  bless  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  NEWEL  J.  CUTLER 

Former  President  of  the  Tongan  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  is  a  surprise  to  me,  to  be  asked  to 
address  an  audience  of  this  kind.  I  suppose  there  are  one-third  as  many 
people  in  this  building  as  there  are  in  the  mission  that  I  presided  over. 
The  Tongan  islands  are  somewhat  scattered.  They  are  composed  of 
about  two  hundred  units,  or  two  hundred  small  islands,  and  most  of  our 
missionary  work  is  done  on  the  sea,  you  might  say,  or  traveling  to  dif- 
ferent parts  of  the  islands. 

I  feel  that  I  am  somewhat  out  of  place,  talking  in  English,  because 
most  of  my  mature  life  has  been  spent  in  the  Tongan  islands.  I  labored 
as  a  missionary  under  the  direction  of  President  Willard  L.  Smith  in 
the  Samoan  Mission,  for  nearly  six  years,  and  then  went  back  as  the 
presiding  elder  over  the  Tongan  Mission  for  a  little  better  than  four  years. 

The  Tongan  people  are  a  very  good  class  of  people.  They  resemble 
very  much  the  Samoans,  as  they  have  been  described  here  by  President 
Smith.  There  is  no  question  but  that  they  are  descendants  of  Father 
Lehi.  Their  characteristics  resemble  those  of  the  Lamanites  of  this 
continent,  or  what  we  call  the  American  Indians. 

I  am  thankful  that  I  have  had  the  privilege  of  laboring  as  a  mission- 
ary. It  has  been  the  happiest  time  of  my  life.  I  did  enjoy  my  labors 
among  those  people. 

I  have  a  testimony  of  the  Gospel.  I  know  it  is  true.  I  feel  as  Job  of 
old,  when  he  said : 

Oh  that  my  words  .  .  .  were  graven  with  an  iron  pen  and  lead  in  the  rock 
forever ! 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


'For  I  know  that  my  redeemer  liveth,  and  that  he  shall  stand  at  the  latter 
day  upon  the  earth : 

And  though  after  my  skin  worms'  destroy  this  body,  yet  in  my  flesh  shall 
I  see  God : 

'Whom  I  shall  see  for  myself,  and  mine  eyes  shall  behold,  and  not  another. 

I  am  thankful  that  those  who  preside  in  this  Church  have  had  con- 
fidence in  me.  I  am  thankful  for  my  parentage,  for  those  who  have 
reared  me  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  This  Church  means  all  to  me, 
and  I  hope  and  pray  that  I  shall  remain  true  and  faithful  to  the  covenants 
I  have  made  with  God  the  Eternal  Father. 

I  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  attend  us  at  all  times,  that 
our  desires  for  good  may  increase,  and  that  our  determination  to  spread 
the  Gospel  of  Christ  may  grow.  I  bear  you  this  testimony,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  HAROLD  W.  PRATT 

President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  deem  it  a  great  privilege  to  stand 
here  before  you,  and  I  feel  very  humble  and  very  weak  in  accepting  the 
responsibility  of  occupying  a  few  moments  of  your  time,  for  I  know  that, 
if  computed,  those  few  moments  multiplied  by  the  number  of  persons 
here  present,  would  run  into  a  great  deal  of  human  time,  for  which  I  am 
responsible. 

I  feel  very  humble,  also,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  accepting  the 
call  that  has  come  to  me.  I  feel  weak,  incapable,  of  myself,  of  discharging 
the  responsibilities  depending  upon  me  in  the  Mexican  Mission.  But  I 
do  have  a  testimony  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  a  testimony  of  the 
truthfulness  of  the  words  of  Nephi,  referred  to  by  President  Grant 
yesterday.  I  know  that  our  Father  makes  no  call  on  any  of  us  without 
he  himself  prepares  and  opens  the  way  for  the  fulfilment  and  the  dis- 
charge of  that  call.  It  is  only  in  this  testimony  and  in  my  testimony  of 
the  truthfulness  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  that  I  have  the  courage 
to  accept  the  call  that  has  been  made  of  me. 

I  have  also  to  my  advantage  a  very  deep  respect  and  love  for  the 
Mexican  people.  It  has  been  my  pleasure  and  my  privilege  to  be  raised 
among  them,  to  live  among  them  practically  all  of  my  life.  As  has  been 
described  to  you  this  afternoon  in  regard  to  the  natives  of  the  islands, 
the  Mexicans,  who  are  also  of  the  house  of  Lehi — the  Lamanites — are 
a  good  people.  They  come  nearer  to  living  up  to  their  ideals  than  any 
other  people  with  whom  it  has  been  my  pleasure  to  associate. 

I  regard  it  a  great  honor  to  work  among  the  Mexican  people  in  the 
Mexican  Mission.  I  feel  almost  that  it  is  a  family  heritage.  My  grand- 
father was  a  member  of  the  first  party  of  missionaries  to  the  Lamanite 
people.  My  father,  in  company  with  President  Ivins,  was  a  member  of 
the  first  missionary  party  to  the  Republic  of  Mexico,  and  later  was  asso- 
ciated with  the  Mexican  Mission  directly  and  indirectly  all  his  life.  My 
brother,  the  late  President  Rey  L.  Pratt,  spent  more  than  a  quarter  of 


ELDER  HAROLD  W.  PRATT 


89 


a  century  laboring  among  the  Mexican  people.  I  feel  that  it  is  my 
privilege  and  my  responsibility  to  continue  the  work  that  they  have,  up 
to  this  date,  so  nobly  carried  on. 

I  feel  it  an  honor  to  succeed  President  Antoine  R.  Ivins  as  president. 
I  am  sure  that  he  has  established  a  precedent  that  it  will  take  my  utmost 
efforts  and  the  blessings  of  my  Heavenly  Father  to  live  up  to.  I  wish 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  him  for  his  kindly  help  and  cooperation 
and  the  encouragement  he  has  given  me  in  taking  over  the  mission. 

I  wish  to  bear  my  testimony  before  closing,  that  I  know  the  Gospel 
is  true.  I  know  as  I  know  that  I  stand  here  before  you  today  that  Christ 
lives.  I  know  that  he  is  the  Savior  of  the  world.  I  know  that  this  Gospel, 
established  by  him  while  here  upon  the  earth,  was  taken  from  the  world, 
and  that  it  has  now  been  restored  through  the  instrumentality  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  has  been  carried  down  to  us. 

I  testify  unto  you  that  the  officers,  the  presiding  authorities,  Presi- 
dent Grant,  and  those  associated  with  him  today,  are  in  very  deed,  as  we 
sustained  them  yesterday,  prophets,  seers  and  revelators,  representatives 
of  our  Father  in  heaven  here  upon  the  earth.  I  beseech  each  and  every 
one  of  you  to  give  heed  always  to  the  counsel,  to  the  direction  of  these 
brethren,  that  in  the  last  days  we  shall  not  be  found  wanting. 

I  pray  the  blessings  of  the  Father  upon  you  all,  and  beseech  an 
interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers,  that  I  may  be  blessed  in  the  discharge 
of  my  responsibilities.    I  do  it  in  Jesus'  name,  Amen. 

The  Liberty  Stake  Mutual  Improvement  Association  Chorus  sang 
The  Hallelujah  Chorus  from  "The  Messiah." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Edgar  B.  Brossard,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Washington,  D.  C.  branch  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Sunday,  April  8,  9:30  a.  m. 


THIRD  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

Sunday,  April  8. 

Long  before  the  time  arrived  for  commencing  this  service  every 
seat  and  other  available  space  in  the  Tabernacle  auditorium  and  galleries 
was  occupied.  The  large  Assembly  Hall  on  the  Temple  Block  was 
crowded  with  people  who  could  not  be  accommodated  in  the  Tabernacle 
and  many  hundreds  of  others  assembled  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds, 
where  amplifying  equipment  had  been  installed,  by  means  of  which  they 
listened  to  the  proceedings  of  the  Conference  as  they  were  broadcast  by 
radio  from  the  Tabernacle. 

As  a  prelude  to  the  fifth  session  of  the  Conference,  a  program  of 
choral  and  organ  music  was  rendered  from  9  :30  to  10 :30  a.  m.,  featuring 
the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ,  which  was  broadcast  by  radio  through- 
out the  United  States  and  Canada,  over  the  Columbia  Broadcasting 
System,  originating  over  Station  KSL.    This  program  was  as  follows : 

"The  morning  breaks"  (Careless) — Choir 

"Pilgrim's  Song  of  Hope"  (Batiste) — Organ. 

"They  that  Sow  in  Tears"  (Parks) — Choir. 

"The  Lost  Chord"  (Sullivan) — Organ. 

"Glorious  Things  are  Sung  of  Zion"  (Daynes) — Choir. 

"Nocturne"  (Grieg) — Organ. 

"God  is  our  Refuge"  (46th  Psalm) — Choir. 

"Awake" — Choral  of  the  Reformation — (Wagner) — Choir. 

"Choral  and  Toccata"  (Boellman) — Organ. 

"Easter  Song"  (Stephens) — Choir. 

"Offertory  and  Prayer"  (Friml) — Organ. 

"O  Great  is  the  Depth"  (Mendelssohn) — Choir. 

Professor  Anthony  C.  Lund  conducted  the  singing  of  the  Choir. 
Organ  accompaniments  and  organ  solo  presentations  were  played  by 
Professor  Frank  W.  Asper. 

At  the  conclusion  of  the  Choir  and  Organ  concert  President  Heber 
J,  Grant  announced  that  the  Choir  and  congregation  would  sing  the 
hymn,  "Praise  to  the  Man  who  communed  with  Jehovah." 

After  the  singing  of  this  hymn  the  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Robert  D.  Young,  President  of  the  Manti  Temple. 

A  sacred  duet,  "The  Morning  Land,"  was  sung  by  Jessie  Evans 
and  Dolores  Seal. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  may  the  Lord  move  me  and  you  with  the 
spirit  of  truth  during  the  time  that  I  shall  stand  before  you. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


91 


COMPLIMENTS  SINGERS  AND  MUSICIANS 

May  I  first  renew  my  compliment  to  our  great  choir,  the  organist, 
the  leader  of  the  choir,  and  to  Brother  Richard  Evans  for  the  beautiful 
sermonettes,  who  Sunday  by  Sunday  spread  abroad  over  the  whole  earth, 
a  message  of  love,  of  good-will,  of  righteousness.  From  the  ends  of  the 
earth  I  personally  have  heard  words  of  praise  for  their  great  work.  I 
think  I  never  heard  them  do  better  than  they  have  done  this  morning.  It 
was  a  wonderful  tribute,  I  thought,  to  Brother  Evan  Stephens  that  the 
choir  could  begin  with  that  great  fiery  challenge  from  Wagner  and  pass 
through  that  to  the  beautiful  chaste  and  pure  Easter  song  of  Evan 
Stephens,  and  have  it  so  completely  in  harmony.  I  am  much  impressed, 
as  always,  with  the  wonderful  spirit  which  manifests  itself  among  the 
singing  people  of  Zion. 

AS  A  RESULT  OF  PURITY  AND  CHASTITY 

Only  out  of  purity  and  chastity,  only  out  of  lives  of  righteousness 
could  there  come  to  us  the  beautiful  singing  which  we  have  at  all  times 
and  particularly  at  this  conference.  I  hope  that  always  they  may  con- 
tinue their  work.  It  must  be  from  time  to  time_  a  drudgery ;  I  appreciate 
how  they  must  prod  themselves  in  order  that  they  may  do  their  work. 
But  it  is  as  sure  as  that  they  live  that  if  they  shall  do  it  in  a  spirit  of 
humility,  if  they  shall  work  day  by  day  and  week  by  week,  if  they  shall 
live  lives  of  purity  and  chastity,  they  shall  exert  a  power  for  good  in  the 
world  which  can  not  be  measured. 

Brother  George  S.  Romney  has  informed  us  of  the  broadcast  which 
is  being  made  in  Chicago  by  one  of  our  choirs  ;  Brother  Edward  P.  Kim- 
ball is  making  a  broadcast  in  the  city  of  Washington  over  another  system. 
These  are  great  missionary  instrumentalities,  and  they  call  from  us,  the 
body  of  the  Church,  the  fullest  possible  support. 

"THE  TRUTH  SHALL  MAKE  YOU  FREE" 

I  wish  today  to  refer  in  what  I  shall  have  to  say  to  one  of  the  things 
to  which  President  Grant  referred  in  his  opening  address,  and  to  that 
which  others  have  referred  to  during  the  course  of  this  conference.  I 
mean  the  Truth.  The  Savior,  speaking  to  the  Jews  who  believed  on 
him,  after  he  had  dispersed  by  a  mere  question  those  who  accused  the 
woman  taken  in  adultery,  said  to  the  Jews :  "Ye  shall  know  the  truth, 
and  the  truth  shall  make  you  free." 

As  has  been  intimated  already  at  this  conference,  there  is  creeping 
amongst  us  now  as  always,  and  probably  no  more  now  than  always,  error  ; 
and  error  is  sin.  We  should  be  on  our  watch  against  error  in  whatever 
guise  it  may  come.  It  would  be  easy  to  meet  and  overcome  error  if  it 
came  branded  as  such.  The  great  body  of  the  Church,  I  am  grateful  to 
the  Lord  to  say,  is  able  to  detect  error  and  sin  no  matter  in  what  clothing 
it  may  come.  There  are  a  few,  however,  who  need  your  assistance,  and 
mine,  and  to  them  should  always  be  open  the  arms  of  forgiveness,  and  to 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


them  should  always  be  available  kind  words,  admonition,  kind  thoughts, 
and  sound  advice. 

SHEEP  WHO  STRAY  AWAY 

You  remember  the  parable  of  the  lost  sheep,  and  you  recall  the 
conclusion  of  that  as  stated  by  the  Savior  when  he  said  that  there  was 
more  rejoicing  in  heaven  over  the  one  sinner  that  was  saved  than  the 
ninety-nine  who  had  already  followed  along  in  the  paths  of  righteousness. 
That  by  no  means,  in  my  judgment,  should  be  taken  to  indicate  that  more 
is  thought  of  the  one  repentant  sinner  than  of  the  ninety-nine  righteous. 
But  all  of  us  have  had  enough  experience  in  life  to  know  the  joy  and  the 
gratitude  that  come  into  our  hearts  when  a  friend  or  relative  or  member 
of  the  family,  who  has  been  somewhat  wayward  and  gone  astray,  once 
more  comes  back  into  the  fold  of  truth.  And  it  is  in  that  way  that  the 
parable  is  to  be  taken. 

In  the  few  minutes  which  I  have  at  my  disposal  I  want  to  address 
my  remarks  primarily  to  those  who  are  wandering  away  in  the  domain  of 
error,  those  few  sheep  who  seem  to  be  getting  away  from  the  flock,  so 
nearly  beyond  recall  that  they  may  become  lost.  It  is  to  them  I  want 
to  say  a  few  words. 

SHOULD  NOT  CHALLENGE  TRUTH 

There  are  a  few  truths  to  which  I  wish  to  refer,  but  first  let  me 
say  let  us  not  put  ourselves  in  the  attitude  of  challenging  truth.  How 
poor  and  weak  are  we,  how  ineffective  are  we,  how  limited  in  our 
knowledge  are  we,  that  we  should  ever  presume  to  challenge  truth.  But 
truth,  on  the  other  hand,  mighty  and  eternal  in  its  nature,  challenges 
positively,  day  by  day  and  hour  by  hour,  every  one  of  us  to  live  in 
accordance  therewith. 

THE  TRUTH  THAT  THERE  IS  TRUTH 

The  first  truth  to  which  I  wish  to  refer  is  the  truth  that  truth  is  true. 
There  is  some  dissemination  of  doctrine  amongst  us  that  all  is  relative 
and  that  we  have  no  truth  in  the  absolute.  We  may  not  have  in  all  its 
fulness  the  ultimate  truth ;  I  doubt  that  if  we  had  it,  we  could  understand 
it.  But,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  what  we  do  have  is  this :  So  far  as  the 
Lord  has  spoken  he  has  given  us  the  truth.  He  has  not  taught  us  error. 
So  the  first  great  truth  to  which  I  call  your  attention,  the  first  truth  that 
I  want  the  youth  of  Zion  to  have  burned  into  their  hearts,  is  the  truth 
that  there  is  truth. 

THE  ONLY  SOURCE  OF  SALVATION 

The  second  truth  that  I  want  to  call  to  your  attention  is  the  truth 
that  salvation,  exaltation,  can  come  only  by  obedience  to  the  laws  and 
commandments  of  the  Lord,  can  come  only  through  the  atonement  of 
the  Savior,  and  that  he  is  the  truth. 

Jesus  speaking  to  the  Pharisees,  after  freeing  the  woman  taken  in 
adultery,  said : 


PRESIDENT  J.REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  93 


I  am  the  light  of  the  world ;  he  that  f olloweth  me  shall  not  walk  in  darkness, 
but  shall  have  the  light  of  life.    (John  8:12.) 

To  Martha — she  of  the  almost  full  knowledge — Christ  said : 

...  I  am  the  resurrection,  and  the  life :  he  that  believeth  in  me,  though  he 
were  dead,  yet  shall  he  live  : 

And  whosoever  liveth  and  believeth  in  me  shall  never  die.    Believest  thou 

this? 

She  said  unto  him,  Yea,  Lord :  I  believe  that  thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son 
of  God,  which  should  come  into  the  world.     (John  11:25-27.) 

To  the  Apostles  in  the  Passover  Chamber,  the  Savior  said : 

Thomas  saith  unto  him,  Lord,  we  know  not  whither  thou  goest;  and  how 
can  we  know  the  way? 

Jesus  saith  unto  him,  I  am  the  way,  the  truth,  and  the  life :  no  man  Cometh 
unto  the  Father,  but  by  me.    (John  14:5-6.) 

Peter,  defending  himself  before  the  Sanhedrin,  said  : 

Neither  is  there  salvation  in  any  other :  for  there  is  none  other  name  under 
heaven  given  among  men,  whereby  we  must  be  saved.    (Acts1  4:12.) 

The  Lord  has  spoken  in  equally  positive  terms  in  our  own  time, 
repeating  in  the  early  days  of  the  Church,  over  and  over  again,  those 
expressions  which  he  had  used  while  upon  the  earth. 

THE  GREAT  TRUTH  OF  MODERN  REVELATION 

Jesus  is  the  Messiah,  he  is  the  Savior  of  the  world.  Through 
his  atoning  blood,  his  suffering,  his  death  and  his  resurrection,  we  may 
become  perfect  beings,  and  in  no  other  way  and  by  no  other  means.  That 
is  the  great  truth  which  permeates  everything  which  God  has  said  to  his 
children  on  this  earth.  Without  that  we  would  be  as  dead  bodies  and 
dead  spirits,  shut  off  from  true  salvation,  from  exaltation,  from  eternal 
progression,  the  great  new  truth  of  modem  revelation.  We  must  never 
forget  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  There  is  no 
escape  from  this,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  Turn,  twist,  philosophize, 
mass  sophistries  as  we  will,  this  great  truth  remains. 

MEN  WHO  ARE  NOT  LEARNED 

For  the  third  point  that  I  want  to  make  to  you,  I  want  to  read  you 
what  the  Savior  said  at  the  Feast  of  the  Tabernacle,  when  he  began 
teaching  the  people  openly.  The  Jews  had  sought  him,  and  the  Jews 
had  marvelled,  saying:  "How  knoweth  this  man  letters,  having  never 
learned  ?" 

Let  us  pause  here  a  moment,  for  this  is  the  challenge  of  today. 
How  can  men  teach  the  word  of  God  who  are  not  learned  ?  My  brethren 
and  sisters,  some  of  the  greatest  achievements  in  pure  thought  (the 
nearest  kin  to  pure  religion)  that  have  ever  been  made  in  the  history 
of  the  world,  have  been  made  by  men  who  did  not  know  the  chemical 
formula  for  water,  nor  the  mathematical  formula  expressing  the  law 
which  controls  falling  bodies.    How  difficult  would  have  been  the  work 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  Christ  himself  had  he  had  to  depend  upon  the  learned.  The  lowly 
only  were  his  reliance ;  the  learned  sought  him  by  night  or  not  at  all. 

"The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence."  Intelligence  is  given  to  us  to  use, 
to  cultivate,  and  to  develop.  Knowledge  is  the  handmaid  of  intelligence 
and  priceless  heyond  all  words,  and  knowledge  implies  within  it  not 
alone  learning  but  experience.  Mere  learning  without  knowledge  in 
the  true  sense  is  of  no  avail.  The  Pharisees  who  made  this  inquiry 
knew  that  the  Savior  had  not  attended  the  school  of  Gamaliel,  but  the 
Lord  did  not  need  to  master  any  curriculum ;  the  full  truth  does  not  lie 
in  any  one  curriculum.  Learning  is  beyond  price  if  it  be  accompanied 
by  the  spirit  which  should  follow  it.  But  if  the  Gospel  is  only  for  the 
learned,  how  few  there  are  of  us  who  could  have  any  use  for  it. 

MATERIAL  AND  SPIRITUAL  LEARNING 

Now,  I  am  not  arguing  against  learning,  I  am  only  asking  that 
the  youth  of  Zion  be  relieved  from  the  thought  which  is  growing  in 
their  minds  that  a  partial  mastering  of  one  curriculum  is  the  full  truth. 
There  is  spiritual  learning  just  as  there  is  material  learning,  and  the  one 
without  the  other  is  not  complete ;  yet,  speaking  for  myself,  if  I  could 
have  only  one  sort  of  learning,  that  which  I  would  take  would  be  the 
learning  of  the  spirit,  because  in  the  hereafter  I  shall  have  opportunity 
in  the  eternities  which  are  to  come  to  get  the  other,  and  without  spirit- 
ual learning  here  my  handicaps  in  the  hereafter  would  be  all  but  over- 
whelming. 

Rut  the  Lord  has  so  made  it  today  that  we  and  our  children  may 
have  both,  and  that  is  one  of  the  great  glories  and  blessings  which  we 
have  today,  that  we  may  be  learned  in  the  sciences  and  the  arts,  and  we 
may  also  be  learned  in  the  spirit.  In  other  words,  we  may  have  true 
knowledge. 

THE  CHALLENGE  OF  EXPERIMENTATION 

Answering  the  Pharisees,  the  Lord  said :  "If  any  man  will  do  his 
will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God,  or  whether  I 
speak  of  myself." 

I  call  to  the  attention  of  the  young  people  of  the  Church  that  this 
truth  of  the  Master  is  the  challenge  of  science — the  challenge  of  ex- 
perimentation. The  Lord  does  not  ask  us  to  take  his  truths  without  trial. 
He  asks  us  to  test  them.  Just  as  a  great  scientist  may  announce  a  great 
discovery  and  just  as  that  discovery  must  be  proved,  or  disproved,  by 
related  experiments  by  the  discoverer  and  by  others  before  it  may  be 
wisely  accepted  or  rejected,  so  the  Son  of  God  invites  us  to  test  his  truths. 
So  I  plead  with  my  young  brethren  and  sisters  to  test  the  principles 
of  the  Gospel.  Do  not  throw  them  over  until  you  have  tried  them. 
No  chemist  ever  is  satisfied  with  one  experiment,  even  though  it  give 
an  affirmative  result.  Certainly  he  is  never  satisfied  with  one  experiment 
if  it  gives  a  negative  result. 

So  to  the  youth  of  Zion  I  say,  Try  the  Lord,  experiment  with  his 
principles,  nor  may  you  be  content  with  one  experiment,  particularly  if  it 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


95 


does  not  give  an  affirmative  result.  And  just  as  a  scientific  experiment 
must  be  performed  under  proper  conditions  of  heat  and  light  and  pres- 
sure and  absolute  cleanliness,  so  the  spiritual  experiment  must  be  per- 
formed with  a  pure  heart,  with  a  desire  to  know  the  truth,  with  a  clean 
body  and  a  clean  mind,  in  order  that  the  one  exerimenting  may  not 
shut  himself  off  from  the  very  things  he  desires  to  know. 

NO  COMPROMISE  WITH  ERROR 

Allow  me  just  one  more  word  before  closing, — a  word  of  distinc- 
tion and  of  admonition  :  The  Church  must  always  war  on  error.  There 
can  be  no  compromise  on  the  part  of  the  Church  with  error.  To  the 
repentant  sinner  the  Church,  and  we  individuals,  have  all  forgiveness ; 
to  the  repentant  sinner  we  open  our  arms  in  welcome;  but  against  the 
sin  which  he  commits  the  Church  must  always  war. 

PRAYS  FOR  UNDERSTANDING  OF  SPIRITUAL  TRUTHS 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  my  time  is  gone.  I  hope  the  Lord  will 
give  me  knowledge,  will  increase  my  knowledge  of  the  simple  things, 
the  simple  spiritual  truths. 

May  the  Lord  give  me  his  power  and  his  spirit,  let  me  understand 
as  fully  as  I  can  with  my  finite  mind,  faith;  let  me  understand  as 
fully  as  that  same  mind  can,  repentance.  May  I  measurably  under- 
stand the  Lord  and  the  gifts  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  may  I  understand  my 
existence  here,  my  existence  before  I  came  here,  the  existence  which  I  am 
to  have  after  I  go  hence.  Give  me,  our  Heavenly  Father,  some  knowl- 
edge of  these  things,  and  I  shall  be  content,  for  out  of  these  truths  I 
know,  that  with  a  life  of  righteousness,  I  may  go  back  into  thy  presence. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  always,  and  ever  may  he  teach  us  how  to 
reach  after  those  who  are  wandering  from  the  flock.  May  he  give  us 
love  and  charity  and  forgiveness,  may  he  fill  our  hearts  with  devotion 
to  him,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

.  PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Before  commencing  my  remarks,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  desire 
as  President  Clark  has  done  to  express  the  gratitude  I  feel  that  the  Lord 
has  lengthened  out  my  days  to  be  present  at  this  general  conference  of 
the  Church.  The  things  which  have  occurred  here  could  not  have  oc- 
curred in  any  other  place  in  the  world.  The  music  to  which  we  have 
listened,  the  mothers'  chorus  which  so  splendidly  rendered  their  parts, 
and  the  young  men  and  young  women  representing  the  Mutual  Improve- 
ment Associations  of  the  Church,  could  not  have  been  found  in  any  other 
place.  This  Tabernacle  choir,  and  this  organ  cannot  be  found  in  any 
other  place  in  the  world. 

The  doctrines  which  have  been  expounded  here  you  would  not  hear 
in  any  other  congregation  of  people  outside  of  the  Church.   These  are 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  things  which  have  impressed  me,  the  things  for  which  I  feel  grateful 
to  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven. 

SEES  RAY  OF  HOPE 

During  the  sessions  of  the  conference,  various  of  those  who  have 
addressed  us  have  referred  to  a  convention  of  Protestant  ministers 
recently  held  in  Chicago.  The  report  of  that  meeting  indicates  that  a 
majority  of  them  are  said  to  have  not  believed  in  a  heaven  or  a  hell  or 
a  devil.  That  may  sound  extremely  Godless  to  us,  but  after  all  I  fancy 
I  see  in  it  a  ray  of  hope.  These  men  speak  of  heaven  and  of  hell  and  of 
the  devil  as  they  have  been  taught  to  understand  those  things,  a  heaven 
inhabited  by  ethereal  beings,  wafting  their  way  from  place  to  place, 
without  knowledge  of  the  past  or  hope  of  the  future,  who  surround  the 
throne  of  a  God  without  body,  parts  or  passions,  and  sing  anthems 
and  play  harps  throughout  eternity;  a  hell  which  is  a  lake  of  burning 
brimstone  and  of  a  devil  who  goes  around  with  a  pitchfork  looking  for 
victims  to  pitch  into  it,  where  they  are  to  remain  forever  burning,  but 
never  consumed.  This  doctrine  never  has  appealed  to  me.  It  seems 
rather  hopeful  to  me  that  men  professing  to  be  teachers  of  the  doctrine 
of  Christ  are  getting  away  from  those  things. 

SATAN  CAST  OUT 

As  an  introduction  to  what  I  would  like  to  say  I  want  to  read  from 
the  twelfth  chapter  of  the  Revelation  of  St.  John,  seventh  verse: 

And  there  was  war  in  heaven :  Michael  and  his  angels  fought  against  the 
dragon;  and  the  dragon  fought  and  his  angels. 

And  prevailed  not ;  neither  was  their  place  found  any  more  in  heaven. 

And  the  great  dragon  was  cast  out,  that  old  serpent,  called  the  Devil,  and 
Satan,  which  deceiveth  the  whole  world :  he  was  cast  out  into  the  earth,  and  his 
angels  were  cast  out  with  him. 

In  the  Bible  the  word  devil  is  used  interchangeably  with  Satan, 
the  tempter,  Beelzebub,  the  prince  of  this  world,  the  old  serpent,  all  of 
which  appellations  refer  to  the  same  personage. 

A  SON  OF  THE  MORNING 

The  word  devil  is  a  contraction  from  the  Greek  word  "diabolus" 
which  interpreted  means  a  malicious  accuser,  or  demon,  and  is  equivalent 
to  the  Hebrew  word  Satan,  an  enemy  or  adversary. 

The  scripture  which  I  quoted  at  the  beginning  of  my  remarks, 
and  the  context  to  which  your  attention  is  called,  teach  us  that  this  per- 
sonage to  whom  we  commonly  refer  as  the  devil  was  Lucifer,  a  son  of  the 
morning,  an  angel  in  authority,  who  rebelled  against  the  Father  and  the 
Son,  because  of  which  he  was  cast  down  to  earth  with  those  who  followed 
after  him,  and  became  Perdition,  the  lost  one  over  whom  the  heavens 
wept.  Jesus,  referring  to  his  fall,  says :  "I  saw  Satan  as  lightning  fall 
from  heaven." 

Wherever  mentioned  in  the  scriptures  the  devil  is  referred  to  as  the 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IV INS 


97 


tempter,  the  deceiver,  the  author  of  lies,  the  enemy  of  God,  and  the 
opposer  of  all  that  is  good,  but  at  the  same  time  so  adroit  that  the  false- 
hoods which  he  utters  appear  to  be  truth.  He  may  even  appear  as  an 
angel  of  light. 

Shakespeare  understood  this  characteristic  of  the  Evil  One  when  he 
makes  Banquo  say  to  Macbeth:  "The  earth  hath  bubbles  as  the  water 
has  and  these  are  of  them,  but  'tis  strange,  and  ofttimes  to  win  us  to  our 
harm,  the  instruments  of  darkness  tell  us  truths,  win  us  with  honest 
trifles  to  betray  us  in  deepest  consequence." 

HIS  CHARACTER  AND  SUBTLE  POWER 

How  similar  are  these  words  of  Shakespeare  to  the  scripture  which 
tells  us  that  some  of  us  he  bribes  with  profit,  and  others  he  allures  with 
pleasures  which  appear  innocent  in  themselves,  but  lead  us  on  to  trans- 
gression, which  is  his  sole  desire.  His  great  effort  is  to  rob  God  of  his 
glory  and  men  of  their  souls. 

More  than  three  hundred  years  ago,  John  Milton,  referring  to  Satan, 
said :  "He  it  was  whose  guile,  stirred  up  with  envy  and  revenge,  deceived 
the  mother  of  mankind." 

Milton  pictures  Satan  in  human  form  with  a  serpent  with  dripping 
fangs  and  forked  tongue  coiled  about  his  feet. 

The  scriptures  contain  many  references  to  his  subtle  power.  His 
malice  is  deadly.  His  activity  and  diligence  are  equal  to  his  malice.  He 
has  a  legion  of  those  who  fell  with  him,  and  have  sold  their  souls  to 
him  to  assist  in  carrying  out  his  designs. 

In  his  parable  of  the  sower,  explaining  its  meaning,  Jesus  says 
that  the  seed  sown  is  the  word  of  God.  Those  by  the  wayside  are  they 
who  hear.  Then  cometh  the  devil  and  taketh  away  the  word  from  their 
hearts  lest  they  believe  and  are  saved. 

The  devil  entered  into  the  heart  of  Judas  and  prompted  him  to 
betray  the  Son  of  God  to  those  who  were  responsible  for  his  death. 

The  Apostle  Peter  warns  us  to  be  constantly  vigilant  because,  he 
says,  our  enemy  the  devil,  as  a  roaring  lion  is  seeking  whom  he  may 
devour. 

SEEKS  DOMINION  OVER  THE  EARTH 

,  From  the  time  of  his  fall  Lucifer  has  sought  to  establish  and  main- 
tain dominion  over  the  earth  and  those  who  dwell  upon  it,  and  with  few 
exceptions,  and  then  for  brief  periods  only,  he  has  been  successful. 

It  was  his  power  that  interrupted  and  temporarily  prevented  the 
full  fruition  of  the  mission  of  the  Savior  in  the  meridian  of  time.  His 
triumph,  however,  was  only  temporary.  Knowing  that  his  dominion  over 
the  people  of  the  earth  is  to  be  broken,  and  that  certain  defeat  awaits 
him,  he  arrays  himself  in  the  livery  of  Christ,  and  masquerading  as  his 
representative,  in  the  words  of  Shakespeare,  wins  the  hearts  of  men  by 
honest  trifles  which  are  true,  while  he  betrays  them,  and  leads  them  away 
to  deepest  consequences. 

The  character  and  mission  of  Satan  is  illustrated  in  the  story  in 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


•which  he  appears  to  our  mother  Eve,  and  by  flattery  and  deception 
persuades  her  to  disregard  the  command  of  God  and  partake  of  the  for- 
bidden fruit,  declaring  to  her  that  she  should  not  die,  but  become  wise. 
She  partakes  and  brings  the  heritage  of  death  to  her  posterity.  He  thus 
proves  that  he  is  a  deceiver  and  falsifier. 

DEVIL  WORSHIP 

The  character  of  Satan  has  been  so  powerfully  manifested  among 
men  that  in  many  countries  he  has  been  made  an  object  of  worship.  It 
was  through  the  serpent  that  he  appeared  to  our  mother  Eve,  and  from 
that  time  to  the  present  the  serpent  has  been  the  symbol  ' of  the  devil 
among  those  who  worship  him. 

Zoroaster,  who  is  referred  to  in  history  as  a  great  philosopher  or 
legislator,  who  some  students  say  lived  6000  B.  C.  while  others  place  his 
death  500  B.  C,  was  of  Bactrian  extraction,  an  ancient  people  of  Asia. 
He  was  the  founder  of  the  Zoroastran  or  Zarathustrian  religion. 

According  to  Edward  B.  Taylor,  L.L.D.,  F.R.S.,  in  his  book,  "An- 
cient Faiths  and  Modern  Religions,"  the  predominant  idea  in  the  teach- 
ings of  Zoroaster  was  the  existence  of  two  spirits  or  governing  powers, 
one  of  which  constantly  seeks  to  accomplish  good,  while  the  other 
strives  to  accomplish  evil.  The  first  of  these  powers  is  represented  as 
light,  life,  law,  order,  and  truth — all  that  is  good  and  pure. 

The  other  power  is  his  antithesis — he  is  darkness,  filth,  lawlessness, 
all  that  is  evil  in  the  world,  he  is  Satan,  he  is  death.  Taylor  says  of 
this  people:  "While  recognizing  the  good  spirit,  give  their  chief  rev- 
erence to  Satan,  chief  of  the  angelic  hosts,  who  now  has  power  to  afflict 
mankind.  Will  not  Satan  then  after  death  reward  the  Izedis,  who  have 
served  him  during  their  mortal  lives  ?" 

Only  a  few  days  ago  a  dispatch  was  published  in  the  Salt  Lake 
Tribune  from  Kurdistan,  in  Asia,  referring  to  worship  of  the  devil  by 
these  people. 

Where  devil  worship  is  practiced  the  serpent  is  always  his  symbol, 
and  exorcism  is  resorted  to  in  order  that  he  may  be  placated  and  his 
anger  abated. 

ONCE  AN  INTELLIGENT  AND  MIGHTY  PEOPLE 

At  the  time  of  the  discovery  of  America  by  Columbus  two  great 
empires  or  kingdoms  existed,  one  the  Aztec  empire  in  Mexico,  the  other 
the  kingdom  of  the  Incas,  in  Peru,  South  America.  The  vast  ruins  which 
exist  in  both  North  and  South  America  bear  undeniable  evidence  of  a 
once  intelligent  and  mighty  people.  At  one  time,  living  under  the  code 
of  ethics  taught  by  Christ,  their  life  had  been  happy  and  prosperous, 
as  the  following  excerpts  from  their  history  show : 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  there  was  no  contention  in  the  land,  because  of  the 
love  of  God  which  did  dwell  in  the  hearts1  of  the  people. 

And  there  were  no  envyings,  nor  strifes,  nor  tumults,  nor  whoredoms,  nor 
lyings,  nor  murders,  nor  any  manner  of  lasciviousness ;  and  surely  there  could  not 
be  a  happier  people  among  all  the  people  who  had  been  created  by  the  hand  of  God, 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS 


99 


There  were  no  robbers,  nor  murderers,  neither  were  there  Lamanites,  nor  any 
manner  of  ites ;  but  they  were  in  one,  the  children  of  Christ,  and  heirs  to  the 
kingdom  of  God. 

What  a  change  had  come  to  these  people  when  they  were  discovered 
by  Columbus  fourteen  hundred  years  later !  Satan  had  sown  tares  with 
the  wheat,  the  result  being,  as  it  had  been  many  times  before,  that  the 
good  seed  had  been  choked  out  and  destroyed. 

IMAGE  OF  THE  SERPENT 

In  every  city  and  village  the  image  of  the  serpent  raised  his  head, 
with  his  forked  tongue  and  dripping  fangs  exposed.  Human  sacrifices 
by  thousands  were  offered  to  these  idolatrous  gods  of  stone,  to  which 
the  people  bowed  down  in  worship. 

Dr.  August  LePlongeon  in  his  book,  "Sacred  Mysteries  Among  the 
Mayas  and  Quiches,"  says : 

Chichen  Itza  may  be  termed  the  serpent  city  par  excellence.  The  serpent 
may  be  found  everywhere.  It  guards  the  stairways  leading  up  to  their  temples 
and  the  doors  of  their  homes.  In  a  single  structure  recently  uncovered  near  the 
City  of  Mexico  at  Xochitl  the  heads  of  66  serpents  protrude  from  the  walls, 
guarding  approach  from  all  points  of  the  compass. 

Pedro  de  Cieza  de  Leon,  a  Spanish  soldier,  who  served  under 
Francisco  Pizarro,  in  the  conquest  of  Peru,  kept  a  careful  record  of  the 
things  which  he  saw  and  heard.  His  book  is  one  of  the  most  prized  by 
scholars,  of  all  the  histories  of  the  conquest.   He  says : 

All  over  Peru  they  call  the  devil  Supay.  I  have  been  told  that  he  has  been  seen 
by  them  many  times.  Very  great  is1  the  dominion  that  the  devil,  the  enemy  of 
mankind,  is  allowed  to  have  over  these  people.  These  people  hold  it  to  be  certain 
that  the  devil  is  false  and  wicked,  and  that  they  obey  him  more  from  fear  than  love. 

The  condition  of  degradation  to  which  devil  worship  has  reduced 
the  people  of  both  Mexico  and  Peru  is  in  many  respects  too  shocking 
to  be  repeated. 

OPPOSED  TO  CHRIST  AND  HIS  MISSION 

The  malice  and  jealousy  of  Satan  toward  Christ  our  Lord  and  his 
mission  are  deadly.  Failing  in  his  plan  to  dethrone  God  and  deprive 
Christ  of  his  birthright,  cast  down  to  the  earth  with  those  who  followed 
after  him,  forever  banished  from  the  presence  of  the  Father,  he  loses 
no  opportunity  to  thwart  the  redemption  of  man  from  death,  the  penalty 
which  came  to  us  through  his  wicked  design.  He  sought  the  destruction 
of  the  infant  Christ  when  he  prompted  Herod  the  Great  to  destroy  the 
children  of  Bethlehem.  He  sought  to  destroy  the  purpose  of  the  mission 
of  Christ  by  bribery  when  he  offered  to  surrender  to  him  dominion  over 
the  earth  on  condition  that  the  Redeemer  would  worship  at  his  shrine. 
Failing  in  this  he  inspired  the  minds  of  men  with  malice  and  hatred, 
which  led  to  the  crucifixion. 

.The  crucifixion  of  Christ,  instead  of  accomplishing  the  purpose 
which  Lucifer  designed,  had  precisely  the  contrary  effect.   Endowed  with 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


power  over  death,  Jesus,  on  the  third  day,  rose  from  the  tomb,  thus 
robbing  the  grave  of  its  victory  and  making  possible  redemption  from 
the  captivity  in  which  Satan  held  the  spirits  of  men. 

SATAN  STILL  LIVES 

To  realize  that  Satan  still  lives  and  is  busily  engaged  in  his  opposi- 
tion to  that  which  is  good,  one  needs  only  to  pause  for  a  moment  and 
contemplate  conditions  in  this  troubled  world  of  ours.  Long  ago  he 
declared  that  with  gold  and  silver  and  armies  and  navies  he  would 
control  the  world.  Any  person  who  is  familiar  with  the  words  of  the 
prophets  as  they  are  contained  in  the  scriptures  knows  that  holy  men  in 
ages  past,  moved  upon  by  the  spirit  of  prophecy,  foresaw  and  declared 
events  which  were  to  occur  long  after  the  age  in  which  they  lived. 

From  the  many  declarations  which  refer  to  the  activities  of  the  Evil 
One  at  the  time  in  which  we  live,  I  quote  the  following : 

For  the  kingdom  of  the  devil  must  shake,  and  they  which  belong  to  it  must 
needs  be  stirred  up  unto  repentance,  or  the  devil  will  grasp  them  with  his  ever- 
lasting chains,  and  they  be  stirred  up  to  anger,  and  perish ; 

For  behold,  at  that  day  shall  he  rage  in  the  hearts'  of  the  children  of  men,  and 
stir  them  up  to  anger  against  that  which  is  good. 

And  others  will  he  pacify,  and  lull  them  away  into  carnal  security,  that  they  will 
say :  All  is  well  

And  behold,  others  he  flattereth  away,  and  telleth  them  there  is  no  hell ;  and  he 
saith  unto  them :  I  am  no  devil,  for  there  is  none — and  thus  he  Whispereth  in 
their  ears,  until  he  grasps  them  with  his  awful  chains,  from  whence  there  is  no 
deliverance. 

Wjhile  Satan  thus  seeks  to  destroy  the  peace  and  happiness  of 
mankind,  Christ  strives  to  draw  them  to  him.  The  same  controversy 
which  resulted  in  the  fall  of  Lucifer  persists  until  the  present  moment. 
It  is  the  question  of  the  redemption  of  man  from  the  fall,  and  the  penalty 
of  death  which  resulted  from  it. 

Lucifer  offers  redemption  to  man  on  condition  that  the  recipient 
give  him  the  honor  and  credit  for  that  which  he  receives,  and  in  return 
promises  redemption  regardless  of  the  character  of  the  applicant,  the 
life  he  has  lived,  or  the  example  set  before  others. 

MAN  AN  AGENT  UNTO  HIMSELF 

Christ  adheres  to  the  word  of  the  Lord,  spoken  to  Adam  in  the 
Garden  of  Eden :  "This  man  has  become  one  of  us,  knowing  good  and 
evil."  He  thus  becomes  an  agent  unto  himself,  to  choose  between  good 
and  evil,  between  right  and  wrong.  If  he  has  been  a  sinner,  and  repents 
of  his  evil  way,  and  does  that  which  is  evil  no  more,  he  may  be  for- 
given and  inherit  the  blessings  of  the  righteous  when  he  stands  before 
the  bar  of  God,  to  be  judged  according  to  his  works.  If  he  wilfully 
turns  to  wickedness  and  repents  not  he  shall  receive  the  reward  of  the 
wicked  and  will  go  away  with  Lucifer  and  his  hosts  into  everlasting  con- 
demnation, which  will  be  remorse  of  conscience  that  he  has  allowed 
the  day  of  his  repentance  to  pass. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  IV.  IVINS 


101 


The  battle  is  being  waged  today  as  never  before.  It  is  the  battle 
of  right  against  might,  of  justice  and  mercy  against  greed,  oppression, 
between  armies  and  navies  and  the  gold  and  the  silver  of  the  prince  of 
this  world  and  the  lowly  Nazarene,  with  the  doctrine  of  his  fraternity, 
equality  and  justice.    And  this  time  the  Son  of  God  will  triumph. 

satan's  power  limited 

The  one  encouraging  thing  to  which  men  of  faith  and  confidence 
in  this  day  of  uncertainty  and  trial  look  forward  is  the  fact  that  there 
are  certain  limits  beyond  which  the  power  of  the  Evil  One  cannot  pass. 
This  power  comes  to  us  through  faith  in  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and 
obedience  to  the  law  of  righteousness  which  he  taught,  and  the  example 
of  his  life. 

First,  he  promises  that  if  any  one  of  us  who  may  be  in  doubt  will 
go  to  him  he  will  manifest  the  truth  to  us  by  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  John  the  Baptist,  who  was  the  chosen  agent  of  the  Lord  to  admin- 
ister the  ordinance  of  baptism  to  Jesus  Christ,  said  to  those  who  accepted 
his  teachings : 

I  indeed  baptize  you  with  water  unto  repentance,  but  he  that  cometh  after 
me  is  mightier  than  I,  whose  shoes  I  am  not  worthy  to  bear ;  he  shall  baptize  you 
with  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  with  fire. 

Among  other  promises  made  by  Christ  to  those  whom  he  sent  out 
to  preach  his  Gospel  was  that  in  his  name  they  should  cast  out  devils. 
Upon  their  return  they  testified  that  this  promise  had  been  realized. 
They  said  to  Jesus:  "Even  the  devils  are  subject  unto  us  through  thy 
name." 

AN  ARMOR  AGAINST  SATAN^S  POWER 

This  precious  and  indispensable  gift,  the  Holy  Ghost,  comes  to  us 
by  the  laying  on  of  hands  by  those  who  have  authority  to  confer  it. 
When  the  apostles  at  Jerusalem  heard  that  Samaria  had  received  the 
word  of  God,  they  sent  unto  them  Peter  and  John,  and  they  laid  their 
hands  upon  them  and  they  received  the  Holy  Ghost.  Again  Paul,  finding 
certain  converts  at  Ephesus,  asked  them  if  they  had  received  the  Holy 
Ghost.  They  answered  that  they  had  not  so  much  as  heard  that  there 
was  such  a  gift,  that  they  had  been  baptized  unto  John's  baptism.  Paul 
explained  to  them  that  John  baptized  with  water  unto  repentance  for 
the  remission  of  their  sins  only.  They  were  then  baptized  in  the  name  of 
Christ,  and  as  Paul  laid  his  hands  upon  them  and  conferred  the  Holy 
Ghost  they  spake  in  tongues  and  prophesied. 

Authority  to  confer  this  precious  gift  is  in  the  Church  today.  Every 
baptized  member  of  the  Church  receives  it,  after  which  he  is  entitled  to 
receive  and  forever  retain  a  fulness  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  a 
fulness  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  leads  us  into  all  truth  and  provides 
an  armor  which  the  shafts  of  Satan  cannot  penetrate. 

MUST  BE  CULTIVATED 

While  the  Holy  Ghost  may  be  conferred  upon  us,  and  is  designed  to 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


be  our  guide  and  support,  it  is  only  restrained  and  manifested  in  its 
fulness  in  our  guidance  and  defense  in  proportion  to  the  degree  to 
which  we  cultivate  it  and  listen  to  its  promptings.  We  may  lose  it 
entirely  through  indifference  or  transgression,  and  once  deprived  of  its 
presence  we  are  left  in  darkness  more  dense  than  before  its  reception. 
Cultivate  it,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  it  will  become  in  reality  the 
iron  rod,  which  is  the  word  of  God,  and  will  lead  us  back  to  him. 

A  SCRIPTURAL  ANSWER 

This  brief  and  very  incomplete  review  is  the  answer  of  the  scrip- 
tures to  one  of  the  questions  raised  at  the  Chicago  convention.  Another 
question  raised  is  answered  in  the  20th  chapter  of  the  revelation  to  St. 
John.    John  says : 

I  saw  the  dead,  small  and  great,  stand  before  God ;  and  the  bocks  were 
opened  :  and  another  book  was  opened,  which  is  the  book  of  life :  and  the  dead 
were  judged  out  of  those  things  which  were  written  in  the  books,  according  to 
their  works. 

THE  SAME  WILY  DECEIVER 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  come  to  my  concluding  thought  that 
I  wish  to  leave  with  you.  First  I  want  you  to  understand  thait  the 
influence  of  Lucifer  is  not  broken,  that  he  is  here  to  lead  us  astray,  that 
he  is  the  same  wily  deceiver  that  he  has  always  been;  that  he  tells  us 
simple  truths  in  order  to  lead  us  into  error;  that  he  clothes  himself  in 
the  livery  of  Christ,  and  pretending  to  speak  in  his  name,  tells  us  simple 
truths  to  lead  us  to  most  serious  consequences. 

Do  not  go  away  with  the  idea  that  Lucifer  does  not  still  live,  this 
fallen  angel  who  was  a  spirit  of  power.  Do  not  forget  that  he  was  cast 
out  from  heaven.  So  there  must  be  such  a  place.  Do  not  forget  that 
the  pangs  of  hell  will  be  the  remorse  of  conscience  which  you  will  feel 
because  of  walking  contrary  to  the  light  which  you  have  had  after  having 
received  it.  Cultivate  it.  It  is  to  you  and  to  me  the  iron  rod  which  is 
the  word  of  God.  Every  man  and  woman  that  seizes  upon  it  and  holds 
steadfastly  to  it  will  find  themselves  back  in  that  place  which  we  call 
heaven,  a  very  different  heaven  from  what  these  men  who  renounce 
their  faith  in  heaven  have  any  conception  of. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  E.  ROWAN,  JR. 

President  of  the  Texas  Mission 

This  is  a  beautiful  sight.  At  the  conclusion  of  each  meeting  I  have 
felt  that  it  was  good  to  be  here,  and  have  not  our  hearts  burned  within 
us  as  we  have  listened  to  these  living  oracles  of  God,  as  they  have 
spoken  and  taught  us  the  scripture? 

I  am  happy  to  bring  you  greetings,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  from 
5,511  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  who 
live  in  the  Texas  Mission.    We  have  in  the  Texas  Mission  eight  lady 


ELDER  CHARLES  E.  ROWAN 


103 


missionaries,  including  Sister  Rowan.  We  have  fifteen  Seventies,  fifteen 
Elders,  one  High  Priest,  and  one  local  missionary,  making  a  total  of  forty 
full-time  missionaries  who  are  spending  their  entire  time  in  trying  to 
lead  men  and  women  to  believe  in  God,  their  Father,  in  whose  likeness 
we  have  been  created. 

I  am  happy  to  say  to  you  that  of  this  number,  nine  are  engaged  in 
teaching  school.  I  believe  that  one  of  the  outstanding  things  that  is 
being  done  today  in  America,  in  rural  sociology  and  in  country  life,  is 
being  developed  in  the  colonies  in  Texas.  I  was  advised  yesterday  that 
our  school  is  considered  by  Government  officials  in  Washington  as  one 
of  the  outstanding  schools  of  its  kind  in  the  United  States.  I  am  happy 
to  say  to  you  that  we  have  been  fortunate  in  having  Elder  Boyle  in 
charge  of  this  work  during  the  past  six  years.  He  has  accomplished  a 
most  wonderful  mission.  I  have  been  told  by  several  of  the  leading 
citizens  of  Gilmer,  Texas,  who  have  lived  there  for  many  years,  thai 
no  other  man  has  done  so  much  good  for  that  country  as  has  Elder  Louis 
F.  Boyle.  This  is  gratifying  to  us,  because  we  feel  that  the  work  he  has 
done  there  is  a  "light  on  a  hill." 

We  are  trying  to  teach  men  and  women,  boys  and  girls,  how  to 
live,  how  to  enjoy  the  blessings  of  Almighty  God,  and  I  am  happy  to  say 
that  in  the  main  the  Saints  who  reside  in  the  Texas  Mission  are  happy. 
We  have  had  an  increase  in  our  tithes  this  year.  There  was  an  increase 
in  the  tithing  last  year  over  the  previous  year,  and  many  hundreds  have 
paid  tithing  that  had  not  paid  any  in  the  past.  You  who  have  been  in 
the  South  realize  that  in  the  main  those  people  believe  in  God ;  that  in 
the  main  they  believe  in  the  Bible. 

Just  a  short  time  ago  I  traveled  a  long  distance  to  attend  a  funeral. 
The  Sunday  School  superintendent  had  met  with  the  misfortune  of  losing 
a  child  by  death.  This  was  the  third  one  he  had  lost.  He  and  his  good 
wife  were  grief-stricken  because  of  this.  His  father,  a  very  prominent 
man  in  the  country,  with  a  host  of  friends,  had  secured  a  quartet  from 
one  of  the  near-by  cities  to  come  and  sing.  Three  of  these  gentlemen 
had  never  been  in  attendance  at  a  Latter-day  Saint  funeral  service  nor 
had  they  heard  the  Elders  of  the  Church  speak.  We  had  them  sit  on  the 
rostrum.  The  quartet  sang  a  beautiful  song.  The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  was 
there  in  rich  abundance.  It  didn't  seem  that  we  were  in  the  presence  of 
death.  The  Lord  blessed  the  Elders,  and  they  were  able  to  portray  the 
beauties  of  the  Gospel,  as  it  is  understood  by  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and 
to  give  those  Saints  comfort  and  consolation  in  that  which  seemed  to 
have  been  a  calamity  in  their  lives. 

After  the  services  two  of  these  fine  men  who  were  excellent  singers, 
one  a  doctor,  the  other  a  county  commissioner,  said  they  would  like  to 
purchase  a  copy  of  our  song  book.  We  sold  each  of  them  a  copy  of  the 
song  book.  They  invited  us  to  come  and  visit  with  them.  I  sent  the  mis- 
sionaries to  call  on  them.  On  the  18th  of  last  month  one  of  these 
gentlemen,  a  doctor,  drove  a  hundred  and  twenty  miles  to  attend  our 
conference  in  Houston.  At  the  conclusion  of  the  conference  I  shook 
his  hand  and  welcomed  him  into  our  community.   Our  little  new  chapel, 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  we  recently  dedicated,  when  Brother  Joseph  Fielding  visited  our 
mission,  was  filled  to  its  capacity.  I  took  occasion  to  introduce  this 
gentleman  to  a  doctor  who  has  fellowship  in  our  Church,  and  I  said: 
"Doctor,  this  doctor  is  a  member  of  our  Church;"  and  I  said:  "I  hope 
this  other  good  doctor  will  be  led,  through  his  serious,  careful,  prayer- 
ful investigation,  to  some  time  see  the  light."  He  said  to  me:  "Brother 
Rowan,  I  already  see  the  light.  I  was  touched  with  the  Spirit  of  Almighty 
God  as  I  attended  the  funeral  of  that  little  boy,  and  I  hope  that  I  shall 
soon  be  a  member  of  your  Church." 

Oh,  I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  that  I  have.  I  bring  you  the  message, 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  your  sons  and  daughters  are  well  and  happy. 
They  are  enjoying  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  They  are  filled  with  the 
testimony  of  this  work.  One  of  our  short-term  missionaries  recently 
returned  from  Houston.  He  said  to  me,  as  we  were  coming  on  the 
train :  "I  have  been  there  five  months  and  it  has  been  my  opportunity 
to  attend  a  hundred  and  sixty-nine  meetings."  This  is  only  an  example 
of  what  the  missionaries  are  doing.  I  do  not  say  this  in  boasting,  but 
because  of  the  climatic  condition  the  Elders  can  preach  freely  on  the 
streets.  Within  the  last  three  months  one  of  the  Elders  has  held  sixty- 
three  street  meetings,  a  very  fine  accomplishment. 

Many  of  the  Lord's  people  who  live  in  that  country  are  hearing  and 
accepting  the  message  of  Mormonism.  May  I  ask  that  you  who  have 
friends  in  Texas  and  Louisiana  favor  us  with  letters  giving  us  their 
names  and  addresses.   They  are  a  fine  people. 

We  believe  in  these  living  Authorities.  We  are  trying  to  follow 
their  leadership.  Our  branches,  with  the  exception  of  one,  are  all  pre- 
sided over  by  local  people.  Our  Relief  Society  prganizations  are  doing 
a  commendable  work,  as  are  the  Sunday  Schools  and  the  Genealogical 
Society,  all  of  them  officered  by  men  and  women  who,  if  it  were  neces- 
sary, would  sacrifice  their  lives  on  the  altar,  because  of  the  testimony 
of  Almighty  God  that  has  been  given  to  them. 

I  know,  as  I  know  I  am  alive,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ ;  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  the  living 
God.  And  oh,  I  am  so  happy  in  the  testimony  that  has  come  to  me, 
that  these  men  who  have  succeeded  the  Prophet  Joseph  were  indeed 
prophets,  seers  and  revelators,  and  that  in  this  day  we  have  one  of  the 
greatest  and  most  mighty  men  that  God  has  ever  chosen,  a  select  and 
wonderful  leader.  May  God  bless  him.  May  he  bless  all  of  us,  and  may 
you  live  in  such  a  manner  that  you  will  be  able  to  continue  as  you  are 
doing,  to  make  a  favorable  impression  upon  the  tourists  and  those  who 
come  into  your  midst. 

We  appreciate  the  good  work  that  is  being  done  by  the  Bureau  of 
Information,  and  by  these  marvelous  broadcasts  that  are  given  every 
Sunday  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir. 

May  God  bless  us  all.  May  we  have  your  faith  and  prayers,  above 
everything  else.  May  we,  as  missionaries,  have  a  vision  of  our  great 
responsibility  and  our  possibilities.    May  God,  through  your  faith  and 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


105 


prayers,  and  our  humility,  direct  us  to  his  children,  the  honest  in  heart, 
I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Elders  George  F.  Richards  and  Stephen  L.  Richards  are  absent  on 
account  of  illness.  Brother  Joseph  F.  Merrill  as  you  all  know  is  absent 
in  Europe,  presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 

As  near  as  we  are  able  to  judge,  hundreds  of  thousands  of  people 
have  listened  to  the  broadcast  this  morning,  and  we  appreciate  very  much 
their  doing  so.  I  wish  to  re-echo  the  fine  compliments  that  have  been 
paid  to  our  choir.  We  appreciate  very  very  much  the  good  work  that 
they  are  doing. 

As  a  closing  number  the  Choir  sang  the  anthem  "Grant  us  Peace, 
O  Lord," — soprano  solo  by  Laurinda  Brewerton. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

The  music  to  which  we  have  just  listened  was  composed  by  Evan 
Stephens.  I  wish  that  as  far  as  possible  we  would  get  into  the  habit  of 
singing  our  own  music,  that  is,  music  composed  by  our  own  people. 
There  are  an  inspiration  and  spirit  which  accompany  the  music  of  George 
Careless,  Evan  Stephens,  Joseph  J.  Daynes  and  others  of  our  own 
composers  that  I  sometimes  think  we  do  not  get  from  those  not  of  our 
faith. 

Elder  Henry  H.  Blood,  President  of  the  North  Davis  Stake,  pro- 
nounced the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 

THIRD  DAY 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  closing  session  of  the  Conference  convened  Sunday  afternoon 
at  2  o'clock. 

At  this  meeting  the  great  Tabernacle  was  again  crowded  to  capa- 
city, and  in  addition  thousands  of  people  assembled  on  the  Tabernacle 
grounds  and  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  where  they  listened  to  the  proceedings 
of  the  Conference  as  they  were  broadcast  by  radio  from  the  Tabernacle. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Do  what 
is  right." 

Elder  Edward  J.  Wood,  President  of  the  Alberta  Stake,  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

The  hymn,  "O  Say,  What  is  Truth?"  was  sung  by  the  Choir  and 
congregation. 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

IMPRESSIVE  NATIONAL  BROADCAST 

I  do  not  know  that  I  have  ever  enjoyed  a  richer  hour,  that  I  have 
had  my  emotions  stirred  with  deeper  religious  conviction  than  during 
the  hour  of  our  national  broadcast  this  morning.  It  was  an  effective  intro- 
duction to  a  great  conference  session,  and  an  outstanding  compliment  to 
Professor  Anthony  C.  Lund,  director  of  the  choir,  Frank  Asper,  our 
organist,  and  also  to  the  devoted,  unselfish,  and  efficient  members  of  this 
great  Tabernacle  Choir. 

I  have  thought  often  and  have  several  times  said  that  music  is  as 
important  a  part  of  religious  worship  as  is  the  preaching.  Our  hearts 
were  surely  opened  this  morning  by  that  hour  of  unusual  music  and  those 
calm  but  impressive  words  of  our  radio  announcer,  Richard  Evans.  Our 
souls  were  thus  made  ready  to  receive  the  stirring  messages  that  followed 
by  President  Clark  and  President  Ivins,  and  by  President  Rowan  of  the 
Texas  Mission. 

REMARKS  ADDRESSED  TO  PRESIDENT  GRANT 

I  want  to  address  a  few  remarks  to  President  Grant:  I  was  ten  and 
he  twenty-four  when  I  sat  in  the  gallery  of  the  little  meeting  house  in 
Tooele  and  heard  him  deliver  that  seven  and  a  half  minute  address  of 
which  he  spoke  yesterday.  He,  a  beardless  youth,  was  sent  to  us  to  be 
the  president  of  our  stake.  An  outstanding  baseball  player,  he  was  the 
hero  of  the  boys  then  and  he  has  been  the  hero  of  the  youth  of  the  Church 
ever  since.  I  said  to  him  this  morning :  "I  do  not  know  that  it  is  so  much. 
President  Grant,  what  you  say  as  what  you  do  that  spurs  us  on  and  fills 
us  with  a  determination  to  try  harder."  For  him  at  this  busy  time,  in  the 
midst  of  this  great  conference,  to  walk  into  our  Mutual  Improvement 
meeting  this  morning  before  eight  o'clock  (the  meeting  began  at  eight)  is 
but  an  example  of  the  quiet  but  effective  way  he  has  of  telling  us,  by  his 
actions,  how  intensely  interested  he  is  in  the  advancement,  welfare  and 
progress  of  the  young  people  of  the  Church. 

M.  I.  A.  WORK 

The  work  being  done  by  the  Mutuals  is  becoming  more  and  more 
effective  and  popular  all  the  time.  I  was  impressed  with  the  confidence  in 
our  young  folks,  the  confidence  in  the  Sunday  School  workers,  as  ex- 
pressed by  Brother  McKay  yesterday.    And  I  have  already  said : 

President  Grant,  I  will  be  glad  to  borrow  a  car  and  furnish  the  gasoline  if 
you  will  go  with  me  to  any  of  our  stake  conferences.  I  want  you  to  look  into  the 
faces  of  the  multitudes  of  young  folks  who  assemble  on  Sunday  night  and  see  what 
great  and  rapid  strides  the  young  people  are  making,  what  clean,  active  and  satis- 
factory lives  they  are  living. 

I  was  at  Hyrum  Stake  a  week  ago  where  the  Mutual  Improvement 
meeting  held  Sunday  night  was  a  music  festival.  The  ward  meeting  house 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


107 


was  packed  with  822  boys  and  girls.  Two  choruses  came  forward,  a 
chorus  of  boys  and  a  chorus  of  girls,  and  then  a  mixed  chorus.  My  soul 
was  stirred. 

At  that  conference  I  was  handed  a  message  in  the  form  of  a  picture 
from  President  Cardon,  of  the  Cache  Stake.  No  doubt  many  of  you  have 
seen  it  in  the  Deseret  News.  Just  think  of  it — a  world  'record  there 
broken!  And  then  some  ask  if  we  are  doing  effective  work  with  our 
young  people.  Ninety-six  per  cent  of  all  the  boys  of  Scout  age  in  the 
Cache  Stake  are  Scouts,  registered  and  active.  God  bless  the  bishops,  the 
stake  presidency,  the  high  council,  and  all  who  in  that  stake  are  thus 
intensely  interested  in  the  welfare,  salvation,  education,  and  training  of 
our  young  people. 

While  Scouting  was  adopted  as  a  part  of  our  M.  I.  A.  and  Priest- 
hood program  before  the  administration  of  President  Grant  began,  our 
M  Men  and  Gleaner  girl  work  has  all  been  started  since  he  became 
president,  and  with  his  support  and  encouragement  it  has  gone  over  the 
Church  like  a  prairie  fire  and  as  a  result  we  have  all  these  thousands  upon 
thousands  of  young  folks  from  seventeen  to  twenty-three  who  are  living 
in  accordance  with  the  standards  and  ideals  of  the  Church. 

Later  our  Vanguard  and  Junior  Girls  with  thousands  more,  ages  15 
and  16,  became  intensely  interested  in  Church  activity.  Next  came  our 
Senior  classes — those  between  the  ages  of  twenty-three  and  thirty-five. 
And  here  again  we  have  brought  thousands  more  into  intense  M.  I.  A. 
activity. 

An  example  of  the  effectiveness  of  our  work  is  the  great  music 
festival  which  was  announced  in  our  morning  meeting.  Three  thousand 
singers  from  all  over  the  Church  during  our  June  Conference  are  to 
practise  Friday  and  Saturday  under  the  direction  of  Noble  Cain,  famous 
Chicago  leader,  and  under  his  direction  the  festival  will  be  presented 
Saturday  evening  and  the  chorus  will  sing  Sunday.  The  whole  Church 
is  being  stirred  by  this  outstanding  national  musical  event.  We  anticipate 
that  the  national  hook-up  will  give  the  same  general  satisfaction  as  did 
our  program  two  years  ago. 

You  had  a  little  foretaste  yesterday  of  the  treat  that  is  coming.  Just 
think  of  it,  the  chorus  of  the  Liberty  Stake  alone  that  sang  for  us  here 
yesterday  filled  all  of  these  choir  seats — nearly  500  now  I  understand — 
and  that  was  but  one  stake.  We  have  a  hundred  and  four  others.  When 
from  all  of  these,  a  total  of  a  hundred  and  five,  we  bring  together  in  this 
Tabernacle  their  outstanding  singers,  we  will  have  to  do  what  we  did 
two  years  ago,  that  is,  ask  the  bishops  to  keep  their  people  in  the  wards, 
because  there  will  not  be  room  for  them  even  in  this  spacious  Tabernacle. 

SUPPORT  FOR  PRESIDENT  GRANT 

Thus  I  say  to  President  Grant,  as  a  word  of  encouragement,  that 
he  was  our  hero  in  the  beginning,  he  is  our  hero  yet.  He  showed  the 
intensity  of  his  interest  in  our  work  when  he  came  this  morning  to  our 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


early  Mutual  Improvement  meeting.  President  Grant,  we  are  more  than 
a  hundred  thousand  strong.   We  stand  firmly  behind  you ! 

Now  a  few  words  to  the  rest  of  you  and  to  those  who  are  listening  in. 

ARE  WE  GENUINELY  CONVERTED 

It  is  now  more  than  a  hundred  years  since  this,  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  was  organized  in  these  last  days  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I 
am  wondering  how  nearly,  with  what  degree  of  accuracy,  the  deeds,  the 
conduct  and  the  lives  of  our  Church  members  agree  with  the  exalted 
standards,  the  principles  and  ideals  of  this  the  Church  of  the  Master. 
Are  we  doing  genuinely,  conscientiously  and  faithfully  the  will  and 
carrying  out  the  wishes,  instructions  and  desires  of  our  Father  which  is 
in  heaven  ? 

I  am  going  to  undertake  to  draw  to  your  attention  a  few  of  the 
standards  of  the  Church  with  the  hope  that  each  of  us  for  himself  will 
conduct  an  examination  and  find  out  whether  or  not  our  lives  and  con- 
duct satisfy  these  standards  and  requirements.  If  they  do  not,  perhaps 
we  may  be  induced  to  try  harder  to  be  better  and  to  do  better,  especially 
if  we  have  a  deep  conviction  and  realization  that  "the  ax  is  laid  unto  the 
root  of  the  trees :  therefore  every  tree  which  bringeth  not  forth  good 
fruit  is  hewn  down,  and  cast  into  the  fire."  (Matt.  3  :10  ;  Luke  3:9.) 

JUDGING  OURSELVES 

And  how  are  we  to  be  able  to  sit  in  judgment  on  ourselves,  to  tell 
whether  or  not  our  acts  and  conduct,  our  sense  of  guilt,  will  bring  into 
our  souls  sorrow  and  regret,  yes,  a  feeling  of  anguish  and  remorse  ?  Con- 
cerning this  matter  St.  John  in  the  Book  of  Revelations  says : 

And  I  saw  the  dead,  small  and  great,  stand  before  God;  and  the  books  were 
opened :  and  another  book  was  opened,  which  is  the  book  of  life :  and  the  dead  were 
judged  out  of  those  things  which  were  written  in  the  books,  *  *  *  every  man 
according  to  his  works.    (Rev.  20:12-13.) 

Thus  it  is  stated  clearly  that  we  are  to  be  judged  by  our  works,  by 
our  accomplishments,  by  what  we  do  and  not  wholly  or  primarily  by  what 
we  say.  Concerning  this  important  matter  Jesus  the  Son  of  God  himself 
has  said : 

Not  every  one  that  saith  unto  me,  Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into  the  kingdom  of 
heaven;  but  he  that  doeth  the  will  of  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven.  (Matt.  7:21.) 

DOING  THE  WILL  OF  THE  FATHER 

It  is  what  we  do,  it  is  what  we  are,  it  is  our  actual  accomplishments 
that  are  going  to  count  most.  As  I  think  of  these  things,  I  cannot  help 
but  wonder  if  it  is  possible  that  even  here  in  our  own  Church  there  are 
some  who  actually  draw  near  to  the  Lord  with  their  lips  but  in  their 
hearts  and  in  their  actions  and  conduct  they  are  far  from  him.  It  is 
not  words  alone,  it  is  not  utterances  of  the  tongue  only  that  count,  for  to 
paraphrase  slightly  those  impressive  words  of  the  Savior,  it  is  not  every 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN  , 


109 


one  that  saith  Lord,  Lord  who  shall  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven ; 
but  he  that  doeth  the  will  of  the  Father  which  is  in  heaven.  ( Matt.  7:21.) 

With  these  preliminary  remarks  in  mind,  let  us  now  at  the  end  of  a 
hundred  years  of  our  Church  activity,  apply  a  few  practical  tests  to  our- 
selves and  find  out  whether  or  not  we  are  actually  believers  in  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  if  we  are  genuinely  converted,  and  if  we  are  really  living 
in  accordance  with  the  teachings  and  standards  of  the  Gospel.  On  this 
occasion  I  propose  to  submit  for  your  consideration  only  three  of  our 
many  Church  standards  and  teachings.  I  do  this  with  a  hope  that  by 
applying  these  to  our  own  lives  and  conduct  some  of  us,  perhaps  finding 
ourselves  not  measuring  up  to  one  or  more  of  these  three  standards,  may 
resolve  to  struggle  a  little  harder  and  make  our  lives  and  conduct  better. 

ARE  WE  HONEST 

Our  13th  Article  of  Faith  begins  with  the  words :  "We  believe  in 
being  honest."  Measured  by  this  first  standard,  about  which  I  wish  to 
speak,  how  many  who  are  familiar  with  us,  members  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  how  many  who  know  and  who  are 
familiar  with  our  doings  and  our  conduct  have  a  genuine  conviction  that 
we  are  "absolutely  honest,"  that  we  are  living  in  strict  and  close  conform- 
ity with  this  important  requirement,  this  fundamental  teaching  of  the 
Church  ? 

It  has  been  said  of  Abraham  Lincoln  by  Morse,  the  historian,  that  "his  chief 
trait  all  his  life  long  was'  honesty  of  all  kinds  and  in  all  things ;  not  only  common- 
place, material  honesty  in  dealings,  but  honesty  in  language,  in  purpose,  in  thought; 
honesty  of  mind,  so  that  he  could  never  even  practise  the  most  tempting  of  all  de- 
ceits, a  deceit  against  himself.  This  pervasive  honesty  was'  the  trait  of  his  identity, 
which  stayed  with  him  from  beginning  to  end,  when  other  traits  seemed  to  be 
changing,  appearing  or  disappearing,  and  bewildering  the  observer  of  his  career. 
All  the  while  the  universal  honesty  was  there."  (American  Statesmen,  Vol.  XXV, 
p.  20— Morse.) 

During  all  of  his  days,  even  from  his  boyhood  in  the  Kentucky  cabin, 
through  to  the  end  of  his  life  in  the  White  House,  Abraham  Lincoln  was 
known  by  his  intimates  as  "Honest  Abe."  But  as  honest  as  was  Lincoln, 
I  have  said  repeatedly  in  public  and  in  private,  that  he  was  no  more  frank, 
no  more  honest,  and  no  more  conscientious  in  his  life  and  in  his  dealings 
with  his  fellowmen  than  is  our  own  President  Heber  J.  Grant.  Like 
Lincoln,  President  Grant's  outstanding  and  unchangeable  quality,  that 
from  which  he,  in  his  life  and  conduct  never  varies,  is  absolute  honesty. 

This  absolute  honesty  in  word,  in  deed,  in  thought,  has  been  also  the 
outstanding  characteristic  in  the  life  of  every  president  of  the  Church. 
These  men  so  lived  and  so  conducted  themselves  that  they  had  nothing 
to  conceal.  Their  lives  were  like  the  contents  of  an  open  book.  Such 
men  say  what  they  mean  and  mean  what  they  say.  Their  outstanding 
characteristic  is  dependability. 

Are  you,  who  are  listening  to  my  voice,  honest  as  Lincoln  was  hon- 
est ?  Are  you  honest  as  President  Grant  is,  and  as  other  presidents  of  the 
Church  have  been,  honest?   Or  are  we,  some  of  us  even  members  of  the 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Church,  inclined  at  times  and  under  some  unusual  conditions  to  say  with 
our  lips  what  we  do  not  feel  or  believe  or  know  down  deep  in  our  inmost 
hearts  to  be  the  truth  ?   In  other  words,  are  we  honest,  absolutely  so  ? 

ARE  THERE  ROBBERS  AMONG  US 

Do  you  think,  for  example,  that  if  a  careful  examination  were  con- 
ducted that  we  could  find  any  among  us  who  have  robbed  anybody? 
Remember  it  has  been  said  of  a  whole  nation,  "Ye  have  robbed  God."  And 
when  the  people  of  that  nation  exclaimed,  "Wherein  have  we  robbed 
thee?"  the  answer  came  promptly,  "In  tithes  and  in  offerings."  (Malachi 
3:8-9.) 

DUES  TO  THE  CHURCH  AND  TO  THE  LORD 

Among  you  good  folks  who  make  up  this  multitude  that  I  am  ad- 
dressing in  this  historic  Tabernacle  and  among  those  who  are  hearing  my 
words  over  the  radio,  are  there  some  who  have  not  settled  in  full  with 
the  Lord  ?  Are  there  some  who  have  not  paid  their  dues  to  the  Church  ? 
If  so,  do  we  in  our  heart  of  hearts  sincerely  believe  in  being  honest  in 
our  dealings,  honest  with  our  fellowmen,  honest  with  ourselves  and 
honest  with  the  Lord  ?  And  if  we  so  believe,  do  we  actually  practise  or 
live  in  accordance  with  this  belief?  Are  we  practically  and  earnestly 
and  seriously  religious?  Are  we  genuinely  converted?  Have  we  actu- 
ally shown  fruits  of  repentance  and  righteous  living  ?  Have  we  fed  the 
hungry  and  clothed  the  naked  ?  Have  we  visited  the  fatherless  and  the 
widows  in  their  affliction?  Have  our  hearts  gone  out  in  sympathy  to 
the  unemployed,  or  when  the  hungry  have  called  for  bread  have  we  with 
hardness  in  our  hearts  merely  handed  them  a  stone? 

REAL  WORSHIP 

Do  we  partake  of  the  Sacrament  of  the  Lord's  Supper  regularly 
each  week  and  do  we  partake  of  it  worthily?  This  is  the  second  standard 
about  which  I  wish  to  speak.  It  is  a  teaching  of  the  Church  and  a  practise 
of  the  faithful,  as  the  scriptures  say,  to  love  the  Lord  our  God  with  all 
our  hearts,  and  with  all  our  souls,  and  with  all  our  minds.  (Matt.  22 :37.) 
We  are  expected  to  have  faith  in  our  Heavenly  Father  and  to  worship 
him ;  we  are  instructed  to  go  to  our  several  places  of  worship  on  Sunday 
and  there  partake  of  the  Sacrament — the  bread  and  the  water — in  mem- 
ory of  the  broken  body  and  the  shed  blood  of  the  Master.  Are  there 
some  here  today  and  others  within  the  sound  of  my  voice  who  are  gener- 
ally regarded  as  being  good  Church  folks  who  do  not  take  advantage  of 
the  opportunity  to  go  regularly  each  Sunday  to  their  respective  wards  and 
there  with  bowed  heads  and  prayerful  hearts  in  the  Sacrament  meeting- 
enjoy  genuine  worship? 

In  these  days  of  depression,  the  down-hearted,  the  sick,  those  who 
are  discouraged,  the  weary  and  the  heavy  laden  will  do  well  to  go  to 
their  respective  ward  chapels  and  there  receive  comfort,  consolation, 
blessing  and  encouragement.  We  are  told  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
Section  59 : 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.LYMAN 


111 


Thou  shalt  thank  the  Lord  thy  God  in  all  things. 

Thou  shalt  offer  a  sacrifice  unto  the  Lord  thy  God  in  righteousness,  even  that 
of  a  broken  heart  and  a  contrite  spirit. 

And  that  thou  mayest  more  fully  keep  thyself  unspotted  from  the  world,  thou 
shalt  go  to  the  house  of  prayer  and  offer  up  thy  sacraments  upon  my  holy  day ;  for 
verily  this  is  a  day  appointed  unto  you  to  rest  from  your  labors,  and  to  pay  thy 
devotions  unto  the  Most  High.  (D.  &  C.  59:7-10.) 

It  has  been  said  that  no  human  tongue  can  speak  words  whose  mes- 
sage is  equal  in  importance  to  partaking  worthily  of  the  Lord's  Supper. 
If  we  are  neglecting  to  take  advantage  of  this  outstanding  blessing,  are 
we  converted  ?  Are  we  genuine  Latter-day  Saints  ? 

Thirdly:  Let  us  measure  ourselves  by  another  Church  standard, 
that  of  watching  and  praying  "unceasingly."  The  Master  said,  "Pray 
that  ye  enter  not  into  temptation."  (Luke  22:40.)  The  Bible  says  dis- 
tinctly, "pray  without  ceasing."  (Thess.  5:17.)  "Watch  and  pray,"  the 
Master  said  again,  "that  ye  enter  not  into  temptation,  the  spirit  indeed 
is  willing  but  the  flesh  is  weak."    (Matt.  26:41.) 

To  pray  without  ceasing  is  a  practise  that  should  be  followed  par- 
ticularly by  the  youth  of  our  nation  today ;  in  these  times  our  young  folks 
are  surrounded  with  pitfalls,  yes,  with  unusual  temptations  practically 
everywhere  and  practically  all  the  time.  The  words  of  the  Savior  ought 
to  be  kept  constantly  ringing  in  their  ears :  "Wlhy  sleep  ye  ?  Rise  and 
pray  lest  ye  enter  into  temptation."  (Luke  22:46.) 

PRAYING 

"Seek  ye  the  Lord"  is  another  admonition  that  applies  also  to  the 
people  of  these  days.  Those  whose  lives  are  well-nigh  completed,  those 
who  have  had  long  years  of  experience  and  know  with  certainty  what 
things  are  and  what  things  are  not  worth  while — these  are  they  who 
ought  to  call  out  to  the  youth  of  today :  "Seek  ye  the  Lord  while  he  may 
be  found."  Today  is  the  time  to  call ;  tomorrow  may  be  too  late.  O 
youth  of  our  nation,  "Seek  ye  the  Lord  while  he  may  be  found.  Call  ye 
upon  him  while  he  is  near."  (Isaiah  55  :6.) 

Measured  by  this  standard  of  praying,  of  family  prayers  and  of 
secret  prayers,  how  well  do  you  and  I  measure  up?  Christ  himself  says. 
"Come  unto  me,  all  ye  that  labor  and  are  heavy  laden,  and  I  will  g*ive 
you  rest.  Take  my  yoke  upon  you,  and  learn  of  me ;  for  I  am  meek  and 
lowly  in  heart :  and  ye  shall  find  rest  unto  your  souls.  For  my  yoke  is 
easy,  and  my  burden  is  light."  (Matt.  11  28-30.)  With  what  degree  of 
regularity  and  earnestness  do  we  in  prayer  struggle  to  put  ourselves 
in  harmony  with  that  matchless  power,  the  power  of  God,  that  power 
which  comes  into  human  hearts  and  lives  as  a  result  of  prayerfulness 
and  righteous  living. 

I  realize  that  many  who  have  paid  little  or  no  attention  to  religion, 
ridicule  the  idea  that  the  light  of  heaven  may  shine  into  human  hearts 
and  souls  as  it  shone  into  the  lives  of  Saul  of  Tarsus  and  Joseph  Smith, 
or  that  it  may  bring  into  a  human  heart  a  conviction  like  that  which  en- 
abled Paul  to  stand  before  Agrippa  and  say,  "I  saw  a  vision.  I  saw  a 
light." 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


But  here  are  Joseph  Smith's  own  words  : 

However,  it  was  nevertheless  a  fact  that  I  had  beheld  a  vision.  I  have  thought 
since,  that  I  felt  much  like  Paul,  when  he  made  his  defense  before  King  Agrippa, 
and  related  the  account  of  the  vision  he  had  when  he  saw  a  light,  and  heard  a  voice ; 
but  still  there  were  but  a  few  who  believed  him ;  some  said  he  was  dishonest,  others 
said  he  was  mad ;  and  he  was  ridiculed  and  reviled.  But  all  this  did  not  destroy 
the  reality  of  his  vision.  He  had  seen  a  vision,  he  knew  he  had,  and  all  the  persecu- 
tion under  heaven  could  not  make  it  otherwise;  and  though  they  should  persecute 
him  unto  death,  yet  he  knew,  and  would  know  to  his  latest  breath,  that  he  had  both 
seen  a  light  and  heard  a  voice  speaking  unto  him,  and  all  the  world  could  not  make 
him  think  or  believe  otherwise.    So  it  was  with  me."  (Pearl  of  Great  Price,  p.  49.) 

Experiences  like  these,  it  seems,  can  be  understood  and  most  of  them 
can  be  experienced  and  enjoyed  only  through  the  power  of  faith.  A 
satisfying  knowledge  or  faith  concerning  things  spiritual  cannot  come 
merely  through  logic  or  reason,  for  these  come  only  as  a  result  of  right- 
eous, prayerful,  religious  living.  The  following  familiar  words  from 
the  Holy  Book  explain  briefly  and  clearly  what  I  mean : 

If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of 
God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself.    (John  7:17.) 

If  we  are  losing  faith,  if  it  seems  our  prayers  are  unanswered,  let  us 
reflect  upon  these  words  which  the  Lord  has  given  to  us  in  Section  101 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

In  the  day  of  their  peace  they  esteemed  lightly  my  counsel ;  but,  in  the  day  of 
their  trouble,  of  necessity  they  feel  after  me.  They  were  slow  to  hearken  unto 
the  voice  of  the  Lord  their  God;  therefore,  the  Lord  their  God  is  slow  to  hearken 
unto  their  prayers,  to  answer  them  in  the  day  of  their  trouble.  (D.  &  C.  101 :7-8.) 

I  have  mentioned  but  three  of  the  standards  of  the  Church.  Meas- 
ured by  these,  are  you  and  am  I  doing  the  will  of  our  Heavenly  Father  ? 
If  we  are,  the  promise  says  it  is  our  right  to  know  whether  or  not  there 
is  life  beyond  the  grave ;  whether  the  doctrines  advocated  are  true,  or 
whether  these  doctrines  are  false. 

SUMMARY 

Referring  specifically  again  to  the  three  standards  which  I  have 
named,  let  me  ask: 

1.  Are  we  honest,  absolutely  so?  Do  we  deal  justly,  honestly  and 
charitably  with  our  fellowmen  ?  Do  we  pay  our  tithes  and  pay  our  offer- 
ings fully  ? 

2.  Are  we  participating  in  that  intense  worship  which  comes  from 
attending  our  Sacrament  meetings  and  from  partaking  worthily  of  the 
Sacrament  of  the  Lord's  Supper? 

3.  Are  we  participating  in  family  and  secret  prayers,  earnestly, 
honestly  and  with  regularity  ?   Are  we  praying  always  ? 

Humbly  I  pray  that  by  the  power  of  God  we  may  be  able  as  a  result 
of  our  living  in  accordance  with  these  and  other  standards  of  the  Church 
to  have  faith,  to  understand,  to  know  and  to  have  a  testimony  concerning 
the  divinity  of  the  doctrines  of  the  Church  and  the  effectiveness  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


113 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  pray  that  the  Lord  may  guide  me 
by  his  Holy  Spirit  so  that  my  words  may  be  edifying  to  all  of  us  and  in 
harmony  with  the  Lord's  desires. 

AN  OCCASION  OF  GREAT  JOY 

Despite  the  fact  that  I  sense  the  tremendous  responsibility  of  stand- 
ing before  this  vast  congregation  I  think  there  is  no  one  here  who  is 
enjoying  this  conference  more  than  I.  Since  my  late  boyhood  I  have 
sought  to  attend  these  conferences  from  year  to  year,  and  with  consider- 
able regularity  I  have  been  able  to  do  so.  Because  of  my  absence  in  the 
mission  field  I  have  been  able  to  attend  only  one  of  the  last  twelve  general 
conferences  of  the  Church ;  therefore  I  come  to  this  conference  hungry, 
hungry  for  the  spirit  that  I  feel  comes  to  me  from  my  fellow-believers, 
hungry  for  the  word  of  God  spoken  from  this  pulpit. 

I  am  grateful  that  I  am  a  member  of  this  Church,  that  I  have  a 
testimony  of  the  truth  of  the  restored  Gospel,  and  I  bear  witness  to  the 
existence  of  God,  the  divine  ministry  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God, 
and  the  divine,  inspired  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

OUTPOURING  OF  SPIRIT  IN  MISSION  FIELD 

Do  not  misunderstand  me.  While  I  realize  great  joy  in  being  present 
at  this  conference,  I  must  say  that  in  the  small  gatherings  in  the  mission 
field  we  have  similar  outpourings  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  At  times  it  has 
seemed  to  me  that  the  spirit  that  has  moved  upon  those  who  have  spoken 
and  listened  in  the  small  gatherings  in  the  mission  field  has  been  even 
stronger  and  more  powerful,  than  we  feel  here  at  home.  It  often  happens 
that,  when  far  away  from  home,  far  from  the  sheltered  protection  of 
the  temple,  the  tabernacle,  and  the  stakes  of  Zion,  we  draw  more  heavily 
upon  the  spiritual  forces  about  us.  So,  while  I  am  glad  to  be  here  T 
bear  witness  to  the  splendid  spirit  that  pervades  the  gatherings  of  the 
Saints  in  the  mission  field. 

THOSE  MAKING  MISSIONARY  SERVICE  POSSIBLE 

I  have  been  thinking  about  the  mission  field  during  this  conference. 
As  I  look  back  over  the  years  spent  there  I  seem  to  see  first  of  all  a  group 
of  people  whom  I  scarcely  know,  the  fathers  and  mothers,  the  brothers 
and  sisters,  other  relatives  and  the  friends  who  have  made  possible  the 
service  of  the  Elders  in  the  field.  There  is  no  time,  and  here  is  perhaps 
not  now  the  place,  to  tell  of  the  rich  incidents  of  sacrifice  and  love,  almos! 
divine  love,  that  have  led  many  of  those  whom  I  do  not  know — fathers 
and  mothers  and  relatives — to  give  the  necessary  support  to  the  Elders 
in  the  field.   God  bless  them  and  be  with  them. 

THE  MISSIONARY. — HIS  DISCOVERIES  AND  GROWTH 

When  I  think  of  the  fine  men  and  women  missionaries  with  whom  1 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


have  labored,  young,  sturdy,  honest,  who  desired  to  learn,  and  who  learned 
to  love  God,  I  am  proud  of  my  association  with  them.  I  have  seen  them 
make  the  greatest  discovery  of  all  time.  They  have  gone  into  the  field 
largely  uneducated  in  the  things  of  the  Church.  I  have  seen  them  dis- 
cover God.  I  have  seen  them  discover  Jesus  Christ.  I  have  seen  them 
discover  the  Gospel,  its  virtue  and  truth.  I  have  seen  them  discover  their 
own  place  in  the  great  plan  of  salvation,  and  I  have  seen  them  return  to 
their  homes  matured  in  spirit  and  better  able  to  carry  on  the  great  work 
that  the  Lord  has  established  in  these  latter  days. 

THE  SAINTS  IN  THE  MISSION  FIELDS 

I  think  also  of  the  Saints  who  constitute  the  membership  of  the 
missions  in  which  I  have  labored — thirty  thousand  faithful  men  and 
women,  trusting  in  God,  bearing  witness  to  the  truth  of  the  Gospel, 
feeling  an  assurance  in  their  hearts  that  this  is  the  truth,  the  great  truth, 
the  everlasting  truth,  the  culminating  truth  of  all  the  ages,  who  are 
making  sacrifice  in  many  ways  to  carry  forward  the  work  of  the  mission 
field.  These  brethren  and  sisters  look  upon  us  in  the  stakes  of  Zion  as 
examples  whom  they  should  follow;  and  I  trust  that  we  are  carrying 
that  burden  and  accepting  that  responsibility,  the  challenge  to  be  an  ex- 
ample not  only  to  the  world  but  to  our  brethren  and  sisters  who  labor 
in  behalf  of  the  Lord's  great  cause  far  beyond  the  organized  stakes  and 
wards  of  Zion.  I  love  those  people  as  I  love  you  here.  They  are  battling 
for  the  trujh  on  the  outposts  of  Zion  ;  they  are  extending  the  boundaries 
of  Zion;  they  are  fulfilling  the  prophecies  under  which  we  shall  go  for- 
ward until  we  cover  the  earth. 

THE  ETERNAL  BATTLE 

There  is  a  new  feeling  towards  us  throughout  the  world.  There 
is  more  tolerance,  there  is  little  persecution,  as  has  been  said  by  a  number 
of  speakers  during  this  conference.  Conditions  have  changed  vitally, 
wonderfully,  beyond  the  understanding  of  those  who  labored  in  the  field 
a  generation  or  two  ago.  But  do  not  let  us  be  deceived.  It  has  been  well 
pointed  out  here  by  other  speakers  that  the  eternal  battle  is  still  on  be- 
tween truth  and  error,  between  the  Lord  and  the  Evil  .One,  the  battle  that 
will  never  end  so  long  as  men  have  their  free  agency,  so  long  as  error 
is  possible,  wherever  there  is  truth.  We  have  merely  shifted  our  battle 
ground,  we  have  merely  changed  our  weapons.  Three  hundred  years 
ago  humanity  fought  with  spears  and  shields.  Today  out  of  the  sky 
poison  gas  and  bombs  are  dropped  on  the  unprotected  cities  below.  Just 
so,  in  the  mission  field  today,  under  the  new  conditions  we  must  change 
our  battle  ground  and  the  weapons  that  we  use,  but  the  battle  goes  for- 
ward. 

The  world  is  looking  for  that  which  we  have  to  give  them,  though 
they  know  it  not.  I  think  that  out  of  my  experience  in  the  mission  field 
these  last  few  years  there  comes  as  my  deepest  impression  a  feeling  that 
the  world  is  in  sad  need  of  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Men 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


115 


walk  in  darkness,  seeking  for  light,  they  desire  righteousness,  for  a 
desire  for  light  and  truth  is  in  the  heart  of  every  man.  They  walk  in 
darkness,  trying  to  find  their  way  out,  pleading  often  for  help. 

REFUSED  ENTRANCE 

I  recall  very  distinctly  the  first  experience  I  had  as  our  ship  touched 
1  British  shores  six  years  ago  last  December.  The  official  of  the  British 
government  who  came  on  board  to  stamp  our  passports,  to  permit  us  to 
enter  the  country,  when  he  came  to  me  and  my  family  and  discovered 
what  we  were  about,  he  refused  us  entrance.  "I  cannot  permit  you  to 
enter ;  we  do  not  want  your  kind  of  people  in  our  country.  We  may 
tolerate  the  young  Elders,  but  not  you  who  are  leaders."  In  the  course  of 
the  conversation  that  followed — I  must  not  take  the  time  to  detail  it  here 
— he  said,  "What  do  you  intend  to  teach  if  I  permit  you  to  enter  Eng- 
land ?"  I  answered  him,  "We  intend  to  teach  the  British  people  so  far  as 
we  are  able  how  to  win  happiness  while  they  live  on  earth,  and  how  to 
find  happiness  in  the  life  to  come.  We  intend  to  teach  them  the  meaning 
of  life,  where  they  came  from,  why  they  are  here,  and  where  they  are 
going." 

VITAL  QUESTIONS 

Almost  in  a  breath  this  official  stamped  the  passports  and  said : 
"Now  we  are  done  with  that.  Let's  talk  about  Mormonism.  I  belong 
to  a  church  but  I  am  dissatisfied  with  it.  It  does  not  answer  the 
problems  of  my  life.  It  does  not  answer  the  questions  that  lie  with- 
in my  soul.  I  want  to  hear  your  teachings.  Can  you  really  tell 
me  whence  I  came?  Can  you  tell  me  why  I  am  here?  Can  you  tell 
me  where  I  am  going,  for  I  know  that  life  upon  earth  will  end?"  He 
became  a  fast  friend — a  type  of  millions  of  people  in  the  world  today 
who  walk  in  darkness,  feeling  the  need  of  light.  Our  obligation  is  to 
these  people  the  world  over. 

A  PATHETIC  CHAPTER 

We  seem  to  be  writing  today  the  most  pathetic  chapter  in  human 
history.  We  stand  at  the  pinnacle  of  human  achievement,  every  natural 
force  is  more  or  less  under  our  control.  We  have  the  radio,  the  telephone, 
the  electric  light,  types  of  a  conquest  undreamed  of  in  the  generations 
gone  before ;  and  yet  we  stand  helpless  from  country  to  country,  from 
ocean  to  ocean,  before  the  means  of  supplying  the  common  needs  of 
mankind.  We  have. harnessed  the  forces  of  nature  but  we  are  unable 
to  apply  them  and  use  them  to  meet  human  needs.  It  is  indeed  a  pathetic 
chapter  that  we  are  writing.  As  I  have  traveled  among  the  nations  I 
have  become  convinced  that  the  trouble  with  the  world  is  that  it  still  relies 
upon  man-made  truth,  man-made  institutions,  man-made  methods  of 
solving  the  problems  of  humanity. 

ETHICS  VERSUS  RELIGION 

We  have  had  in  the  world  throughout  the  ages  two  opposing  types 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  guides  Tor  human  conduct.  One  we  call  ethics  and  the  other  we  call 
religion.  An  ethical  man  is  good  because  it  pays  him  to  be  good  ;  because 
it  promotes  the  peace  of  the  community.  An  ethical  man  is  virtuous 
because  otherwise  he  contracts  disease,  and  disease,  personal  or  com- 
munity is  not  desirable.  Such  is  ethics — calculating,  selfish.  Religion 
tells  another  story :  I  must  be  good  because  in  the  great  economy  of 
God,  in  the  great  program  laid  out  for  the  salvation  of  humankind,  in 
which  I  am  involved  with  all  my  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  required  that 
I  must  be  righteous  and  virtuous.  Obedience  to  the  law  leads  to  infinite 
results,  both  on  earth  and  in  the  life  to  come.  I  must  be  virtuous,  not 
merely  because  I  protect  myself,  but  because  I  live  then  in  harmony  with 
the  greater  law  that  proceeds  from  the  author  of  law. 

The  world  needs  the  flaming  fire  of  religion  to  replace  the  dead  husks 
of  ethics  with  which  the  nations  are  attempting  to  rebuild  the  fallen 
structure  of  their  governments.  We  have  an  N.R.A. ;  what  we  need  is 
an  S.R.A. — a  spiritual  recovery  activity  throughout  the  earth  ;  and  until 
we  launch  a  campaign  for  spiritual  recovery  we  shall  not  fully  solve  the 
problems  that  lie  before  us.' 

SPIRITUAL  FOUNDATION  NECESSARY 

This  may  seem  far  remote  from  the  need  of  filling  the  mouths  of 
hungry  people  ;  yet  it  is  the  only  way  by  which  we  shall  solve  the  problems 
of  the  world.  The  spiritual  is  ever  greater  than  the  material.  The  Lord 
said  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith :  "All  things  unto  me  are  spiritual, 
and  not  at  any  time  have  I  given  you  a  law  which  was  temporal."  A  study 
of  the  condition  of  the  world  today  shows  that  we  are  depending  upon 
temporal  means  and  methods  for  restoring  that  which  we  have  lost,  for 
bringing  to  us  that  which  we  desire  so  much  to  achieve. 

I  stand  here  today  with  a  simple  message,  an  age-old  message,  which 
every  speaker  here  has  mentioned,  that  we  must  build  from  the  founda- 
tion upward,  upon  a  spiritual  foundation  which  underlies  everything  that 
is  beautiful,  virtuous,  and  truthful. 

THE  COMMON  MAN'S  PROBLEM 

Many  men  among  us  are  hungry.  The  common  man  has  decided 
that  he  shall  have  an  equal  opportunity  with  all  other  men  so  far  as  the 
common  necessities  of  life  are  concerned.  That  is  a  real  issue.  The 
common  man  says,  "I'll  give  my  time,  my  strength,  but  in  return  I  ask 
bread  and  shelter  and  clothing."  The  common  man  will  win ;  but  he  can 
not  wholly  win  until  we  get  back  to  the  spiritual  background  of  the  prob- 
lem itself. 

It  is  well  enough  to  say  that  we  will  feed  hungry  people  because 
thereby  we  shall  be  better  off.  That  is  ethics.  However,  the  Lord  has 
said:  "Let  every  man  esteem  his  neighbor  as  himself."  That  is  quite  a 
different  proposition. 

THE  ONLY  SOLUTION 

There  will  be  no  solution  to  the  disturbing  problems  now  racking 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


117 


the  world  until  men  learn  to  esteem  their  neighbors  as  themselves.  It  is 
a  tremendous  demand  upon  mankind.  We  of  this  Church  must  lead  out 
in  this  as  in  other  righteous  matters.  The  revelations  given  by  God  to 
his  people  in  these  latter  days  must  be  taken  at  their  face  value.  Our 
destiny  is  world  leadership.  There  is  much  suffering  among  us,  as  I 
have  discovered  in  the  few  months  I  have  been  home.  I  regret  it,  yet 
why  should  we  not  suffer  ?  I  was  trained  in  chemistry  in  my  young  man- 
hood and  I  still  remember  that  to  purify  gold  and  other  noble  metals 
greater  heat  was  necessary  than  to  purify  the  ignoble  metals.  Perhaps 
we  will  have  to  go  through  a  more  fiery  furnace  because  we  are  destined 
for  leadership  in  the  solution  of  the  world's  problems. 

There  is  much  to  be  said,  but  there  are  several  speakers  yet  to  come 
and  my  time  is  just  about  over.  The  present  day  offers  great  challenging 
subjects.  This  Church  looks  forward,  builds  upon  the  past,  invades  the 
future,  builds  here  and  builds  there,  upon  eternal  verities,  upon  spiritual 
foundations  which  God  has  revealed  through  his  children. 

GREATER  THAN  TRUTH 

The  Lord  has  given  us  an  example  that  all  the  world  can  follow.  A 
boy  not  quite  fifteen  years  of  age  was  troubled  in  his  soul  concerning 
the  truth.  He  had  a  quality  which  redeemed  him  above  many  men.  He 
had  a  surpassing  love  of  truth  in  his  heart.  Perhaps  I  may  not  be  mis- 
understood if  I  say  that  there  is  one  thing  in  the  world  even  greater  than 
truth,  and  that  is  the  love  of  truth.  Without  the  love  of  truth  men  can- 
not prosper  even  in  the  possession  of  truth,  and  in  fact  never  shall  men 
possess  truth  fully,  without  the  love  of  truth.  This  boy  went  into  a 
grove  to  plead  with  Divinity  for  eternal  truth,  and  God  spoke  to  him. 
and  also  the  Son  of  God  spoke  to  him,  and  the  foundations  of  the  latter 
day  work  of  salvation  were  laid.  The  authority  of  the  Priesthood  was 
restored.  The  wonderful  gifts  and  blessings  that  the  whole  world  is 
beginning  to  recognize  as  belonging  to  this  people,  were  given  through 
that  initial  act  on  the  part  of  Joseph  Smith. 

EVERY  MAN  MAY  KNOW  FOR  HIMSELF 

In  a  conversation  with  one  of  my  brethren  a  short  time  ago  he  said : 
"Well,  Joseph  Smith  had  a  mighty  vision,  but  it  cannot  be  duplicated. 
I  wish  I  could  have  it." 

I  stand  here  to  declare  to  you,  and  there  are  thousands  in  this  build- 
ing who  can  voice  the  same  declaration  from  their  own  experience,  that 
every  one  of  us,  every  human  soul,  may  obtain  the  same  testimony  and 
the  same  conviction  that  came  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  as  he  knelt 
upon  his  knees  praying  in  the  sacred  grove  for  light  and  truth.  God  may 
not  come  in  person,  but  God  has  agents.  His  Holy  Spirit  has  powers 
beyond  our  understanding,  and  it  is  possible  for  every  man  and  woman 
to  satisfy  his  and  her  mind  and  soul  and  being,  every  part  of  them,  of 
the  truth  of  this  work.  When  men  will  do  so  within  this  Church,  will 
seek  to  obtain  this  transcendent  testimony,  then  this  Church  will  assume 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


its  rightful  leadership.  Indeed,  it  is  already  assuming  the  right  to  lead, 
modest  and  humble  as  the  Church  may  be.  When  the  world  approaches 
upon  its  knees  the  Author  of  Truth  with  full  love  of  truth  in  its  heart, 
then  shall  humanity  be  able  to  build  toward  the  perfection  of  which 
humanity  dreams.   There  is  no  other  way. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  this  latter-day  work  is  the  truth,  the 
eternal  truth,  and  that  only  through  this  truth  can  man's  happiness  be 
won  on  earth  or  in  heaven.  May  God  help  us  to  retain  the  truth  in  our 
hearts,  to  win  it  more  completely,  to  live  in  accordance  with  it,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

An  anthem,  "And  then  shall  the  Light  break  forth,"  was  sung  by 
the  Choir. 

ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I  stand  before  you  this  afternoon 
to  add  my  testimony  to  the  testimonies  that  have  already  been  given  from 
this  stand.  It  has  been  my  pleasure  during  the  last  two  and  a  half  years 
to  mingle  my  voice  together  with  the  voices  of  the  other  mission  presi- 
dents who  are  sitting  on  the  lower  stand  this  afternoon,  in  promulgating 
the  Gospel  in  the  nations  of  the  earth.  We  have  taken  your  sons  and 
daughters  and  with  their  aid  have  undertaken  to  introduce  to  the  people 
who  are  not  acquainted  with  us  the  principles  and  truths  of  the  Gospel. 

I  wish  to  congratulate  you  upon  the  excellent  material  you  have  sent 
us  in  the  mission  field.  They  are  wonderful  young  men  and  women. 
They  come  to  us  usually  well  established  in  the  faith.  However,  occa- 
sionally there  are  men  and  women  who  come  who  might  have  been  better 
prepared  before  leaving  home.  And  we  would  appreciate  it  wonderfully 
if  all  these  young  people  could  be  taught  somewhat  in  the  fundamental 
routine  that  they  have  to  follow  when  they  go  into  the  field.  It  is  a 
rare  thing  indeed,  but  it  sometimes  happens,  that  we  have  to  teach  these 
young  men  how  to  pray  properly,  how  to  ask  a  blessing  on  the  food,  and 
to  do  such  simple  things  as  they  should  be  taught  at  home.  If  you  would 
take  that  care  and  pains  with  your  young  men,  all  of  them,  I  have  no 
doubt  but  that  it  would  establish  them  in  the  faith  in  such  a  way  that 
when  they  come  to  us  they  would  be  all  ready  for  service.  It  would 
help  them  wonderfully  in  the  beginning  of  their  mission. 

Without  exception  it  has  been  my  experience  that  these  men  round 
to  and  leave  their  missions  with  strong  and  living  testimonies,  having 
done  wonderful  work.  It  has  been  one  of  the  greatest  experiences  of  my 
life  to  labor  with  these  young  people,  and  it  is  with  somewhat  of  a 
reluctant  spirit  that  I  have  surrendered  the  reins  of  the  Mexican  Mission 
to  President  Pratt  who  addressed  you  yesterday.  However,  we  go  and 
we  come ;  when  the  President  of  the  Church  says  go,  we  go ;  when  he 
says  come,  we  come,  with  equal  good  will.    I  trust  that  in  the  new  labors 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


119 


that  I  have  to  undertake  I  will  have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  guide  and 
direct  me,  that  it  may  be  just  as  pleasant  to  me  as' the  work  that  I  am  now 
leaving  behind. 

We  have  been  laboring  with  a  wonderful  people,  as  you  have  been 
told,  a  vast  and  numerous  people  who  need  the  Gospel,  much  more 
perhaps  than  some  of  our  own  races  and  nationalities  do.  They  have 
been  downtrodden  for  many  years,  centuries  in  fact,  and  they  have  come 
to  a  condition  where  they  absolutely  need  the  help  that  the  Gospel  can 
give  them.  Our  own  people  on  the  contrary  have  grown  up  under  a 
more  liberal  teaching  and  perhaps  find  themselves  not  quite  in  the  same 
need  that  our  neighbors  on  the  south  do.  We  have  been  trying  to  carry 
the  truth  to  them  and  it  has  been  a  wonderful  pleasure. 

I  have  been  very  much  impressed  with  the  things  I  have  heard  at 
this  conference,  and  was  especially  pleased  with  the  remarks  that  Presi- 
dent Clark  made  this  morning.  We  teach  faith  through  the  instrumen- 
tality of  these  young  men  and  young  women — faith  in  God,  faith  in 
Jesus  Christ,  faith  in  the  Gospel.  There  are  some  things  that  are  not 
reducible  to  mathematical  formula,  and  these  things  we  must  take  by 
faith.  Brother  Widtsoe  told  us  that  he  was  a  chemist  in  his  earlier 
years,  and  one  thing  I  remember  most  of  all  about  my  studies  in  chem- 
istry is  that  the  instructor  began  that  course  by  telling  us  that  it  was 
founded  upon  hypotheses,  and  an  hypothesis,  he  said,  is  a  scientific  guess. 
And  to  show  us  how  the  hypotheses  that  are  fundamental  to  chemistry 
change  he  got  out  some  of  his  old  books  and  read  to  us  the  story  of  an 
earlier  chemistry — alchemy  they  call  it.  And  since  my  days  in  school 
these  hypotheses  in  chemistry  and  physics  have  changed  again,  and  they 
are  constantly  changing. 

Now  the  science  that  is  erected  upon  an  hypothesis  is  no  truer  than 
that  hypothesis.  If  that  he  true,  the  science  may  be  true.  If  that  be 
false,  the  science  is  questionable.  Before  we  replace  the  fundamental 
truths  that  we  have  inherited  from  our  ancestors,  religious  truths  that 
have  been  of  so  much  comfort  and  help  to  those  who  have  gone  before, 
let  us  be  certain  that  the  things  we  put  in  their  place  are  true. 

We  maintain  that  the  Gospel  embraces  all  truth.  That  may  not 
mean  that  any  living  man  may  know  all  truth.  It  may  not  mean  that 
the  body  of  the  Church  can  properly  interpret  all  truth,  but  it  does  mean 
that  whenever  a  truth  is  established  we  should  accept  it  as  part  of  the 
Gospel.  But  let  us  scrutinize  those  things  carefully  before  we  turn 
down  the  beliefs  of  the  past  and  accept  a  new  thing  which  may  be 
founded  upon  a  false  hypothesis.  That  was  one  of  the  comforts  to  me 
when  I  went  to  college.  I  wondered  if  the  study  of  chemistry,  of  physics, 
of  biology,  of  geology,  and  of  zoology  might  upset  my  equilibrium.  But 
I  found  so  many  question-marks  in  the  foundations  of  all  of  these  that  I 
believe  it  did  not.  And  I  would  like  to  recommend  just  that  thought 
to  you,  that  perhaps  after  all  we  have  within  the  Gospel  the  fundamental 
truths  and  precepts  upon  which  these  very  sciences  will  in  the  end  find 
themselves  standing.  I  have  that  faith.  I  believe  that  every  truth  that  will 
ever  come  into  the  world  is  part  and  parcel  of  the  plan  that  was  laid 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


clown  by  God  our  Father  for  the  government  of  this  world  and  man, 
and  while  he  sojourns  in  it. 

I  think  we  should  not  be  afraid  of  scrutiny  and  of  friendly  criticism ; 
we  should  welcome  it.  Man  can  be  saved  only  so  far  as  he  gains  intel- 
ligence and  understanding  and  exercises  faith.  Consequently,  I  welcome 
criticism  if  it  is  made  in  the  proper  light  and  spirit.  Unfriendly  criticism, 
inimical  criticism  perhaps  is  not  to  be  desired  because  it  is  always  preju- 
diced in  advance  and  never  sees  a  question  fairly.  That  is  the  one 
thought  and  idea  I  had  in  mind  in  coming  to  this  stand.  I  give  it  to  you 
for  what  it  is  worth. 

I  pray  God  our  Heavenly  Father  that  he  will  sustain  each  and  all 
of  us,  that  we  may  carry  forward  with  our  heads  erect,  with  a  firm  tread, 
to  a  successful  culmination  of  our  careers.  May  God  bless  us  to  this  end, 
I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

In  the  few  moments  that  I  stand  before  you  I  pray  that  I  may  have 
the  inspiration  of  God  to  lead  me  to  say  that  which  he  would  have  me  say 
upon  this  occasion. 

Perhaps  it  would  be  well  for  me  to  report  my  missionary  experi- 
ences, or  some  of  them.  Thirty  years  ago  last  month  I  was  called  on  a 
mission  to  the  Central  States  and  went  into  the  mission  the  latter  part 
of  the  year.  I  think  I  have  attended  the  general  conferences  fifty-four 
times  in  that  period  of  time.  I  have  seen  many  things  that  have  strength- 
ened my  testimony  and  proved  to  me  without  a  doubt  that  this  is  the  work 
of  God.  I  went  into  the  mission  field  with  a  testimony  of  the  Gospel — 
I  knew  it  was  true  before  I  left  home.  It  was  an  undeveloped  testimony, 
it  is  true ;  I  had  had  no  experience  in  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel,  hut  I 
realized  its  truth  as  revealed  from  heaven  in  these  the  last  days.  It  came 
to  me  from  my  parentage  and  those  pioneers  who  were  led  into  the 
valleys  of  the  mountains  under  the  direction  of  Brigham  Young  and  who 
fought  the  Indians  and  helped  to  establish  these  settlements  in  these 
valleys.  Coming  of  that  lineage  I  could  not  but  have  a  testimony  be- 
cause of  the  things  that  I  had  seen. 

It  has  been  a  great  privilege  which  I  have  enjoyed  to  be  associated 
with  the  thousands  of  men  and  women  I  have  met  in  the  mission  field — 
fine  men,  clean  in  their  lives,  and  good  women.  There  were  more  than 
2500  of  them — a  great  congregation  from  all  over  the  Church,  and  they 
labored  with  me  and  with  my  good  wife  in  the  mission  field.  I  was 
thinking  a  few  days  ago  about  the  success  that  has  come  to  the  Church 
through  the  ministry  of  this  fine,  noble  band  of  men  and  women.  There 
were  fewer  than  three  quarters  of  one  per  cent  of  those  2500  missionaries 
who  returned  home  without  an  honorable  release.  There  were  fewer 
than  three-fourths  of  one  per  cent  who  lost  their  lives  in  the  mission  field. 
I  handled  all  the  funds  that  came  to  the  mission  in  all  the  years  we  were 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BEN N ION 


121 


there.  They  deposited  their  money  in  the  mission  office  and  we  kept  it 
for  them.  There  was  a  loss  of  less  than  twenty-five  cents  per  missionary 
during  all  that  time.  That  covered  loss  on  books,  literature  and  money 
that  was  furnished.  They  paid  their  bills.  There  are  few  banks  in  the 
world  with  that  many  accounts  that  could  say  they  had  not  lost  more 
than  that  amount.  I  doubt  if  there  are  any  banks  that  could  say  it.  In 
addition  to  that,  when  the  mission  was  turned  over  to  President  Wood- 
ruff every  penny  of  the  funds  on  hand  belonging  to  missionaries  was 
returned  to  them,  and  there  was  not  one  of  them  who  owed  the  mission 
anything.   There  had  not  been  an  overdraft  for  more  than  five  years. 

That  group  of  missionaries  baptized  over  11,000  people,  over  9000 
of  them  being  adult  converts,  not  children.  They  worked  hard  and 
faithfully,  and  I  give  this  testimony  to  the  children  of  men  today  that  it 
may  occupy  a  place  in  the  history  of  this  Church,  and  may  stand  to  the 
honor  and  the  truth  and  the  integrity  of  the  men  and  women  of  the 
Church,  covering  a  period  of  twenty-six  or  twenty-seven  years.  Most 
of  these  missionaries  are  now  actively  engaged  at  home.  Some  of  them 
could  be  more  diligent  it  is  true,  but  perhaps  that  isn't  altogether  their 
fault.  Since  returning  home  I  have  found  them,  when  I  have  visited 
the  stakes,  serving  in  stake  presidencies,  as  bishops,  bishops'  counselors, 
in  the  auxiliary  associations ;  and  in  all  the  places  that  men  and  women 
have  been  called  to  occupy.  They  are  engaged  in  positions  of  trust  and 
in  presiding  capacities  everywhere.  This  is  true  of  representatives  of 
all  the  missions ;  I  know  this  about  those  of  the  Central  States,  but  I  am 
quite  sure  it  could  be  said  about  all  the  missions  of  the  Church. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  will  never  fail.  It 
has  steadily  grown  in  membership,  and  it  has  steadily  grown  in  faith. 
The  integrity  of  the  men  and  women  today  who  go  out  into  the  mission 
field  is  just  as  great  as  it  was  twenty-five  years  ago. 

There  is  a  great  spirit  of  friendship  in  the  world,  and  there  ought 
to  be.  W!e  ought  not  to  meet  the  opposition  that  we  did  a  hundred  years 
ago,  when  those  mighty  men  under  the  leadership  of  Joseph  the  Prophet 
and  Brigham  Young  fought  so  hard  for  the  establishment  of  the  Church 
and  its  standards.  It  was  the  very  opposite  of  what  the  people  were 
being  taught  at  that  time.  But  a  continuation  of  the  practices  and  teach- 
ings of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  brought  about  a  change  in  the 
hearts  of  the  children  of  men.  It  will  continue  to  be  so.  I  know  that  we 
will  be  tempted  by  the  Evil  One,  as  Brother  Ivins  so  well  stated  this 
morning.  I  think  that  Lucifer  will  fight  with  more  vigor  from  now  on 
than  he  has  ever  fought  before,  but  so  will  God  our  Eternal  Father.  The 
battle  that  was  begun  in  that  world  from  which  we  came  is  still  going  on. 
The  men  and  women  who  fought  for  the  principles  of  right  before  the 
foundations  of  this  earth  were  laid  have  been  in  the  earth  in  the  past  and 
are  today,  carrying  on  under  the  leadership  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord. 
They  are  fighting  for  the  right,  for  the  establishment  of  God's  work  and 
to  bring  about  the  plan  that  he  intended  should  be  accomplished  when 
he  sent  his  children  into  the  world. 

There  is  a  fine  opportunity  for  this  work  to  continue.   I  am  not  the 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


least  bit  discouraged  about  the  things  we  hear — the  things  that  might 
appear  to  hinder  the  progress  of  this  Church.  There  is  nothing  worth 
while  in  the  world  that  we  can  get  easily ;  we  have  to  work  for  it.  It  will 
demand  the  support  and  attention  of  every  one  who  takes  part  in  the 
Church  to  do  that  for  which  the  Lord  has  sent  us  into  the  world — the 
carrying  on  of  this  Gospel  at  home  and  abroad,  so  as  to  fulfil  the  pur- 
poses of  the  Almighty  as  planned  by  his  servants,  prophesied  by  his 
prophets,  and  taught  by  those  who  went  out  under  his  name. 

I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God.  I  know  that 
Brigham  Young  was  the  great  leader  that  history  says  he  was.  I  never 
knew  him  except  as  I  have  read  about  him.  I  was  not  intimately  ac- 
quainted with  those  who  followed  him,  although  I  remember  John  Taylor, 
Wilford  Woodruff,  and  Lorenzo  Snow.  But  my  ministry,  my  intimate 
association  with  the  leadership  of  this  Church,  began  with  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  and  has  continued  with  President  Heber  J.  Grant.  I 
have  seen  these  men  on  the  firing  line  out  in  the  world,  I  have  seen 
them  at  home,  and  I  want  to  tell  you  that  the  integrity  of  the  Church 
under  the  leadership  of  the  men  who  have  been  placed  at  its  head  cannot 
be  questioned.  If  the  world  had  what  we  have,  if  the  world  could  preach 
what  we  preach,  I  tell  you  the  institutions  of  learning  would  be  changed 
everywhere.  The  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  has  never  come  to  them  : 
when  it  does  it  will  make  them  powerful  and  great  agencies  for  truth. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  this  is  the  work  of  God.  I  am  glad 
to  be  home  again  in  the  bosom  of  the  Church,  visiting  in  the  stakes,  and 
to  find  the  men  and  women  there  that  I  do  find,  associated  in  the  different 
organizations.  It  has  been  a  great  pleasure  to  visit  the  various  stakes 
and  see  the  young  folks  of  the  Church  take  their  part  in  the  different 
auxiliary  organizations,  and  also  in  the  Priesthood  circles  that  T  have 
come  in  contact  with.  I  am  happy  to  be  here.  I  know  that  the  work  of 
God  is  safe  in  the  hands  of  the  Priesthood  of  this  Church.  I  care  not 
for  the  attacks  of  the  outside.  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord  won  in  the  begin- 
ning and  he  will  win  in  the  end^  He  did  it  with  his  sons  and  his  daughters 
before,  and  he  will  do  it  now,  for  this  is  his  work  and  it  cannot  be  frus- 
trated. Amen. 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

In  these  days  of  indecision,  uncertainty,  and  confusion  concerning 
the  things  that  have  to  do  with  the  economic  life  of  the  country,  con- 
cerning education  and  science,  it  is  not  remarkable  that  men's  hearts 
begin  to  fail  them  when  they  stop  to  consider  the  question  of  religion. 
It  seems  as  though  men  are  running  to  and  fro,  trying  to  find  their  way 
out,  but  because  of  the  darkness  it  is  more  difficult  than  they  anticipated 
to  get  into  the  sunshine  again. 

As  Latter-day  Saints  we  have  faith  in  God  the  Eternal  Father  and 
in  this  great  work  which  has  been  established  in  our  day.   But  even  with 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 


123 


all  of  the  supervision  and  the  knowledge  and  the  guidance  that  we 
receive,  I  am  afraid  that  our  hearts  waver  at  times  and,  if  we  are  not 
careful,  we  begin  to  doubt  regarding  some  of  the  things  that  have  to  do 
with  God  and  his  work. 

It  seems  to  me  that  there  are  a  few  things  that  will  help  us  hold  on 
and  steady  ourselves,  that  will  stabilize  the  faith  we  have  in  this  work. 
One  thing  essential  to  the  faith  of  the  people  is  confidence  in  the  leader- 
ship of  the  Church,  in  God's  servants  whom  he  has  chosen  to  lead  and 
direct  his  people.  I  say  that  unless  we  have  that  confidence  and  the 
determination  to  follow  our  leaders  and  accept  their  guidance  andcounsel, 
our  faith  will  grow  weaker,  we  will  not  have  the  strength  to  stand  and  do 
the  things  which  God  would  have  us  do. 

I  am  not  thinking  only  of  the  leadership  of  the  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church,  but  also  of  the  leadership  of  the  Stake  Presidencies,  of 
Bishops,  the  Priesthood  of  our  Church,  and  the  men  and  women  who 
have  been  chosen  to  guide  and  direct  the  auxiliary  work  of  the  Church. 
It  takes  confidence  in  these  men  and  women  if  we  are  to  get  from  the 
spirit  of  the  Church  the  things  that  God  expects  us  to  get.  It  is  agreed 
that  we  are  human,  that  we  may  make  mistakes ;  but  the  few  mistakes, 
if  there  are  any  that  may  come  to  us  because  of  this  leadership,  are  not 
comparable  to  the  thousands  of  fine,  splendid  things  that  this  leadership 
does  for  us.  Their  counsel,  their  instruction,  the  wisdom  that  God  gives 
to  them,  so  outweigh  any  possible  harm  that  if  we  would  keep  our  faith 
we  must  believe  and  have  confidence  in  the  leadership  that  God  has 
given  us. 

I  think  I  would  be  the  most  miserable  of  men  if  I  had  to  sit  in  an 
audience  and  continually  decide  whether  the  leaders  of  my  Church  were 
speaking  by  the  gift  and  power  of  God  or  whether  they  were  speaking 
of  themselves.  I  have  found  in  my  experience  that  when  I  have  followed 
the  counsel  and  instruction  given  to  me  by  my  leaders,  even  though  I 
could  not  understand  the  thing  at  the  time,  I  have  always  come  out  better 
in  the  end,  and  God  has  blessed  me  because  I  have  given  my  allegiance 
and  confidence  to  the  men  who  have  a  right  to  guide  and  direct  me  in  the 
affairs  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  help  us  to  keep 
in  our  souls  love  and  confidence  for  those  who  preside  over  us,  that  we 
shall  not  be  found  wanting,  that  we  shall  not  be  found  on  the  wrong 
side,  that  we  shall  not  be  found  where  criticism  is,  or  allying  ourselves 
with  those  who  are  trying  to  destroy  God's  work  by  trying  to  destroy 
our  faith  and  our  confidence  in  these  men  that  we  love  as  life  itself.  I 
bear  you  my  testimony  that  these  men  are  men  of  God,  whom  he  has 
chosen  and  placed  here,  that  we  might  find  our  way  safely  back  into  the 
kingdom  of  God  under  their  supervision  and  direction.  May  God  bless 
us  to  this  end,  I  pray,  in  Jesus  Christ's  name,  Amen. 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  WILLIAM  R.  SLOAN 

President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission 

I  bring  you  greetings,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  from  ten  thousand 
Latter-day  Saints  in  the  Northwestern  States  Mission. 

Next  Saturday  and  Sunday  from  seven  to  ten  hundred  people  will 
assemble  in  Portland  in  our  annual  Mutual  Improvement  contest  work. 
On  Sunday  evening  we  will  broadcast  our  Music  Festival  over  the 
Columbia  national  network,  connecting  fifty  stations  from  coast  to  coast. 

Never  before  in  my  life,  and  I  have  been  attending  these  conferences 
for  many  years,  have  I  felt  the  same  inspiration  and  cooperation  that  I 
have  during  the  sessions  of  this  conference.  As  I  stand  before  this 
microphone  gazing  into  the  faces  of  thousands  of  people  before  me,  how 
I  wish  that  television  were  perfected,  so  that  the  world  could  witness 
this  great  congregation  of  people — men  before  me  and  behind  me  who  are 
revered  by  thousands  of  people  as  God's  servants ;  men  who  have  served 
and  are  now  serving  their  nation  in  offices  of  trust  and  responsibility — 
the  governor  of  our  state,  and  other  men  associated  with  him  in  thv. 
political  field.  Educators,  presidents  of  colleges,  and  men  from  all 
branches  of  our  industrial  life  are  here.  Then  I  look  into  the  faces  of 
the  most  queenly  women  in  all  the  world.  No  purer  women,  no  purer 
men  can  be  found  on  God's  footstool  than  are  registered  as  members 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Some  weeks  ago  I  listened  to  a  program  over  the  radio  at  which 
time  the  minister  in  his  prayer  prayed  thus.  "Oh  God,  come  down  and 
make  thy  reality  known!"  In  a  recent  magazine  an  article  appeared 
descriptive  of  the  chaotic  condition  among  the  Christian  churches.  The 
writer  said  the  thing  that  was  needed  now  was  for  God  to  come  down 
and  say  "Hello"  to  the  people  of  the  churches. 

I  listened  to  the  testimony  of  our  beloved  President  who  in  most 
solemn  declaration  bore  witness  of  the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  and  of  the  visit  of  the  Father  and  the  Son  who  appeared 
to  the  young  man  in  person.  The  vision  was  not  an  hallucination,  it  was  a 
reality.  The  Prophet  Joseph  for  seven  years  was  under  the  divine 
tutorship  of  holy  men,  prophets  who  had  lived  upon  this  earth.  Under 
their  tutorship  he  was  schooled  and  prepared  for  his  great  mission  of 
ushering  in  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times.  I  marvel  that  the 
world  is  so  blind  to  the  sublime  truths. 

I  think  of  the  father  of  our  country,  George  Washington,  the  man 
to  whom  we  all  pay  homage,  leading  the  armies  of  our  country,  at  Valley 
Forge,  and  later  as  President  of  these  United  States.  In  the  Congres- 
sional Library  at  Washington  there  are  some  2,'654  books  treating  more 
or  less  on  his  life,  while  here  is  a  boy  born  in  the  humblest  of  circum- 
stances, uneducated  in  the  colleges  of  learning,  and  yet  in  the  archives 
of  the  Church  are  to  be  found  some  20,000  volumes  giving  something 
of  the  life  of  Joseph  Smith.  Many  of  them  however  are  books  from  the 
pens  of  his  enemies. 


ELDER  WILLIAM  R.  SLOAN  125 

Who  is  this  man  Joseph  Smith  ?  Who  can  understand  him  ?  Only 
members  of  this  Church  can  appreciate  that  he  was  and  is  a  prophet  of 
God,  and  we  sing  with  heart  and  voice,  as  we  did  today : 

Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with  Jehovah ! 
Jesus  anointed  that  prophet  and  seer ! 
Blessed  to  open  the  last  dispensation, 
Kings  shall  extol  him  and  nations  revere  ! 

This  is  my  testimony,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  V.  BLUTH 

President  of  the  Canadian  Mission 

I  rejoice  exceedingly,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  privilege  of 
again  attending  a  general  conference  of  the  Church,  in  the  things  that 
we  have  heard,  the  testimonies  that  have  been  borne,  the  doctrines  and 
principles  that  have  been  enunciated. 

This  morning  I  had  an  hour  of  infinite  enjoyment.  I  have  not 
been  blessed  with  a  very  sensitive  ear.  I  have  not  perhaps,  therefore,  as 
keen  an  appreciation  of  musical  sounds  as  have  some,  but  I  sat  here 
entranced  with  joy,  peace,  and  comfort  in  my  heart  and  my  soul  uplifted 
to  think  I  live  in  a  day  and  age  when  such  a  thing  as  that  could  be  given 
unto  us.  Not  alone  the  artistry  of  the  message  brought  to  us  by  the 
choir  and  the  organ,  but  the  spirit  and  the  power  and  the  vitality  that 
accompanied  it,  bear  testimony  unto  our  hearts.  I  can  echo  the  wish 
that  has  been  here  expressed  that  the  world  could  have  been  here  and 
heard.  Much  of  the  prejudice  which  we  contend  with  now  would  be  dis- 
sipated, because  people  would  see  for  themselves ;  but  now  they  are  not 
even  willing  to  listen  for  fear  they  may  be  convinced  of  something  con- 
trary to  that  which  they  have  always  heard. 

We  have  had  a  very  severe  winter  in  Canada,  but  milder  weather  has 
come  now,  and  we  are  grateful  for  it.  We  have  had  considerable  sick- 
ness at  various  times  among  our  missionaries,  but  they  are  now  all  well 
and  very  grateful  to  our  Heavenly  Father  for  their  health.  There  has 
been  considerable  disunity  among  members  of  the  Church  in  the  past, 
fault-finding  and  criticism,  but  much  of  that  has  disappeared  for  which 
we  rejoice. 

We  have  but  few  missionaries.  We  had  to  withdraw  from  four  of 
our  districts.  We  hope  the  times  will  change  and  that  more  help  will  be 
given,  that  we  might  re-establish  ourselves  there  and  continue  the  work. 

I  might  say  that  up  until  the  present  time  we  have  had  one  thousand 
per  cent  more  baptisms  this  year  than  we  had  a  year  ago  during  the  same 
period.  That  sounds  big,  but  it  is  not  so  big  as  it  sounds.  At  this  time  a 
year  ago  we  were  able  to  report  but  one  baptism,  and  this  year  we  have 
had  ten  thus  far.  I  wish  that  we  could  realize  a  continuation  of  that  kind 
of  increase  for  the  entire  year.  That  is  possibly  beyond  us,  but  I  do  pray 
that  my  brethren  and  sisters  in  the  mission  field,  and  that  you  all  may 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


exercise  your  prayers  to  the  end  that  our  labors  may  be  so  fruitful  there 
that  we  shall  be  able  to  draw  the  people  away  from  the  delusions  in  which 
they  find  themselves,  and  from  their  self-centered  and  satisfied  feeling. 
One  lady  expressed  it  in  this  wise :  "I  do  not  want  any  of  your  tracts 
or  any  of  your  teachings.  I  do  not  think  it  is  fair  for  us  to  read  or 
listen  to  anything  that  will  weaken  our  faith  in  our  own  church."  When 
they  thus  set  themselves  against  the  truth,  do  not  wish  to  listen  to  it, 
lest  it  might  cause  some  sacrifice  to  accept  it,  of  course  they  lose  the 
blessing  we  offer  unto  them.  It  touches  our  hearts,  but  we  can  only  go 
to  others  and  seek  to  bring  them  the  Gospel.  We  have  joy  in  our  labors. 
We  thank  God  for  the  privilege  of  working  in  this  cause  and  seeking 
to  bring  souls  unto  him,  and  in  a  humble  way  be  his  assistants  in  the 
accomplishment  of  his  great  and  glorious  work. 

I  have  a  testimony  of  the  truth  and  the  divinity  of  this  work.  I 
obtained  it  fifty-eight  years  ago  in  Stockholm,  Sweden,  when  I  accepted 
baptism  at  the  hands  of  one  of  our  brethren  who  became  a  bishop  of 
one  of  the  wards  in  this  city,  and  that  testimony  has  never  gone  from  me. 
I  rejoice  in  it;  I  treasure  it;  I  know  nothing  so  great  in  my  life  as  the 
possession  of  that  testimony,  and  to  be  assured  of  the  truth,  to  knov 
where  we  are  going,  and  that  only  we  ourselves  can  hinder  our  progress 
and  our  advancement,  and,  eventually,  our  joy  and  exaltation  in  the 
celestial  kingdom  of  God. 

May  God  bless  you  and  me  and  all  of  us  who  are  his  covenant  people, 
in  giving  of  our  means,  our  talents,  and  our  ability  to  God's  work,  that 
this  work  shall  spread  and  that  righteousness  and  truth  may  fill  the 
whole  earth,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY 

President  of  the  California  Mission 

I  appreciate  this  great  opportunity  and  I  sense  the  responsibility. 
I  have  undergone  great  anxiety  for  three  days,  and  now  if  I  can  have  as 
faithful  a  prayer  offered  for  me  as  I  have  been  offering  for  those  who 
have  spoken  during  this  conference,  I  shall  be  happy  indeed. 

To  come  up  here  and  bring  good  news  from  California  is  happiness. 
If  there  is  any  schism  or  division  I  have  not  discovered  it.  There  seems 
to  be  peace,  love,  good-will,  brotherly  kindness  in  the  hearts  of  the  people. 

We  have  been  favored  recently  with  a  visit  from  Elder  George 
Albert  Smith,  and  he  has  brought  us  a  great  refreshing.  The  people 
have  turned  out  en  masse  to  hear  him ;  strangers  have  attended.  They 
have  testified  that  they  have  been  impressed  and  more  than  impressed. 
They  have  testified  that  they  have  been  inspired.  The  friendliness  of  the 
people  is  made  manifest  unto  us  on  every  hand. 

We  have  been  blessed  with  an  increased  number  of  missionaries. 
The  investigators  are  more  numerous  than  at  any  other  time  during  my 
experience.  Last  year  was  the  most  favorable  year  according  to  the 
record,  so  far  as  baptisms  are  concerned,  in  the  history  of  the  mission. 
The  expense  of  the  missionaries  was  never  so  low  as  now.  Through 


ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY 


127 


the  goodness  of  the  Saints  we  have  been  able  to  care  for  missionaries 
at  an  average  cost  of  less  than  seventeen  dollars  per  month.  There  is 
a  great  opportunity  to  serve.  The  people  want  us,  they  are  seeking  the 
truth. 

I  should  like  perhaps  to  mention  one  incident  that  I  think  would  be 
interesting  to  every  soul  in  the  Church.  A  few  months  ago  we  sent  two 
Elders  out  into  Westwood,  up  in  the  mountains  in  one  of  the  lumber 
camps.  We  have  had  people  there  for  years,  some  of  our  people,  but 
we  have  never  been  able  to  get  any  foothold.  Every  foot  of  ground 
there  is  owned  by  the  Red  River  Lumber  Company,  and  every  house 
and  every  shack.  We  were  never  able  to  rent  a  place  where  we  could 
hold  meetings.  We  sent  two  Elders  there  recently,  Elder  Richards  and 
Elder  Foulger,  under  District  President  DeVaugn  Jones.  They  were 
instructed,  "Go  and  visit  our  own  people,  be  prayerful  and  humble,  and 
see  if  we  can  overcome  an  adverse  situation."  We  found  our  own 
people  and  we  visited  the  resident  manager  of  the  Red  River  Lumber 
Company.  There  is  a  community  church  there,  and  we  said,  "May  we 
not  have  the  privilege  of  preaching  the  Gospel  in  that  church  ?"  Finally 
that  privilege  was  promised,  provided  we  would  be  careful  about  what  we 
should  say. 

That  was  not  exactly  what  we  wanted.  We  wanted  the  opportunity 
first  of  teaching,  training,  and  helping  our  own.  We  wanted  the  op- 
portunity of  having  a  more  humble  place  and  having  it  where  we  could 
hold  our  meetings.  Through  the  intercession  of  some  faithful  Saints 
a  place  was  found.  The  man  said :  "What  would  you  need  ?"  We  told 
him.  "What  could  you  pay?"    "The  very  lowest  amount." 

-  He  finally  said  to  our  inquiring  Saints,  (Elder  Young's  family) 
"We  have  a  hall  for  you.  It  is  seated,  there  is  a  piano  in  it,  it  is  heated, 
it  is  lighted;  the  janitorial  work  will  be  taken  care  of.  Would  ten 
dollars  a  month  be  too  much  for  you  ?  We  will  give  you  three  rooms  in 
which  to  take  care  of  your  Sunday  School." 

Of  course  we  counted  that  a  gift  from  God,  we  counted  that  an 
answer  to  prayer. 

When  we  assembled  those  Saints  who  had  not  been  permitted  to 
meet  before,  when  they  stood  up  and  sang  the  hymns  of  Zion,  when  they 
prayed,  when  they  listened  to  the  words  of  truth,  their  hearts  were  melted 
and  their  joy  was  made  almost  complete.  While  visiting  them  recently 
we  invited  this  resident  manager  to  come  to  our  meeting.  We  hardly 
dared  hope  that  he  would  favor  us  with  a  visit,  but  to  our  great  delight 
He  and  his  wife  took  seats  immediately  in  front  of  the  stand,  and  the 
Elders  discoursed  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty.  He  sat  there 
all  attention.  At  the  close  of  the  meeting,  as  I  approached  him  and  held 
out  my  hand,  he  took  me  by  both  hands  and  said :  "I  have  not  only  been 
interested,  I  have  been  blessed.  Where  do  these  Elders  stay?  Could 
some  of  them  come  and  stay  at  our  home?" 

We  said  to  the  two  Elders  that  labored  there,  "You  go ;  you  are 
the  men  who  have  done  the  pioneer  work,"  and  so  they  went. 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  next  morning  as  the  Elders  came  back  rejoicing  we  said  :  "How 
did  you  sleep?" 

They  answered,  "We  could  hardly  sleep,  the  beds  were  too  soft. 
And  he  gave  instructions  to  the  butler  to  feed  us  anything  that  we 
should  ask  for." 

The  mercy  of  the  Lord !  He  is  going  before  us.  He  is  being  upon 
the  right  hand  and  upon  the  left.  This  is  exemplified  every  day.  Since 
that  day  we  have  not  only  held  a  Sunday  School  but  we  have  organized 
a  branch  and  we  have  baptized  converts,  and  there  is  joy  out  in  West- 
wood. 

I  want  to  refer  to  this  one  incident  which  I  think  will  be 
interesting  to  the  people  of  this  Church.  One  of  Phineas  Young's  sons 
lives  there,  and  he  said  in  the  evening :  "Brother  Hinckley,  I  wish  you 
would  come  and  stay  at  our  home.  I  have  something  that  I  should  like 
to  have  you  read,"  and  to  my  delight  he  pulled  out  ten  letters  written 
by  Oliver  Cowdery  to  Phineas  Young  during  the  time  that  Oliver 
Cowdery  was  out  of  the  Church.  The  letters  are  dated  from  1843  to 
1848.   I  sat  up  through  the  night.   I  have  never  had  such  a  thrill  before. 

Brother  Young  said :  "I  have  never  read  them,  the  writing  seems 
so  old-fashioned  that  we  cannot  make  them  out." 

This  to  my  mind  seemed  peculiar  because  the  writing  was  clear, 
the  paper  was  good,  the  ink  had  not  run  or  faded  with  age.  The  paper 
was  yellow,  it  was  broken  in  the  corners ;  the  paper  had  been  folded  and 
sealed  with  sealing  wax.  The  address  was  on  the  outside  with  the 
statement,  "postage  paid." 

I  could  never  describe  to  you  the  thrill  that  I  had  as  I  sat  there  and 
read  those  letters.  I  have  read  of  Oliver  Cowdery,  I  have  shed  tears 
when  I  thought  of  what  the  man  had  witnessed  and  what  he  had  suffered, 
and  then  what  it  must  have  meant  to  have  been  excommunicated  from 
the  Church  and  to  have  been  outside  in  the  darkness.  And  so  about  two 
o'clock  in  the  morning  I  said  to  one  of  the  Elders,  who  had  fallen  asleep : 
"Wake  up  and  listen  to  me  while  I  read." 

If  I  may  have  time  I  should  like  to  read  this  letter  to  you.  It  is 
dated  Tiffin,  Seneca  County,  Ohio,  March  23, 1846,  and  reads  as  follows  : 

Tiffin,  Seneca  County,  Ohio 
March  23,  1846 

Dear  Brother  Phineas : 

Yours  of  the  5th  and  9th,  and  mailed  on  the  11th,  has  just  been  received.  I  was 
not  looking  for  a  letter  from  you,  nor  did  I  expect,  when  one  should  be  received, 
that  it  would  contain  what  yours  does.  I  mean  that  part  relative  to  the  second 
Eldership,  and  Counselorship,  etc. 

Before  the  receipt  of  this,  you  will  have  received  one  from  me,  enclosed  in 
another  to  brother  Daniel.  From  which  you  will  discover  that  your  last  letter  was 
perused  with  the  greatest  satisfaction ;  and  that  one  received  from  brother  Orson 
Hyde  about  the  same  time  was  either  misunderstood,  or  its'  spirit  misconceived  by 
me.  But  from  your  last  I  am  fully  satisfied,  that  no  unjust  imputation  will  be 
suffered  to  remain  upon  my  character.  And  that  I  may  not  be  misunderstood,  let 
me  here  say  that  I  have  only  sought,  and  only  asked,  that  my  Character  might 
stand  exonerated  from  those  charges  which  imputed  to  me  the  crimes'  of  theft, 
forgery,  etc.    Those  which  all  mv  former  associates  knew  to  be  false.    I  do  not, 


ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY 


129 


I  have  never  asked,  to  be  excused,  or  exempted  from  an  acknowledgment,  of  my 
actual  fault  or  wrong — for  of  these  there  are  many;  which  it  was  always  my 
pleasure  to  confess.  I  have  cherished  a  hope,  and  that  one  of  my  fondest,  that  I 
might  leave  such  a  character  as  those  who  might  believe  in  my  testimony,  after  I 
shall  be  called  hence,  might  do  so,  not  only  f  or  the  sake  of  the  truth,  but  might  not 
blush  for  the  private  character  of  the  man  who  bore  that  testimony.  I  have  been 
sensitive  on  this  subject,  I  admit;  but  I  ought  to  be  so — you  would  be,  under  the 
circumstances,  had  you  stood  in  the  presence  of  John,  with  our  departed  Joseph, 
to  receive  the  Lesser  Priesthood — and  in  the  presence  of  Peter,  to  receive  the 
Greater,  and  look  down  through  time,  and  witness  the  effects  these  two  must 
produce, — you  would  feel  what  you  have  never  felt,  were  wicked  men  conspiring 
to  lessen  the  effects  of  your  testimony  on  man,  after  you  should  have  gone  to  your 
long  length  rest.  But  enough,  enough,  of  this.  I  will  here  say  that  I  cannot  fully 
comprehend  the  purport  of  Brother  Hyde's  letter ;  but  from  your  last,  in  referring 
to  a  conversation  by  Brother  Brigham,  about  the  presidency,  I  am  fully,  doubly 
satisfied  that  all  will  be  right,  that  my  character  will  be  fully  vindicated.  I  write 
thus  plainly  because  I  do  not  intend  to  mention  it  again  in  any  of  my  letters.  Let 
the  records  show  what  you,  Brother  Brigham  and  Parley,  say  they  shall  and  you 
will  be  furnished  with  weapons  to  use  against  your  enemies  hereafter  to  good 
effect.  You  say  you  are  to  have  a  meeting  on  the  6th  of  April.  Brother  Phineas, 
I  could  be  with  you  and  tell  you  about  the  6th  of  April,  1830,  when  but  six 
members  only  belonged  to  the  Church  and  how  we  looked  forward  to  a  future, 
I  should  gladly,  but  I  cannot — only  in  spirit — but  in  spirit  I  shall  be  with  you. 
And  then  in  assembled  with  [then  are  some  words  I  could  not  clearly  make  out] 
those  who  are  yet  alive  of  that  six — How  many  can  you  count? 

From  my  letter  to  you  and  brother  Daniel,  you  will  see  that  Brother  Thurston 
left,  much  to  my  regret,  without  letting  me  see  him  again.  I  think  if  he  were  to 
send  me  the  note  that  falls  due  the  first  of  October,  1846,  I  could  get  the  money 
on  it,  by  giving  a  share — by  this  means  I  could  be  with  you  *  *  *  than  I  know  of 
in  any  other  way.  You  will  of  course  see  him  on  the  subject  and  write  me  on 
receipt  of  this.  The  situation  of  my  family  is  such  that  it  is  not  possible  for  me 
to  come  with  them  this  spring;  but  I  want  to  be  prepared  at  the  earliest  moment. 
We  are  well  as  usual.  I  wrote  in  great  haste.  May  the  God  of  our  fathers  bless 
you  and  yours,  and  the  Church  as  a  body.    Such  is  my  prayer. 

I  am  yours  in  the  New  and  Everlasting  Covenant, 

Oliver  Cowdery. 

You  will  never  know  the  spirit  that  was  mine. 

I  stood  in  front  of  the  monument  on  these  grounds  today  and 
looked  at  the  Witnesses.  In  my  heart  I  prayed  for  the  descendants  of 
Oliver  Cowdery,  David  Whitmer,  and  Martin  Harris,  all  good  men  who 
suffered  for  the  truth  in  the  revelation  of  the  everlasting  Gospel,  which 
has  been  restored  through  the  mercy  of  God,  and  which  it  is  our  high 
privilege  to  proclaim  to  the  world. 

It  is  fifty  years  ago  today  since  I  first  took  upon  me  the  respon- 
sibility of  the  presidency  of  the  deacons — fifty  years  of  joy,  fifty  years 
of  walking  safely  in  the  footsteps  of  the  leaders  of  this  Church.  For 
fifty  years  I  have  been  acquainted  in  a  way  with  every  President  of  the 
Church  from  Brigham  Young  to  Heber  J.  Grant,  and  now  with  my  hair 
white  and  my  experience  ripe  I  testify  that  the  path  of  safety  is  in  follow- 
ing those  whom  God  has  called  and  appointed  to  lead  the  way  and  to  carry 
responsibility  in  this  Church.  I  testify  that  they  are  called  of  him  and 
that  they  lead  by  divine  authority.  The  Lord  says  it  is  given  unto  the 
President  to  have  the  spirit  and  to  be  like  unto  Moses,  a  prophet,  a  seer, 
and  a  revelator,  having  all  the  gifts  of  God  which  he  bestows  upon  the 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


head  of  the  Church.  That  is  what  we  have,  and  is  what  we  will  always 
have  in  our  leaders.  God  help  us  to  be  true  to  them,  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  J.  DAYNES 

President  of  the  Western  States  Mission 

I  am  delighted,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  here  to  represent  the 
Western  States  Mission.  I  rejoice  in  the  opportunity  that  has  come  to 
me  to  be  called  to  this  responsible  position.   I  love  it.   It  is  wonderful. 

We  have  in  our  mission  some  of  the  noblest  and  finest  Elders  and 
lady  missionaries  ever  sent  out  by  the  Church.  Our  work  is  progressing, 
our  baptisms  are  reaching  high  numbers.  I  want  to  say  that  during  this 
past  month  we  have  baptized  forty-two  souls.  Our  tithes  for  last  month 
show  an  increase  of  133%  over  the  same  period  a  year  ago. 

We  love  our  work,  we  bring  you  words  of  greeting.  God  has 
blessed  our  mission.  It  is  a  delightful  place  to  be.  We  hope  there  will 
be  many  young  men  and  young  women  come  into  our  mission.  We  can 
teach  them  the  Gospel,  they  will  enjoy  their  labors,  and  I  am  sure  that 
excellent  results  will  follow. 

I  was  thrilled  with  the  broadcast  .this  morning  by  the  Choir,  and 
wish  to  pay  a  tribute  to  them.  Having  been  raised  in  the  environment  of 
music  I  can  appreciate  the  wonderful  work  that  they  have  done.  Music 
mellows  the  heart,  softens  the  soul,  brightens  the  intellect,  and  increases 
one's  interest  in  eternity.  It  develops  love  and  brotherly  interest,  thaws 
out  the  iceberg  soul,  permits  the  tears  to  flow,  and  fills  one's  heart  with  a 
desire  to  serve  God. 

I  thank  God  that  I  am  a  member  of  this  Church.  It  is  marvelous  and 
wonderful.  I  rejoice  in  the  very  delightful  way  the  non-members  of  the 
Church  receive  us.  Prejudice  has  gone,  interest  is  to  be  'found  every- 
where. We  find  friends  everywhere  we  go.  The  Lord  is  blessing  our 
work. 

I  know  that  the  Gospel  is  true.  I  know  that  God  lives.  I  know 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet,  and 
the  Western  States  Mission  stands  one  hundred  per  cent  behind  the 
President  of  this  Church  in  their  desire  to  serve  and  to  do  their  part  as 
God  directs  them. 

May  his  peace  and  favor  attend  each  and  every  one  of  us  in  our 
desire  to  serve  him,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  am  very  sorry  that  we  have  had  to  skip  again  five  or  six  returned 
mission  presidents  who  have  not  had  an  opportunity  since  their  return  to 
speak  at  a  general  conference.  Notwithstanding  that  three  of  the  General 
Authorities  are  away  we  have  not  been  able  to  hear  from  all  those  whom 
we  desired  to  address  us. 

I  have  been  pleased  beyond  expression  with  the  very  splendid 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


131 


meetings  we  have  had.  Perhaps  we  should  begin  conference  at  least 
one  day  earlier ;  or  else,  say,  at  9 :45  and  at  1 :45,  and  in  this  way  get  in 
an  extra  half  hour  each  day;  then  perhaps  we  could  get  through  and 
hear  from  all  the  brethren  from  whom  we  would  like  to  hear. 

LAST  CONFERENCE  THE  BEST 

It  is  a  common  phrase  that  our  last  conference  is  our  best  one;  and 
I  suppose  the  reason  is  that  we  have  the  proper  spirit.  Things  have 
been  so  difficult  financially  during  the  past  years  that  I  believe  there  is 
a  greater  appetite  on  the  part  of  the  people  spiritually  than  they  had 
a  year  ago,  and  that  accounts  perhaps  for  saying  that  we  have  had  a  very 
fine  conference,  one  of  the  best  that  I  have  attended  since  becoming 
the  President  of  the  Church. 

FAITH  HOW  DEVELOPED  AND  MAINTAINED 

I  am  grateful  indeed  for  the  advancement  of  the  Church,  for  the 
faith  of  the  people.  Faith  is  a  gift  of  God,  and  faith  comes  to  each  and 
all  of  us  who  serve  God  and  supplicate  him  for  the  guidance  of  his 
Spirit.  There  is  no  danger  of  any  man  or  woman  losing  his  or  her  faith 
in  this  Church  if  he  or  she  is  humble  and  prayerful  and  obedient  to  duty. 
I  have  never  known  of  such  an  individual  losing  his  faith.  By  doing 
our  duty  faith  increases  until  it  becomes  perfect  knowledge. 

It  has  been  a  source  of  great  pleasure  to  me  to  listen  to  the  testi- 
monies that  have  been  borne  here  of  an  absolute  knowledge  of  the  divinity 
of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged. 

INSTRUCTIONS  REGARDING  SELECTING  MISSIONARIES 

I  wish  again  to  ask  the  presidents  of  stakes — I  intended  to  do  it 
last  night,  but  forgot — before  recommending  a  man  for  a  mission  to 
sit  down  with  him  and  find  out  if  he  is  ready  to  go  and  if  he  is  capable 
of  representing  the  Church  in  the  mission  field.  We  do  not  want  any 
more  missionaries  to  be  sent  into  the  world  to  be  reformed.  Do  not 
forget  this.  We  do  not  want  bishops  to  listen  to  the  pleadings  of  fathers 
and  mothers  to  send  us  young  men  who  perhaps  will  smoke  before  they 
get  across  the  ocean.  We  want  every  president  of  a  stake  to  sign  his 
name  at  the  bottom  of  a  recommendation  and  write  a  few  lines  on  the 
recommendation  form  or  write  a  letter  with  every  recommendation,  say- 
ing that  he  has  interviewed  the  person  recommended  and  found  him  to 
be  in  every  way  worthy  to  go  into  the  mission  field.  If  they  do  not  do 
this  we  will  have  to  send  the  recommendation  back  to  them.  We  want 
them  to  know  by  personal  conversation,  by  sitting  down  and  talking  with 
the  young  man  or  the  young  woman,  that  he  or  she  has  a  willingness 
to  go  on  a  mission.  I  am  not  asking  that  they  shall  have  a  testimony; 
but  I  want  them  to  be  clean,  and  I  haven't  the  least  doubt  on  earth,  if  they 
go  out  clean  and  with  a  desire  to  serve,  that  God  will  give  them  not  only 
faith  but  a  knowledge  of  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are  en- 
gaged. 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


BLESSES  SAINTS 

I  think  that  covers  all  that  I  want  to  say,  except  that  wherein  the 
power  is  given  to  me,  with  all  my  heart  and  soul,  I  bless  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  I  thank  them  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart  for  their  faith,  and 
for  their  prayers  in  my  behalf,  and  am  grateful  to  have  had  their  faith 
and  prayers.  I  am  stronger,  and  have  more  vitality,  also  have  greater 
force,  than  I  had  thirty  years  ago  when  leaving  to  preside  over  the 
European  Mission.  I  believe  that  all  true,  faithful,  diligent  Latter-day 
Saints  have  given  to  me  the  best  that  is  in  them,  in  supplicating  God  in 
my  behalf,  for  his  Spirit,  for  health,  for  vigor  of  body  and  of  mind. 
I  pray  that  God's  blessings  may  be  upon  Israel  and  upon  all  honest  men 
everywhere.  I  pray  with  all  my  heart  that  those  who  have  made  mistakes 
will  repent;  and  by  this  we  may  know  that  they  have  repented — they 
will  confess  their  sins  and  depart  from  them. 

God  help  them  to  do  that,  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of 
our  Redeemer,  Amen. 

The  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "The  Lord  Victorious." 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  pronounced  the  benediction. 
Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


The  singing  at  the  various  sessions  of  the  Conference  was  conducted 
by  Anthony  C.  Lund,  assisted  by  Albert  J.  Southwick,  David  E.  Smith, 
and  Charlotte  O.  Sackett. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played  by 
Frank  Wl  Asper  and  Wade  N.  Stephens. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Authorities  Present   1 

Authorities,  Presentation  of    2 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J   66 

A  marvelous  change,  66 — Enemy  seeking  new  means,  66 — Dawning  of 
a  new  day,  67 — Satan's  allurements,  67 — A  changing  world,  68 — True 
to  our  standards,  68 — God's  work  shall  triumph,  69 — Church  not  found 
wanting,  69 — A  glorious  future,  70. 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  0  120 

Bluth,  Elder  John  V  125 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A   48 

A  vision  of  Deity,  48 — The  words  of  Isaiah,  49 — Prophecies  that  have 
been  fulfilled,  49 — A  s'olid  foundation,  49 — Prophecies  of  a  modern 
prophet,  50 — Testimonies  of  those  not  of  us,  SO — An  experience  in 
Atlanta,  Georgia,  SO — With  no  uncertain  sound,  51. 

Cannon,  Elder  Sylvester  Q   71 

Labors  of  Presiding  Bishopric,  71 — Progress  of  the  Church,  71 — 
Growth  of  the  Priesthood,  72 — Great  mission  of  the  Church,  72 — 
Great  missionary  work  of  the  past,  72 — Pioneering  and  empire  build- 
ing, 73 — Spiritual  and  cultural  growth,  73 — Another  era,  73 — Funda- 
mental principles',  73 — The  challenge  to  us,  74 — Build  faith  and  right- 
eousness, 74 — Advancement  of  missionary  work,  74 — Development  of 
finer  civilization,  75 — Improvement  in  education,  75 — Improvement  in 
employment  conditions,  76 — Welfare  of  women  and  children,  76 — 
Better  community  building,  76 — Development  of  local  industries  and 
resources,  77 — Make  our  communities  attractive,  77 — Better  homes — 
more  neighborliness,  77. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   90 

Compliments  singers)  and  musicians,  91 — As  a  result  of  purity  and 
chastity,  91 — "The  truth  shall  make  you  free," — Sheep  who  stray 
away,  92 — Should  not  challenge  truth,  92 — The  truth  that  there  is 
truth,  92 — The  only  source  of  salvation,  92 — The  great  truth  of  mod- 
ern revelation,  93< — Men  who  are  not  learned,  93 — Material  and  spirit- 
ual learning,  94 — The  challenge  of  experimentation,  94 — No  com- 
promise with  error,  95 — Prays  for  understanding  of  spiritual 
truths,  95. 

Clawson,  President  Rudger   51 

The  Articles  of  Faith,  51 — Ministers1  answer  questions,  52 — The  Bible 
a  precious  book,  52 — Meeting  of  mission  presidents,  53 — Spirit  of 
testimony  with  leaders  and  people,  54. 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Colton,  Elder  Don  B   ,62 

Cutler,  Elder  Newel  J   87 

Daynes,  Elder  Joseph  J   130 

Financial  and  Statistical  Report   4 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting   2 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   25 

General  Authorities  Present    1 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church   2 

General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church   3 

General  Officers  of  the  Church   3 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   2 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers,  2. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   7 


Recalls  early  trip,  7 — Divine  authority  restored,  7 — Chapels'  dedi- 
cated, 8 — Have  truth  to  give,  8 — Testimony  remains,  9 — Missionaries 
happy,  9 — Lying  scored,  9 — Church  makes  no  mistakes,  10 — President 
Smith's  last  message,  10 — While  presiding  in  Tooele,  10 — Growth 
through  observance  of  duty,  11 — Possesses  knowledge,  11 — The  Lord 
prepares  the  way,  11 — Thankful  for  wise  counselors,  12 — Confident 
Church  will  triumph,  12 — An  early  experience  with  planchettes',  12 — 
Result  of  Godbeite  movement,  13 — Recalls'  other  instances,  14 — The 
testimony  of  Wilford  Woodruff,  14 — A  tribute  to  mothers,  15 — Hon- 
ored by  Church,  15 — Praises  own  mother,  IS — Inquired  for  Elder 
Ivins,  16 — Thankful  for  testimony,  16 — Colonel  Hawes'  tribute,  16. 


Grant,  President  Heber  J  105 

Members  of  the  Twelve  who  are  absent,   105 — Compliments  the 
Choir,  105. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  105 

Music  by  our  own  composers,  105. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  130 

Last  conference  the  best,  131 — Faith — how  developed  and  maintained, 
131 — Instructions  regarding  selecting  missionaries,  131 — Blesses 
Saints,  132. 

Hinckley,  Elder  Alonzo  A  126 

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W   95 


Sees  ray  of  hope,  96 — Satan  cast  out,  96 — A  son  of  the  morning,  96 — 
His  character  and  subtle  power,  97 — Seeks  dominion  over  the  earth, 
97 — Devil  worship,  98 — Once  an  intelligent  and  mighty  people,  98 — 
Image  of  the  serpent,  99 — Opposed  to  Christ  and  his  mission,  99 — 
Satan  still  lives,  100 — Man  an  agent  unto  himself,  100 — Satan's 
power  limited,  101 — An  armor  against  Satan's  power,  101— Must  be 
cultivated,  101 — A  scriptural  answer,  102— The  same  wily  de- 
ceiver, 102.  -/  ■ 


INDEX 


135 


Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R. 
Jones,  Elder  Miles  L.  . 


118 
.40 
31 
106 


Kimball,  Elder  J.  Golden 
Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R. 


Impressive  national  broadcast,  106 — Remarks  addressed  to  President 
Grant,  106— M.  I.  A.  work,  106— Support  for  President  Grant,  107 — 
Are  we  genuinely  converted,  108 — Judging  ourselves,  108 — Doing  the  • 
will  of  the  Father,  108 — Are  we  honest,  109 — Are  there  robbers 
among  us,  110 — Dues  to  the  Church  and  to  the  Lord,  110 — Real  wor- 
ship, 110 — Praying,  111 — Summary,  112. 

McKay,  Elder  David  0   20 

Pays  tribute  to  officers  and  teachers,  21 — Successful  conventions,  21 — 
Seeking  and  desirous  of  living  the  truth,  21 — Wielding  an  influence 
for  good,  22 — As  a  result  of  religious  convictions,  22 — Latter-day 
Saint  standards,  22 — The  personality  of  God,  23 — A  means  of  con- 
summating God's  purposes,  23 — As  a  means  of  accomplishing  specific 
objectives,  24 — The  principles  of  true  Christianity,  24. 


A  diminishing  faith  in  God,  25 — An  understanding  of  the  purpose 
of  life,  26 — Divine  truths  revealed  through  a  prophet,  26 — Our  re- 
sponsibility to  mankind,  27 — The  only  means  of  securing  peace  and 
happiness,  27 — Our  privilege  and  duty,  27 — Preparation  for  Celestial 
glory,  28 — Divine  authority  necessary,  28 — Progress  of  Church  can 
not  be  impeded  by  man,  29 — The  only  plan,  30 — Should  magnify  our 
calling,  30 — Rejoices'  in  companionship  of  Church  authorities,  30. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding    17 

Importance  of  record  keeping,  17 — Information  furnished  by  his- 
torian, 18 — Recorder's  office  an  important  one,  19 — Individual  rec- 
ords, 19— Patriarchal  journals  and  private  journals,  20. 


Pratt,  Elder  Harold  W  

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand  ...... 

Romney,  Elder  George  S  

Rowan,  Elder  Charles  E.,  Jr.  ... 
Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting  . 
Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting 

Sloan,  Elder  William  R  

Smith,  Elder  David  A  

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert  


.88 
84 
64 

102 
48 
66 

124 
58 
25 


Smith,  Elder  Willard  L 


80 
34 


Smoot,  Elder  Reed 


Fulfilment  of  God's  promises,  35 — Work  for  the  dead,  35 — Under 
the  higher  Priesthood,  36 — Free  agency,  36 — Necessity  of  labor,  36 — 
Individual  responsibility,  37 — Some  achievements,  37 — Results1  follow- 
ing neglect,  38 — Remember  the  Lord,  39 — Friends  of  Jesus,  39. 


136 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Taylor,  Elder  John  H  122 

Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting   90 

Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting     105 

Welling,  Elder  Arthur    45 

Wells,  Elder  John    81 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S   55 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A  113 


An  occasion  of  great  joy,  113 — Outpouring  cf  spirit  in  mission  field, 
113 — Those  making  missionary  service  possible,  113 — The  mission- 
ary— his  discoveries  and  growth,  113 — The  Saints  in  the  mission 
fields,  114 — The  eternal  battle,  114 — Refused  entrance,  115 — Vital 
questions,  115 — A  pathetic  chapter,  115 — Ethics  versus  religion,  115 — 
Spiritual  foundation  necessary,  1 16 — The  common  man's  problem, 
116 — The  only  solution,  116 — Greater  than  truth,  117 — Every  man 
may  know  for  himself,  117. 

Woodruff,  Elder  Elias  S   42 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar    78 


THE  FALLING  AWAY 

By  B.  H.  ROBERTS 

This  new  work  is  a  ringing  challenge  to  Christendom  and  a  frank 
:ndictment  of  the  multifarious  creeds  that  are  an  outgrowth  of  the  dis- 
integrated Apostolic  Church.  It  shows  most  conclusively  and  brilliant- 
1  that  all  the  churches  had  departed  from  the  true  pattern  of  Christ 
and  lost  the  authority  completely,  long  before  the  New  Dispensation 
was  ushered  in  through  the  instrumentality  of  Joseph  Smith. 

Yet  the  motive  of  the  author  is  not  to  tear  down,  but  rather  to 
build  up;  had  there  been  no  "falling  away,"  the  claim  of  the  prophet 
of  the  New  Dispensation  would  have  been  an  imposture;  if  there  was  a 
"falling  away,"  however,  his  claim  is  credible.  It  was  to  establish  this 
fact  sharply  and  conclusively  that  these  radio  addresses  were  given. 
All  who  heard  Elder  Roberts  or  who  will  read  these  published  dis- 
courses, will  agree  that  he  has  accomplished  the  end  in  a  scholarly  and 
convincing  manner. 

Though  most  of  the  discourses  deal  with  eras  of  apostasy  and 
centuries  of  discord,  the  ultimate  message  of  the  book  is  one  of  hope 
and  salvation  for  the  world.  The  three  discourses  on  the  Restoration 
read  like  the  happy  outcome  of  an  otherwise  tragic  story.  You  feel  at 
the  end  that  the  author  has  performed  a  necessary  but  melancholy 
task,  only  that  he  might  invest  with  true  meaning  the  unique  claim  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  Appendix  of  the  new  work  is  an  answer  to  Catholic  charges 
that  the  author  had  been  unfair  in  his  use  of  evidence  and  presentation 
of  historic  facts.  His  reply  is  given  with  enough  zestful  detail  to 
leave  the  reader  without  a  single  doubt. 

Price  $1.50 


Sunday  Night  Talks  by  Radio 

By  DR.  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

In  answer  to  an  insistent  demand  the  1930  series  of  L.  D.  S.  Radio 
Addresses  given  by  Dr.  James  E.  Talmage  has  now  been  issued  in 
regular  book  form  under  the  title  of  "Sunday  Night  Talks  By  Radio." 
It  is  printed  on  a  good  grade  of  book  paper  from  type  especially  set 
for  this  edition,  and  durably  bound  in  beautiful  marblex  cloth. 

This  book  will  make  a  beautiful  as  well  as  practical  and  useful  ad- 
dition to  the  library  of  any  member  of  the  Church.  It  will  be  especially 
valuable  to  missionaries  or  prospective  missionaries. 

Price  $1.50  Postpaid 

In  Utah  add  2%  for  Sales  Tax 
Send  your  order  now  to  the 

Deseret  Book  Company 

"The  Home  of  Good  Books" 
44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Chronological  Documentary  History  of  the  Church 

Complete  in  Seven  Volumes 
From  the  Organization  of  the  Church  in  1830  to  the  Arrival  of 
the  Pioneers  in  Salt  Lake  Valley,  1847 


These  books  are  continually  being  used  as  texts  for  some  class  or  organ- 
ization of  the  church. 

This  set  of  books  constitutes  the  authorized  Chronological  History  of  the 
Church  and  is  of  inestimable  value  to  every  church  member.  The  books  may 
be  bought  one  volume  at  a  time  if  desired  or  in  complete  sets  of  seven  vol- 
umes. The  prices  are  as  follows — delivered  to  your  door: 

Cloth  Half  Full 

Binding  Leather  Leather 

Single  Volumes  $2.50  ea.  $3.50  $6.00 

Complete  set  of  seven  volumes  17.50  24.50  42.00 

For  a  limited  time  only  you  may  buy  the  full  set  of  seven  volumes  in 
cloth  binding  for  $15.00  if  cash  accompanies  the  order. 

In  Utah  Add  2%  For  Sales  Tax 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

44  East  on  South  Temple  Salt  Lake  City  P.  O.  Box  958 


