>  '>  * > .  ,  SEVENTY-SECOND  ft  •  -M * ,: 

Iemi  -Annual  Conference  i 

^  OF  THE 

&  w 

KCHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST  OFi 

^      LATTER-DAY  SAINTS,  jig 

*  w 

>  w 

}     Held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  October  4th,  w 

5th  and  6th,  1901; 


AND  A 


SPECIAL  CONFERENCE, 

Held  November  10th,  1901,  with  Full  Reports 
of  the  Discourses; 


ALSO  AN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  FUNERAL  OF 
THE  LATE  PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 


^  THE  DESERET  NEWS.  W 

I  .90..  w 


Profusely  Illustrated 

A  Magazine  and  a 

with   Etchings  and 

Daily  Newspaper 

Half  Tones. 

Combined. 

The 
Saturday 
News 

24  PAGES. 


Sent  to  any  address 

To  regular  subscribers 

for  $2.00   a  Year. 

of  the   Semi- Weekly 

jfc 

News,  $1.50  a  Year. 

GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS. 


FIRST  DAY. 


The  seventy-second  semi-annual  con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the 
Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  at  10  a.  m., 
October  4,  1901.  President  Snow  being 
absent,  on  account  of  sickness,  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith  presided. 

There  were  present,  of  the  general 
authorities:  of  the  First  Presidency, 
Joseph  F.  Smith;  (President  Snow  was 
absent  on  account  of  sickness.)  Of  the 
quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  theie 
were:  Brigham  Young,  John  Henry 
Smith,  George  Teasdale,  John  W.  Tay- 
lor, Marriner  W.  Merrill,  Anthon  H. 
Lund,  Matthias  F.  Cowley,  Abraham 
O.  Woodruff,  Rudger  Clawson  and  Reed 
Smoot;  Patriarch  John  Smith;  of  the 
First  Seven  Presidents  of  Seventies: 
Seymour  B.  Young,  George  Reynolds, 
Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells 
and  Joseph  W.  McMurrin;  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric:  William  B.  Preston, 
Robert  T.  Burton  and  John  R.  Winder. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  which  begins: 

vjome,  let  us  anew  our  journey  pursue. 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Seymour  B.  Young. 

Singing  by  the  choir  and  congrega- 
tion: 

"Redeemer  of  Israel, 
Our  only  delight, 

On  whom  for  a  blessing  we  call. 
PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


OPENING  ADDRESS. 

Evils  to  be  corrected— Desecration  of  the  Sabbath 
—  dee  of  profane  and  other  improper  language 
—Tobacco  and  strong  drink  habit— Disregard 
of  the  Priesthood— In  relation  to  colonization. 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  we 
greet  you  this  morning,  at  the  opening 
of   this    Seventy-second  Semi-Annual 


Conference,  with  a  hearty  welcome.  We 
are  glad  to  see  so  many  present,  and 
we  sincerely  hope  that  we  all  may  have 
a  season  of  rejoicing  and  of  awakening 
and  strengthening  of  our  faith  and  good 
determinations. 

I  regret  to  have  to  say  that  President 
Snow  is  suffering  with  a  severe  cold, 
and  on  account  of  the  inclement  weath- 
er this  morning  he  deems  it  prudent  not 
to  venture  out;  but  when  the  weather 
is  more  pleasant— possibly  this  after- 
noon—we will  all  rejoice  to  see  him 
present  with  us.  There  is  nothing  seri- 
ous the  matter  with  him  so  far  as  we 
know;  but  we  all  desire  that  he  shall 
be  careful  of  himself,  to  preserve  hits 
life  as  long  as  it  is  possible  and  pleas- 
ing in  the  sight  of  the  Lord  for  him  to 
remain  with  us. 

There  are  many  subjects  of  import- 
ance which  may  be  dwelt  upon  during 
our  conference,  and  we  hope  that  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  will  lead  the  Apos- 
tles and  others  who  may  speak  .to  us., 
that  fhey  may  speak  words  that  shall 
be  meat  in  due  season,  and  that  wt 
may  all  receive  such  instruction,  en 
couragement,  counsel  and  admonition 
as  will  be  proper  and  necessary. 

We  notice  that  there  are  some  evils 
which  seem  to  be  increasing  somewhat 
in  the  land,  and  we  desire  to  make  an 
effort,  as  far  as  it  lies  in  our  power 
with  the  assistance  of  the  Lord,  against 
the  existence  and  the  increase  of  evils 
among  the  Latter-day  Saints.  One  of 
these  evils  is  a  growing  tendency,  espe- 
cially on  the  part  of  our  youth,  to  pay 
but  little  attention  to,  if  not  to  ignore, 
the  observance  of  the  Sabbath  day. 
The  Sabbath  is  a  day  of  rest  and  of 
worship,  designated  and  set  apart  by 
special  commandment  of  the  Lord  to 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  we  should  honor  and 
keep  it  holy.  We  should  also  teach 
our  children  this  principle. 

Another  evil  we  hear  of  too  frequent- 
ly is  the  tendency,  not  only  among  the 
youth  of  Zion,  but  also  among  those  of 
more  mature  years,  to  use  the  name 
of  the  Lord  in  vain  and  to  indulge  in 
profane  expressions  and  epithets  that 
are  contrary  to  the  law  of  God,  and 
that  are  wholly  inconsistent  and  in- 
compatible with  the  profession  of  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  Behold,  the  Lord's 
name  is  holy,  and  God  will  not  hold 
him  guiltless  who  taketh  His  name 
in  vain.  We  should  stamp  out  pro- 
fanity and  vulgarity,  and  everything  of 
that  character  that  exists  among  us; 
for  all  such  things  are  incompatible 
with  the  Gospel  and  inconsistent  in 
the  people  of  God. 

The  use  of  tobacco  in  its  various 
forms  and  of  strong  drink  to  some  ex- 
tent is  also  to  be  lamented  and  de- 
plored, especially  among  the  youth,  and 
this  evil  should  be  stamped  out. 

The  people  of  God  should  set  their 
faces  like  flint  against  these  practices, 
and  they  should  see  to  it  that  their 
children  are  taught  better,  and  that 
a  better  example  is  set  before  them 
by  the  parents,  in  order  that  the  chil- 
dren may  grow  up  without  sin  in 
these  things. 

There  is  also  a  tendency  among  the 
youth,  and,  I  am  sorry  to  say,  among 
some  of  the  older  ones,  to  show  but 
little  regard  for  the  sacredness  of  the 
Holy  Priesthood.  What  I  mean  by 
the  Holy  Priesthood  is  that  authority 
which  God  has  delegated  to  man,  by 
which  he  may  speak  the  will  of  God 
as  though  the  angels  were  here  to  speak 
it  themselves;  by  which  men  are  em- 
powered to  bind  on  earth  and  it  shall 
be  bound  in  heaven,  and  to  loose  on 
earth  and  it  shall  be  loosed  in  heaven; 
by  which  the  words  of  men,  spoken  in 
the  exercise  of  that  power,  become  the 
word  of  the  Lord,  the  law  of 
God  unto  the  people,  scripture,  and 
divine  commands.  It  is  therefore  not 
good  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  and 
the  children  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
should  treat  lightly  this  sacred  prin- 


ciple of  authority  which  has  been  re- 
vealed from  the  heavens  in  the  dispen- 
sation in  which  we  live.  It  is  the  au- 
thority by  which  the  Lord  Almighty 
governs  His  people,  and  by  which,  in 
time  to  come,  He  will  govern  the  na- 
tions of  the  world.  It  is  sacred,  and 
it  must  be  held  sacred  by  the  people. 
It  should  be  honored  and  respected  by 
them,  in  whomsoever  it  is  held,  and 
upon  whomsoever  responsibility  is 
placed  in  the  Church.  The  young  men 
and  young  women  and  the  people  gen- 
erally should  honor  this  principle  and 
recognize  it  as  something  that  is  sa- 
cred, and  that  cannot  be  trifled  with 
nor  spoken  lightly  of  with  impunity. 
Disregard  of  this  authority  leads  to 
darkness  and  to  apostasy,  and  sever- 
ance from  all  the  rights  and  privileges 
of  the  house  of  God;  for  it  is  by  virtue 
of  this  authority  that  the  ordinances 
of  the  Gospel  are  performed  throughout 
the  world  and  in  every  sacred  place^ 
and  without  it  they  cannot  be  per- 
formed. Those  also  who  hold  this  au- 
thority should  honor  it  in  themselves. 
They  should  live  so  as  to  be  worthy 
of  the  authority  vested  in  them,  and 
worthy  of  the  gifts  that  have  been  be- 
stowed upon  them. 

Again,  we  do  not  desire  to  encourage 
the  scattering  of  our  people  to  distant 
places,  separating  and  drawing  them- 
selves apart  from  the  Saints  and  from 
the  organizations  of  the  Church.  we 
notice  a  tendency  on  the  part  of  some, 
who  are  restless  and  discontented,  to 
sell  out  their  homes  to  anybody  who 
will  purchase  them  and  to  move  off 
into  California  or  into  some  distant 
country,  where  they  will  perhaps  buy 
a  ranch  or  locate  upon  public  lands, 
and  thus  cut  themselves  off  from  all 
the  benefits  of  the  organizations  of  the 
Church — from  the  Sabbath  meetings, 
the  Sunday  schools,  the  quorum  meet- 
ings, the  Improvement  associations, 
the  Primary  associations,  etc.  When 
people  become  dissatisfied  with  their 
homes  and  desire  to  move,  we  would 
suggest' that  they  counsel  and  advise 
with  some  of  the  authorities  of  the 
Church.  Let  the  leading  brethren  help 
the  young  people  who  are  seeking  new 
homes,  and  direct  their  course  so  that 
they  may  be  located  as  much  as  pos- 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT. 


3 


sible  in  wards  or  branches  where  they 
can  enjoy  the  benefits  and  blessings  of 
the     Gospel,     and     that   their  child- 
ren    may     not      grow      up  aliens 
thereto     and     be      estranged  from 
the  cause  of  Zion.    We  are  in  a  posi- 
tion where  we  can  see  beyond,  in  some 
respects,  and  are  able  to  advise  and 
counsel  our  brethren  for    their  best 
good.    We  do  not  want  the  feeling  to 
prevail  among  our  people  that  every 
man  is  independent  and  free  to  move 
and  go  when  and  where  he  pleases, 
without     consultation,     because  that 
would  be  calculated  to  disintegrate,  to 
pull  asunder,  to  destroy  membership, 
and  to  scatter  abroad.   The  Gospel  that 
we  have  received  teaches  gathering. 
This  is  a  gathering  dispensation,  and 
we  are  not  here  to  scatter  abroad,  only 
so  far  as  God  may  direct  through  His 
servants.    When  the  Lord  moves  upon 
us  to  found  a  colony  or  to  establish  a 
settlement  in  some  distant  place,  then 
it  will  be  right  for  such  of  the  people 
as  can  do  so  to  gather  there,  under  the 
counsel  and  direction  of  the  Priesthood, 
and  form  settlements  or  colonies,  strict- 
ly in  accordance  with  the  plan  revealed 
in  this  dispensation  for  the  establish- 
ment of  Zion  and  for  the  spread  of  this 
work  in  the  land.    We  do  not  design 
to  make  any  general  call  upon  the  peo- 
ple to  move  here  or  there,  or  to  break 
up  their  communities;  but  rather  that 
they  should  concentrate  together  and 
strengthen  one  another's  hands,  that  we 
may  become  strong  in  the  land.  As 
we  pull  asunder  and  scatter  abroad  we 
weaken  ourselves,  we  destroy   our  in- 
fluence, and  we  become  like  the  rest 
of    the    world.    This    will  not   do.  It 
is    contrary     to     the     principle  of 
gathering  that  the  Lord  has  revealed 
through  His  servant  Joseph,  the  Proph- 
et.  Yet  I  see  clearly  manifest  the  nana 
of  God  in  the  formation  of  our  colonies 
to  the  south  and  to  the  north,  in  the 
east  and  in  the  west.    Wherever  this 
colonization    has    been  directed  and 
counseled  by  the  authority  of  the  Hol> 
Priesthood,  it  has  been  strictly  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  mind  and  will  of  the 
Loru  and  in  fulfillment  of  the  predic- 
tions of  the  Prophets.    If  we  emigrate 
to  some  distant  part  of  the  country  we 
should  do  so  with  proper  discipline,  un- 


der direction,  with  concert  of  action, 
and  with  a  perfect  understanding 
among  ourselves — not  every  man  be- 
come a  law  unto  himself. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  do  not  desire 
to  prolong  my  remarks,  but  these  are 
a  few  matters  that  may  be  dwelt  upon 
by  the  brethren  of  the  Priesthood  dur- 
ing the  conference,  if  they  are  led  by 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  do  so.  These, 
together  with  the  continuance  of  faith- 
fulness in  observing  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom, in  obeying  the  law  of  tithing,  the 
law  of  chastity,  promoting  purity  of 
life,  and  every  other  good  thing  that 
pertains  to  our  progress,  development 
and  permanency  in  the  land,  are  sub- 
jects that  are  worthy  to  be  dwelt  upon 
by  those  who  hold  the  authority  of  the 
Piiesthood  and  are  called  upon  to  speak 
to  the  people  who  come  to  attend  this 
conference.  God  bless  the  speakers,  and 
all  the  people;  and  let  peace  abide  in 
your  souls,  and  the  Spirit  of  God  ac- 
company you  in  all  the  labors  of  your 
lives,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT. 

The  future  of  Zion— The  spirits  of  good  ;<nd  evil — 
Importance  of  implicit  obedience— Results  of 
conforming  to  the  law  of  tithing— The  princi- 
ples and  conditions  of  the  world. 

I  am  truly  thankful  for  the  privilege 
of  speaking  here  this  morning  to  so 
many  Latter-day  Saints,  convened  in 
this  semi-annual  conference  of  the 
Church;  and  while  I  realize  my  weak- 
ness I  also  realize  that  I  can  claim  the 
blessings  of  our  Heavenly  Father, 
through  the  divine  Spirit  that  may  be 
present  at  this  conference.  I  ask  that 
you  invoke  the  blessings  of  our  Father 
upon  me  for  the  few  moments  that  I 
stand  before  you;  also  that  the  same 
blessing  may  be  given  to  all  the  speak- 
ers during  this  conference.  I  ask,  too, 
that  you  offer  a  silent  prayer  to  our 
Father  this  morning  in  behalf  of  our 
beloved  President,  who  is  ill,  that  he 
may  be  blessed  and  restored,  and  that 
he  may  have  the  strength  to  come  here 
and  speak  to  the  people. 

I  have  been  thinking  this  morning 
what  subject  to  speak  upon  that  would 
be  of  benefit  to  the  people  who  have 
gathered  here  to  receive  the  word  of 
the  Lord.    What  subject  could  I  touch 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


upon  that  would  make  us  better  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  better  fathers  and 
mothers,  and  better  citizens  of  this 
great  government?  My  mind  reverted 
to  a  revelation  that  was  given  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  as  found  in  sec- 
tion 64  of  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  a  portion  of  which  I  will 
read :  - 

"Behold,  the  Lord  requireth  the  heart 
and  a  willing  mind;  and  the  willing 
and  the  obedient  shall  eat  the  good  of 
the  land  of  Zion  in  these  last  days; 

"And  the  rebellious  shall  be  cut  off 
out  of  the  land  of  Zion,  and  shall  be 
sent  away,  and  shall  not  inherit  the 
land: 

"For,  verily,  I  say  that  the  rebellious 
are  not  of  the  blood  of  Ephraim, where- 
fore they  shall  be  plucked  out. 

"Behold,  I,  the  Lord,  have  made  my 
Church  in  these  last  days  like  unto  a 
judge  sitting  on  a  hill,  or  in  a  high 
place,  to  judge  the  nations; 

"For  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  the 
inhabitants  of  Zion  shall  judge  all 
things  pertaining  to  Zion; 

"And  liars  and  hypocrites  shall  be 
proved  by  them,  and  they  who  are  not 
Apostles  and  Prophets  shall  be  known. 

"And  even  the  bishop,  who  is  a 
judge,  and  his  counselors,  if  they  are 
not  faithful  in  their  stewardships,  shall 
be  condemned,  and  others  shall  be 
planted  in  their  stead; 

"For,  behold,  I  say  unto  you  that 
Zion  shall  flourish,  and  the  glory'  of  the 
Lord  shall  be  upon  her, 

"And  she  shall  be  an  ensign  unto  the 
people,  and  there  sha'l  come  unto  her 
out  of  every  nation  under  heaven. 

"And  the  day  shall  come  when  the 
nations  of  the  earth  shall  tremble  be- 
cause of  her  terrible  ones.  The  Lord 
hath  spoken  it.  Amen." 

We  learn  from  the  "Pearl  of  Great 
Price"  that  when  the  subject  was  dis- 
cussed in  the  Heavens  of  forming  this 
earth,  there  was  even  then  light  and 
darkness,  good  and  evil,  obedience  and 
disobedience,  a  willing  heart  and  a  sel- 
fish nature.  These  conditions  and  prin- 
ciples are  in  the  hearts  of  the  people 
of  the  world  today.  The  mission  that 
was  given  to  Jesus  Christ,  to  come  up- 
on "the  earth,  was  given  on  account  of 
His  obedience  to  the  will  and  plan  laid 
down  by  our  Father.  On  the  other 
hand,  Satan  desired  to  become  a  law 
jnto  himself,  and  whatever  sacrifice  he 
made,  he  wished  it  to  be  credited  unto 
himself,  and  not  unto  the  Father.  Lu- 
cifer desired  to  introduce  a  plan  con- 
trary to  the  will  of  the  Father,  and 


then  wanted  His  honor  and  said,  "I 
r,rill  sa,Te  every  suul  of  man,  wherefore 
give  me  thine  honor."  He  wanted  to 
go  contrary  to  the  will  of  his  Father, 
and  sought  to  deprive  man  of  his  free 
agency,  and  thus  make  him  a  mere  ma- 
chine. The  offer  of  Jesus  to  act  as 
media! or  ami  redeemer,  according  to 
the  plan  decided  upon  in  the  council  of 
tha  Gods,  was  accepted,  and  the  plans 
and  services  of  Lucifer  were  rejected, 
in  his  anger  Lucifer  rebelled  against 
God  and  Jesus,  using  the  very  agency 
cf  which  he  had  just  attempted  to  rob 
&H  of  God's  children.  When  this  earth 
vvas  formed  and  our  first  parents  had 
children  thai:  sarro  spirit  of  obedience 
and  disobedience,  of  good  and  evil,  of 
a  willing  heart  and  a  selfish  nature.was 
manifested  n  their  sons  Abel  and  Cain. 
In  reading  the  history  of  God's  people 
in  all  dispensations  I  can  see  that  that 
great  law  of  obedience  to  the  require- 
ments of  the  Father  has  been  one  of 
the  foundation  stones  of  the  Church. 
It  always  will  be  so.  One  of  the  greatest 
examples  of  obedience  for  us  to  study 
is  that  of  father  Abraham.  The  Lord 
had  promised  him  that  through  him 
and  his  seed  all  the  earth  should  b- 
blessed,  and  yet  He  desired  to  know  if 
Abraham  was  willing  to  give  Him  his 
lieart,  and  be  true  to  him  even  unto 
death  and  fulfill  all  His  com-- 
c-iandments,  even  if  it  looked 
to  be  an  utter  impossibilit} 
for  him  to  carry  out  the  command  and 
at  the  same  time  receive  the  promise  of 
the  Lord.  The  Lord  told  him  that  he 
was  to  offer  up  his  only  son  Isaac  as  a 
sacrifice.  Did  he  hesitate,  or  stop  to 
enquire  of  the  Lord  how  He  could  ful- 
fill the  promise  made  him  if  Isaac,  were 
sacrificed?  Not  so.  Abraham,  in  his 
obedience  to  the  Father,  prepared  the 
sticks,  placed  them  upon  the  back  of 
the  boy,  started  for  the  hill  Moriah  to 
carry  out  the  .command  of  God;  and 
while  upon  the  way  the  boy  said  unto 
his  Father,  "Behold  the  fire  and  the 
wood:  but  where  is  the  lamb  for  a 
burnt  offering?"  Abraham  replied, 
"My  son,  God  will  provide  Himself  a 
lamb  for  a  burnt  offering."  They  built 
the  altar,  and  Isaac  was  placed  upon 
it;  and  as  Abraham  drew  forth  his 
hand  to  execute  the  command  of  God, 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT. 


5 


the  angel  of  the  Lord  stayed  him.  Then 
his  answer  to  his  son  was  verified,  for 
God  provided  a  ram  for  the  offering. 
In  this  Abraham  proved  to  God  that 
his  heart  was  right  before  Him,  and 
he  was  willing  to  do  whatever  was  re- 
quired of  him. 

All  blessings  that  are  promised  by 
the  Master  are  predicated  upon  obedi- 
ence to  the  laws.  It  is  right  that  it 
should  be  so;  it  is  nothing  but  what  an 
honest  soul  should  expect.  If  we  live 
to  the  principle  of  charity,  we  can  ex- 
pect the  benefits  that  are  derived  from 
so  living.  If  we  live  to  the  law  of  con- 
secration, we  can  claim  of  the  Lord  the 
blessings  attached  to  this  great  prin- 
ciple. If  we  live  to  the  law  of  tithing, 
we  have  a  right  to  claim  the  blessings 
that  were  promised  through  Malachi  to 
those  who  would  observe  it.  I  do  not 
feel  that  it  is  necessary  to  speak  long 
upon  the  subject  of  tithing,  and  per- 
haps some  who  do  not  practice  the 
same  may  hope  that  we  will  not  men- 
tion it;  but  the  man  or  the  woman  who 
practices  this  principle  never  gets  tired 
of  hearing  testimonies  of  the  Elders  in 
regard  to  this  law.  In  passing  I  want 
to  leave  my  testimony  that  God  has 
given  us  the  law  of  tithing,  and  He 
blesses  the  person  that  lives  strictly  in 
accordance  with  it.  The  blessings  of 
the  Lord  are  upon  those  who  pay  their 
tithing,  no  matter  what  the  amount 
may  be.  I  testify  to  you 
that  people  who  live  to  this 
law  have  more  comfort  and  peace  in 
their  homes,  are  more  contented  in  their 
souls,  have  more  faith  that  the  Lord 
will  answer  their  prayers,  have  more 
pleasure  in  fulfilling  the  requirements 
of  the  Church,  and  more  confidence  in 
the  promises  of  God,  than  those  who  do 
mot  live  this  law.  It  is  but  natural  that 
this  should  be  so.  I  thank  the  Lord 
that  my  parents  believed  in  the  law  of 
tithing.  I  thank  the  Lord  that  the 
first  means  which  God  ever  placed  in- 
to my  hands,  I  had  a  mother  who 
watched  over  me  so  carefully  that  she 
taught  and  guided  me  to  pay  my  tith- 
ing on  the  same.  I  received  this  prin- 
ciple from  my  parents  not  only  by  pre- 
cept, but  by  example  as  well,  for  they 
lived  the  law,  because  they  had  implicit 
faith  in  the  God  they  worshiped. 


We  hear  the  Apostles,  the  Pa- 
triarchs, the  High  Priests,  the  Seven- 
ties and  Elders  pray  time  and  time 
again  for  the  Lord  to  hasten  the  day 
for  the  redemption  of  Zion,  when  we 
can  build  a  temple  to  the  Most  High 
God  in  that  land,  from  whence  the  law 
of  the  Lord  shall  go  forth,  and  where 
we  shall  be  privileged  to  live  accord- 
ing to  the  revealed  will  of  God  in  very 
deed.  I  want  to  promise  the  people  hert 
that  that  day  never  will  come  until  we 
have  at  least  learned  to  keep  the  lesser 
law,  of  tithing;  and  I  believe  that  be- 
fore Jackson  county  shall  be  given  to 
us  as  a  Zion,  those  at  least  who  shall 
be  called  to  establish  the  same  will 
have  to  learn  obedience  to  that  great 
principle  which  was  revealed  through 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith;  also  the 
principle  of  consecration.  Are  we  doing 
anything,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to 
fit  us  to  fulfill  these  prayers  which  are 
offered  to  God?  Are  we  qualifying  our- 
selves, that  when  the  time  comes  for  it 
we  will  be  prepared  to  go  and  obey 
that  command?  The  law  of  consecra- 
tion was  revealed  to  this  Church,  but 
in  its  practice  the  people  were  found 
wanting,  and  God  in  His  mercy  had 
compassion  on  us  when  He  saw 
we  could  not  live  it,  and  revealed 
the  law  of  tithing  to  take  its 
place  temporarily.  I  hope  to  live 
to  see  the  day  when  the  law  of  con- 
secration will  be  the  law  of  this 
Church,  and  when  men  who  hold  the 
Priesthood  will  think  more  of  the  prin- 
ciple, and  enter  into  it  when  called  by 
the  mounthpiece  of  God,  than  they  do 
of  all  their  earthly  possessions.  We 
have  got  to  improve.  President  Jo- 
seph F.  Smith  this  morning  called  our 
attention  to  the  fact  that  some  of  the 
people  are  using  tobacco,  profaning  the 
name  of  the  Lord,  and  showing  disre- 
spect to  the  Priesthood  of  God,  as  well 
as  other  evils  that  are  creeping  in 
i-'mong  us.  Cannot  you  see,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  that  so  long  as  these 
evils  exist  to  any  great  extent  among 
the  members  of  our  Church  it  will  be 
'mpossible  to  keep  the  higher  law  of 
the  Lord?  My  prayer  always  is,  "O 
Father,  fit  and  prepare  me  and  Thy 
people  to  live  not  only  the  law  of  tithes 
and  offerings,  but  the  law  of  consecra- 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


tion,  also  when  it  shall  come.  May 
the  selfishness  that  is  in  my  nature  be 
removed,  so  that  when  this  great  law 
shall  come  I  will  be  prepared  to  say, 
Thy  will,  O  God,  not  mine,  be  done." 
The  Lord  has  not  left  us  without  an 
example  of  this  great  law.  In  the  early 
history  of  this  world  Enoch  and  his 
people  became  perfect  by  living  the 
law  of  consecration  and  sanctification. 
They  were  wiling  to  give  their  hearts 
to  God,  and  through  obedience  to  Him 
fulfilled  that  law.  "We  are  told  that  the 
people  were  .so  perfect  that  the  city  of 
Knoch  was  taken  from  this  earth.  I 
know  as  well  as  I  know  that  I  live,  that 
this  great  principle  which  God  has  re- 
vealed is  the  only  one  whereby  the  poor 
of  this  earth  can  be  redeemed  as  a 
Avhole  from  their  present  condition.  If 
you  will  take  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants and  read  carefully  the  revela- 
tions that  were  given  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  you  will  notice  that  one 
of  the  great  principles  taught  in  them 
is  the  redemption  of  the  poor  and  the 
bringing  of  mankind  on  an  equality, 
temporally  and  spiritually.  There  are 
millions  of  people  today  groaning  un- 
der oppression  and  tyranny,  many  of 
them  unjustly,  through  the  lack  of  a 
proper  distribution  of  the  blessings  of 
God.  He  ha^  not  oeen  unmindful  of  his 
children.  We  see  on  all  sides  an  abun- 
dance, plenty  for  all,  but  the  world  has 
lost  sight  of  the  teachings  of  the  Mas- 
ter. 

This  condition  has  excited  the  best 
thought  of  philosophers.  Many  philan- 
thropic men  have  tried,  through  very 
liberal  donations,  to  establish  plans  for 
the  temporal  betterment  of  the  class  of 
people  in  whom  they  were  interested; 
but  it  was  simply  like  throwing  a  stone 
in  the  brook — you  see  the  ripple  for  a 
few  moments,  and  then  all  is  gone.  No 
man-made  laws  will  ever  accomplish 
the  object  sought.  God  has  revealed 
this  great  law  of  consecration  and  sanc- 
tification to  us,  that  there  may  be  no 
poor  among  us;  for  under  it  every  man 
and  woman  will  have  a  stewardship 
and  be  provided  for.  I  never  expect  to 
see  the  day  when  we  shall  all  have  just 
the  same— the  same  number  of  horses 
and  carriages,  or  the  same  kind  of  a 
house:  but  I  do  expect  to  see  the  time 


come  when  this  great  law  will  equalize 
those  who  believe  and  practice  it,  until 
there  shall  be  as  near  a  perfect  people 
upon  this  earth  as  it  is  possible  to  make 
us  with  our  selfish  natures.  If  ever 
this  law  becomes  universal  I  look  for 
a  reign  of  peace  upon  the  earth.  If 
this  law  had  been  lived  up  to  by  this 
people  in  the  beginning,  I  think  the  re- 
demption of  Zion  would  have  been  ac- 
complished by  this  time,  or  at  least  a 
great  deal  nearer  than  it  is  today. 
When  this  law  is  an  accomplished  fact 
in  the  world,  the  means  spent  by  na- 
tions today  in  wars  will  not  have  to  be 
employed  that  way,  and  then  the  time 
will  be  at  hand  when  the  swords  shall 
be  turned  into  plowshares  and  spears 
into  pruning-hooks. 

I  truf=t  t*r*  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  will 
be  with  the  people,  so  that  they  will 
know  that  by  obedience  to  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord  the  blessings 
He  has  promised  will  come  to  them, 
and  that  they  will  have  faith,  even  as 
our  father  Abraham  had  faith,  and  also 
the  Apostles  and  Prophets  of  old.  We 
have  the  examples  of  our  fathers  and 
mothers,  the  example  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  and  those  who  have  presided 
over  this  Church  from  his  time  to  the 
present,  and  we  should  try  to  follow  in 
their  footsteps.  I  know  that  there  are 
many  people  in  this  Church  who  today 
are  willing  to  sacrifice  even  their 
lives  for  trie  Gospel's  sake.  There 
are  many  who  have  such  im- 
plicit faith  and  confidence  in  God  that 
if  they  were  required  to  sacrifice  all 
they  had  upon  earth,  and  life  itsell, 
they  would  willingly  do  it.  They  have 
the  faith  that  Father  Abraham  had.  I 
hope  that  the  people  as  a  whole  will 
listen  to  the  pleadings  that  have  been 
made  by  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord,  and 
at  least  live  to  the  law  of  tithing,  that 
by  doing  so  we  may  learn  to  place  our- 
selves in  a  position  to  accept  the  high- 
er law  when  it  is  given  again.  I  be- 
lieve that  the  "Mormon"  people,  as  a 
whcle,  look  after  their  poor  better  than 
any  other  people  upon  the  earth;  and 
yet  we  are  far  from  living  to  the  re- 
quirements that  are  made  of  us  as  a 
people.  But  I  'also  want  to  say  that 
there  are  many  Latter-day  Saints,  ana 
they  are  numbered  by  the  thousands, 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 


7 


who  are  living-  strictly  to  the  law  and 
paying  an  honest  tithing  unto  the  Lord. 

1  thought  of  the  song  that  is  record- 
ed in  the  84th  section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  and  I  felt  that  when  we 
as  a  people  are  willing,  and  not  only 
willing  but  anxious,  to  live  the  law 
of  consecration,  this  new  song  will  be 
a  good  thing  for  every  soul  to  sing.  It 
says: 

"The  Lord  hath  brought  again  Zion. 
The  Lord  hath  redeemed  His  people, 
Israel. 

According  to  the  election  of  grace, 
Which   was   brought  to   pass  by  the 
faith 

And  covenant  of  their  fathers. 

The  Lord  hath  redeemed  His  people, 
And  Satan  is  bound,  and  time  is  no 
longer 

The  Lord  hath  gathered  all  things  in 

one; 

The  Lord  hath  brought  down  Zion  from 
above, 

The  Lord  hath  brought  up  Zion  from 
beneath. 

The  earth  hath  travailed  and  brought 

forth  her  strength; 
And  truth  is  established  in  her  bowels; 
And  the  heavens  have  smiled  upon  her; 
And  she  is  clothed  with  the  glory  of 

her  God; 

For   He  stands  in  the  midst  of  His 
people. 

Glory,    and    honor,    and    power,  and 
might, 

Be  ascribed  to  our  God?  for  He  is  full 

of  mercy, 
Justice,  grace  and  truth,  and  peace, 
For  ever  and  ever.   Amen."  t 

ELDER   RUDGER  CLAWSON. 

A  marvelous  work  of  the  Lord — Its  wonderful 
growth — Greatness  of  the  responsibility  rest- 
ing upon  the  Saints. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  very 
impressive  to  look  down  upon  this  vast 
congregation  of  people,  and  I  realize 
that  if  my  voice  shall  be  heard  by  you 
it  will  be  necessary  for  me  to  speak 
straight  ahead,  without  turning  to  the 
right  or  to  the  left,  because  of  the  im- 
mensity of  this  Tabernacle.  We  have 
present  with  us  this  morning  authori- 
ties of  the  Church  and  Saints  from  all 
parts  of  Zion — from  Canada,  from  Mex- 
ico, from  the  adjoining  states  and  ter- 
ritories, and  from  some  of  the  missions. 
We  have  come  together  to  wait  upon 
the  Lord,  to  receive  a  blessing  at  His 
hands,  and  to  see  what  He  has  in  store 


for  us.  I  believe  that  the  Lord  will 
meet  with  us  during  the  conference.  I 
believe  that  His  Spirit  will  be  upon 
the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  and  upon 
the  Elders  who  may  be  called  upon  to 
speak  from  this  stand.  I  believe  that 
we  shall  be  fed  upon  the  bread  of  life 
and  I  greatly  rejoice  in  this  belief. 

I  have  wondered  sometimes,  while 
traveling  in  the  midst  of  this  people, 
whether  we  really  understand  what  the 
Lord  is  doing,  whether  we  comprehend 
His  great  purposes,  and  can  recognize 
His  hand.  I  am  sure  of  one  thing — that 
there  are  many  who  are  numbered  with 
the  Church,  particularly  among  the 
young,  who  are  passing  through  life 
without  a  serious  thought.  I  have  seen 
it  in  families,  in  wards  and  in  stakes, 
that  their  minds  seemed  to  rest  more 
particularly  upon  the  pleasures  of  life 
and  the  things  of  the  world.  And  yet 
the  Lord  said  in  the  very  beginning  of 
this  dispensation  that  He  was  about 
to  commence  a  marvelous  work  and 
a  wonder;  that  it  should  be  comething 
out  of  the  ordinary;  that  it  should  be  of 
such  a  character  as  to  attract  atten- 
tion in  the  world,  so  much 
so  that  men  would  be  led  to 
exclaim  "Truly  it  is  a  marvelous 
work."  I  am  reminded  now  of  a  revela- 
tion that  was  given  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  upon  the  very  day  that 
the  Church  was  organized — the  6th  day 
of  April,  1830— at  Fayette,  New  York, 
and  I  will  read  the  words  of  the  Lord 
to  Joseph  Smith  upon  that  occasion: 

"Behold  there  shall  be  a  record  kept 
among  you,  and  in  it  thou  shalt  be 
called  a  seer,  a  translator,  a  prophet, 
an  apostle  of  Jesus  Christ,  an  elder  of 
the  church  through  the  will  of  God  the 
Father,  and  the  grace  of  your  Lord 
Jesus  Christ, 

Being  inspired  of  -  the  Holy  Ghost  to 
lay  the  foundation  thereof,  and  to  build 
it  up  unto  the  most  holy  faith, 

Which  church  was  organized  and  es- 
tablished in  the  year  of  your  Lord  eigh- 
teen hundred  and  thirty,  in  the  fourth 
month,  and  on  the  sixth  day  of  the 
month,  which  is  called  April. 

Wherefore,  meaning  the  church,  thou 
shalt  ffive  heed  unto  all  his  words  and 
commandments  which  he  shall  give  un- 
to you  as  he  receiveth  them,  walking 
in  all  holiness  before  me; 

For  his  word  ye  shall  receive,  as  if 
from  mine  own  mouth,  in  all  patience 
and  faith; 

For  by  doing  these  things  the  gates 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


of  hell  shall  not  prevail  against  you; 
yea,  and  the  Lord  God  will  disperse  the 
powers  of  darkness  from  before  you, 
and  cause  the  heavens  to  shake  for 
your  good,  and  his  name's  glory. 

For  thus  saith  the  Lord  God,  him 
have  I  inspired  to  move  the  cause  of 
Zion  in  mighty  power  for  good,  and  his 
diligence  I  know,  and  his  prayers  I  have 
heard. 

Yea  his  weeping  for  Zion  I  have  seen 
and  I  will  cause  that  he  shall  mourn 
for  her  no  longer,  for  his  days  of  re- 
joicing are  come  unto  the  remission  of 
his  sins,  and  *he  manifestations  of  my 
blessings  upon  his  works. 

For,  behold,  I  will  bless  all  those  who 
labor  in  my.  vinevard  with  a  mighty 
blessing,  and  th<j/  shall  believe  on  h's 
words,  which  are  given  him  through  me 
by  the  Comforter,  which  manifesteth 
that  Jesus  was  crucified  by  sinful  men 
for  the  sins  of  the  world,  yea,  for  the 
remission  of  sins  unto  the  contrite 
heart. 

Wherefore  it  behoveth  me  that  he 
should  be  ordained  by  you.  Oliver  Cow- 
dery,  mine  apostle; 

This  being  an  ordinance  unto  you, 
that  you  are  an  elder  under  his  hand, 
he  being  the  first  unto  you,  that  you 
might  be  an  elder  unto  this  church  of 
Christ,  bearing  my  name,  j 

And  the  first  preacher  of  this  churcn 
unto  the  church,  and  before  the  world. | 
yea,  before  the  Gentiles;  yea,  and  thus 
saith  the  Lord  God,  lo,  lo!  to  the  Jews 
also.  Amen." 

These  words,  brethren  and  sisters  and  g 
friends,  were  the  words  of  Jehovah,  ' 
delivered  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
upon  the  day  that  the  Church  was  or- 
ganized. The  Church  was  very  weak 
in  numbers  then,  but  strong  in  spirit. 
In  this  revelation  the  Lord  intimates 
that  He  was  about  to  move  the  cause 
of  Zion  in  mighty  power,  and  talked  to 
the  Prophet  as  if  it  were  an  accom- 
plished fact.  He  desired,  it  seems,  that 
His  people,  though  few  in  number, 
should  be  impressed  with  the  fact  that 
a  Prophet,  Seer,  and  Revelator  stood  at 
the  head;  for  He  instructed  that  a  rec- 
ord to  this  effect  should  be  kept.  He 
also  desired  to  impress  the  people  with 
the  great  truth  that  this  Church  should 
be  built  up,  not  by  the  power  of  man, 
but  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost; 
that  no  man,  though  he  might  be  a 
Prophet  or  an  Apostle,  should  take  the 
honor  unto  himself  of  building  up  the 
Church  of  Christ,  but  that  the  honor 
and  the  glory  must  be  given  to  God. 
Did  not  the  Lord  say  to  the  Prophet 


Daniel  that  in  the  latter  days  the  God 
of  heaven  would  set  up  His  kingdom, 
and  it  should  be  as  a  stone  cut  out  of 
the  mountain  without  hands,  which 
should  roll  until  it  filled  the  whole 
earth.  The  God  of  heaven  was  to  do 
this,  but  He  would  use  men  as  His  in- 
struments. 

After  the  Church  was  organized  it 
spread  in  all  the  regions,  round  about 
and  finally  the  Gospel  was  taken  over 
into  Great  Britain.  Satan  was 
angered,  and  persecution  raged.  He 
moved  the  very  powers  of  earth  and 
air  (for  the  scriptures  declare  that  he  is 
the  prince  and  power  of  the  air)  in  his 
determination  to  overthrow  this  work. 
But  the  Church  grew  and  multiplied  in 
numbers,  and  was  greatly  strengthened 
by  the  accessions  that  came  from  Great 
Britain.  It  increased  in  power  and  in- 
fluence, and  cities  of  the  Saints  were 
established  in  the  land.  The  city  of 
Kirtland  was  built,  the  city  of  Nauvoo 
was  founded.  The  Saints  spread  over 
the  land.  They  Went  into  Missouri  and 
located  the  city  of  Zion,  ■  of 
which  we  heard  this  morning,  where  the 
great  temple  of  the  Lord  is  to  be  built 
in  this  generation.  However,  persecu- 
tion stiil  raged.  The  Saints  were  driven 
from  one  place  to  another  until  we  be- 
hold a  very  remarkable  thing — that 
which  has  not  occurred  in  the  history 
of  the  world,  =o  far  as  I  am  aware,  since 
the  days  when  Moses  led  the  children 
of  Israel  out  of  Egypt.  In  these  latter 
times,  we  behold  a  whole  people  migrat- 
ing to  the  West,  leaving  their  homes 
and  their  substance,  and  everything 
that  God  had  prospered  them  with,  and 
launching  forth  into  the  wilderness.  The 
mighty  plains  were  dotted  with  wagons 
and  with  people  moving  to  the  West. 
After  a  time  they  disappeared  from 
view,  as  if  the  earth  had  opened  up  and 
swallowed  them,  and  their  fate  excited 
but  little  interest  in  the  country  where 
they  had  lately  resided.  It  was  hoped 
by  many  of  their  enemies  that  "Mcr- 
mcnism"  had  ceased  to  be  a  factor  in 
the  world,  and  that  the  Church  pf 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  had 
disapptared  forever. 

If  it  be  proper  to  draw  a  comparison, 
let  us  suppose  that  one  of  the  enemies 
of  this  people  at  that  time  had  been 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 


9 


permitted  to  look  upon  this  great  west- 
ward movement.  "We  will  take,  for  in- 
stance, Governor  Boggs,  of  Missouri, 
■w  ho  was  one  of  the  chief  persecutors  of 
the  Church,  who  was  bitter  against 
the  truth,  who  was  determined  to 
overthrow  this  people,  and  who  used 
the  authority  of  his  high  office  to  per- 
secute and  vex  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
Let  us  suppose  that  he  had  been  stand- 
ing there  when  the  exiles  disappeared 
from  view  in  1847;  then  as  by  a  mira- 
cle a  deep  sleep  had  come  upon  him, 
and  he  had  continued,  like  Rip  Van 
Winkle,  in  that  condition  for  fifty- four 
years.  Let  him  be  awakened  suddenly, 
and  what  would  meet  his  gaze?  His 
astonished  eyes  would  behold  a  great 
and  mighty  people  established  in  the 
Rocky  Mountains,  and  doubtless  he 
would  be  led  to  ask,  "What  great  com- 
monwealth is  this?"  After  having  been 
asleep  fifty-four  years,  he  might  well 
ask  such  a  question.  Who  are  these 
that  have  established  themselves  so 
firmly  in  the  chambers  of  the  moun- 
tains? If  he  should  look  a  little  closer, 
he  would  find  that  this  great  people  had 
sprung  from  that  band  of  pilgrims  who 
were  driven  out  from  the  nation,  partly 
by  his  influence.  From  the  small  be- 
ginning of  six  members  at  its  organ- 
ization in  1830,  he  would  find  that  the 
Church  had  increased  until  there  were 
fifty  Stakes — one  in  Canada,  one  in 
Oregon,  three  in  Wyoming,  eight  in 
Idaho,  one  in  Colorado,  four  in  Arizona, 
one  in  Mexico,  and  thirty-one  in  Utah. 
Then  if  he  turned  his  eyes  from  the 
mountains  and  looked  abroad,  he  would 
discover  fourteen  great  missions  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints — one  in  the  Eastern  States,  one 
in  the  Northern  States,  one  in  the 
Southern  States,  one  in  the  Northwest- 
ern States,  one  in  the  Southwestern 
States,  one  in  Colorado,  one  in  Cali- 
fornia, one  in  Australia,  one  in  New 
Zealand,  one  in  the  Hawaiian  Islands, 
one  in  the  Samoan  Islands,  one  in  the 
Society  Islands,  and  one  great  mission 
in  Europe,  comprehending  several 
missions  and  a  mission  just  now  opened 
up  in  Japan.  Then,  if  he  had  any  de- 
sire to  know  the  numerical  strength  of 
the  people  whom  he  had  sought  to  de- 
stroy,   (and    in    saying    this  I  do  not 


malign  or  misrepresent,  for  it 
is  so  recorded  in  the  annals  of 
the  nation)  he  would  find  that  the 
membership  of  the  Church  amounted 
to  260,000  souls  in  the  Stakes  of  Zion, 
and  50,000  souls  in  the  Missions,  mak- 
ing in  all  310,000  souls.  These  figures 
that  I  am  giving  you  come  well  within 
the  facts.  They  were  taken  from  last 
year's  statistical  reports.  Of  course, 
by  this  time  there  would  necessarily  be 
some  changes,  but  nevertheless  they 
are  conservative  and  probably  do  not 
reach  the  actual  number  at  the  pres- 
ent time.  Included  in  the  total  of 
three  hundred  and  ten  thousand  there 
are  eighty-five  thousand  children  under 
eight  years  of  age— a  mighty  host  that 
will  soon  become  members  of  the 
Church  of  Christ.  Then,  if  he  desired 
to  know  the  strength  of  that  great 
body  of  men  alluded  to  by  President 
Smith  this  morning— the  Priesthood- 
he  would  find  that  there  are  two  of  the 
First  Presidency,  12  Apostles,  200  Patri- 
archs, 6,800  High  Priests,  9,730  Seven- 
ties, 20,000  Elders,  making  a  total  of 
those  who  bear  the  higher  Priesthood, 
36,744;  4,800  Priests,  4,900  Teachers, 
16,000  Deacons,  making  25,700  as  con- 
stituting the  lesser  Priesthood,  and  a 
grand  total  of  62,444  bearing  the  Priest- 
hood of  God.  He  would  find  also,  con- 
nected with  the  auxiliary  associations 
of  the  Church,  30,150  members  of  the 
Relief  Society;  10,000  officers  and  teach- 
ers and  115,000  members  of  the  Sunday 
schools;  28,000  members  of  the  Young 
Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Associa- 
tion; 25,0000  members  of  the  Young  La- 
dies' Mutual  Mutual  Improvement  As- 
sociation; 4,066  officers  and  31,988 
members  of  the  Primary  association; 
and  about  20,000  belonging  to 
the  Religion  Classes— making  a  grand 
total  of  264,204  belonging  to  these  aux- 
iliary associations.  Then  if  he  cared 
to  go  any  farther,  he  would  find  that 
there  were  about  20,000  farms  owned 
by  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  that 
18,000  of  these  farms  are  actually  free 
from  all  incumbrance.  Still  further,  he 
would  find  that  ninety  per  cent  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  own  and  occupy 
their  own  homes,  while  #the  average 
throughout  the  United  States  is  some- 
thing like  5  per  cent.    Then  he  would 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


find,  if  he  cared  to  know,  that  in  the 
year  1897,  when  the  Presbyterians,  Me- 
thodists and  Congregationalists  num- 
bered four  millions  in  the  United 
States,  and  their  total  increase  for  one 
year  was  fifty  thousand  souls,  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  numbered  in  the  same 
years  a  little  over  a  quarter  of  a  mil- 
lion, and  their  increase  for  the  year  was 
twenty  thousand  souls.  Twenty  thou- 
sand increase  with  a  total  of  a  quar- 
ter of  a  million  as  against  fifty  thou- 
sand increase  for  four  millious! 

After  obtaining  all  this  information, 
would  not  he  be  compelled  to  acknow- 
ledge that  surely  this  is  a  marvelous 
work  and  a  wonder?  The  Lord  said  to 
Joseph  Smith  and  Sidney  Rigdon,  on 
one  ocasion  that  "there  is  no  weapon 
that  is  formed  against  you  shall  pros- 
per; and  if  any  man  lift  his  voice 
against  you,  he  shall  be  confounded  in 
mine  own  due  time."  I  fancy  that 
this  man,  if  he  had  received  a  change 
of  heart,  would  be  led  to  exclaim,  Sure- 
ly the  prediction  of  God  has  been  ful- 
filled at  least  in  reference  to  myself. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  let  me  call 
your  attention  to  the  fact  that  whereas 
the  Lord  placed  a  Prophet,  Seer,  and 
Revelator  at  the  head  of  His  Church 
when  it  was  organized  in  1830,  with  six 
souls.  He  still  has  a  Prophet,  Seer  and 
Revelator  standing  at  the  head  of  His 
people  at  the  present  time,  who  is  en- 
dowed with  the  keys  of  power  and  au- 
thority to  bind  on  earth  and  it  is 
bound  in  heaven,  to  loose  on  earth  and 
it  is  loosed  in  heaven.  That  wonder- 
ful power  and  authority  is  in  the 
Church  today,  and  those  impressive 
words  that  were  delivered  to  the  Pro- 
phet Joseph  Smith,  which  I  will  read 
again,  are  binding  upon  the  Church  to- 
day: 

"Wherefore,  (meaning  the  Church), 
thou  shalt  give  heed  unto  all  his  words 
and  commandments  which  he  shall 
give  unto  you  as  he  receiveth  them, 
walking  in  all  holiness  before  me; 

"For  his  word  ye  shall  receive,  as  if 
from  mine  own  mouth,  in  all  patience 
and  faith." 

Oh!  how  great  the  responsibility  that 
comes  to  us  with  these  words.  How 
great  is  the  responsibility  resting  down 
upon  the  presidents  of  these  fifty  Stakes 


of  Zion,  for  they  have  been  called  with 
a  solemn  calling  and  a  great  appoint- 
ment to  preside  over  all  the  general  in- 
terests of  the  Saints.  What  manner  of 
men  ought  they  to  be?  Quick  to  mani- 
fest the  spirit  of  obedience  that  was  so 
beautifully  alluded  to  by  Apostle 
Smoot.  They  should  be  humble, 
prayerful  men,  quick  to  hear  the  word 
of  counsel,  and  to  impart  that  word  to 
their  people.  And  Oh,  how  great  is  the 
responsibility  upon  the  Bishops  in  the 
wards  of  Zion!  There  are  562  wards 
in  the  Church,  and  each  ward  is  pre- 
sided over  by  a  Bishop  and  two  coun- 
selors. Five  hundred  and  sixty-two 
Bishops,  with  counselors,  who  have 
been  called  to  look  after  the  precious 
souls  in  their  wards,  to  watch  over 
them,  to  give  counsel,  to  direct  their 
labors,  and  to  be  interested  in  every- 
thing that  interests  the  people;  that  no 
evil  shall  grow  up  in  these  wards,  but 
the  Bishop  shall  be  first  to  see  it  and 
shall  be  swift  against  the  wrongdoer, 
albeit  in  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel,  that 
evil  may  be  rooted  out  from  among 
the  Saints;  that  not  one  of  these  562 
Bishops  shall  be  asleep  at  his  post  for 
a  moment,  but  that  all  shall  be  watch- 
ful day  and  night,  that  they  may  know 
what  is  transpiring  in  their  wards. 
Then,  think  of  the  great  army  of  la- 
borers in  the  Priesthood  throughout  the 
Church— 62,000;  and  264,000  belonging  to 
these  auxiliary  associations,  to  be  on 
hand  to  assist  in  laboring  for  the  sal- 
vation of  souls! 

I  will  conclude,  brethren  and  sisters, 
by  saying  that  we  heard  this  morning 
the  voice  of  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church —  that  voice  which  the  Lord 
says  we  must  listen  to  as  though  it 
proceeded  from  Jehovah  Himself.  We 
have  received  counsel.  Certain  evils> 
exist  among  us.  As  presidents  of 
Stakes,  as  Bishops  of  wards,  as  coun- 
selors, as  High  Councilors,  as  men  of 
the  Priesthood,  we  must  give  our  atten- 
tion to  these  evils.  That  is  the  word  of 
the  Lord  to  us.  We  know  our  duty; 
we  know  that  the  evils  referred  to  must 
be  reached  and  must  be  corrected  and 
driven  from  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  else  God  will  be  angry  with  us. 
Amen. 


ELDER  ABRAHAM  O.  WOODRUFF. 


11 


The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

Our  God,  we  raise  to  Thee, 
Thanks  for  Thy  blessings  free, 
We  here  enjoy. 

Benediction  by  Elder    William  H. 
Smart. 

AFTERNOON  SESSION. 

2  p.  m. 

The  hymn  which  begins, 

Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  salva- 
tion, 

No  longer  as  strangers  on  earth  need 
we  roam, 

was  sung  by  the  choir  and  congrega- 
tion. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Piatt  D. 
Lyman. 

The  choir  sang: 
Lord,  Thou  will  hear  me  when  I  pray. 

ELDER  A.  O.  WOODRUFF. 

Good  results  of  opposition  of  the  world — The 
favor  of  God  with  the  Saints— Notable  effects 
of  faith,  fasting  and  prayer — Importance  of 
Godlinese  in  the  household. 

In  my  attempt  to  address  you  and  to 
edify  you  this  afternoon,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  I  feel  very  dependent  upon 
the  aid  of  our  Heavenly  Father  to  in- 
spire me  with  words  that  will  be  for 
your  good.  I  greatly  rejoiced  in  our 
forenoon  session,  listening  to  the  words 
of  life  and  light  which  were  delivered 
to  us,  and  to  the  excellent  report  which 
was  rendered  by  Brother  Clawson.  It 
occurred  to  me  that  a  report  of  that 
kind,  showing  the  progress  of  "Mor- 
monism,"  must  be  exceedingly  discour- 
aging to  the  enemies  of  God,  and  they 
must  feel  very  much  dissatisfied  with 
the  efforts  which  they  have  put  forth 
to  thwart  the  work  of  our  Father.  I  do 
not  refer  to  people  who  simply  differ 
with  us  in  their  religious  views,  but  to 
those  who  are  enemies  of  God  and  of 
righteousness,  and  those  who,  belonging 
to  any  religious  organization,  are  not 
earnest  in  their  worship  of  the  Master. 
An  encouraging  feature  about  the  work 
of  the  Lord  is  that  from  its  infancy  it 
has  never  grown  less,  but  has  become 
a  greater  power  in  the  earth  from  year 
to  year.  I  wish  to  read  to  you  a  few 
verses  from  Section  3  of  the  Book  of 
Doctrine  and  Covenants: 

"The  works,  and  the  designs,  and  the 
purposes  of  God  cannot  be  frustrated, 
neither  can  they  come  to  naught; 


"For  God  doth  not  walk  in  crooked 
paths,  neither  doth  he  turn  to  the 
right  hand  nor  to  the  left,  neither  doth 
he  vary  from  that  which  He  hath  said; 
therefore  His  paths  are  straight,  and 
His  course  is  one  eternal  round. 

"Remember,  remember,  that  it  is  not 
the  work  of  God  that  is  frustrated,  but 
the  work  of  man." 

The  Apostle  Paul,  in  his  day,  said: 
"For  we  can  do  nothing  against  the 
truth,  but  for  the  truth." 

Are  we  not  witnesses  this  day  that 
this      prediction       has       been  ful- 
filled    in    the    history    of    the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints?   No   weapon   that  has 
ever  been  formed  against    Zion  has 
prospered.    The  efforts  of  the  evil  one 
to  destroy  the  work  of  the  Lord  have 
only  tended  to  spread  it  abroad.  The 
persecutions  which  have  been  heaped 
upon  this  people  have  been  the  means 
of  cementing  us  together,  drawing  us 
more  closely  to  God,  and  making  us 
more  united  and  powerful.    It  is  the 
heritage  of  the  Saints  of  God  to  be  mis- 
represented and  persecuted  by  the  in- 
sincere and  the  wicked;  but  their  ef- 
forts have  never  blocked  the  progress 
of  the  work  of  our  Eternal  Father.  On 
the  contrary,  the  labors  of  our  most 
bitter  enemies  have  been  among  the 
main  factors  in  spreading     the  work 
abroad.  The  Lord  has  turned  the  wrath 
of  the  wicked  to  His  own  glory.  Had 
it  not  been  for  the  persecution  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  the  mustard  seed 
would  not  have  been  cast  abroad;  but 
in  the  attempt  to  destroy  the  mustard 
stalk,  to  which  the  Savior  compared 
the  Gospel,   they  have  scattered  the 
seed,  and  it  has  taken  root  wherever 
it  has  fallen.   Some  of  our  brethren,  on 
account  of  the  practice  of  a  principle 
were  driven  into  exile  and  had  to  seek 
a  place  of  refuge  in  other  parts  of  the 
country.    Had  it  not  been  for  that  per- 
secution, I  doubt  if  there  would  be  to- 
day a  Stake  of  Zion  in  Mexico,  or  in 
Canada,  or  in  some  other  places.  These 
brethren,   driven   from    their  homes, 
formed  the  nucleus  of  new  flourishing 
Stakes  of  Zion.    I  thank  God  that  it 
is  not  His  purposes  which  have  failed, 
but  the  purposes  of  man.    This  should 
be  an  encouragement  to  every  Latter- 
day  Saint,  and  a  strong  testimony  that 
this  is  the  work  of  God.    It  ought  to 
be  a  testimony  also  to  those  who  have 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


sought  to  bring  to  naught  the  purposes 
of  God.  But  some  people  appear  to  get 
into  such  gross  darkness  after  oppos- 
ing the  truth  that  the  spirit  of  repen- 
tance seems  to  withdraw  itself  from 
them,  and  they  will  not  acknowledge 
the  truth  when  it  is  demonstrated  be- 
fore them. 

The  Lord  Almighty  never  favored  an- 
cient Israel  more  than  He  has  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  in  the  establishment  of 
Zion.  In  the  building  up  of  Stakes  and 
settlements.  He  has  operated  in  a  most 
marvelous  manner  for  the  benefit  of  the 
Saints.  The  faithful  and  obedient  are 
reaping  the  reward  of  their  obedience. 
We  exercise  our  own  agency  in  becom- 
ing Latter-day  Saints,  but  if  we  would 
be  Latter-day  Saints,  indeed,  it  is  ex- 
pected of  us  that  we  will  be  obedient 
and  take  counsel.  The  man  who  stands 
at  the  head  of  this  people  enjoys  the 
revelations  of  the  mind  and  will  of  God, 
and  it  is  our  duty  to  heed  his  counsel. 
The  past  history  of  our  people  proves 
to  every  reasonable  man  that  God  has 
been  with  us;  and  although  at  times 
perhaps  the  people  have  been  unable  to 
see  the  wisdom  of  God  manifested 
through  His  mouthpiece,  yet  by  oa- 
tienee  and  obedience  they  have  finally 
seen  the  course  taken  by  the  leader  of 
the  Church  vindicated  by  our  Eternal 
Father.  We  have  an  abundance  of  tes- 
timony that  this  is  the  work  of  God; 
in  fact,  I  sometimes  think  it  becomes 
so  common  that  we  do  not  appreciate 
it.  When  we  find  ourselves  in  trouble 
we  go  to  the  Lord,  the  way  is  opened 
up  before  us,  and  we  are  able  to  ac- 
complish the  righteous  desires  of  our 
hearts.  But  these  things  come  so  nat- 
urally that  we  are  apt  to  forget  that 
they  are  the  direct  gift  of  God.  When 
the  Saints  came  to  these  western  val- 
leys, and  when  their  crops  were  abouv 
to  be  destroyed  by  crickets,  do  we  not 
remember  how,  in  answer  to  prayer, 
God  sent  the  gulls  to  devour  the 
crickets  and  to  save  the  people  from 
starvation?  In  numerous  ways  He  has 
opened  up  the  way  before  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  to  enable  them  to  accom- 
plish every  purpose  which  He  has  indi- 
cated through  His  mouthpiece.  I  have 
faith  to  believe  that  no  work  will  fail 
that  is  undertaken  by  the  direction  of 


the  Prophet  of  the  Lord.  There  is  no 
such  thing  as  the  Latter-day  Saints 
failing  to  carry  out  the  mind  and  will 
of  God  regarding  the  establishment  of 
His  work,  provided  they  will  live  so  as 
to  enjoy  the  favor  of  God.  It  matters 
not  what  odds  we  may  have  to  contend 
against,  nor  how  impossible  the  task 
may  appear,  if  we  have  faith  we  can 
carry  out  the  designs  of  our  Heavenly 
Father. 

During  the  past  year  I  have  labored 
under  the  direction  of  President  Snow 
and  my  brethren,  in  the  establishment 
of  a  Stake  of  Zion  in  Wyoming.  We 
had  a  large  number  of  people  there 
who  were  practically  without  means, 
and  we  did  not  know  how  we  were  go- 
ing to  get  through  with  the  task  before 
us,  only  we  knew  that  we  had  been 
sent  there  with  the  sanction  and  under 
the  direction  of  the  Prophet  of  God. 
After  the  people  had  got  to  the  end 
of  their  means  (and  we  did  not  receive 
a  dollar  from  the  Church  to  help  in  this 
enterprise  which  we  were  sent  to  ac- 
complish), we  asked  the  Lord  to  open 
up  the  way  before  us,  that  the  brethren 
might  get  employment  and  earn  suffi- 
cient money  to  sustain  themselves  and 
their  families  while  they  accomplished 
that  for  which  they  had  been  sent.  The 
Lord  opened  up  the  way.  We  got  a 
small  contract  from  the  Burlington 
railroad  that  amounted  to  about  $5,000. 
But  after  a  while  that  was  gone,  and 
we  scarcely  knew  what  to  do.  So  all 
the  brethren  and  sisters  came  together 
in  a  special  fast  meeting,  and  we  asked 
the  Lord  to  open  up  the  way,  that  we 
might  receive  remunerative  employ- 
ment which  would  bring  in  money  suffi- 
cient to  sustain  the  people  through  the 
coming  winter.  The  way  in  which  the 
Lord  answered  us  was  most  marvelous. 
In  the  afternoon  of  that  day  we  went 
out  to  locate  a  townsite,  and  just  after 
we  had  attended  to  this  labor  and  were 
about  to  return  to  our  camp,  the  chief 
engineer  of  the  Burlington  system  met 
us  and  said  he  would  like  to  contract 
more  with  our  people.  He  told  us  we 
could  have  the  option  on  a  very  large 
piece  of  work  on  the  road.  We  felt 
that  the  Lord  had  sent  him 
there  to  furnish  the  people  em- 
ployment,  and   after  conferring  with 


ELDER  ABRAHAM  O.  WOODRUFF. 


13 


the  brethren  we  accepted  the  proposi- 
tion, and  during  the  next  ten  months 
our  people  earned  something  over  $96,- 
000.    In  numerous  ways,  not  only  in 
Wyoming,  but  in  Canada  and  Mexico 
and  other  places,   the  Lord  has  evi- 
denced to  us  that  He  is  willing  to  help 
us  if  we  will  be  humble,  seek.  Him  in 
time  of  need,  and  consecrate  our  labors 
to  the  building  up  of  His  kingdom.  I 
remember  that  on  the  day  we  broke 
ground  for    the  canal    which  is  being 
constructed  in  that  country,  and  which 
will  cost  in  the  neighborhood  of  one 
hundred  thousand  dollars,  men,  women 
and  children  all  knelt  down  upon  the 
ground  before  it  was  broken  and  they 
petitioned   the   blessings  of  Almighty 
God  upon  their  enterprise,  and  cove- 
nanted with  Him  upon  that  spot  that  if 
He  would  make  them  successful  they 
would  by  the  payment  of  their  tithes 
and  their  offerings  and  their  obedience 
to  the  Gospel  strive  to  sanctify  that 
place  as  a  gathering  place  for  the  Saints 
of  God.    The  Lord  always  blesses  us 
when  we  manifest  a  living  faith  in  Him, 
and  are  not  afraid  that  we  cannot  ac- 
complish some  task  that  He  requires  at 
our  hands  because  it  looks  so  large  and 
hard  to  perform.    When  we  are  sent 
out  to  preach  the  Gospel,  if  we  could 
only  remember  all  the  time  that  we  are 
upon  the  Lord's  errand  and  that  His 
purposes  are  not  frustrated,  how  much 
more  strength  would  the  Elders  have 
than  they  do  have  now  in  some  cases. 
If  they  would  only  remember  that  the 
Lord  commands  His  people  to  do  noth- 
ing save  He  prepares  a  way  whereby 
they  can  accomplish  it,  what  hope  and 
courage  it  would  afford  them  in  their 
labors!      We  ought    to  be  a  hopeful, 
prayerful,  humble  people.   We  ought  to 
remember  the  Lord  in  all  things.  We 
should  not  forget  Him  when  we  are 
prospered.   If  we  are  blessed  because  of 
our  humility  and  faithfulness,  we  ought 
not  to  imagine  in  our  hearts  that  we 
have  been  able  to  accomplishd  some 
great  thing  independent  of    the  Lord. 
On  the  contrary,   the  more  the  Lord 
blesses    us,    the      more  responsibil- 
ity     He      places      upon      us.  the 
more        humble       we       ought  to 
be.    I  know  that  the  Lord  has  raised 
up  honorable  men  who  are  not  mem- 


bers of  this  Church,  to  be  instruments 
in  His  hands  in  assisting  to  establish 
the  work  of  God.  We  have  friends  in 
this  nation  and  in  the  world,  who  have 
done  us  a  great  deal  of  good.  The 
Lord  has  raised  them  up  to  befriend 
His  people  and  to  do  a  part  for  them 
which  they  perchance  could  not  do  if 
they  were  members  of  the  Church;  and 
although  they  have  not  accepted  the 
Gospel,  they  are  the  sons  of  God,  and 
the  Lord  has  sent  them  on  earth  to 
perform  a  certain  mission.  I  say,  God 
bless  them.  God  bless  all  who  favor 
Zion,  and  all  who  wish  her  well. 

I  pray  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
may  be  faithful  in  their  homes,  and 
that  they  may  set  their  own  houses  in 
order.  President  Smith  mentioned  this 
morning  the  evil  practice  of  tobacco- 
using.  This  is  a  serious  evil  to  which 
some  of  the  Elders  of  Israel,  especially 
in  our  outlying  settlements,  are  ad- 
dicted to;  and  it  would  appear  from 
their  actions  as  if  they  think  more  of 
ther  cigarette,  or  their  chew  of  tobac- 
co, than  they  do  of  their  families  and 
their  association  with  the  people  of 
God,  not  to  speak  of  the  Priesthood 
which  has  been  conferred  upon  them. 
This  is  disgraceful.  They  certainly 
cannot  understand  the  value  of  the 
Priesthood.  If  they  did,  they  would 
try  to  set  an  example  in  their  own 
homes,  that  they  might  have  the  love 
and  confidence  of  their  families  and 
.'ead  them  in  keeping  the  command- 
ments of  God.  We  are  such  a  busy 
lot  of  people  that  we  do  not  appear  to 
have  time  to  serve  the  Lord.  Especi- 
ally is  this  the  case  in  our  cities.  At 
least,  we  do  not  take  time  to  serve  the 
j_iord.  A  short  time  ago  I  went  into 
the  home  of  Brother  Wm.  H.  Seegmil- 
ler,  president  of  the  Sevier  Stake  of 
Zion,  and  I  was  very  much  impressed 
with  the  beautif'.l  practice  he  has  in 
his  home  at  their  devotional  exercises. 
When  we  got  up  in  the  morning  we 
were  invited  into  his  parlor,  and  there 
one  of  his  daughters  played  the  organ, 
and  we  all  sang  a  hymn;  then  one  of 
the  members  of  the  family  read  a  chap- 
ter from  the  Book  of  Mormon,  at  the 
close  of  which  we  engaged  in  prayer. 
Altogether  it  took  us  about  twenty 
minutes  or  half  an  hour,  and  there  was 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


a  beautiful  spirit  in  that  home  by  rea- 
son of  this  practice.  I  thought  to  my- 
self, what  a  glorious  thing  it  would  be 
if  all  the  Saints  of  God  would  take  half 
an  hour  every  morning  to  serve  Him 
in  this  way,  and  thus  assist  in  setting 
their  own  houses  in  order.  In  this  way 
we  would  be  able  to  gain  a  little  knowl- 
edge of  the  Gospel  every  day.  The 
chapter  read  from  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, or  from  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, or  from  the  Bible,  would  be 
with  us  during  the  day,  and  our  reflec- 
tions would  be  upon  that  which  it  con- 
tained. I  believe  that  the  men  and  wo- 
men in  Israel  who  take  time  to  do  this 
will  succeed  in  saving  their  sons  and 
daughters;  for  such  a  practice  cannot 
help  but  have  a  remarkably  good  in- 
fluence upon  the  children.  But  we 
say  we  have  not  time,  or  we  cannot 
get  our  families  together.  Where  that 
is  the  case,  we  ought  to  begin  to  edu- 
cate ourselves  to  carry  out  this  plan, 
in  order  to  fit  and  qualify  ourselves  for 
something  better  and  greater.  If  we  go 
back  to  Jackson  County,  we  will  have 
to  take  time  to  serve  the  Lord.  There- 
fore, I  say,  what  a  glorious  thing  it 
would  be  if  we  could  carry  out  this  sim- 
ple practice  in  our  homes!  I  will  tell 
you,  brethren  and  sisters,  sons  and 
daughters  from  a  home  like  that  do 
not  disgrace  their  parents;  they  do 
not  bring  shame  upon  that  house. 
Those  who  go  astray,  in  the  majority 
of  cases,  are  from  homes  where  these 
things  are  unknown.  I  thank  the  Lord 
that  this  practice  was  not  simply  for 
my  benefit  in  visiting  that  home;  it  is 
a  daily  practice  there,  and  I  wish  it 
were  the  daily  practice  in  every  home 
of  the  Saints  of  God.  If  it  were,  we 
would  be  a  much  more  faithful  people 
than  we  are  today.  There  would  be  no 
.ieed  of  sending  out  special  missionaries 
to  regulate  families,  or  wards,  because 
there  would  be  a  missionary  work  done 
right  in  the  home  which  would  cause 
the  members  of  the  family  to  live  lives 
of  consistency,  in  keeping  with  the 
Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

God  help  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, to  reflect  upon  these  things,  and 
see  whether  they  are  worth  our  atten- 
tion or  not.  May  His  peace  and  bless- 
ings be  in  the  homes  of  all  the  Saints 


of  God,  and  may  we  improve  year  after 
year.  When  we  come  together  in  our 
semi-annual  conference,  with  the  Spirit 
of  God  resting  upon  us,  may  we  take 
a  retrospective  view  of  the  preceding 
six  months,  and  be  able  to  discover 
that  we  have  made  some  advancement, 
that  we  have  benefitted  some  one,  and 
that  we  are  keeping  pace  with  the  work 
of  God.  I  am  grateful  for  a  testimony 
that  every  principle  which  the  Lord  has 
revealed  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
is  of  God,  and  that  the  work  in  which 
we  are  engaged  is  God's  work,  and  not 
the  work  of  man;  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  sent  of  our  Eternal  Father  to  es- 
tablish the  work,  which  he  did  estab- 
lish, and  which  is  gradually  filling  the 
whole  earth,  as  it  is  designed  to  do, 
bearing  the  message  of  peace  on  earth 
and  good  will  towards  all  men.  May 
the  Lord  help  us  that  we  may  keep  the 
spirit  of  this  great  and  grand  work, 
and  prize  our  standing  as  members  of 
this  Church  and  Kingdom.  I  ask  it  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 

Why  many  generations  have  been  left  without  the 
Gospel— Growth  of  the  work  of  the  Lord  from 
its  Inception — An  Incomparable  organization 
— Sacredness  of  the  name  of  Deity— Loyalty  to 
the  Priesthood  and  country  —  Keliglonists 
should  marry  within  their  own  faith. 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  feel  to  ex- 
press my  gratitude  for  the  opportunity 
of  enjoying  this  conference.  I  do  not 
know  what  I  shall  say,  but  place  my- 
self in  the  hands  of  the  Lord.  I  have 
rejoiced  in  the  many  good  things  which 
have  been  spoken  unto  us,  and  I  dare 
say  that  every  Latter-day  Saint  who 
enjoys  the  spirit  of  his  calling  will  hear 
something  said  at  this  conference  that 
will  be  particularly  adapted  to  his 
wants.  This  will  always  be  the  case  if 
we  come  tog-ether  with  a  desire  to  be 
renewed  in  our  faith  and  encouraged 
in  the  performance  of  our  duties.  It  is 
within  our  reach  to  know  the  mind  and 
will  of  the  Lord,  not  only  concerning 
the  Church  as  a  whole  through  the 
mouthpiece  of  God,  but  also  concerning 
our  individual  labors.  Every  Latter- 
day  Saint  is  entitled  to  enjoy  the 
promptings  of  the  Holy  Spirit  to  guide 
him  in  his  particular  field  of  labor. 

I  was  impressed  while  listening  to  the 


ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 


15 


testimony  of   Brother  Woodruff  con- 
cerning the  manifestation  which  the 
Lord  had  given  him  and  his  brethren, 
when  they  sought  Him  in  prayer,  in 
the  establishment  of  a  colony  of  peo- 
ple in  the  state  of  Wyoming.   It  sound- 
ed very  different  to  anything  that  is 
carried  out    in  the    sectarian  world, 
where  religious  worship  "consists  sim- 
ply of  a  little  preaching,  praying  and 
singing  in  their  public  assemblies.  The 
work  of  God  comprehends   far  more 
thar  that.    It  seems  to  me  that,  out 
of  the  hundreds  of  millions  of  people 
in  the  world  who  profess  to  believe  in  a 
Supreme  Being,  there  would  be  more 
understand  the  unchangeable  character 
of  God  and  that  they  are  entitled  to 
know  His  mind  and  will  concerning 
them.    We  have    often     been  asked 
why,   if  Joseph   Smith  was  a  Prophet 
of       God,       the     Lord       left  the 
earth   without   the   light   of   the  Gos- 
pel for    so    many    generations.  The 
answer  is  very  plain.    They  destroyed 
the  men  who  bore  the  authority  of  God 
to  officiate  in  His  name.   Then  the  Lord 
raised  up  such  men  as  Luther  and  his 
associates  of  the  Reformation  to  pave 
the    way    for  the  introduction  of  the 
truth;  but  even  their  lives  were  placed 
in  jeopardy,  though  they  did  not  claim 
to  have  received  any  new  revelation 
from  God,  nor  any  light  regarding  the 
organization   of   the    true  Church;  in 
fact,  many  of  them  laid  down  their  lives 
in  testimony  of  that  for  which  they  con- 
tended.   I  want  to  bear  testimony  that 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  raised 
up  to  introduce  this  Gospel  just  as  soon 
as  the  world  were  prepared  to  receive 
it;  and  it  was  according  to  the  pur- 
poses of  the  Almighty  that  it  should 
be  brought  forth  in  the  last  days. 

The  work  of  God,  from  its  inception 
to  the  present,  has  been  growing,  so 
that  it  is  those  who  fight  against  it, 
.  not  the  Latter-day  Saints,  that  ought 
to  be  discouraged.  It  would  be  well  for 
them  if,  instead  of  persisting  in  fighting 
the  work,  they  would  esteem  it  as  a 
joyful  piece  of  news  which  the  Lord 
has  sent  again  to  the  earth— the  Gos- 
pel restored  in  its  ancient  purity  ana 
power,  by  heavenly  messengers,  for  the 
salvation  of  the  children  of  men.  There 
have  been  some  men  that,  whi'e  not  un- 


derstanding the  real  source  of  inspira- 
tion and  strength  which  has  sustained 
the  work,  have  had  sufficient  light  and 
understanding  to  know  that  it  was  not 
to  be  ti^ed  with.  I  have  often  been 
impressed  with  the  testimony  borne  by 
Josiah  Quincy,  who  visited  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  a  few  weeks  before  his 
martyrdom.    In     his     book  entitled, 
"Figures  of  the  Past,"  he  devotes  two 
chapters  to  the  Prophet,  and  makes  the 
statement  that  at  some  future  time  it 
was  not  improbable  that  the  question 
would  be  asked,  What  great  American 
has  done  more  to  mould  the  minds  and 
destiny     of     his     countrymen  than 
any    other    man    upon    this  conti- 
nent?   and  he  remarked,  "Absurd  as 
it   may    seem   to    some,  it  is  not  im- 
probable that  the  answer  to  this  ques- 
tion    will     be,     Joseph    Smith,  the 
Mormon  prophet!"    I  want  to  say  that 
he  was  guided  by  the  spirit  of  prophecy 
when  he  wrote  that  statement,  and  it 
will  come  to  pass.     William  H.  Se- 
ward, who  was  secretary  of  state  in  the 
days  of  Abraham  Lincoln,  impressed 
with  the  character  of  President  Brig- 
ham  Young,  made  the  statement  that 
America    had    produced    no  greater 
statesman  than  the   Mormon  prophet, 
Brigham  Young. 

What  impresses  me,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  is  not  the  idea  of  securing  pop- 
ularity through  the  statements  of  sen- 
sible men  who  speak  thus  boldly  and 
sincerely  at  times,  but  the  fact  that  peo- 
ple ought  to  see,  as  we  have  been  led 
to  see,  that  this  work  has  not  been 
accomplished  by  the  ingenuity  of  the 
men  who  have  stood  at  the  head  of  this 
Church.  I  remember  a  statement  that 
was  made  many  years  ago  to  Brother 
John  W.  Taylor,  when  he  was  working 
in  the  county  recorder's  office  in  this 
city.  A  gentleman  from  the  East  called 
in,  and  in  the  course  of  conversation 
he  said:  "Mr.  Taylor,  I  have  examined 
the  organizations  of  civil  government 
in  various  nations  of  the  earth;  I  am 
informed  in  regard  to  the  Church  in- 
stitutions as  they  exist  in  Christendom; 
but  in  all  my  travels  and  researches  I 
have  found  nothing  that  is  at  all  to  be 
compared  with  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
I  appeal  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ters,  to  consider  these  things.  Not- 
withstanding the  fact  that  numerically 
the  Church  has  grown  in  a  most  re- 
markable manner,  as  shown  by  Brother 
Clawson,  there  exists  a  great  neces- 
sity for  us  to  grow  in  spirit.  It  is  not 
the  numerical  strength  that  constitutes 
the  power  and  strength  of  a  people; 
it  is  their  purity  of  life,  and  their  pos- 
session of  the  Holy  Spirit  as  a  source 
of  inspiration  in  all  the  walks  of  life. 
As  an  evidence  of  this  I  want  to  ci'e 
to  you  the  fact  that  notwithstanding 
the  Church  now  numbers  310,000,  there 
are  many  who  have  fallen  by  the  way 
side.  The  doctrine  has  been  laid  down 
in  a  most  clear  and  distinct  manner  that 
it  is  not  the  professions  we  make;  it 
is  not  the  fact  that  we  nave  a  standing 
in  th>  Church,  or  that  we  have  some 
knowledge  of  the  Gospel  from  the 
"dead"  letter,  that  will  give  us  per- 
fect fellowship  with  God.  Something 
better  than  that  is  required.  "We  must 
stand  in  the  light  that  Jesus  told  His 
disciples  to  occupy  when  He  said  unto 
them: 

"Ye  are  the  salt  of  the  earth:  but  if 
the  salt  hath  lost  his  savor,  wherewith 
shall  it  be  salted?  It  is  thenceforth 
good  for  nothing,  but  to  be  cast  out, 
and  to  be  trodden  .under  foot  of  men." 

What  made  them  the  "salt  of  the 
earth?"  He  had  told  them  previously. 
It  was  not  because  He  had  come  and 
spoken  unto  them;  it  was  not  because 
they  had  seen  Him  work  mighty  mira- 
cles; but  it  was  because  they  applied  in 
their  lives  the  teachings  He  gave  in 
that  beautiful  sermon  on  the  mount. 

"Blessed  are  the  poor  in  spirit;  for 
theirs  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

"Blessed  are  the  meek;  for  they  shall 
inherit  the  earth. 

"Blessed  are  they  which  do  hunger 
and  thirst  after  righteousness;  for 
they  shall  be  filled. 

"Blessed  are  the  pure  in  heart;  for 
they  shall  see  God. 

"Blessed  are  the  peacemakers,  for 
they  shall  be  called  the  cnildren  of 
God." 

These  were  some  of  the  characteris- 
tics manifested  by  them  in  their  lives. 
As  Jesus  said  to  them,  "Except  your 
righteousness  shall  exceed  the  righte- 
ousness of  the  scribes  and  Pharisees, 
ye  shall  in  no  case  enter  into  the  king- 
dom of  heaven." 

President  Smith  alluded  this  morning 


to  the  habit  of  profanity  among  the 
young  people.  I  heard  Brother  Mc- 
Murrin,  who  is  one  of  the  general  au- 
thorities of  the  Church,  state  several 
times  during  our  recent  visit  to  Ari- 
zona and  Mexico  that  there  was  more 
profanity  on  the  streets  of  Salt  Lake 
City  in  a  short  time  than  there  was  in 
the  great  cities  of  England  in  a  long 
time.'  I  want  to  say  that,  so  far  as  this 
concerns  the  Latter-day  Saints,  it  is  a 
disgrace  in  the  sisht  of  God.  Alto- 
gether I  have  spent  nearly  five  years 
south  of  the  Mason  and  Dixon  line  in 
the  United  States  of  America,  and  it 
was  seldom  that  I  heard  the  name  of 
Deity  profaned  among  the  southern 
people.  Co-operating  with  my  brethren 
who  stand  here  to  teach  the  people,  I 
enjoin  upon  the  young  men  the  absolute 
recessity  of  desisting  from  profaning 
the  name  of  Deity.  We  ought  to  es- 
teem that  name  as  exceedingly  sacred. 
It  is  so  sacred  that  the  Lord  has  said, 
in  a  revelation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  recorded  in  Section  107  of  the 
book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants: 

"There  are  in  the  church  two  Priest- 
hoods, namely,  the  Melchisedek  and 
Aaronic,  including  the  Levitical  priest- 
hood. 

Why  the  first  is  called  the  Melchise- 
dek Priesthood  is  because  Melchisedek 
was  such  a  great  High  Priest. 

Before  his  day  it  was  called  the  Holy 
Priesthood,  after  the  order  of  the  Son 
of  God; 

But  out  of  respect  or  reverence  to  the 
name  of  the  Supreme  Being,  to  avoid 
the  too  frequent  repetition  of  his  name, 
they,  the  church,  in  ancient  days,  called 
that  Priesthood  after  Melchisedek,  or 
the  Melchisedek  Priesthood." 

Let  us  stop  and  reflect  upon  that  for 
a  moment.  It  does  not  imply,  when 
they  called  the  Priesthood  after  the  or- 
der of  the  Son  of  God,  that  they  did  it 
irreverently,  or  that  they  were  profan- 
ing the  name  of  Deity;  but  the  change 
was  made  "to  avoid  the  too  frequent 
repetition  of  His  name."  This  ought 
to  impress  us  with  the  sacredness  that 
the  Almighty  places  upon  His  holy 
name. 

Allow  me  to  teach  a  few  simple  ideas, 
that  possibly  ought  to  be  taught  to  the 
Sunday  school  children;  but  we  are  all 
children,  and  need  teaching  and  nurs- 
ing, so  far  as  the  work  of  the  Lord  is 
concerned.    When  a  child  speaks  to  his 


I 


ELDER  MATTH] 

father  he  does  not  call  him  John  Jones, 
nor  Samuel  Brown,  nor  Golden  Kim- 
ball; he  calls  him  father,  or  some  name 
equivalent    to  that.    Our    Savior,  in 
teaching   His  disciples   how  to  pray, 
said,     "After     this     manner  there- 
fore    pray    ye:     Our    Father  which 
art    in    heaven."      He  warned  them 
against  praying  as  the  hypocrites  did, 
who  loved  to  stand  in  the  synagogue^ 
and  on  the  street  corners,  to  be  seen  of 
men;  and  He  advised  them  tp  enter  in- 
to their  closets  and  pray  to  their  Fath- 
er in  secret.    The  Spirit  says  to  me 
that  the  Latter-day  Saints  do  not  enter 
into  their  closets  and  pray  in  secret  as 
much  as  they  ought  to  do.  We  do  not, 
as  we  should,  test  the  words  of  the 
beautiful  hymn  that  has  been  sung  this 
afternoon,    "Lord,  thou   wilt   hear  me 
when  I  pray."  The  Savior  also  told  His 
disciples  not  to  use  vain  repetitions, 
and  in  His  prayer  Hie  did  not  repeat 
the  name  of  the  Father.    He  simply 
said   in   the    beginning,    "Our  Father 
which  art  in  heaven."  What  could  be 
more  simple,  more  gentle,  or  a  more 
humble    acknowledgment    of  our  rela- 
tionship to  God,  than  this  expression 
of  the  Messiah?    We  are  the  children 
of    our    heavenly    Father.    We  were 
created  in  His  image,   physically,  as 
well  as  spiritually.  Therefore,  in  our 
prayers  we  should  address  Him  as  our 
Father.  By  so  doing  it  will  surround 
the  sacred  name  of  Deity  with  due  rev- 
erence. We  should  teach  our  children  to 
approach  the  Father  in  this  way,  in  the 
name  of  the  Son;  and  then  the  name  01 
Deity  will  not  be  so  familiar  to  them 
that  when  they  are  on  the  street,  ana 
perhaps  become  irritated,  that  sacred 
name  will  come  to  their  minds  and  find 
profane  expression  on  their  lips.  We 
ought  to  be  governed  by  the  Savior's 
example  in  all  our  prayers,  private  and 
public,  as  well  as  in  our  discourses  be- 
fore the  public,  and  not  repeat  too  fre- 
quently the  name  of  Deity. 

I  allude  to  this  because  it  has  been 
suggested  by  those  who  stand  in  au- 
thority over  us  that  we  shall  take  up, 
as  it  were,  a  crusade  against  profanity. 
You  know  the  effect  of  the  spirit  01 
revelation  through  President  Snow  on 
the  subject  of  tithing,  and  how  it  has 
been  attended  by  the  blessings  of  the 
Almighty.  As  was  stated    by  Brother 


AS  F.  COWLEY.  17 

Reed  Smoot  in  regard  to  the  law  of 
consecration,  we  have  been  brought 
nearer  to  that  law  by  the  preaching 
and,  labors  of  the  brethren  on  the 
question  of  tithing.  Now,  let  us  take 
up  a  crusade  against  these  evils  that 
exist  among  the  young  people,  and  in 
some  instances  among  the  older  peo- 
ple. And  this  ought  not  to  be  confined 
to  those  who  are  working  in  the  Mu- 
tual Improvement  cause.  It  ought  to 
be  taken  up  by  the  Bisfiops  of  the 
wards,  by  the  Teachers  in  the  wards, 
by  the  Presidents  of  Stakes,  and  by 
the  local  missionaries.  Wherever  we 
find  a  man  who,  either  in  moments  of 
excitement  or  through  carelessness, 
profanes  the  name  of  Deity,  we  ought 
to  take  up  a  labor  with  him.  The  same 
may  be  said  with  regard  to  those  who 
do  not  observe  the  Word  of  Wisdom; 
for  the  Word  of  Wisdom  is  not  so  ex- 
tensively practiced  as  it  ought  to  be. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  reverence  for 
the  name  of  Deity,  the  observance  of 
the  Sabbath  day,  the  attendance  upon 
our  prayers,  the  payment  of  our  tith- 
ing, the  performance  of  these  simple 
duties  that  the  Gospel  enjoins  upon  us, 
constitute  the  key  for  *our  safety  in 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  We  may  talk  about  the 
mysteries  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven; 
we  may  talk  about  becoming  as  the 
Father  is  now  (which  is  within  the 
possibility  of  the  Gospel) ;  but  it  is  al- 
most absolute  folly  to  talk  about  such 
glorious  things  unless  we  have  faith  to 
quit  smoking  a  cigarette  or  an  old  pipe, 
and  to  cease  breaking  the  Sabbath  day 
or  profaning  the  name  of  Deity.  There 
ought  to  be  consistency  in  all  the 
practices  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  The 
good,  substantial  Latter-day  Saint  is 
the  one,  whether  old  or  young,  who 
is  willing  to  take  hold  readily  of  any 
labor  that  may  be  assigned  unto  him 
or  her.  Whenever  a  young  man  goes  on 
a  mission,  and  is  exceedingly  success- 
ful, and  enjoys  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord, 
he  ought  not  to  be  imbued  with  a  de- 
sire to  do  missionary  work  abroad  all 
the  time,  and  feel  that  he  wants  to 
be  distinguished  in  that  re- 
spect. He  should  possess  such 
a  feeling  that  if  the  Bishop  wants  him 
to  act  as  a  Deacon  and  look  after  the 
house  of  the  Lord,  he  will  be  a  Deacon. 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


He  should  be  willing  to  adapt  himself 
to  the  duties  of  the  Priest  or  the  Teach- 
er, though  he  may  be  a  High  Priest 
or  a  Seventy.  Those  who  are  thus  hum- 
ble and  willing  are  the  kind  of  people 
that  make  good  Latter-day  Saints  and 
turn  neither  to  the  right  nor  to  the 
left.  I  remember  hearing  President 
Snow  say  on  more  than  one  occasion 
how  determined  Lyman  E.  Johnson 
was  to  see  an  angel  from  the  Lord.  He 
plead  with  and  teased  the  Lord  to  send 
an  angel  to  him,  until  he  saw  an  an- 
gel; but  President  Snow  said  that  the 
trouble  with  him  was  that  he  saw  an 
angel  one  day  and  saw  the  devil  the 
next  day,  and  finally  the  devil  got 
away  with  him.  My  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, it  is  the  angel  of  good  works 
that  we  want  around  us  all  the  time. 
The  Lord  will  send  angels  whenever 
there  is  a  necessity  for  it;  He  will 
speak  to  us  by  the  gift  of  tongues  or 
in  some  other  way  when  occasion  re- 
quires; but  the  great  thing — that  which 
goes  to  make  us  the  salt  of  the  earth 
— is  that  we  shall  do  our  duty  and  live 
according  to  the  principles  of  eternal 
righteousness  which  the  Almighty  has 
revealed  unto  us. 

The  work  of  the  Lord  is  extending 
in  the  earth  in  a  most  remarkable  man- 
ner. People  have  asked  the  question 
whether  or  not  Brother  Grant  would 
be  successful  in  Japan,  and  whether 
the  Gospel  would  gather  people  from 
other  nations.  Such  a  question  need 
not  be  asked,  for  it  was  answered  this 
morning  in  the  revelation  read  by 
Apostle  Smoot,  where  it  says  in  rela- 
tion to  Zion,  "And  there  shall  come 
unto  her  out  of  every  nation  under  the 
heaven."  We  need,  therefore,  have  no 
concern  whatever  about  that.  We  need 
not  trouble  about  the  prosperity  and 
the  destiny  of  the  work  of  God,  and 
we  must  not  think  that  we  can  devise 
some  plan  that  will  benefit  the 
people  of  God  better  than  the 
suggestions  which  come  from  the 
Prophet  of  the  Lord  who  stands 
at  the  head  of  this  Church 
Let  me  say  to  you,  brethren  and  sisters, 
sustain  your  local  priesthood.  Do  not 
jump  over  the  President  of  your  Stake 
and  go  to  the  Prophet  when  it  is  not 
necessary.  The  presidents  of  Stakes 
have  been  appointed  to  preside  over 


you,  and  they  are  men  of  God.  This  is 
the  work  of  the  Lord,  not  the  work  of 
man.  It  is  not  the  work  of  Lorenzo 
Snow,  nor  of  Brigham  Young,  nor  of 
Joseph  Smith;  it  is  the  work  of  the  Al- 
mighty, and  though  men  are  fallible 
and  imperfect,  He  will  never  allow  the 
work  to  be  stopped.  Another  thing, 
He  will  never  allow  any  man  or  wo- 
man to  be  crowded  out  of  the  Church. 
The  man  that  lives  his  religion  will  en- 
joy the  Spirit  of  God,  and  no  power 
can  crowd  him  out  of  this  Church  ay 
long  as  he  is  in  the  discharge  of  his 
duty.  When  a  man  leaves  this  Church 
it  is  because  he  has  apostatized  or  de- 
parted from  the  order  of  the  Holy 
Priesthood.  There  is  an  order  in  the 
work  of  the  Lord,  which  must  be  res- 
pected. Even  the  angels  of  heaven  res- 
pect the  Priesthood  of  God  upon  the 
earth.  When  the  angel  appeared  to 
Cornelius  did  he  baptize  Cornelius?  No; 
he  sent  him  to  that  humble  fisherman 
of  Galilee,  Peter.  When  the  Messiah 
appeared  to  Paul  on  his  way  to  Da- 
mascus, did  he  baptize  Paul?  No;  he 
sent  him  to  Ananias,  a  humble  servant 
of  the  Lord,  who  baptized  him.  The 
Nephite  Apostles  and  John  the  Revela- 
tor,  who  are  laboring  among  the  peo- 
ple, at  times  perhaps  in  this  land,  and 
possibly  among  the  tribes  of  Israel,  will 
not  baptize  and  lay  hands  upon  people 
for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  who  are 
within  the  purview  of  this  Church.  If 
they  should  do  such  a  thing,  it  would 
be  understood  by  the  Prophet  who 
stands  at  the  head  of  this  Church.  Jos- 
eph Smith  received  all  the  keys  that 
pertain  to  this  dispensation;  and  al- 
though the  Bible  says  that  John  the 
Revelator  has  a  mission  to  gather  the 
ten  tribes  of  Israel,  I  desire  to  say 
that  it  will  be  done  under  the  order  of 
the  Priesthood  established  in  this 
Church  and  by  the  keys  that  were  giv- 
en to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith;  for  it 
belongs  to  this  dispensation,  and  it  will 
be  done  under  the  direction  of  whoever 
stands  at  the  head  of  the  Church  at 
the  time.  , 

Another  thing:  Sometimes  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  get  a  false  idea  abouv 
prophecy.  Some  of  the  brethren  have 
said  that  the  temple  in  Jackson  County, 
Missouri,  must  be  built  in  a  very  short 
time,  because  the  Lord  has  said  that 


ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 


19 


it  shall  be  built  in  this  generation;  but 
we  should  not  forget  that  the  Almighty 
can  prolong  the  years  of  this  genera- 
tion, if  necessary.  Did  not  Jesus  say  to 
the  Twelve  in  Palestine,  "There  be 
some  standing  here,  which  shall  not 
taste  of  death,  till  they  see  the  Son 
of  Man  coming  in  His  kingdom?"  And 
some  of  the  generation  of  Jesus,  ac- 
cording to  the  flesh,  are  upon  the  earth 
today.  Therefore,  if  the  Latter-day 
Saints  are  not  prepared,  and  the  Lora 
does  not  feel  disposed  to  raise  up  an- 
other people  to  redeem  Zion  and  to 
build  the  great  temple  in  Jackson 
County,  He  may  prolong  that  genera- 
tion just  as  long  as  He  sees  fit.  I  do 
not  know  that  He  will,  but  I  mention  it 
that  you  may  not  entertain  a  mistaken 
idea.  I  have  heard  President  Smith  ana 
Brother  John  Henry  Smith  say  at  vari- 
ous times  that  when  the  people  were 
sent  to  settle  Provo  and  build  up  Zion 
in  Utah  County,  they  would  not  plant 
out  shade  and  fruit  trees,  because,  the> 
said,  the  day  was  near  at  hand  when 
they  would  go  back  to  redeem  Zion,  and 
trees  would  not  be  needed  there.  But 
they  are  in  Provo  yet,  unless  they  are 
dead  and  gone  to  a  better  place.  When 
I  was  in  Arizona  with  Brother  McMur- 
rin,  we  found  in  some  places — not 
many,  thank  the  Lord — and  among  a 
few  people  a  little  discontent.  They  said 
the  land  was  too  good  for  them,  ana 
they  could  not  hold  it  down;  so  they 
wanted  to  get  up  and  leave.  I  felt  so 
impressed  with  the  remarks  of  Brother 
McMurrin  down  there,  encouraging  the 
spirit  of  patriotism  to  the  Terri- 
tory of  Arizona  and  to  the  Republic  of 
Mexico,  that  I  wanted  to  say  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  "Wherever  you 
live  be  patriotic  to  the  country  in 
which  you  live;  not  only  to  the  soil 
and  to  the  elements,  by  which  God  shall 
sustain  your  lives  while  you  promote 
His  work  in  that  land,  but  be  patriotic 
to  the  institutions  of  the  country,  under 
whose  flag  you  receive  your  rights  and 
have  the  opportunity  to  life,  liberty  and 
the  pursuit  of  happiness."  If  you  are 
in  Canada,  be  true  to  the  flag  of  Cana- 
da. If  you  are  in  Mexico,  be  true  to 
Mexico.  If  you  are  in  these  glorious 
United  States  of  America,  whose  Con- 
stitution was  framed  under  the  inspir- 


ation of  the  Almighty,  be  thou  true  to 
thy  country  in  general,  and  specially 
true  to  Arizona,  or  to  Utah,  or  to  Idaho, 
or  to  Wyoming,  or  wherever  the  Lord 
has  planted  your  feet  and  said,  Here 
shall  be  established  a  Stake  of  Zion. 
It  is  not  within  the  spirit  and  genius  of 
this  work  to  destroy  the  Stakes  of 
Zion.  They  will  not  be  destroyed.  The 
Lord  has  said  through  Isaiah,  "Not  one 
of  the  stakes  thereof  shall  ever  be  re- 
moved, neither  shall  any,  of  the  cords 
thereof  be  broken."  In  another  pla.:e 
Isaiah  says,  "Enlarge  the  place  of  thy 
tent,  and  let  them  stretch  forth  the  cur- 
tains of  thine  habitations;  spare  not, 
lengthen  thy  cords,  and  strengthen  thy 
stakes."  The  word  of  the  Lord  is  to 
build  up  the  Stakes  of  Zion,  and  the 
day  will  come  when  the  Latter-day 
Saints  will  cover  the  American  conti- 
nent; when  the  seed  of  Lehi  shall  em- 
brace the  Gospel,  come  to  the  standard 
of  Zion  and  be  mighty  in  the  redemp- 
tion of  Zion  upon  this  land;  when  the 
Jews  will  build  up  Jerusalem,  and  the 
tribes  of  Israel  will  come  from  the 
north  country. 

We  ought  to  have  all  these  things  in 
remembrance,  and  in  order  that  we  may 
do  so  we  must  not  forget  to  teach  our 
children  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
Prophet  of  the  Almighty;  that  every 
principle  revealed  to  him  is  just  as  true 
today  as  it  was  the  day  he  sealed  his 
testimony  with  his  innocent  blood  in 
Carthage  jail;  that  this  is  the  dispensa- 
tion of  the  fulness  of  times;  that  with- 
out the  principles  which  the  Lord  re- 
vealed to  Joseph  Smith  this  dispensa- 
tion is  not  complete;  and  that  the  work 
of  God  will  never  be  destroyed,  either 
in  part  or  as  a  whole,  for  so  hath  the 
Lord  spoken.  So,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, be  not  discouraged,  but  be  faith- 
ful. Let  me  say  to  the  young  people: 
Keep  good  company.  Do  not  go  out 
with  those  who  profane  the  name  of 
Deity.  Do  not  cast  your  lot  with  those 
who  have  no  faith  in  the  Almighty.  Do 
not  mingle  with  those  who  smoke  or 
chew  tobacco,  who  dabble  with  liquor, 
and  who  desecrate  the  Sabbath  day. 
Do  not  risk  going  into  company  where 
there  is  danger  that  your  affections 
will  be  established  in  an  object  that  is 
not  a  saint  of  the  Most  High.  Young 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


women,   seek  the  Lord  in  prayer,  to 
guide  you  in  the  selection  of  a  man  to 
stand  at  your  head  for  time  and  all 
eternity.    I  give  the  same  counsel  to 
the  young  men.    Taking  the  opposite 
course  has  never  resulted  in  good.  Evil 
always  arises  from  union  with  those 
outside   the  Church.     If  it  were  my 
right,  I  would  say  to  the  Methodists, 
marry    within    your  own  church.  I 
would  say  to  the  Baptists  the  same.  I 
would  say  to  the  Methodist,  the  Cath- 
olic,  the  Baptist  young  man:    Do  not 
marry  a  Latter-day  Saint  girl;  she  will 
make  you  trouble  just  as  sure  as  you 
are  born.     You  know,  the  preachers 
said  a  few  weeks  ago  that  when  they 
got  a  "Mormon"  into  their  net  he  was  a 
source  of  trouble  to  them,  because  his 
old  "Mormon"  theories  would  crop  out. 
If  a  Gentile  marries  a  "Mormon"  girl, 
when  she  has  a  baby  she  will  want  that 
baby    blessed    at    a   "Mormon"  fast 
meeting,  and  when  it  is  eight  years 
old  she  will  want  it  baptized;  and  there 
will  be  trouble  and  discord  in  the  fam- 
ily.   I  lift  my  voice  against  such  mar- 
riages.   I  want  to  protect  the  Baptists, 
the     Methodists     and    the  Catholics 
against  you  "Mormon"  girls.    I  want 
to  protect  the   Catholic  girls  against 
you  "Mormon"  boys.    I  say  to  girls  not 
of  our  faith,  Do  not  marry  a  "Mormon" 
boy:  for  if  you  do  he  will  make  you 
trouble.       ["Unless      they  repent," 
President     Smith      remarked.]  Yes; 
but     they     are    not     very     apt  to 
repent.    When  you  marry  a  man  to 
save  him,  you  are  engaging  in  a  very 
risky  thing.    I  remember  reading  many 
years  ago  a  piece  of  poetry  in  the 
"Woman's  Exponent,"  which  said,  "Do 
not  marry  a  man  to  save  him."  And 
it  is  better  not  to  marry  a  woman  to 
save  her.    If  you  cannot  convert  her 
beforehand,  you  will  have  a  sorry  job 
on  your  hands  afterwards.    I  say  fur- 
ther, I  would  not  advise  a  young  lady 
to  marry  a  young  man,  unless  he  be- 
lieved in  the  Gospel  and  every  prin- 
ciple of  it.    Though  we  cannot  carry 
out  the  law  of  consecration  today,  the 
day  will  come  when  we-  can,  and  if 
anybody  is  opposed  to  it  they  will  find 
themselves  in  a  disagreeable  predica- 
ment.   So  in  regard  to  everything  else 
in  the  Gospel. 
God  has  established  this  work,  my 


brethren  and  sisters.  I  know  it  is  true. 
I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  proph- 
et of  the  Almighty;  that  Brigham 
Young  was  inspired  of  the  Almighty; 
that  he  led  this  people  into  these 
chambers  of  the  mountains.  So  was 
John  Taylor  and  Wilford  Woodruff, 
and  so  is  Lorenzo  Snow.  The  founda- 
tion of  this  work  was  laid  by  the  Al- 
mighty .through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  Brigham  Young  never  gave 
a  new  doctrine  unto  this  people.  All 
the  ordinances  and  blessings  were  giv- 
en to  the  Prophet  Joseph,  and  his  suc- 
cessors have  built  upon  that  founda- 
tion. God  established  through  him  the 
dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times, 
which  comprehends  every  key,  every 
blessing,  every  authority  and  every 
principle  that  is  essential  for  the  salva- 
tion of  the  human  family  in  this  life, 
not  only  spiritually,  but  socially,  po- 
litically, financially,  and  in  every  sense 
of  the  word.  Then  what  is  the  good 
of  going  outside  and  joining  Christian 
Science  or  anything  else,  when  you  can 
get  everything  in  the  Gospel,  and  ten 
thousand  times  more  than  they  dare 
to  offer  you?  What  is  the  good  of 
joining  any  of  these  sectarian  institu- 
tions, which  have  not  been  founded  by 
the  Almighty,  where  the  authority  of 
God  to  administer  the  ordinances  of 
eternal  life  do  not  exist?  What  is  the 
good  of  dropping  the  meat  to  grasp  a 
miserable  shadow? 

May  God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters.  May  the  Lord  inspire  you  and 
our  young  people  to  hold  sacred  the 
name  of  Deity,  to  observe  the  Sabbath, 
to  honor  the  law  of  tithine-.  to  live 
lives  of  virtue,  honor  and  chastity. 
May  our  Eternal  Father  bless  Presi- 
dent Lorenzo  Snow.  May  He  heal  his 
body,  that  he  may  come  and  speak  un- 
to us  and  give  us  the  word  of  the 
Lord.  May  He  bless  his  counselor, 
President  Smith.  May  He  bless  the 
Twelve  Apostles.  May  He  bless  these 
men  who  sit  before  me,  and  who  are 
the  general  authorities  of  the  Church; 
for  the  Almighty  has  appointed  them, 
and  through  them  will  His  will  be 
manifest  to  the  children  of  men;  and 
those  who  receive  and  act  upon  it  He 
will  bless  and  establish  in  the  faith, 
while  those  who  fight  against  it  He 


ELDER  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


21 


will  withdraw  His  fellowship  from, 
and  they  will  go  into  darkness.  Hea- 
ven bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang. 


How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of  the 
Lord, 

Is  laid  for  your  faith  in  His  excellent 
word! 

Benediction  by  Elder  Angus  M.  Can- 
non. 


SECOND  DAY. 


Oct.  5,  10  a.  m. 
The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  which  commences: 

Come,  come,  ye  Saints,  no  toil  nor  la- 
bor fear, 
But  with  joy  wend  j'our  way. 

Prayer  was  offered  b     Elder  Lewis 
W.  Shurtliff. 
The  choir  sang: 

Come,  dearest  Lord,  descend  and  dwell, 
By  faith  and  love,  in  every  breast. 

ELDER  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

Conferences  a  blessing  to  the  Saints — The  people 
shouid  be  true  to  their  obligations — Advan- 
tages of  a  progressive  course — Importance  of 
keeping  records. 

I  earnestly  ask  an  interest  in  your 
faith  and  prayers,  that  the  few  mo- 
ments I  shall  occupy  this  stand  I  may 
be  heard  by  you  and  be  able  to  say 
something  that  will  be  for  our  mutual 
benefit.  I  was  very  much  interested 
yesterday  in  the  proceedings  of  our 
conference.  I  enjoyed  the  remarks 
made  by  our  brethren,  and  felt  that 
they  were  dictated  by  the  Spirit  of 
God.  It  is  pleasant  to  come  together 
upon  these  occasions  to  receive  instruc- 
tion and  to  be  strengthened  in  our  holy 
faith. 

The  Lord  instituted  these  gatherings 
of  the  Saints,  and  they  have  proved 
a  great  blessing  to  the  people.  The  Is- 
raelites of  old  were  commanded  once 
a  year  to  go  up  to  Jerusalem,  to  wor- 
ship at  the  temple;  and  this  was  a  po- 
tent means  to  keep  the  people  united. 
It  cemented  them  together,  and  they 
renewed  old  acquaintances.  "When  Jero- 
boam rebelled,  and  the  ten  tribes  separ- 
ated from  the  government  of  Reho- 
boam,  he  saw  the  danger  in  having 
the  people  come  together  at  Jerusalem, 
and  so  he  forbade  this,    and  raised 


strange  altars  for  his  people  at  Bethel 
and  other  places.  He  did  not  want  the 
people  to  go  to  Jerusalem  to  worship 
there,  because  he  felt  that  his  govern- 
ment would  not  be  so  stable.  The 
Lord,  in  ordering  these  gatherings  and 
likewise  the  quarterly  conferences  in 
the  Stakes,  has  done  it  for  the  good  of 
His  people.  The  people  come  together, 
mellowed  in  their  feelings,  listen  to 
the  servants  of  God,  renew  old  ac- 
quaintances, and  are  strengthened  in 
the  brotherhood  to  which  they  belong. 
I  know  many  who  make  it  a  point  to 
attend  these  conferences,  and  they  feel 
well  paid  for  doing  so.  They  would  feel 
bad  if  they  were  not  able  to  come  here 
and  drink  in  the  spirit  of  the  confer- 
ence. 

President  Smith  yesterday  gave  us 
warning  against  many  dangers  that 
surround  us,  and  the  brethren 
have  alluded  to  these.  They  are 
seasonable  topics.  We  should  study 
ourselves  and  the  high  position  that 
we  occupy.  We  profess  to  be  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  to  be  a  Latter-day 
Saint  in  spirit  and  in  truth  means  to 
walk  uprightly  before  the  Lord,  and 
to  shape  our  course  here  below  so  that 
we  may  obtain  eternal  life.  The  world 
knows  what  is  meant  by  being  a  Lat- 
ter-day Saint,  and  if  they  see  that  we 
act  in  a  way  different  from  what  a 
Latter-day  Saint  should  act,  they  put 
us  down  as  hypocrites;  and  justly  so. 
Professing  to  be  Latter-day  Saints  does 
not  make  us  Latter-day  Saints.  It 
takes  watching  and  praying,  a  contin- 
ual examination  of  ourselves,  to  live 
the  lives  of  Saints.  We  have  hoisted 
the  flag  of  Zion;  we  are  sailing  under 
it.  Let  us  be  true  to  it.  Let  us  be  true 
to  the  professions  we  are  making,  and 
show  the  world  that  not  only  in  word 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  profession  are  we  such,  but  in 
our  works  also.  Let  us  study  the  word 
of  God,  and  give  heed  unto  it,  whether 
it  be  written  or  given  orally  through 
His  servants.  How  thankful  we  are 
that  the  Lord  has  spoken  unto  men  in 
our  day;  that  we  are  not  dependent  on 
the  written  word  alone,  but  that  we 
have  the  living  oracles  with  us.  We  are 
thankful  that  the  word  of  God  has  come 
down  through  the  many  centuries  as 
pure  as  it  has.  Of  all  people  upon  the 
earth,  we  have  the  strongest  reason  to 
believe  in  the  scriptures.  We  have  not 
only  the  evidences  of  their  truth  which 
we  obtain  from  the  scriptures  them- 
selves— and  their  internal  evidences, 
such  as  prophecies  and  historical  truths, 
appeal  strongly  to  us,  but  we  have  also 
other  evidences  that  the  world  rejects. 
We  have  the  Book  of  Mormon,  in  which 
are  many  extracts  from  the  prophe- 
cies that  are  contained  in  the  Bible. 
With  but  little  change  many  of  the  pro- 
phecies of  Isaiah,  together  with  those 
of  other  prophets,  have  come  down  to 
us  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  and 
this  fact  gives  us  additional 
evidence  of  the  truth  of  the  Bible.  We 
want  to  make  ourselves  familiar  with 
the  Bible,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and 
the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
and  prepare  ourselves  to  receive  more 
of  the  word  of  God.  Whenever  the 
Lord  has  had  a  dispensation  upon  the 
earth,  He  has  always  favored  His  peo- 
ple with  His  word  and  win.  He  has 
not  let  His  people  wander  in  the  dark, 
but  has  revealed  himself  unto  them. 
Whenever  revelation  has  not  been  giv- 
en, men  have  perished  spiritually.  The 
wise  man  of  old  said:  "Where  there  Is 
no  vision  the  people  perish." 

Revelation  is  necessary  for  the  guid- 
ance of  the  people  of  God.  President 
Woodruff  used  to  say  that  we  could 
not  exist  as  a  Church  one  day  without 
revelation  from  God.  We  are  depend- 
ent upon  it,  and  we  cannot  do  without 
it.  Our  adversary  wants  us  to  believe 
that  it  is  not  needed,  and  I  have  often 
thought  how  strange  it  was  that  he 
could  make  the  people  who  believe  in 
Christ  and  the  scriptures  satisfied  with 
a  condition  of  things  wherein  the  hea- 
vens were  closed  unto  men.  Professed 
followers  of  Christ  have  been  willing 


to  defend  that  idea,  and  to  declare  that 
those  who  believed  in  the  necessity  of 
revelation  were  mistaken  and  in  ac- 
cepting more  revelation  from  God  we 
are  subject  to  the  curse  pronounced  by 
John  upon  all  who  should  add  unto  his 
book.  I  believe  as  firmly  now  as  he 
did  then  that  any  man  who  should  of 
himself  add  to  the  word  of  God  would 
be  subjected  to  the  curse,  that  he  pro- 
nounces, for  no  man  has  a  right  to  do 
that;  but  John  never  meant  to  convey 
the  idea  that  the  Lord  had  not  the 
right  to  give  further  revelation.  He 
showed  by  his  own  course  that  he  did 
not  mean  that;  for  after  he  had  writ- 
ten these  words  which  are  so  often 
quoted  against  new  revelation,  he  wrote 
that  beautiful  gospel  which  goes  by  his 
name,  and  which  contains  so  many 
precious  things.  The  Lord  is  not  limit- 
ed in  any  such  way. 

From  the  days  of  Moses  until  the  days 
of  the  Apostles,  He  gave  revelations, 
and  inspired  His  servants  to  write 
them.  How  thankful  we  are  that  these 
records  have  been  kept!  Moses  has 
been  called  God's  first  pen.  The  earli- 
est authentic  writings  we  have  come 
from  him,  and,  studying  them,  we  see 
how  consistent  is  the  word  of  God  from 
beginning  to  end.  Moses  gave  the  same 
warning  unto  men  as  John  did,  and  yet 
after  him  there  were  many  writers  of 
scripture.  We  have  many  books  written 
since  then,  which  we  know  were  writ- 
ten under  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy 
Spirit.  Many  books  have  been  lost,  and 
many  books  will  be  brought  to  light 
yet  by  the  power  of  God.  The  Lord  has 
carefully  guarded  His  word,  so  that  it 
has  come  down  to  us,  through  its  many 
translations,  nearly  perfect.  We  would 
like  our  young  men  and  our  young  wo- 
men to  study  these  works,  and  make 
themselves  familiar  with  the  gems  of 
truth  that  are  found  on  their  pages. 
Winter  is  coming  on,  and  we  would  like 
our  people  to  use  the  winter  evenings 
in  sf  lf-improvement.  Especially  does 
this  apply  to  the  young.  We  would  like 
them  to  abstain  from  too  much  danc- 
ing. Dancing  is  a  pleasant  amusement, 
where  it  is  carried  on  in  a  right  way; 
but  too  much  of  it  makes  the  mind  friv- 
olous, and  incapacitates  those  for  study 
who  thus  indulge    in    it.    Of  course, 


ELDER  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


23 


there  are  times  when  it  is  good  to  un- 
bend. Relaxation  is  necessary,  but  it 
should  not  be  the  chief  object  in  pass- 
ing our  winter  evenings.  Those  belong- 
ing to  the  Mutual  Improvement  associ- 
ations, we  hope,  will  learn  their  les- 
sons and  not  miss  one  session.  When 
you  take  up  your  Manual  to  study  it, 
try  to  take  up  other  books  on  similar 
topics.  Go  to  the  fountain  where  things 
are  taken  from,  and  study  all  you  can 
about  the  subject,  so  that  you  may  be 
fully  posted.  Then  your  evenings  will 
be  pleasant  to  you  while  meeting  with 
your  friends  belonging  to  the  same  so- 
ciety. 

Speaking  about  the  Lord  hav- 
ing inspired  His  servants  to  keep 
records,  I  am  reminded  that  we  as  a 
people  are  making  history,  and  this  his- 
tory should  also  be  kept.  On  the  very 
day  that  the  Church  was  organized  the 
Prophet  received  a  revelation  which 
said  that  there  should  be  a  record  kept 
in  the  Church.  Afterwards,  on  several 
occasions,  the  Lord  instructed  Joseph 
in  this  matter,  telling  him  to  appoint  a 
general  historian,  who  should  keep  a 
record  of  all  the  events  in  the  Church. 
A  year  and  a  half  afterward  he  is  told 
to  keep  a  record  of  the  Saints  and  their 
condition  in  the  Church.  This  is  a  mat- 
ter on  which  the  Prophet  laid  great 
stress,  but  record-keeping  has  been  neg- 
lected to  quite  an  extent  in  our  midst. 
Even  before  the  revelation  read  by 
Brother  Clawson,  where  it  said  that  a 
record  should  be  kept,  a  revelation  had 
been  received  commanding  the  keeping 
of  a  genealogical  record — the  names  ot 
those  baptized,  and  of  all  ordinations, 
etc.,  made  in  the  Church.  The  Lord 
instructed  His  servants  that  everyth' — 
should  be  done  in  order.  Of  late,  I 
am  pleased  to  observe,  there  is  a  grow- 
ing tendency  in  the  different  Stakes  and 
wards  to  take  care  of  the  records.  We 
hope  that  this  will  be  uniform  through- 
out the  Church,  and  that  in  every  Stake 
and  ward  records  will  be  kept  which 
will  give  a  concise  history  of  the  Stake 
or  ward.  In  every  ward  there  should 
be  two  records  kept.  One,  a  genealogi- 
cal record  of  the  births,  blessings,  bap- 
tisms, ordinations,  etc.  At  the  Deseret 
News  office  can  be  obtained  records  all 
ready  printed,  with  headings  that  will 
suggest  what  should  be  noted  down. 


Then  there  should  be  a  record  kept  of 
everything  important  that  happens  in 
the  ward.  The  clerk  of  the  ward  can 
take  his  record  to  the  meetings,  and 
while  the  meeting  is  going  on  can  jot 
down  a  few  items  of  what  is  being  said, 
and  who  are  present,  etc.  It  is  not 
necessary  that  you  write  down  the  ser- 
mons or  the  arguments  of  the  brethren; 
for  no  doubt  these  things  can  be 
found  in  more  fulness  in  other 
books;  but  keep  a  record  of  events 
as  they  happen,  of  the  changes  in 
the  ward,  in  the  Bishopric  in  the 
Teachers,  in  the  different  associa- 
tions and  institutions  of  the  ward.  It 
is  true  that  the  different  societies  keep 
records,  but  the  ward  clerk  should  at 
least  note  the  changes  that  take  place, 
so  that  his  ward  records  may  be  a 
true  history  of  the  ward.  Today,  when 
you  go  into  some  wards  and  ask  who 
was  the  first  Bishop  of  the  ward,  and 
who  the  next,  there  is  not  a  scratch  of 
a  pen  to  show  it;  and  when  we  send 
Brother  Andrew  Jenson,  as  one  of  the 
assistants  of  the  Historian's  office,  to 
find  out  about  the  histories  of  the 
wards,  he  is  often  referred  to  the  older 
members  of  the  ward  to  get  the  infor- 
mation he  wants.  This  should  not  be 
the  case.  Our  ward  records  should 
contain  a  history  of  the  ward  from  its 
organization  and  the  changes  that  have 
taken  place  in  the  ward,  as  well  as  the 
important  events  that  have  happened. 
In  the  Stakes  there  should  be  two  rec- 
ords also.  There  is  no  genealogical 
record  needed,  but  there  is  a  record  of 
the  High  Council  and  a  record  of  the 
history  of  the  Stake  required.  These 
records  do  not  call  for  much  writing; 
a  little,  written  at  the  time,  will  keep 
the  history  going.  If  this  be  attended 
to,  when  the  history  of  the  different 
Stakes  and  wards  comes  to  be  written 
we  will  have  the  material  with  which 
to  do  it. 

I  felt  to  say  this  concerning  record- 
keeping. When  ward  conferences  are 
held  and  the  Stake  presidency  visit 
them,  it  ought  to  be  understood  that 
that  day  should  also  be  record  day  in 
that  ward.  Let  the  Bishop  have  ail 
his  records  brought  where  the  presi- 
dency of  the  Stake  can  inspect  them; 
and  the  presidency  can  point  out  where 
anything  is  lacking  or  commend  them 


24 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


where  good  records  are  being  kept.  We 
have  found  it  necessary  to  appoint  one. 
day  each  year  for  this  purpose,  and  we 
think  that  the  day  on  which  the  ward 
conference  is  held  is  the  best  time 
for  the  presidency  of  the  Stake  to 
inspect  the  records.  It  is  neces- 
sary that  these  things  be  kept. 
The  genealogical  record  is  very 
important.  How  pleased  we  are  when 
we  go  out  into  the  world  and  find  how 
conscientiously  they  have  kept  a  rec- 
ord of  births,  so  that  we  are  able  to 
trace  our  ancestry  in  some  countries 
for  several  hundred  years.  This  could 
not  be  done  if  genealogical  records 
were  kept  in  a  slovenly  manner.  Some- 
times here  they  are  taken  on  slips  of 
paper,  put  away  in  a  drawer,  and  oc- 
casionally lost.  This  must  not  be. 
When  we  undertake  to  do  a  thing,  let 
us  do  it  well.  Do  not  trust  to  the 
clerk  alone,  but  let  the  Bishop  feel  that 
it  is  his  business  to  look  after  the  rec- 
ords in  his  ward.  Statistical  records 
cannot  be  kept  corectly  if  the  records 
are  not  correct.  Certificates  of  mem- 
bership should  also  be  looked  after. 
Bishops  should  see  to  it  that  those 
who  move  away  receive  their  certi- 
ficates to  take  to  the  wards  where  they 
move  to;  and  the  wards  that  they  go 
to  should  try  to  find  out  their  standing, 
so  that  they  can  be  received  there. 
There  are  many  that  are  dropping  out 
because  they  move  away  without  cer- 
tificates, and  do  not  join  the  wards  or 
branches  to  which  they  move,  while  if 
they  were  looked  after  and  warmed  up, 
they  might  be  lively  members  in  the 
Church. 

I  am  pleased,  brethren  and  sisters, 
with  the  condtion  of  the  people.  When 
Brother  Cowley  referred  yesterday  to 
a  time  when  so  many  apostatized  from 
the  Church,  I  thought  how  good  it  is 
that  today  this  is  not  the  case,  and 
that  excommunications  are  very  rare. 
In  fact,  I  believe  that  the  discipline  of 
the  Church  could  be  stricter  and  be  a 
blessing  unto  the  people.  But  it  is  a 
healthy  sign  to  see  that  there  are  not 
so  many  apostatizing  as  in  years  past. 
I  believe  the  people  understand  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel  better  and  live 
the  Gospel  more  perfectly.  They  have 
shown  during  the  last  two  years  how 
they  have  received  the  word  of  the 


Prophet  in  regard  to  tithing,  and  I  be- 
lieve the  Lord  will  bless  them,  both 
temporally  and  spiritually,  for  meet- 
ing this  requirement.  They  will  be 
strengthened  in  their  faith  and  there 
will  not  be  so  much  danger  of  apos- 
tasy as  when  they  refused  to  keep  the 
commandments  of  God.  May  the  Lord 
bless  you  all,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

ELDER  M.  W.  MERRILL. 

Spiritual  manifestations— Necessity  for  reforma- 
tion— Those  who  should  bring  It  about— Pro- 
per procedure  In  colonization — How  to  be  in- 
fluential with  the  honoiableof  the  earth — In- 
fluence of  Godliness  in  the  home — Importance 
of  Temple  work. 

I  am  pleased  to  be  associated  with 
this  conference.  I  have  evidence  in  my 
heart  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord, 
having  had  many  testimonies  to  this 
effect;  and  it  is  a  grand  thing  that  the 
Lord  is  so  merciful  as  to  manifest  to 
individuals  with  regard  to  the  plan  ot 
life  and  salvation.  It  is  not  known  to 
me  whether  all  the  Latter-day  Saints 
have  enjoyed  manifestations  from  the 
Lord  to  the  satisfying  of  their  souls. 
Apostle  Lund  has  just  said  to  us  that 
there  are  not  so  many  people  turning 
from  the  truth  now  as  formerly.  That, 
no  doubt,  is  true,  because  in  these 
times  there  are  means  provided  where- 
by all  the  people,  from  the  little  child 
to  the  aged,  may  learn  the  Gospel. 
With  these  auxiliary  organizations  that 
are  established  in  the  Church,  there  are 
now  more  opportunities  for  people  to 
understand  the  Gospel  than  we  had  in 
former  years. 

We  are  gathered  together  at  this 
general  conference,  not  with  the  expec- 
tation that  any  new  revelation  will  be 
given  or  any  new  doctrine  set  forth, 
but  to  be  reminded  of  the  truth  and  to 
have  our  minds  stirred  up  in  remem- 
brance of  those  things  which  we  hav<_ 
heard  or  read,  and  thus  be  renewed  in 
our  spirits  and  in  the  prosecution  of 
our  labors.  There  are,  no  doubt,  many 
things  among  us  that  might  be  im- 
proved upon.  President  Smith,  in  his 
opening  remarks,  alluded  to  some  of 
them.  We  all  know  that  he  spoke  the 
truth,  and  there  needs  to  be  through- 
out the  Church  an  effort  made  towards 
improvement  in  those  things.  He  re- 
ferred to  the  fact  that  there  was  pro- 


ELDER  M.  W.  MERRILL. 


25 


fanity  among  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
Now,  who  among  the  Elders  of  Israel, 
with  the  light  and  understanding  we 
have  and  with  the  teachings  that  are 
given  to  us  from  time  to  time,  would 
feel  at  liberty  to  indulge  in  pro- 
fanity? In  other  words,  what  Elder 
would  dare  profane  the  name  of  Deity? 
Yet  it  is  done,  and  those  who 
do  it  know  that  it  is  wrong.  Is  it  not 
possible  for  us,  organized  as  we  are, 
to  institute  reforms  in  regard  to  this 
and  other  evils  that  exist?  Cannot  we 
call  our  councils  together  in  the  vari- 
ous localities  and  take  to  heart  the 
words  of  President  Smith,  and  see  if 
we  cannot  devise  some  measure  to  les- 
sen these  evils,  and  if  possible  to  do 
away  with  them  altogether.  You 
brethren  and  sisters  know,  as  I  do,  that 
this  ought  to  be  done.  We  ought  to 
be  a  chaste  and  God-fearing  people,  and 
not  allow  ourselves  to  indulge  in  the 
vices  and  evils  that  bring  sorrow  to  the 
heart  and  condemnation  to  the  soul.  I 
believe,  when  we  return  home,  that  we 
should  assemble  together  in  our  or- 
ganizations and  see  if  sometning  can- 
not be  done  so  that  one  of  the  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church  will  not  be  under 
the  necessity  of  again  referring  to  these 
things.  We  ought  not  to  countenance 
these  evils  in  any  degree.  If  we  could 
only  have  the  right  kind  of  men  in  our 
city  and  town  councils,  to  assist  in 
this  good  work,  a  great  deal  might  be 
done  toward  subduing  these  evils.  As 
a  people,  we  should  be  an  example  to 
the  world,  a  light  that  is  set  upon  a 
hill,  which  cannot  be  hid.  Of  course, 
there  are  many  good  things  that  we 
might  talk  of;  we  have,  in  many  re- 
spects, an  excellent  name  among  our 
outside  friends;  yet  there  is  room  for 
improvement.  Sometimes  boys  think  it 
is  manly  to  profane  and  to  frequent 
saloons.  It  seems  to  me  that  their 
teaching  must  have  been  sadly  neglect- 
ed. Mothers  and  fathers  can  do  a  great 
deal  towards  the  uplifting-  of  their 
children,  though  they  may  not  be  able 
to  do  it  all.  They  need  some  help  from 
the  Teachers  and  the  Priests. 

I  think  I  am  quite  safe  in  saying  that 
throughout  the  whole  Church  there  is 
a  great  neglect  on  the  part  of  the  les- 
ser Priesthood  in  the  performance  of 
their  duties  as  ministers  of  Christ  and 


as  the  guardians  of  the  people,  whose 
duty  it  is  to  see  that  there  is  no 
iniquity  in  the  Church.  While  there 
may  be  many  who  do  their  full 
duty,  there  are  many  who  do 
not.  I  speak  from  an  experience 
of  over  fifty  years,  and  I  know  where- 
of I  speak  in  regard  to  these  matters. 
I  acted  for  years  in  the  capacity  of  a 
Teacher,  under  the  direction  of  Jede- 
diah  M.  Grant,  our  former  President, 
and  I  know  how  strict  his  instructions 
were  to  the  Teachers. 

It  is  not  only  the  young  people  that 
are  culpable,  but  you  will  find  that  the 
older  ones  sometimes  require  attention. 
They  need  to  have  somebody  to  instruct 
them  and  to  see  if  they  are  walking 
day  by  day  in  the  line  of  duty.  The 
Presidents  of  Stakes  and  counselors, 
the  High  Councilors,  the  Bishops  and 
the  sisters  also,  ought  to  have  this  la- 
bor at  heart;  and  let  us  see  if  we  can 
not  bring  about  a  reformation  in  these 
evils  which  lead  down  to  death.  In 
this  connection,  we  ought  to  hold  our- 
selves under  the  advice  and  counsel 
of  the  Priesthood.  In  early  days  here 
we  did  not  think  of  doing  anything  or 
going  anywhere  without  first  counsel- 
ing with  our  brethren;  and  we  usually 
went  to  President  Young.  When  I  first 
came  to  this  country,  I  did  not  know 
any  better  than  to  go  to  President 
Young,  to  ask  his  counsel  and  to  re- 
ceive his  blessing.  From  that  day  to 
this  I  have  always  felt  that  it  is  good 
for  the  people  of  the  Church  to  seek 
counsel  from  their  brethren.  Let  us 
work  in  harmony,  whether  it  be  to  col- 
onize some  new  country  or  to  build  up 
our  own  homes. 

I  do  not  think  it  a  proper  thing  for 
any  of  the  Elders  of  the  Church  to  go 
off  somewhere  on  their  own  respon- 
sibility, without  saying  a  word  to  any- 
body. It  shows  that  they  are  following 
their  own  inclinations,  and  are  not  di- 
rected by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  In 
the  colonizing  of  this  country  you  know 
the  course  President  Young  adopted, 
and  we  can  see  that  it  was  attended 
with  success  all  along  the  line.  Suc- 
cess has  always  attended  the  obser- 
vance of  the  counsel  of  the  President 
of  the  Church.  And  are  we  going  to 
depart  from  it  now?  Are  we  going  to 
go  off  on  our  own  responsibility?  We 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


might  as  well  break  off  and  try  to  es- 
tablish a  church  of  our  own.  I  want 
to  tell  you  that  we  will  learn  by  and 
by,  if  we  have  not  already,  that  we 
will  never,  in  this  life  or  in  the  life  to 
come,  get  from  under  the  authority  of 
the  Priesthood.  Hence  it  is  not  advis- 
able for  Latter-day  Saints  to  run  to 
and  fro  in  the  land  without  counsel  and 
without  discipline.  The  Church  of  God 
is  a  Church  of  order.  We  who  bear  the 
Holy  Priesthood  and  are  called  to  re- 
sponsible positions  should  seek  the 
counsel  of  our  brethren;  we  should 
counsel  together;  for  in  the  midst  of 
counsel  there  is  safety.  Many  people 
unfortunately  have  a  restless  disposi- 
tion, and  they  want  to  be  moving  all 
the  time.  You  can  see  them  going  north 
at  almost  any  time  of  the  year,  and  I 
suppose  it  is  the  same  south.  Now,  it 
is  a  good  thing  to  colonize  under  the  di- 
rection of  the  proper  authority;  but 
when  we  go  off  by  ourselves  we  lose 
the  spirit  of  this  work;  and  when  we 
lose  that  we  are  in  a  miserable  condi- 
tion. Let  us  be  in  harmony  with  the 
work  and  with  the  Spirit  of  God,  and 
consistent  in  our  movings  to  and  fro. 

The  Lord  designs  to  make  us  a  power 
in  the  land,  and  if  we  will  be  goo  1  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  we  will  be  good  citizens 
of  the  country  in  which  we  live,  and 
we  can  be  depended  upon  as  being  hon- 
est ?nd  upright.  Many  of  our  outside 
friends  trust  us  now,  and  they  say  we 
are  a  good  people.  A  few  days  ago  I 
met  some  of  the  officers  of  the  Burling- 
ton railroad,  and  they  gave  us  an  excel- 
lent character  for  enterprise  and  sterl- 
ing worth  in  developing  and  building 
up  1hf>  country.  I  repeat,  if  we  will  be 
true  Latter-day  Saints  and  observe  the 
compels  of  the  lord,  we  will  be  good  in 
the  eyes  of  all  honorable  men.  Bu'.  we 
have-  got  to  educate  ourselves  and  our 
fam'lies  in  ..his  direction.  We  must 
teach  our  children,  as  one  of  oli  safd. 
to  "remember  now  thy  Creator  in  the 
days  of  thy  youth,  while  the  evil  days 
come  not,  nor  the  years  draw  nigh, 
T'hen  thou  shalt  say.  I  have  no  pleasure 
in  them."  Our  brethren  are  appointed 
to  be  watchmen  on  the  walls  of  Zion, 
to  be  fathers  to  the  people,  and  to 
counsel  with  them  for  thefr  best  inter- 
est.   When  the  president  of  your  Stake 


does  not  know  what  to  say  to  you,  he 
will  find  out  in  a  very  short  time.  It 
is  not  necessary  for  every  man  to  run 
to  the  President  of  the  Church  for  ad- 
vice; you  can  get  it  right  at  home.  We 
must  be  in  harmony  with  the  counsels 
of  the  Priesthood.  The  Bible,  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  and  the  Book  of  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  are  excellent  books;  but 
take  away  the  counsels  of  the  Priest- 
hood and  how  long  would  these  good 
books  lead  us  in  the  path  of  life?  We 
must  have  the  living  oracles.  Their 
counsels  will  harmonize  with  these 
precious  books,  and  with  both  together 
we  will  go  on  from  grace  to  grace,  from 
knowledge  to  knowledge,  until  we  come 
to  a  perfect  understanding  of  the  truth. 
We  do  not  know  it  all  yet;  in  fact,  I 
sometimes  think  we  know  but  very  lit- 
tle; but  we  are  learning,  and  if  I  can 
only  persuade  my  brethren  and  sisters 
to  seek  the  counsel  of  the  Lord  I  may 
get  the  credit  of  doing  some  good  in 
my  time. 

My  brethren  and  sisters  in  all  the 
Stakes  of  Zion,  let  us  see  to  it  that  we 
will  lend  our  energies  to  make  righte- 
ousness prevail  among  the  people  and 
to  do  away  with  wickedness.  Saloons 
ought  to  be  done  away  with.  I  do  not 
know  whether  this  city,  with  its  mixed 
population,  could  do  without  them  or 
not;  but  in  a  great  many  of  our  towns 
and  cities  we  have  no  more  use  for 
them  than  a  wagon  has  for  a  fifth 
wheel.  Yet  there  are  Elders  and  Sev- 
enties, and  in  some  instances  High 
Councilors,  who  are  not  willing  to  as- 
sist the  presidents  of  Stakes  and  Bish- 
ops of  wards  to  abolish  saloons.  Pres- 
ident Young  once  said  that  an  Elder  of 
Israel  who  would  put  the  deadly  cup 
to  his  brother's  lip  would  go  to  hell, 
if  he  did  not  repent.  It  is  a  pretty 
broad  saying,  but,  in  my  opinion, 
it  is  a  true  one.  Now,  we  have 
good  men  everywhere  to  assist  us 
in  this  improvement  that  is  neces- 
sary, but  we  want  to  infuse  into 
them  energy  and  zeal  for  the  salvation 
of  souls.  We  want  to  save  our  chil- 
dren. Oh,  how  we  would  grieve  if  we 
thought  our  sons  would  be  lost  to  us! 
We  are  anxious  to  save  them.  There- 
fore, let  us  labor  to  the  end  that  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  be  in  all  the 
home    circles    of    the   Saints.     I  was 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 


27 


pleased  to  hear  one  of  the  brethren  re- 
lating about  a  President  of  a  Stake 
having  devotional  exercises  in  his  fam- 
ily. The  brother  that  myself  and 
brethren  stayed  with  in  the  north  a 
while  ago  did  the  same  thing.  He 
called  his  family  together,  one  of  the 
girls  played  the  organ,  they  sang,  they 
read  a  chapter,  and  they  prayed.  How 
beautiful  was  the  spirit  that  prevailed 
in  that  family  circle!  ^ow,  there  is  no 
law  prohibiting  us  all  from  engaging 
in  morning  and  evening  exercises  before 
the  Lord.  What  a  grand  thing  it  would 
be  if  we  could  only  educate  ourselvese 
to  take  the  time  to  do  this!  Gather 
around  us  the  family  circle,  and  en 
courage  the  family  to  observe  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord  during  the  day! 
What  a  grand  spectacle  it  would  be  to 
see  this  carried  out  in  all  the  families 
of  the  Saints! 

There  is  another  subject  that  I  would 
like  to  touch  upon  before  sitting  down, 
and  that  is  with  regard  to  temple  work. 
A  great  deal  of  temple  work  has  been 
done,  but  a  great  deal  more  remains  to 
be  done.   There  are  many  people  in  the 
Church  who  have  not  yet  given  atten- 
tion  to   their   ordinance  work  in  the 
house    of    the    Lord.    They  have  not 
thought  of  their  dead  kindred.  So  many 
of  the  cares  and  anxieties  of  life  seem 
to  be  pressing  upon  them  that  they 
neglect  to  remember  their  dead  friendb. 
The  Lord  has  directed  the  building  ot 
temples,  and  I  heard  a  brother  prophesy 
once  that  some  day  there  would  be  tem- 
ples  all   over  the  land  of  North  and 
South  America,  with  people  administer- 
ing in  them  for  their  kindred  dead.  Just 
think   of   the   hundreds   of  millions  of 
people  who  have  passed  away  without  a 
knowledge  of  the  Gospel;  and  while  we 
have  been  privileged  to  commence  the 
great   vicarious   work    of  redemption 
how  little  we  have  done  up  to  date!  We 
have  four  temples  in  operation,  and 
work  has  been  performed  to  a  limited 
extent;  but  not  so  much  has  been  done 
as  ought  to  have  been.   It  seems  to  me 
that  our  minds  ought  to  be  stirred  up 
in  regard  to  this  work.  There  are  many 
people  who  are  getting  along  in  life, who 
have  been  faithful  all  the  day  long,  and 
it  looks  to  me  as  if  they  ought  to  be 
thinking  of  their  kindred  who  have 


passed  behind  the  veil;  for  just  as  sure 
as  we  are  here  we  will  meet  these 
friends  by  and  by,  and  they  may  ask 
us  what  we  have  done  for  them  in  life, 
while  we  were  within  convenient  reach 
of  the  temple.  I  am  afraid  many  will 
have  to  say  they  have  not  done  any- 
thing, and  they  will  have  remorse  of 
conscience  because  of  it. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  think  a 
little  of  these  as  well  as  other  things. 
Our  kindred  behind  the  veil  are  looking 
for  us  to  do  a  vicarious  work  for  them 
in  ihe  temple  of  the  Lord.  Let  us  see  if 
we  cannot  prosecute  this  labor  a  little 
more  vigorously  than  we  have  done 
thus  far.  May  the  blessings  of  the  Lord 
be  upon  the  people.  I  feel  that  many  of 
you  are  doing  the  best  you  can;  you  ari 
paying  your  tithes  and  offerings  and 
sustaining  the  work  of  the  Lord  to  the 
best  of  your  ability;  but  some  are  lack- 
ing in  these  things.  The  Latter-day 
Saints  as  a  whole  are  not  yet  up  to  the 
standard  with  regard  to  tithes  and  of- 
ferings; but  if  we  will  labor  diligently 
tmoughout  the  various  Stakes,  the  time 
may  come  when  it  can  be  said  that  the 
Latter -day  Saints  do  pay  their 
tithes  and  their  offerings  in  full; 
and  when  we  do  so,  God  will 
bless  us,  and  sanctify  the  land,  and  it 
will  bring  forth  in  its  strength  in  the 
times  and  seasons  allotted.  God  bless 
you.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 

The  principle  of  revelation — Authority  of  the 
Priesthood — How  to  obtain  a  knowledge  of 
God — A  prophecy — The  Gospel  to  be  carried 
to  all  the  world  as  a  witness. 

I  feel  grateful  to  our  Heavenly  Fa- 
ther that  my  life  has  been  spared  to 
meet  with  you  again  in  one  of  our 
semi-annual  conferences.  I  have  great- 
ly rejoiced  in  my  spirit  at  listening 
to  the  testimonies  of  the  brethren  who 
have  preceded  me,  and  I  humbly  pray 
that  the  Lord  will  bless  me  also  with 
a  portion  of  His  Holy  Spirit,  that 
what  I  may  say  may  be  in  accordance 
with  His  mind  and  will. 

To  the  Latter-day  Saints  the  remarks 
of  Brother  Merrill  may  be  somewhat 
ordinary,  because  we  believe  in  the  liv- 
ing oracles  and  in  revelation;  but  to 
those  who  do  not  belong  to  this  Church 


•26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


they  may  appear  strange.  This  Church 
is  founded  upon  revelation.  There  is, 
however,  a  medium  through  which  rev- 
elation is  given  to  the  Church.  The 
Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  receives 
all  revelation  for  the  benefit  and  guid- 
ance of  the  Church.  At  the  same  time, 
every  individual  member  of  the  Church 
is  entitled  to  Revelation  to  guide  his 
own  household;  and  whatever  in- 
spiration he  may  receive  from  the  Lord 
will  be  in  conformity  with  the  revela- 
tions that  are  given  through  the  Proph- 
et, Seer  and  Revelator.  When  I  hear 
people  discussing  certain  doctrines  and 
tenets,  there  is  always  one  satisfaction 
in  my  mind,  and  that  is,  that  whatever 
may  be  erroneous  in  the  opinions  of 
men,  these  questions  can  always  be 
settled  by  revelation  from  God. 

There  is  another  idea  that  I  want  to 
speak  of,  for  the  benefit  of  any  stran- 
gers that  may  be  present,  and  that  is 
that  the  Lord  has  established  His  au- 
thority upon  the  earth.  That  authority 
is  termed  Priesthood,  and  it  is  in  this 
Church.  It  is  one  of  the  greatest  bless- 
ings that  can  be  given  to  the  chil- 
dren of  men  if  it  be  exercised  in 
righteousness;  for  it  will  bring  salva- 
tion unto  them  and  to  thousands  of 
others.  No  spiritual  blessings  can 
come  to  the  Church  of  Christ,  except 
through  the  Priesthood;  and  I  wish  to 
read  a  little  about  this  authority.  1 
read  from  the  84th  section  of  the  Book 
of  Doctrine  and  Covenants: 

! 

"Abraham  received  the  Priesthood 
from  Melchisedek,  who  received  it 
through  the  lineage  of  his  fathers,  even 
till  Noah; 

"And  from  Noah  till  Enoch,  through 
the  lineage  of  their  fathers; 

"And  from  Enoch  to  Abel,  who  was 
slain  by  the  conspiracy  of  his  brother, 
who  received  the  Priesthood  by  the 
commandments  of  God.  by  the  hand  of 
his  father  Adam,  who  was  the  first 
man; 

"Which  Priesthood  continueth  in  the 
Church  of  God  in  all  generations,  and 
is  without  beginning  of  days  or  ena 
of  years. 

"And  the  Lord  confirmed  a  Priesthood 
also  upon  Aaron  and  his  seed,  through- 
out all  their  generations — which 
Priesthood  also  continueth  and  abideth 
forever  with  the  Priesthood  which  is 
after  the  holiest  order  of  God. 

"And  this  greater  Priesthood  admin- 
istered the  Gospel  and  h^ldeth  the  key 


of  the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom,  even 
the  key  of  the  knowledge  of  God." 

How  many  millions  of  people  there 
are  today  upon  the  earth  who  woula 
walk  across  this  earth  for  the  privi- 
lege of  knowing  that  God  lives;  Well, 
we  heard  yesterday  from  Apostle  Claw- 
son  that  there  are  thousands  of  men 
here  who  hold  the  key  to  a  knowledge 
of  God. 

"Therefore,  in  the  ordinances  thereof, 
the  power  of  godliness  is  manifest; 

"And  without  the  ordinances  thereof, 
and  the  authority  of  the  Priesthood, 
the  power  of  godliness  is  not  manifest 
unto  men  in  the  flesh." 

Now,  my  young  brethren  and  sisters, 
when  you  see  men  gathered  together 
who  are  termed  "divines,"  and  the> 
plainly  state  that  the  gifts  and  bless 
ings  of  the  Holy  Spirit  are  not  in  their 
churches;  when  they  ridicule  the  prin- 
ciple of  prophets,  apostles,  seers  and 
revelators;  when  they  will  scorn  the 
idea  that  God  is  a  personal  Being,  you 
may  understand  why  they  do  not  enjoy 
these  blessings.  It  is  explained  in  that 
which  I  have  read  to  you:  "Without 
the  ordinances  thereof,  and  the  au- 
thority of  the  Priesthood,  the  power  of 
godliness  is  not  manifest  in  the  flesh." 

"For  without  this  no  man  can  see  the 
face  of  God,  even  the  Father,  and  live. 

Now  this  Moses  plainly  taught  to  the 
children  of  Israel  in  the  wilderness, 
and  sought  diligently  to  sanctify  his 
people,  that  they  might  behold  the  face 
of  God; 

But  they  hardened  their  hearts  and 
could  not  endure  his  presence;  there- 
fore the  Lord  in  his  wrath  (for  his  an- 
ger was  kindled  against  them)  swore 
that  they  should  not  enter  into  his  rest 
while  in  the  wilderness,  which  rest  is 
the  fulness  of  his  glory. 

Therefore  he  took  Moses  out  of  their 
midst,  and  the  Holy  Priesthood  also: 

And  the  lesser  priesthood  continued, 
which  priesthood  holdeth  the  key  of  the 
ministering  of  angels  and  the  prepara- 
tory gospel; 

Which  gospel  is  the  gospel  of  repen- 
tance and  of  baptism,  and  the  remis- 
sion of  sins,  and  the  law  of  carnal  com- 
mandments, which  the  Lord  in  his 
wrath  caused  to  continue  with  the 
house  of  Aaron  among  the  children  of 
Israel  until  John,  whom  God  raised  up, 
being  filled  with  the  Holy  Ghost  from 
his  mother's  womb; 

For  he  was  baptized  while  he  was  yet 
in  his  childhood,  and  was  ordained  by 
the  angel  of  God  at  the  time  he  was 
eight  days  old  unto  this  power,  to  over- 
throw the  kingdom  of  the  Jews,  and  to 


ELDER  GEORGE  TEASDALE. 


29 


make  straight  the  way  of  the  Lord  be- 
fore the  face  of  his  people,  to  prepare 
them  for  the  coming  of  the  Lord,  into 
whose  hand  is  given  all  power. 
********* 

Therefore,  as  I  said  concerning  the 
sons  of  Moses — for  the  sons  of  Moses, 
and  also  the  sons  of  Aaron,  shall  offer 
an  acceptable  offering  and  sacrifice  in 
the  house  of  the  Lord,  which  house 
shall  be  built  unto  the  Lord  in  this  gen- 
eration, upon  the  consecrated  spot,  as 
I  have  appointed; 

And  the  sons  of  Moses  and  of  Aaron 
shall  ■  be  filled  with  the  glory  of  the 
Lord,  upon  Mount  Zion,  in  the  Lord's 
house,  whose  sons  are  ye;  and  also 
many  whom  I  have  called  and  sent 
forth  to  build  up  my  church; 

For  whoso  is  faithful  unto  the  obtain- 
ing these  two  Priesthoods  of  whicn  I 
have  spoken,  and  the  magnifying  their 
calling,  are  sanctified  by  the  Spirit  un- 
to the  renewing  of  their  bodies; 

They  become  the  sons  of  Moses  and 
of  Aaron,  and  the  seed  of  Abraham,  and 
the  church  and  kingdom  and  the  elect 
of  Gcd, 

And  also  all  they  who  receive  this 
Priesthood  receiveth  me,  saith  the 
Lord: 

For  he  that  receiveth  my  servants  r°- 
^eiveth  me; 

And  he  that  receiveth  me  receiveth 
my  Father; 

And  he  that  receiveth  my  Father,  re- 
ceiveth my  Father's  kingdom;  there- 
fore all  that  my  Father  hath  shall  be 
given  unto  him; 

And  this  according  to  the  oath  and 
covenant  which  belongeth  to  the  Priest- 
hood. 

Therefore,  all  those  who  receive  the 
Priesthood,  receive  this  oath  and  cove- 
nant of  my  Father,  which  he  cannot 
break,  neither  can  it  be  moved; 

But  whoso  breaketh  this  covenant,  af- 
ter he  hath  received  it,  and  altogether 
turneth  therefrom,  shall  "not  have  for- 
giveness of  sins  in  this  world,  nor  in  the 
world  to  come. 

And  all  those  who  come  not  unto  this 
Priesthood  which  ye  have  received, 
which  I  now  confirm  upon  you  who  are 
present  this  day,  by  mine  own  voice  out 
of  the  heavens,  and  even  I  have  given 
the  heavenly  hosts  and  mine  angels 
charge  concerning  you." 

I  have  read  to  you  what  God  ac- 
knowledges as  His  authority  upon  the 
earth.  Nov,  there  is  not  a  soul  upon 
the  face  of  this  earth,  whether  he  be 
black  or  white,  rich  or  poor,  but  is  en- 
titled to  know  that  God  lives,  if  he 
will  keep  His  commandments.  I  tes- 
tify unto  you  that  I  have  received  this 
knowledge.  I  know  that  Jesus  Christ 
is  the  Son  of  the  true  and  living  God; 
that  He  lives,  moves,  and  has  a  being; 


and  that  He  is  the  light  and  life  of 
the  world.   I  testify  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  prophet  of  the  Most  High  God. 
who  was  ordained  to  come  forth  in  the 
dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times  to 
establish  His  Church  upon  the  earth, 
preparatory  to  the  coming  of  our  Lord 
and  Savior  Jesus  Christ.   I  testify  that 
there  are  tens  of  thousands  of  people 
in  the  valleys  of  the  Rocky  Mountains 
that  have  received  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost;  and  this  gift  fills  them  with  a 
knowledge  of  God.   I  testify  that  Israel 
is  being  gathered  from  abroad,  ac- 
cording to  the  prophecies  of  the  holy 
prophets,  and  they  are  being  establish- 
ed in  the  tops  of  the  mountains.  God 
the  Eternal  Father  is  conducting  this 
work,  and  it  is  not  of  man.    I  testify 
also  that  the  curse  of  God  will  rest  up- 
on any  man  who  puts  his  trust  in  the 
arm  of  flesh;  for  the  Lord  has  said, 
"Cursed  be  the  man  that  trusteth  in 
man,  and  maketh  flesh  his  arm."  The 
Lord  has  prepared  the  means  whereby 
we  may  know  that  He  lives,  and  that 
He  is  our  Father  and  God.   He  has  also 
prepared  the  means  whereby  we  can 
receive  of  His  Spirit  and  power,  to 
guide  and  direct  us  in  the  ways  of  all 
truth.   When  Jesus  was  upon  the  earth 
He  said:    "I  came  down  from  heaven, 
not  to  do  mine  own  will,  but  the  will 
of  Him  that  sent  me."     Again,:  "If 
any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall  know 
of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God, 
or  whether  I  speak  of  myself."   I  have 
sought  after  this  information  by  do- 
ing the  will  of  my  Father.    With  a'l 
my  weaknesses  and  imperfections,  our 
Eternal  Father  has  had  mercy  upon 
me  and  has  given    me    a  testimony 
that      He      lives,      and      that  He 
has-  a  being.    My  testimony  unto  all 
who  are  under  the  sound  of  my  voice 
is  that  I  know  that  God  lives,  and  that 
He  will  give  this  same  testimony  unto 
all  who  will  serve  Him  and  keep  His 
commandments.   He  has  wrought  out  a 
plan  of  life  and  salvation,  and  if  we 
will  yield  obedience  to  that  we  can  be 
brought  back  into  His  presence  and  be 
crowned  heirs  of  glory,  immortality  and 
eternal  life.    We  can  partake  of  all  the 
attributes  of  our  Father,  and  ultimate- 
ly get  to  that  position  which  He  occu 
pies  today.  As  Jesus  says,  "Be  ye  per- 


30 


'tENERAL  conference. 


feet,  even  as  your  Father  in  heaven  is 
perfect." 

I  prophesy  unto  you,  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that  while  to- 
day all  the  sectarian  world  oppose  the 
idea  of  the  personality  of  God,  the  time 
will  come  when  the  majority  of  the  de- 
nominations will  acknowledge  that  our 
Father  and  God  is  a  personal  being, 
even  as  they  have  adopted  other  prin- 
ciples, one  by  one,  that  have  been  re- 
vealed to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
When  you  see  these  things  come  to 
pass,  you  may  know  the  spirit  by 
which  they  have  been  spoken. 

Inasmuch  as  I  have  this  testimony,  i 
never  spend  a  day  in  Zion,  but  I  feel 
that  I  should  be  somewhere  lifting  up 
my  voice  and  declaring  this  testimony 
unto  the  children  of  men;  for  behold, 
the  Lord  our  God  has  said  that  the  har- 
vest is  great  and  the  reapers  are  few. 
He  has  given  commandment  unto  this 
people  to  go  into  all  the  world  and 
preach  the  Gospel  to  every  creature; 
"He  that  believeth  and  is  baptized  shall 
be  saved,  and  he  that  believeth  not 
shall  be  damned."  I  want  to  add  my 
testimony  to  that  of  Elder  Cowley  yes- 
terday, wherein  he  said  that  there 
should  come  unto  Zion  people  from  all 
nations.  The  time  will  come  when  we 
will  penetrate  the  very  center  of  the 
great  empire  of  China.  We  will  go  into 
India,  and  into  South  America,  and  in- 
to every  nation  under  heaven.  The 
Lord  our  God  will  prepare  the  way.  and 
there  will  be  enough  come  out  of  these 
nations  to  redeem  their  dead  through- 
out all  the  generations  that  are 
past  and  gone.  The  day  will  come 
when  we  will  go  into  Turkey,  into 
Africa,  and  into  every  part  of  the 
earth.  I  never  look  upon  one  of  these 
maps  in  our  Sunday  schools,  whereon 
is  shown  the  trail  of  the  Apostle  Paul 
in  his  ministry,  from  city  to  city,  with- 
out having  a  desire  in  my  heart  to  per- 
form a  similar  work,  that  some  day 
a  red  line  on  the  map  might  show  my 
labors  in  the  ministry;  for  I  know  that 
this  Gospel  must  go  into  all  the  world 
for  a  witness,  unto  every  creature.  The 
Redeemer  predicted  that  this  Gospel 
should  go  into  all  the  world  for  a  wit- 
ness; then  should  the  end  come.  And 
the  day  will  come — I  feel  it  with  all 


my  heart— when  Apostles,  especially  the 
younger  ones  in  the  quorum,  will  be- 
very  scarce  in  the  land  of  Zion;  for  I 
have  been  taught  it  by  my  father,  and 
I  have  heard  it  time  and  time  again 
from  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  that 
the  duty  of  the  Apostles  is  to  be  abroad 
among  the  nations  of  the  earth,  carry- 
ing the  glad  tidings  of  great  joy  to  the 
children  of  men,  unlocking  the  doors  of 
salvation  to  the  nations,  and  bringing 
peace  and  good  will  to  them.  These 
men  upon  this  stand  are  willing  at  any 
hour  to  go  forth  to  perform  their  duty. 
They  are  witnesses  of  our  Lord  and 
Savior  Jesus  Christ,  and  they  know  that 
He  lives,  and  moves,  and  has  a  being. 
He  is  calling  unto  the  children  of  men 
to  repent  and  come  to  the  light  to  gath- 
er up  to  the  land  of  Zion  and  to  pre- 
pare for  His  coming. 

I  feel  to  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, in  being  in  your  presence  today, 
and  I  say  unto  you,  if  you  will  serve 
God  and  keep  His  commandments,  you 
will  be  crowned  with  glory,  immortal- 
ity and  everlasting  life  in  the  kingdom 
of  our  God;  which  may  He  grant,  is 
my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 
"We  thank  Thee.O  God,  for  a  Prophet." 

Benediction  by  Elder  William  Budge. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION. 

2  p.  m. 

Singing  by,  the  choir  and  congrega- 
tion: 

Guide  us,  O  Though  great  Jehovah, 
Safe  unto  the  promised  land. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Joseph 
W.  McMurrin. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn  which  be- 
gins: 

Lo!  the  mighty  God  appearing, 
From  on  high  Jehovah  speaks. 


ELDER  J.  G.  KIMBALL. 

One  course  of  safety  for  the  young — A  great  mis- 
sionary fip)d  at  home — Prophetic  declarations 
— Subordinalion  of  auxiliary  organizations. 

Inasmuch,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
as  I  have  been  called  upon  to  occupy 
a  short  time,  I  do  so  trusting  that  the 
Lord   will  bless  me  richly  with  His 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 


31 


Spirit;  for  I  have  only  one  object  in 
view  in  standing  before  you,  and  that 
is  to  perform  the  duty  that  now  de- 
volves upon  me. 

I  realize  that  there  is  a  very  great 
work  for  us  to  perform,  not  only 
among  the  nations  of  the  earth  preach- 
ing the  Gospel  to  every  kindred,  tongue 
and  people,  but  also  among  the  young 
people  of  this  Church.  Only  the  other 
day,  as  I  was  walking  down  the  street, 
I  came  to  an  old  gentleman,  who  was 
tottering  toward  the  grave,  and,  after 
I  had  shaken  hands  with  him,  he  said, 
"Brother  Kimball,  I  wish  you  would 
send  a  missionary  to  my  home;  I  have 
three  sons  and  several  daughters  that 
need  to  be  labored  with."  A  day  or 
two  after  that,  an  aged  gentleman 
came  and  introduced  himself  to  me,  and 
said  he  was  a  member  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ.  He  paid  his  tithing, 
he  said,  and  tried  to  do  his  duty.  He 
had  four  sons  and  several  daughters, 
and  I  believe  he  said  there  was  not  one 
of  them  that  had  very  much  faith  in 
the  Church,  and  he  wanted  me  to  ex- 
plain to  him  why  it  was.  I  rather 
evaded  answering  him,  as  I  was  not 
acquainted  with  him,  with  his  environ- 
ments, or  with  his  home  circle.  In  as- 
sociating with  the  young  people  I  dis- 
cover that  this  is  not  general;  but 
there  are  many  of  our  young  people, 
for  some  reason,  bewildered  and  daz- 
zled with  the  things  of  the  world  that 
are  being  introduced  so  rapidly  among 
us.  I  can  see  only  one  course  of  safety 
for  the  young  people  of  this  Church, 
and  that  is,  to  teach  them  until  they 
have  an  abiding  faith  in  God  the 
Father,  in  His  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  in 
the  Holy  Ghost.  After  this  brother 
talked  to  me,  I  thought  of  your  sons 
that  are  sent  out  to  the  nations  of  the 
earth.  Some  of  them  mere  beard- 
less boys,  and  yet  when  the 
call  came  for  them  to  go  to 
the  nations  of  the  earth,  mother  may 
have  had  some  doubts,  but  they  were 
soon  removed,  and  the  boys  came  to 
the  city,  were  set  apart  and  received 
a  blessing;  the  stenographer  took  the 
blessing  and  sent  it  to  their  home 
address;  they  received  perhaps  twenty 
minutes'  instruction  and  were  then 
sent  forth  to  the  world.     I  have  seen 


a  few  of  such  boys  go  to  Australia  late- 
ly; and  if  my  memory  serves  me,  there 
have  been  over  five  hundred  of  your 
sons  ordained  Seventies  since  the  last 
October  conference.  We  do  not  fear 
nor  tremble  for  these  boys.  We  tell 
them  to  be  careful  about  some  things; 
we  advise  them  to  see  everything  that 
is  good  in  the  world,  and  try  to  under- 
stand it;  but  to  avoid  wine  and  women 
as  they  would  the  gates  of  hell.  It  is 
very  seldom  that  any  of  them  fall  by 
the  wayside.  Only  once  in  a  great 
while  do  we  hear  of  an  Elder  going 
astray.  I  am  more  familiar  with  the 
Southern  States  Mission  than  any  oth- 
er, and  though  hundreds  and  hundreds 
of  the  Elders  have  labored  in  the  south, 
very  few  have  fallen,  that  I  know  of. 

Why  cannot  we  get  our  young  people 
to  have  that  same  spirit  at  home? 
Even  though  the  things  of  the  world 
are  introduced  among  us,  why  is  it  that 
we  cannot  stand  on  the  same  ground 
that  our  Elders  do  in  the  nations  of  the 
earth?  If  we  have  faith  and  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord,  the  things  of  the  world  do 
not  dazzle  or  tempt  us.  Of  course, 
some  things  have  transpired  which 
have  brought  trouble  and  difficulty 
upon  us.  Whenever  we  transgress  the 
laws  of  God  we  have  to  suffer  the  pen- 
alty. I  remember  very  accurately 
what  my  father  told  this  people  in  the 
old  Bowery.  Said  he,  "You  men  and 
you  women  that  lift  up  your  voices 
against  that  holy  principle  that  has 
been  introduced  among  this  people,  the 
time  will  come  when  your  daughters 
will  run  these  streets  as  common  har- 
lots, and  you  can't  help  yourselves."  I 
think  some  have  been  guilty  of  lifting 
up  their  voices,  and  if  there  is 
any  one  thing  that  some  people  are  glad 
and  happy  it  is  done  away  with,  it  is 
that  principle.  I  remember  hearing  an- 
other statement  my  father  made: 
"When  you  stand  on  the  street  corners 
of  this  great  city  and  you  cannot  tell  a 
Mormon  from  a  Gentile,  then  look  out 
for  trouble."  Well,  it  has  come.  The 
trouble  has  not  come  to  us  in  the  way 
of  tornadoes,  or  cyclones;  but  it  has 
come  to  us  and  to  our  sons  and  daugh- 
ters in  the  way  of  temptations.  Thert 
is  a  very  grtat  missionary  work  to  be 
done  right  here,  and  I  am   in  favor, 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


while  we  sre  not  abroad,  of  doing  a 
missionary  work  at  home.  The  Gen- 
eral Board  of  the  Young  Men's  Mutual 
Improvement  association  have  intro- 
duced a  local  missionary  work.  All  the 
officers  in  the  Ave  hundred  and  odd  as- 
sociations in  the  Church  are  to  be  local 
missionaries  and  it  every  officer  will 
start  out  with  the  spirit  of  his  office 
and  calling  thfre  will  be  over  three 
thousand  officers  o*  tht  association  act- 
ing as  missionaries  among  the  young 
people  of  this  Chuich.  A  wonderful 
work  can  be  perfciiued  in  this  way. 

I  believe  in  prophecy,  but  I  do  not 
believe  in  piophets  that  prophesy  after 
a  thing  haiJ  happened.  The  testimony 
of  Jesus  is  the  spirit  of  prophecy,  and 
I  have  that  testimony.  I  believe  in  the 
spirit  of  prophecy,  and  I  do  know,  as 
I  know  this  is  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ,  that  we  have  apostles  and  proph- 
ets, and  have  had  ever  since  the  Church 
was  organized.  There  are  prophets,  sit- 
ting behind  me.  I  call  to  mind  one 
Apostle  who  prophesied  in  Canada, 
when  the  people  were  somewhat  dis- 
satisfied about  building  up  a  new  set- 
tlement. He  said  that  in  less  than  two 
years  there  would  be  a  railroad  right 
through  that  settlement,  and  the  predic- 
tion was  fulfilled  before  the  two  years 
expired.  I  think  of  the  Southern  people, 
and  I  want  to  prophesy  that  the 
time  will  come  in  the  great  South  when 
thousands  of  those  people  would  be  as 
glad  to  see  a  Mormon  Elder  walk  up 
their  streets  as  an  angel  from  heaven. 
The  Lord  has  been  kind  to  the  South- 
ern people.  I  realize  why  He  has 
blessed  them.  It  is  because  they  have 
fed  five  hundred  of  our  Elders  every 
year  for  a  number  of  years,  and  He 
has  kept  from  the  South  the  tornadoes, 
the  cyclones,  and  the  sea  heaving  itself 
beyond  its  bounds,  to  any  great  extent. 
They  have  had  some  little  of  it,  but  the 
end  is  not  yet!  I  tell  you  that  the  peo- 
ple of  the  South,  and  also  of  the  nations 
of  the  earth,  will  yet  learn,  though  we 
are  a  despised  people,  that  after  the 
testimony  of  the  Elders  come  the 
judgments  of  God.  I  realize  that  I 
sometimes  look  on  the  dark  side  of  the 
picture,  but  I  tell  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  if  re- 


pentance does  not  set  in  among  this 
people,  and  there  is  a  great  awakening 
among  the  Priesthood  of  God,  the  judg- 
ments of  God  will  commence  at  the 
house  of  Israel.  We  are  not  trifling 
with  the  things  of  man;  we  are  not 
trifling  with  the  systems  organized  by 
man.  This  is  the  Churcn  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  you,  that 
you  may  go  to  your  homes  and  breathe 
the  spirit  of  this  conference  into  the 
hearts  of  the  children  of  men  with 
whom  you  associate,  that  there  may 
be  an  awakening  among  the  Priesthood 
of  God.  I  desire  to  say  to  this  great 
congregation  that  the  Lord  never  in- 
tended His  organized  Priesthood  to 
fall  in  behind  the  auxiliary  organiza- 
tions of  the  Church.  There  should  be 
a  greater  effort  on  the  part  of  those 
who  look  after  the  Priesthood  quorums 
to  see  that  they  stand  foremost  and 
ahead  of  all  the  auxiliary  organiza- 
tions of  the  Church.  I  comprehend  the 
great  work  that  is  being  done  by  the 
Sunday  school,  by  the  Improvement  as- 
sociation, and  by  other  associations, 
and  I  regret  that  it  has  to  be  said 
that  some  of  our  Priesthood  quorums 
are  not  doing  their  duty.  I  do  not  wish 
to  occupy  more  of  your  time,  but  I  de- 
sire to  say  to  you  that  a  spirit  has 
found  its  way  into  the  hearts  of  this 
people  that  they  are  afraid  men  may 
prophesy,  and  they  commence  to  crawl 
off  their  seats  as  soon  as  a  man  opens 
his  mouth  and  begins  to  say  anything 
that  is  not  along  the  same  old  lines.  I 
pray  the  Lord  to  move  upon  us  to 
prophesy,  and  if  we  will  prophesy,  the 
Lord  will  fulfill  it.  One  day  I  met  a 
little  fellow  on  the  train  who  was  work- 
ing for  the  "Era"  in  one  of  the  Stakes,, 
and  he  asked  me  if  I  thought  he  would 
get  the  full  quota  of  the  "Eras."  I 
said,  "Of  course,  you  will."  He  went 
to  this  settlement  and  said,  "Brother 
Kimball  prophesied  that  we  would  get 
the  full  number  of  "Eras;"  now  we 
want  you  to  fulfil  it" — and  they  did. 
If  you  had  a  little  of  that  spirit,  that 
when  a  man  prophesied  you  would  'ry 
to  fulfil  it,  after  a  while  you  would  not 
be  so  afraid  of  prophecy.  I  am  a  little 
afraid  of  you  myself.  May  the  Lord 
bless  you.  Amen. 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS. 


33 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H."  ROBERTS. 

A  Book  of  Mormon  prophecy— Its  striking  fulfil- 
ment— Periods  of  rest  from  persecution  ad- 
vantageous—  Future  opposition  predicted  — 
People  should  be  fed  with  the  bread  of  life. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  opened 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  with  the  intention 
of  reading-  to  you  a  prophecy  contained 
in  that  book,  which  the  statement  of 
the  numerical  strength  of  the  Church 
brought  to  my  recollection.  The  Proph- 
et Nephi,  having  been  blessed  with  a 
vision  as  to  what  should  transpire  in 
the  earth  when  this  record  of  the 
Nephites  should  come  forth,  said: 

"And  now,  I  would  prophesy  some- 
what more  concerning  the  Jews  and  the 
Gentiles.  For  after  the  book  of  which 
I  have  spoken  [having  reference  to  this 
Nephite  record]  shall  come  forth,  and 
be  written  unto  the  Gentiles,  and  sealed 
up  again  unto  the  Lord,  there  shall  be 
many  which  shall  believe  the  words 
which  are  written;  and  they  shall  car- 
ry them  forth  unto  the  remnant  of  our 
seed." 

It  occurred  to  me,  since  one  of  the 
features  of  this  conference  has  been  a 
contemplation  of  our  growth  as  shown 
b»y  our  numerical  strength,  that  it 
might  be  well  to  call  the  attention  of 
the  Saints,  and  especially  of  our  young 
people,  to  the  fact  that  these  figures 
that  now  may  be  quoted  as  showing 
the  largeness  of  this  people  who  be- 
lieved the  Book  of  Mormon — constitute 
a  fact  which  proves  the  inspiration  of 
the  prophecy  that  is  contained  upon 
the  pages  of  this  Book  of  Mormon. 
Even  if  the  theory  of  the  world  con- 
cerning the  origin  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon  be  allowed  for  a  moment — viz, 
that  it  had  its  origin  either  with  Jo- 
seph Smith  or  with  Sidney  Rigdon 
here,  at  least,  is  a  pre- 
diction made  and  recorded 
and  in  existence  when  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  stood  practically  alone, 
hunted  and  persecuted,  compelled  to 
leave  his  father's  house  and  go  almost 
among  strangers,  where  he  might  in  a 
little  peace  prosecute  the  work  of  trans- 
lating the  Book  of  Mormon — alone  and 
unfriended,  he  dared  record  this  predic- 
tion that  many  would  yet  believe  the 
words  of  this  book.  The  fact  that  in 
the  missions  of  the  Church,  and  in  the 
Stakes  of  Zion  we  can  say  there  are 
now  310,000  persons  living  who  believe 


this  record,  is  a  fulfillment  of  that 
prophecy  that  must  be  exceedingly  per- 
plexing to  those  who  refuse  to  accept 
the  Book  of  Mormon  as  a  divine  record, 
and  have  to  account  for  the  fulfillment 
of  this  prediction  on  other  grounds. 

But  this  number  of  310,000  does  not 
begin  to  tell  the  story.  You  must  add 
to  this  number  now  living  all  the  faith- 
ful who  have  died.  I  know  not  how 
many  that  may  be,  but  certainly  tens 
of  thousands  have  died  in  absolute 
faith  of  the  divinity  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon  and  the  work  of  God  that  has 
grown  out  of  it.  You  must  add,  too,  the 
number  of  those  who  have  accepted  it 
and  have  turned  away  from  the 
Church;  and  to  them  you  must  add 
those  who  believe  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
but  who,  in  consequence  of  a  fear  that 
they  would  lose  their  good  name  and 
standing  among  men  did  they  receive 
the  message  it  bears,  have  not  had  the 
courage  to  voice  the  belief  that  is  in 
them  of  the  divinity  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  And  now,  if  to  the  present 
membership  of  the  Church,  ,rou  add  the 
number  of  those  that  are  dead;  and 
those  that  have  walked  with  us  for  a 
season  and  then  turned  back  to  the 
beggarly  elements  of  the  world;  and 
those  who  believe  the  work,  but  are 
afraid  of  men  and  would  not  make  the 
sacrifice  necessary  to  become  members 
of  the  Church;  if  you  add  all  these  to- 
gether truly  this  prophecy  that  "many" 
would  believe  this  record,  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  is  abundantly  fulfilled  before 
you  this  day.  But  it  is  scarcely  proper 
to  say  that  all  those  who  have  at  dif- 
ferent times  turned  away  from  the 
Church  have  become  absolutely  apos- 
tate in  their  spirits.  You  must  make 
some  allowance  for  the  weakness  of 
men.  All  men  are  not  able  to  endure  to 
the  end,  and  yet  belief  in  the  divinity 
of  this  work  has  not  altogether  left 
them.  I  remember  certain  facts  which 
came  under  my  own  observation  that 
led  me  to  feel  somewhat  charitable  to- 
wards those  who  were  not  always 
strong  enough  to  endure  the  particular 
trials  that  came  to  them.  Some  years 
ago  we  emigrated  a  great  many  people 
from  the  Southern  States.  We  brought 
them  out  of  those  warm  climates  and 
lowlands,  and  put  them  into  an  ex- 
ceeding high  valley,  where  everything 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


was  contrary    to  their  customs,  and 
where  they  were  unable  to  adapt  them- 
selves to  the  conditions  into  which  they 
were    plunged.    Their  faith    was  not 
quite  equal  to  the  task  of  enduring  the 
change    of  climate    and    of  industrial 
methods,  and  the  result  of  it  was  that 
many  of  them  returned  to  the  South; 
but  all  who  thus  fell  by  the  wayside, 
because  they  were  not  able  to  endure 
those  conditions,  still  kept  something  of 
the  spark  of  faith  in  their  hearts,  and 
by  a  little  care,  and  nourishing,  and  pa- 
tience, in  some  instances  we  were  able 
to  lead  them  back  again  into  the  fold 
of  Christ.    And  as  it  was  in  their  case 
so,  I  take  it,  it  has  been  in  other  cases. 
When  the  Saints  were  expelled  from 
Jackson  county,  Missouri,  some  of  them 
did  not  go  with  the  body  of  the  Saints, 
but  scattered    out  among    the  people. 
They  were    not    equal    to  that  trial. 
"When    the  exodus    from    the  state  of 
Missouri  was  enforced  upon  the  Church, 
all  were    not  equal    to  the  sacrifices 
then  required,  and  they  lingered  be- 
hind.   When  the  exodus  from  Nauvoo 
took  place,  there  were  some  hundreds, 
perhaps  thousands,  that  were  not  able 
to  face  the  wilderness  march  and  take 
their  chances  with  the  people  of  God. 
They  were  weak  in  the  faith — you  have 
to  say  that  of  them;  and  doubtless  they 
will  not  be  numbered  among  those  who 
will  be  accounted  valiant  for  the  testi- 
mony of  Jesus.    But  the  spirit  of  wick- 
ed   apostasy    did  not    enter  into  the 
hearts  of  all  those  who  thus,  in  these 
various  trials,  lacked  the  strength  to 
keep  up    with    the  vanguard  of  the 
Church  in  all  its  movements.  Prom 
time  to  time  weakness  has  taken  hold 
of  those  who  have  put  their  hand  to 
the  plow,  and  some  have  looked  back; 
but  I  think  it  hardly  accurate  to  count 
all     those     who     have     thus  fall- 
en        by         the         wayside  as 
apostates     to     the     Church   of  God; 
because  you  will  find  some  of  the  light 
of   the  Spirit   of  God  still  burning  in 
their  hearts,  some  love  for  the  work, 
and  we  should  have  a  word  of  kindness 
and  encouragement  for  those  who  may 
be  in  these  circumstances. 

There  is  another  idea  that  came  to 
my  mind  while  listening  to  the  brethren 
that  I  thought  I  would  express  if  call- 
ed upon  in  this  conference  to  make  any 


remarks  at  all,  and  that  is  this:  The 
Lord  gives  unto  His  people  periods  of 
rest  from  outside  pressure.     I  believe 
that  these  periods  of  rest  from  perse- 
cution, while  they  are  full  of  danger,, 
may  also  be  made  very  profitable  unto 
the  people.     It  gives  us  an  opportunity 
to  drive  the  roots  of  our  faith  still  deep- 
er into  the  soil  of  the  soul,  so  that 
when  the  storms  shall  again  assail  us 
we  shall  be  more  firmly  rooted  and  less 
liable  to  be  shaken  than  before  our 
faith  took  its  deeper  rooting.     And  the 
outside  storms  will  come.      We  have 
not  passed  through  all  the  winds  that 
will  beat  upon  our  house,  nor  through 
all  the  floods  that  will  assail  us.  Pre- 
texts will  be  found  by  our  enemies  for 
assaulting  the  Church  of  Christ.  The 
Church,  though  having  grown  to  the 
proportions  named  in  this  conference,  is 
still  the  Church  militant,  and  not  yet 
the  Church  triumphant.     Nor  can  we 
expect  it  to  be  altogether  triumphant 
until  our  King     shall  come  and  the 
Kingdom  of  our  God  shall  be  estab- 
lished in  the  earth,  and  He  reigns  whose 
right  it  is  to  reign.     Not  until  the  law 
shall  go  forth  from  Zion  and  the  word 
of  the  Lord  from  Jerusalem,   can  we 
hope  to  have  that  rest  which  is  prom- 
ised unto  the  people  of  God.     So,  how- 
ever peaceful  things  are  with  us  now, 
I  take  you  to  witness  this  day  that 
there  will  be  renewal  of  storms,  and 
the  adversary  of  this  work  will  not 
lack  pretexts  for  assailing  the  people 
of  God.     But  just  now  we  are  at  rest, 
and  have  an  abounding  prosperity.  Let 
us,  therefore,  take  advantage  of  this 
period  of  rest,  and  see  to  it  that  we 
strengthen  the  faith  of  the  youth  grow- 
ing up  in  our  midst;  so  that  when  the 
storms  that  they  must  meet  shall  come, 
they    will    be    rooted    and  grounded 
in  the  faith  and  be  able  to  follow  in 
the  footsteps  of  their  faithful  fathers 
and  mothers  in  Israel.    That  is  what  I 
desire  to  see  done.    I  thought  perhaps 
a  word  might  be  said  to  some  advant- 
age to  the  home  ministry — to  the  Ei- 
ders in  Israel  who  are  called  upon  to 
address   the   Saints   and   teach  them 
from  sabbath  to  Sabbath.    And  I  will 
say  a  word  to  the  Seventies,  at  least,, 
who,  in  many  of  the  Stakes  of  Zion,  are 
called  upon  by  the  Presidency  of  the 
.-lake  to  do  very  much  of  the  home 


ELDER  GEORGE  TEASDALE. 


3> 


missionary  labor.  To  the  Seventies 
then,  who  are  thus  called  to  labor  il. 
the  Church,  and  to  whom  I  think  in 
connection  with  my  fellow  Presidents, 
I  have  a  special  right  to  direct  a  word 
of  counsel  and  advice — to  them  I  say 
Call  to  mind  the  admonition  that  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  gave  unto  His  seiv- 
ant  Peter.  "When  about  to  leave  the 
Twelve,  and  having  rolled  the  respon- 
sibility upon  their  shoulders,  of  extend- 
ing a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel  to  the 
.lations  of  the  earth,  He  said  to  Peter: 

"Simon,  son  of  Jonas,  lovest  thou  me 
more  than  these?  He  saith  unto  him, 
Yea,  Lord:  thou  knovrest  that  I  love 
thee.  He  saith  unto  him,  Feed  ray 
lambs. 

"He  saith  unto  him  again .  the  sec- 
ond time,  Simon,  son  of  Jonas,  lovest 
thou  me?  He  saith  unto  Him,  Yea, 
Lord,  thou  knowest  that  I  love  Thee. 
He  saith  unto  him,  Feed  my  sheep. 

"He  saith  unto  him  the  third  time, 
Simon,  son  of  Jonas,  lovest  thou  me? 
Peter  was  grievc-d  because  He  said 
unto  him  the  third  time,  Lovest  thou 
me?  And  he  said  unto  him,  Lord,  thou 
knowest  all  things;  thou  knowest  that 
I  love  Thee.  Jesus  saith  unto  him,  Feed 
my  sheep." 

So  say  I  unto  the  Seventies  engaged 
as  home  missionaries.  If  you  love  the 
work,  if  you  love  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
then  feed  those  to  whom  you  are  called 
to  minister.  Feed  them  the  bread  of 
life.  I  rather  rejoice  in  the  thought 
of  being  somewhat  in  close  touch  with 
the  young  people  of  the  Church,  and  I 
want  to  tell  you  one  of  the  complaints 
that  they  make  against  us — one  of  the 
things  they  find  fault  with  when  they 
are  urged  to  attend  Sabbath 
meetings — they  plead  the  dryness, 
the  huskiness,  the  unfruitfulness,  the 
lack  of  spiritual  or  intellectual  food 
that  they  receive  when  they  go  to  the 
house  of  the  Lord.  And  if  It  is  neces- 
sary to  admonish  the  people  to  attend 
upon  the  service  of  the  Lord,  it  is  also 
necessary  to  admonish  the  ministry  of 
the  Church  that  when  the  people  do 
come  together  they  should  be  fed  with 
the  bread  of  life.  It  is  a  good  thing  to 
take  a  little  time  from  worldly  affairs 
and  consider  the  things  of  God,  and 
have  food  in  His  house  when  His  people 
shall  assemble  together. 

Now,  having  said  so  much  to  the 
Seventies,  and  not  taking  it  upon  my- 
self to  address  that  council  to  anybody 


else,  let  me  give  a  word  of  advice  also 
to  the  people  of  God;  for  there  are  two 
sides  to  this  subject.  No  matter  how 
dull  or  dry  the  speaking  from  the  pul- 
pit may  be,  there  are  still  purposes  to 
be  subserved  in  the  assembling  of  the 
people  together  that  should  call  the 
faithful  Latter-day  Saints  to  worship. 
It  is  true  we  attend  divine  service  to  re- 
ceive admonition;  it  is  true  that  we  go 
to  receive  instruction,  and  to  be  built 
up  by  the  word  that  shall  be  preached; 
but  we  go  also  for  other  and  even  high- 
er purposes  than  these.  It  should  be 
remembered  in  our  hearts  that  we  go 
to  the  house  of  the  Lord  for  the  pur- 
pose, primarily,  of  honoring  and  wor- 
shiping the  Lord,  whether  men  can 
preach  intellectual  sermons  or  deliver 
soul-stirring  admonitions  or  not.  We 
go  to  worship  the  Lord,  to  honor  Him, 
and  to  obtain  spiritual  life  by  partak- 
ing of  the  emblems  of  the  body  and 
blood  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Then 
if  admonition  and  instruction  come,  so 
much  the  better.  But  even  if  there 
should  be  an  entire  absence  of  appro- 
priate instruction,  (which,  of  course, 
there  it  not,)  it  should  nevertheless  be 
regarded  as  our  part  to  assemble  to- 
gether and  honor  the  Lord.  Remember 
this,  too,  that  all  preachers  have  some- 
thing good;  and  if  it  should  chance  to 
be  that  some  now  and  then  lack  sense, 
then  God  takes  a  text  and  preaches 
patience  to  you.  And  now  if  there  can 
be  a  drawing  together  here;  if  on  the 
one  hand  the  ministry  can  be  more 
fruitful,  can  furnish  the  people  a  rich- 
er supply  of  spiritual  food;  and  on  the 
other  hand  if  the  Saints  will  remember 
that  the  primary  purpose  of  going  to 
the  house  of  the  Lord  is  pure  and  holy 
worship— there  will  be  as  a  result  more 
satisfaction  in  our  public  religious 
meetings.  The  Lord  bless  you.  Amera 
The  choir  sang: 

Hail  to  the  Brightness  of  Zion's  glad 
morning; 

Joy  to  the  lands  that  in  darkness  have 
lain. 

ELDER  GEORGE  TEASDALE. 

How  Church  membership  is  obtained — The  Gospel 
to  the  dead — Ohu  ch  organization — Restora- 
tion of  the  Gospel — About  profanity-- -Redemp- 
tion the  result  of  keeping  God's  command- 
ments. 

I  am  deeply  grateful  to  have  the- 
privilege  of  attending  this  conference 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  enjoyed  the  spirit  of  it.  I  think 
we  are  to  be  congratulated  that  we 
have  the  privilege  of  being  members  of 
the  Church  of  Christ.  Our  standing  de- 
pends a  great  deal  upon  ourselves.  It  i» 
impossible  for  us  to  go  to  the  house  ot 
the  Lord,  legitimately,  unless  we  have 
a  certificate  from  the  Bishop  that  we 
are  members  of  his  ward  in  full  fel- 
lowship, to  present  to  those  who  offi- 
ciate in  that  sacred  house.  That  con- 
stitutes our  passport  to  the  Temple  of 
God.  We  are  supposed  to  be  among 
those  who  love  righteousness  and  hate 
iniquity,  and  that  our  conduct,  in  tht 
ward  where  we  live,  will  justify  the 
Bishop  in  giving  unto  us  a  recommend 
to  show  that  we  are  worthy  of  the 
blessings  of  the  house  of  the  Lord. 

The  principles  that  we  have  sub- 
scribed to  are  eternal.  We  cannot  do 
without  them.  The  world  cannot  do 
without  them;  and  whenever  they  turn 
their  attention  to  the  necessity  of  re- 
demption, they  will  have  to  yield  to  the 
same  conditions  that  we  have,  because 
they  are  the  only  way  by  which  re- 
demption can  be  obtained.  The  Gospel 
of  Christ  is  composed  of  eternal  prin- 
ciples, and  all  have  to  subscribe  to  the 
same  conditions  in  order  to  become 
members  of  His  Church,  to  be  born 
again,  and  to  be  adopted  into  His 
royal  family.  These  principles  are 
without  beginning  of  days  or  end  01 
years.  They  were  taught  in  the  be- 
ginning, they  were  taught  by  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  in  the  meridian  of  time, 
and  they  are  taught  today;  for  when 
the  Lord  restored  to  the  earth  the 
Apostleship.  and  the  powers  and  keys 
of  endless  lives,  it  made  it  possible  for 
all  mankind  who  would  subscribe  to  tht 
doctrine  of  the  Father  as  taught  b> 
the  Son  to  obtain  redemption  from  sin 
and  a  membership  in  the  Church  of 
Christ.  Then  their  standing  in  tht 
Church  would  depend  upon  their  faith 
fulness  in  keeping  the  commandments 
of  God  and  seeking  to  estab- 
lish His  Zion  on  earth.  In  the 
days  of  Noah  this  Gospel  was  preached 
to  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  but  they 
rejected  it.  Consequently  they  were 
overtaken  by  a  flood,  and  made  their 
bed  in  a  place  where  there  was  no  ne- 
cessity for  them  to  have  gone  if  they 
had  obeyed  the  message  of    God  t 


them.  Then,  to  show  that  it  is  impos- 
sible to  obtain  redemption  without  sub- 
scribing to  the  conditions  required,  we 
are  told  that  the  Savior  went  into  the 
spirit  world  and  preached  to  that  peo- 
ple the  same  principles  that  had  been 
taught  by  Noah.  "For  this  cause  was 
the  Gospel  preached  also  to  them  that 
are  dead,  that  they  might  be  judged  ac- 
cording to  men  in  the  flesh,  but  live  ac- 
cording to  God  in  the  spirit,"  so  the 
scriptures  inform'  us. 

It  has  pleased  our  Father  in  heaven  to 
reveal  a  great  deal  in  these  last  days, 
for  the  consideration  and  education  of 
His  Church. 

"Now  ye  are  the  body  of  Christ,  and 
members  in  particular. 

And  God  hath  set  some  in  the  church, 
first  apostles,  secondarily  prophets, 
thirdly  teachers,  after  that  miracles, 
then  gifts  of  healing,  helps,  govern- 
ments, diversities  of  tongues." — I  Cor. 
12:  27,  28. 

"Wherefore  he  saith,  when  he 
ascended  up  on  high,  he  led  captivity 
captive,  and  gave  gifts  unto  men. 

And  he  gave  some,  apostles;  and 
some,  prophets;  and  some,  evangelists; 
and  some,  pastors  and  teachers." — Eph. 
4:  8,  11. 

What  for? 

"For  the  perfecting  of  the  saints,  for 
the  work  of  the  ministry,  for  the  edify- 
ing of  the  body  of  Christ: 

Till  we  all  come  in  the  unity  of  the 
faith,  and  of  the  knowledge  of  the  Son 
of  God,  unto  a  perfect  man,  unto  the 
measure  of  the  stature  of  the  fulnpss 
of  Christ."— Eph.  4:  12.  13. 

This  organization  has  been  restored, 
and  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  come 
to  us  all  individually,  because  we  are 
all  the  children  of  God,  and  He  hath 
given  unto  us  His  doctrine  as  taught 
by  His  Son.  We  are  taught  the  straight 
and  narrow  way  that  leads  to  eternal 
life.  This  marvelous  work  and  a  won- 
der, that  has  been  alluded  to,  is  indi- 
vidual effort.  We  all  have  our  dis- 
tinct missions.  I  would  like,  in  this  con- 
nection, to  refer  to  the  writings 
of  Moses  as  revealed  to  Joseph 
the  Seer  in  December,  1830,  and 
published  in  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price  in  relation  to  the  eternal  con- 
ditions of  the  Gospel: 

"And  He  [our  Father  in  heaven] 
called  upon  our  father  Adam  by  His 
own  voice,  saying,  I  am  God:    I  made 


ELDER  GEORGE  TEASDALE. 


the  world,  and  men  before  they  were 
in  the  flesh.  And  he  also  said  unto 
him,  If  thou  wilt  turn  unto  me,  and 
hearken  unto  my  voice,  and  believe, 
and  repent  of  all  thy  transgressions, 
and  be  baptized,  even  in  water,  in  the 
name  of  mine  Only  Begotten  Son,  who 
is  full  of  grace  and  truth,  which  is 
Jesus  Christ,  the  only  name  which  shall 
be  given  under  heaven,  whereby  sal- 
vation shall  come  unto  the  children  of 
men,  ye  shall  receive  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  asking  all  things  in  his 
name,  and  whatsoever  ye  shall  ask,  it 
shall  be  given  you. 

"And  our  father  Adam  spake  unto 
the  Lord,  and  said,  Why  is  it  that  men 
must  repent  and  be  baptized  in  water? 
And  the  Lord  said  unto  Adam,  Behold 
I  have  forgiven  thee  thy  transgression 
in  the  Garden  of  Eden.  Hence  came 
the  saying  abroad  among  the  people, 
That  the  Son  of  God  hath  atoned  for 
original  guilt,  wherein  the  sins  of  the 
parents  cannot  be  answered  upon  the 
heads  of  the  children,  for  they  are 
whole  from  the  foundation  of  the 
world. 

"And  the  Lord  spake  upon  Adam, 
saying,  Inasmuch  as  thy  children  are 
conceived  in  sin,  even  so  when  they  be- 
gin to  grow  up,  sin  conceivelh  in  their 
hearts,  and  they  taste  the  bitter,  that 
they  may  know  to  prize  the  good.  And 
it  is  given  unto  them  to  know  good 
from  evil;  wherefore  they  are  agents 
unto  themselves,  and  I  have  given  un- 
to you  another  law  and  commandment. 
"Wherefore  teach  it  unto  your  children, 
that  all  men,  everywhere,  must  repent, 
or  they  can  in  no  wise  inherit  the  king- 
dom of  God,  for  no  unclean  thing  can 
dwell  there,  or  dwell  in  his  presence; 
for,  in  the  language  of  Adam,  Man  of 
Holiness  is  his  name;  and  the  name  of 
his  Only  Begotten  is,  the  Son  of  Man, 
even  Jesus  Christ,  a  righteous  Judge 
who  shall  come  in  the  meridian  of 
time." 

When  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  was  up- 
on the  earth  He  taught  these  same 
principles.  He  told  Nicodemus,  who 
came  to  him  by  night: 

"Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  ex- 
cept a  man  be  born  again,  he  cannot 

see  the  kingdom  of  God." — John  iii,  3. 

Again: 

"Verily,  verily  I  say  unto  thee,  ex- 
cept a  man  be  born  of  water  and  of 
the  Spirit,  he  cannot  enter  into  the 
kingdom  of  God." — John  iii,  5. 

These  eternal  principles  have  been 
restored  to  the  earth,  together  with  the 
Priesthood,  the  authority  to  proclaim 
these  principles  upon  the  earth  and  to 
call  men  to  repentance.  Two  men — 
Joseph  Smith  and    Oliver    Cowdery — 


commenced  this  wonderful  work.  They 
were  ordained  to  the  Holy  Priesthood 
by  the  authority  of  God,  to  preach  His 
Gospel.  And  the  Gospel  is  being 
preached.  This  immense  assembly, 
gathered  in  solemn  conference,  is  a  re- 
sult of  the  restoration  of  the  everlasting 
Gospel.  We  have  been  favored  so 
much  that  our  eyes  have  been  opened 
to  see  the  grandeur  and  the  necessity 
of  these  eternal  principles. 

Now.  there  have  been  some  com- 
plaints made  concerning  profanity;  not, 
however,  against  the  Church  of  Christ, 
because  it  is  impossible  for  the  Church 
to  profane.  A  man  that  profanes 
under  the  bondage  of  sin,  his  standing 
in  the  Church  is  only  nominal,  and  he 
has  need  to  repent.  It  is  not  possible 
for  him  to  be  in  full  fellowship  ana 
good  standing  in  the  Church,  for  he 
does  not  keep  the  commandments;  and 
as  members  of  the  Church  in  good 
standing  we  are  required  to  keep  the 
commandments  and  to  seek  to  estab- 
lish the  Zion  of  God  upon  the  earth. 
Who  can  say  that  there  is  no  need  foi 
me  to  obey  these  principles?  Who- 
ever told  you  so  must  have  been  some- 
body that  was  under  the  influence  of 
him  who  said,  "In  the  day  that  thou 
eatest,  thou  shalt  not  surely  die."  Thert- 
are  two  influences  in  the  world,  and  we 
receive  our  impressions  from  them.  The 
people  generally  are  under  the  influence 
and  dominion  of  the  adversary,  the 
prince  and  power  of  the  air;  for  if  they 
had  the  spirit  of  truth  they  would  know 
most  assuredly  that  these  principlea 
are  the  only  means  of  salvation,  be- 
cause they  were  taught  by  the  Father 
and  by  the  Son.  The  Son  declared  that 
His  doctrine  was  not  His,  but  the  Fath- 
er's, who  had  sent  Him.  We  declare 
that'  our  doctrine  is  not  ours,  but  His 
who  has  sent  us.  The  glad  tidinsrs  of 
great  joy  are  for  all  mankind;  for  we 
are  all  the  children  of  God,  whether 
rich  or  poor.  The  Gospel  is  preached 
to  the  poor  and  the  illiterate,  and  they 
have  the  promise  that  if  they  will  re- 
pent and  obey  it,  they  shall  know  that 
it  is  true. 

I  thought  this  afternoon,  while  look- 
ing upon  this  immense  assembly,  that 
it  would  require  a  great  deal  of  moral 
courage  to  stand  here  and  advocate  any 
doctrine.  But  our  trust  is  in  the  Lord,  to 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


bring  to  our  remembrance  such  things 
as  should  be  said  on  this  occasion.  I 
have  been  very  much  impressed  lately 
with  the  necessity  of  being  a  member 
of  the  Church  of  Christ  In  good  stand- 
ing. That  is  an  individual  work.  No 
matter  what  position  we  may  hold  in 
the  Church,  we  live  in  a  ward,  and  we 
are  under  the  dominion  of  the  Bishop 
of  that  ward,  and  subject  to  the  Teach- 
ers of  that  ward.  It  is  the  duty  of 
the  Teachers  to  find  out  what  our 
standing  is — whether  we  are  in  har- 
mony with  the  eternal  principles  that 
lead  to  everlasting  life;  whether  we  are 
honest  and  chaste,  and  whether  we 
practise  holiness  before  the  Lord — so 
that  we  may  be  properly  represented. 
It  is  impossible  for  those  who  commit 
wickedness  to  be  members  of  the 
Church  in  full  fellowship.  They  must 
cease  to  do  evil  and  learn  to  do  well. 
There  is  a  doctrine  taught  in  the  world 
that  there  is  no  need  for  us  to  do  any- 
thing; we  are  justified  by  faith,  and 
saved  by  grace.  If  I  were  to  ask  the 
question,  Who  told  you  so?  I  would 
very  likely  be  referred  to  Paul's  epistle 
to  the  Romans,  wherein  he  declared 
that  men  were  justified  by  faith  and 
saved  by  grace.  Then  I  would  ask,  To 
whom  did  he  say  that?  I  see  that  it 
was  Paul's  epistle  "To  all  that  be  in 
Rome,  beloved  of  God,  called  to  be 
Saints."  Now,  please  tell  me  how  they 
came  to  be  Saints.  Why,  by  subscrib- 
ing to  these  very  conditions  of  faith, 
repentance,  baptism,  and  the  laying  on 
of  hands  for  the  reception  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  Consequently,  they  had  mani- 
fested their  faith  by  their  works,  and 
they  were  saved  by  the  grace  of  God 
and  justified  by  faith,  because  they 
loved  Him  and  kept  His  command- 
ments. It  is  very  easy  to  understand 
the  principles  of  eternal  life  if  we  want 
to  know  them,  because  the  Lord  has 
said,  "Ask,  and  ye  shall  receive;  knock, 
and  it  shall  be  opened  unto  you;  seek, 
and  ye  shall  find."  Who  are  these  men 
on  my  right?  They  are  Presidents  Of 
Stakes  and  their  counselors.  On  my 
left,  they  are  Bishops  and  their  coun- 
selors. Have  they  received  this  testi- 
mony and  witness?  Yes.  How  did  they 
attain  to  the  positions  which  they  hold? 
They  were  members  of  the  Church  in 
good  standing,  in  full  fellowship, 
and       the       Lord        called  them 


to  these  presiding  positions 
in  His  Church,  to  fill  the  requirement 
of  preaching  the  Gospel  and  edifying 
the  body  of  Christ.  And  they  have  the 
spirit  and  power  of  their  mission.  They 
watch  over  the  heritage  of  God  in  their 
districts.  It  is  all  in  the  work  of  the 
ministry.  It  is  the  organization  of  the 
members  that  compose  the  Church  of 
Christ  into  wards  and  stakes,  presided 
over  by  Presidents  of  Stakes  and 
Bishops. 

I  know  that  these  principles  are  true. 
I  know  that  the  Lord  has  restored  to 
the  earth  the  powers  and  keys  of  end- 
less lives,  the  new  and  everlasting  cov- 
enant, and  that  He  has  given  all  man- 
kind, who  desire  it,  the  opportunity  of 
a  membership  in  the  Church  of  Christ, 
to  take  upon  them  the  name  of  Chri?t, 
to  love  Him  and  to  keep  His  com- 
mandments, and  thus  manifest  Him  in 
their  lives.  We  cannot,  however,  mani- 
fest Him  if  we  are  profane.  He  was 
a  gentleman — the  only  true  gentleman 
that  ever  lived.  His  enemies  will  ad- 
mit that.  And  we  are  exhorted  to  have 
that  mind  in  us  which  was  in  Christ 
Jesus.  "Learn  of  me,  for  I  am  meek 
and  lowly,"  was  His  declaration.  Be- 
fore this  Church  was  organized  the 
Lord  gave  instructions  concerning  those 
who  should  assist  in  this  work,  and 
what  should  qualify  them  for  the  work. 
Said  He,  "And  faith,  hope,  charity  and 
love,  with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory 
of  God,"  qualify  him  for  the  work.  Re- 
member faith,  virtue,  knowledge,  tem- 
perance, patience,  brotherly  kindness, 
godliness,  charity,  humility,  diligence." 
We  have  understood  the  necessity  of 
all  these  things  from  the  beginning.  We 
have  been  patient  in  affliction.  When 
we  have  been  smitten  and  driven,  we 
have  not  retaliated;  but  we  have 
prayed  for  our  enemies,  and  have  taken 
the  Gospel  to  them,  simply  because  we 
have  learned  to  love  God  and  our 
neighbor,  according  to  His  command- 
ment. 

Let  me  say  to  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, consider  this  proposition  in  your 
own  mind,  what  constitutes  a  member 
of  the  Church  of  Christ  in  good  stand- 
ing? Then  let  us  each  ask  ourselves, 
Have  I  that  character?  We  can  do 
that  better  than  anyone  else.  Our 
neighbor  has  to  work  out  his  own  sal- 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 


39 


vation,  as  we  have.  "Save  your- 
selves from  this  untoward  generation." 
So  far  as  I  understand  salvation,  it  is 
to  be  in  harmony  with  the  eternal  prin- 
ciples of  the  everlasting  Gospel,  to 
endeavor  to  be  kind  to  ourselves,  and  to 
make  our  calling  and  election  sure,  re- 
gardless of  what  others  do.  We  are 
making  individual  records.  We  should 
teach  our  children  Hhe  value  of  the 
record  of  a  well  spent  life.  In  the 
restoration  of  the  Priesthood,  it  has 
become  possible  for  all  mankind  to  ob- 
tain eternal  life.  If  they  reject  it,  they 
are  very  unkind  to  themselves,  because 


it  is  the  pearl  of  great  price.  There  is 
nothing  that  is  more  to  be  desired  than 
the  fellowship  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  I 
pray  God  our  Eternal  Father  that  we 
may  go  from  this  conference  deter- 
mined that,  by  His  help,  we  will  live 
so  as  to  be  members  of  His  Church  in 
full  fellowship,  in  good  standing,  to  the 
glory  of  the  Father1,  through  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 
The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

Praise  God  from  whom  all  blessings 
flow. 

Benediction  by  Patriarch  John  Smith. 


THIRD  DAY. 


Sunday,  October  6,  10  a.  m.  The 
'•hoir  sang: 

Praise  ye  the  Lord!  my  heart  shall  join 
In  work  so  pleasant,  so  divine. 

Prayer  by  Elder  Moses  W.  Taylor. 
Singing  by  the  choir: 

How  are  Thy  servants  blest,  O  Lord, 

How  sure  is  their  defense! 
Eternal  wisdom  is  their  guide, 

Their  help,  Omnipotence. 

ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 

Comfort  for  the  sick  and  afflicted — The  Gospel  to 
the  nations — Temptation  should  be  avoided — 
Bright  future  prospect?  for  the  Saints. 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel 
very  much  honored  this  morning  in  hav- 
ing the  privilege  of  standing  before  you 
I  pray  that  the  spirit  which  has  ac- 
tuated the  brethren  in  speaking  to 
you  during  this  conference  may  rest 
upon  me,  and  that  you,  through  your 
faith  and  prayers  may  continue  to  draw 
out  from  the  speakers  those  very  words 
and  sentiments  which  shall  bless  and 
comfort  you  and  increase  your  faith 
in  the  service  of  the  Lord.  From  the 
beginning  of  this  conference  I  have 
been  impressed  with  the  spirit  that 
has  characterized  the  labors  of  the 
brethren  throughout  the  Stakes  of  Zion 
in  preparing  for  this  great  gathering; 
for  their  labors  have  tended  to  prepare 
the  minds  of  the  people  for  greater  light, 
greater  intelligence,  and  greater  mani- 
festations of  the  power  of  the  Lord  in 
blessing  His  children. 


I  remember  a  little  incident  that  oc- 
curred last  Sunday  in  a  fast  meeting 
that  I  attended.  Some  very  sick  chil- 
dren and  people  were  prayed  for  in 
that  meeting,  and  the  Lord  manifested 
His  power  in  blessing  many  of  them, 
and  as  a  rule  they  began  to  amend 
from  that  very  hour.  We  know,  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  that  the  issue  -of  life 
and  death  and  the  welfare  of  the  hu- 
man family  are  in  the  hands  of  our 
Great  Creator;  and  that  it  should  be  so 
we  realize  as  fully  as  any  people  that 
live  upon  the  earth.  The  wisdom  of 
the  Almighty  we  begin  to  comprehend 
to  such  a  degree  that  we  feel  to  leave 
all  things  in  His  hands  after  we  have 
done  our  whole  duty,  after  we  have 
prayed  and  fasted  and  worked  for  the 
restoration  of  the  sick.  We  feel  that 
the  Father  is  over  all,  and  that  by  His 
power  are  the  sick  raised  from  their 
beds  of  affliction;  and  without  His  good 
pleasure  we  cannot  realize  the  blessings 
that  we  in  our  finite  wisdom  think  we 
ought  to  possess.  It  is  proper  that 
our  Heavenly  Father  should  hold  with- 
in His  grasp  the  welfare  of  His 
children  in  life  and  death;  and  He  com- 
mands us,  in  cases  of  sickness,  to  call 
upon  the  Elders  of  His  Church,  that 
they  may  anoint  with  oil,  and  by  the 
prayer  of  faith  draw  down  His  bless- 
ings. We  receive  the  blessings  always, 
whether  in  life  or  death;  for  He  knows 
what  is  best  for  His  children,  and  so  we 


4  J 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


bow  in  humility  before  Him  and  ac- 
knowledge His  hand  in  all  things. 

I  make  these  remarks  this  morning 
because  my  heart  is  filled  with  joy  and 
satisfaction,  where  I  see  the  power  of 
the  Lord  manifested  in  raising  up  the 
sick.  And  when  the  power  of  the  de- 
stroyer, by  permission  of  the  Lord., 
takes  away  a  sick  one,  then  my  heart 
goes  out  in  sympathy  for  tne  afflicted 
family,  and  I  mourn  with  them  in  their 
deep  sorrow.  Nevertheless  I  know  that 
the  Lord  has  His  hand  over  His  pe*o- 
ple  in  mercy,  and  He  will  heal  the 
broken-hearted  and  comfort  those  who 
mourn.  Those  who  are  raised  up  by 
His  power,  if  they  honor  the  blessing' 
they  receive,  will  live  to  do  a  mighty 
work,  while  those  who  die  will  pass 
into  the  presence  of  the  Father,  there 
to  meet  with  Him  and  with  those  they 
have  loved  in  life,  and  they  will  not 
lose  any  blessing  that  they  would  have 
gained  had  they  lived  longer  upon  the 
earth. 

I  rejoice  in  the  principles  of  the  Gos- 
pel, because  they  are  saving  in  their 
nature.  I  am  rejoiced  at  the  condition 
of  the  Stakes  and  wards  of  Zion  and 
the  organizations  of  the  Holy  Priest- 
hood. I  am  rejoiced  above  measure  at 
the  glad  response  given  to  the  words  of 
our  Prophet  Lorenzo  Snow  in  relation 
to  the  law  of  tithing;  still,  there  is  yet 
room  for  improvement.  I  rejoice  at 
the  numerous  missions  that  have  been 
opened,  where  the  Elders  are  permitted 
to  go  forth  and  proclaim  the  word  of 
the  Lord  and  the  divine  mission 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
I  rejoice  that  a  new  mission  ia 
being  opened  in  Japan,  and  I 
feel  assured  that  there  will  be  no  fail- 
ure in  it.  Whatever  trials  these  breth- 
ren may  have  to  meet  will  only  tend 
to  make  them  live  nearer  to  the  Lord 
and  to  feel  after  Him  for  their  own 
sustenance.  They  will  prosper  in  that 
mission,  and  the  door  will  be  opened 
wide  for  the  Elders  to  proclaim  the 
Gospel  among  those  teeming  millions 
of  brown  men.  So  will  it  be  in  other 
lands.  President  George  Q.  Cannon,  in 
the  conference  prior  to  his  death,  said 
that  the  doors  of  the  Gospel  must  be 
opened  to  other  lands;  and  in  saying 
that  he  6  -jhoed  the  very  sentiments  of 
President  Snow  and  President  Smith. 


This  mission  to  Japan  is  the  begin- 
ning of  this  great  opening  to  nations 
where  yet  the  Gospel  has  not  been 
preached  by  the  Elders.  I  rejoice  also 
in  the  condition  of  the  Stakes  of  Zion. 
I  observe  in  the  hearts  of  the  people  a 
desire  to  improve,  a  desire  to  advance, 
a  desire  to  live  nearer  to  the  Lord,  to 
keep  His  holy  commandments,  and  to 
be  worthy  of  the  blessings  that  He  has 
in  store  for  the  faithful. 

There  are  some  things,  however,  that 
I  regret.  I  am  sorry  that  this  favored 
city  of  ours  is  so  full  of  temptations 
for  the  youth  of  Zion.  I  regret  the 
introduction  of  fads  and  fashions  into 
the  midst  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I 
regret  the  number  of  whisky  saloons 
that  are  in  the  streets  of  Salt  Lake 
City.  But  I  do  not  know  of  any  means 
of  preventing  these  temptations  from 
coming  to  our  boys  and  girls — and  we 
are  all  boys  and  girls  when  it  comes  to 
temptation.  Probably  these  things 
must  be,  or  the  Lord  would  not  permit 
them.  We  must  be  a  tried  people;  we 
must  overcome  temptation,  and  prove 
to  the  Lord  whether  through  evil  and 
through  good  report  we  will  be  faithful 
to  His  cause.  We  must  be  taught  to 
shun  the  very  appearance  of  evil,  and 
we  must  teach  our  children  to  do  the 
same.  Our  words  and  our  actions  must 
tend  to  the  welfare  of  our  fellow  men, 
to  the  redemption  of  Zion,  to  the  spread 
of  the  Gospel  and  the  upbuilding  of  His 
kingdom  in  the  earth,  that  a  rule  and 
reign  of  righteousness  and  purity  may 
come  to  the  earth — not  through  the  ab- 
sence of  temptation,  but  through  the 
power  of  His  children  to  overcome 
and  trample  under  foot  all  temptation. 

I  testify  to  you  of  the  divine  mission 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  He  was 
divinely  inspired.  He  was  filled  with 
the  power  of  his  mission  to  such  an  ex-  ■ 
tent  that  he  came  as  near  being  a  per- 
fect man  as  ever  stood  upon  the  earth, 
excepting  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus 
Christ.  In  the  fulfilment  of  his  mis- 
sion upon  the  earth,  he  exemplified  the 
teachings  and  actions  of  his  Master. 
So  have  the  brethren  who  have  fol- 
lowed in  his  footsteps  as  propnets,  seers 
and  revelators  to  Israel.  President 
Young,  President  Kimball,  and  others 
of  the  Apostles  saw  with  prophetic  eye 
the  temptations  and  allurements  that 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS. 


4 


would  be  spread  'neath  the  feet  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  in  the  future,  and 
they  lifted  up  their  voices  and  warned 
the  people  of  those  trials  that  were  to 
come — not  those  trials  wnich  would 
make  them  more  shining  in  the  faith, 
their  armor  brighter  and  their  lances 
keener  in  defense  of  the  truth,  but  the 
trials  of  temptation  and  sin  that  would 
creep  right  into  the  very  homes  of  the 
Saints,  especially  in  the  cities,  and 
bring-  ruin  and  sadness  to  the  family 
circle.  The  Apostles  and  Prophets 
have  warned  us  always  to  shun  tempta- 
tion; to  expect  that  allurements  would 
come  into  our  midst,  but  to  so  shape 
our  lives  that  we  could  overcome  them. 
For  this  purpose  we  have  our  Improve- 
ment associations,  our  Sunday  schools, 
our  Primaries,  and  all  the  other  auxil- 
iary associations  belonging  to  the 
Church.  They  were  instituted  for  the 
education  of  the  youth  of  Zion.  But  I 
consider  that  the  training  of  the  par- 
ents is  the  stepping-tone  to  the  training 
of  the  boys  and  girls.  I  am  in  full 
accord  with  that  master  mind  who, 
when  asked  how  soon  the  training 
of  children  should  begin,  replied, 
"Two  hundred  years  before  they  are 
born."  The  training  of  the  parents  un- 
der the  influence  of  the  Gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  going  to  produce 
a  wonderful  result  in  the  character 
of  coming  generations.  I  see  the  phy- 
sical benefits  that  will  come  through 
the  observance  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 
I  see  the  mental  and  spiritual  blessings 
that  will  come  through  the  observance 
of  the  laws  of  chastity  and  purity  of 
life.  The  study  of  the  revelations  of 
the  Lord  will  educate  the  parents,  and 
the  result  upon  the  children  will  be  very 
great.  If  we  can  keep  in  the  line  of 
right  and  truth,  and  so  train  our  chil- 
dren after  us,  the  harvest  will  be  won- 
derful. The  kingdom  of  God  must 
come  upon  the  earth.  Peace  must 
reign  supreme.  But  before  the  king- 
dom of  God  can  come,  before  peace  can 
prevail,  the  people  must  be  trained  to 
love  peace  and  union,  to  love  the  Lord, 
to  love  each  other.  They  must  love 
their  neighbors  as  themselves,  and 
their  God  above  all.  They  must  keep 
His  laws,  in  order  that  this  spirit  of 
peace  and  brotherly  love  may  be  dis- 
seminated abroad  from   the  rivers  to 


the  ends  of  the  earth,  and  the  way  be 
prepared  for  Jesus  to  come  and  reign 
as  Kings  of  kings  and  Lord  of  lords. 
The  Gospel  must  be  preached  to  every 
creature,  for  a  witness,  before  the  end 
of  unrighteousness  can  come. 

I  rejoice  over  the  prospects  which  are 
before  you  as  a  people.  I  rejoice  in 
the  spirit  of  truth  that  has  brought 
you  together  today.  I  pray  with  all 
my  heart  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
may  fill  President  Snow,  that  his  body 
may  be  renovated,  that  he  may  be 
freed  from  cold,  and  be  able  to  mingle 
with  us  before  the  conference  closes.  I 
pray  that  the  spirit  of  peace,  joy  and 
health  may  enter  his  heart  and  his 
whole  body,  from  this  very  moment, 
and  I  hope  that  my  brethren  will  pray 
with  me  to  this  end.  I  trust  that  the 
spirit  of  this  conference  may  increase 
in  power  and  goodness  for  the  benefit 
of  the  Saints  everywhere — that  it  may 
go  out  into  every  land  and  clime,  espe- 
cially where  there  is  a  Latter-day  Saint 
Elder  humbly  toiling  for  the  spread  of 
the  truth,  and  rest  upon  him,  as  well 
as  upon  all  the  families  of  the  Saints 
that  have  been  able  to  gather  here,  that 
all  may  rejoice  together  because  of  this 
glorious  conference.  And  the  honor 
and  the  glory  be  to  God  our  Heavenly 
Father,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS. 

Churoh  built  on  rock  of  revelation—  Souroe  of 
divine  testimony — True  prophets  known  by 
their  works — They  bear  the  Impress  of  divin- 
ity. 

I  feel  very  keenly  my  dependence 
upon  the  Lord  in  standing  before  you 
this  morning,  and  humbly  I  crave  an 
interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers,  that 
I  may  have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to- 
direct  me  in  what  I  shall  say;  for  I 
feel  a  heavy  responsibility  resting  up- 
on me  when  I  behold  the  many  thou- 
sands who  are  assembled  here  to  re- 
ceive the  word  of  God.  Never  in  my  life 
has  it  been  my  privilege  to  stand  be- 
fore so  vast  a  congregation  to  instruct 
them  in  the  principles  of  life  and  sal- 
vation, and  I  rejoice  in  having  this 
great  privilege.  I  sincerely  hope  that 
the  Lord  will  direct  me  in  all  that  shall 
be  said,  that  I  may  not  be  the  cause 
of  misleading  any  who  are  here. 

I  rejoice  exceedingly  in  the  instruc- 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


tions  that  we  have  received  during  this 
conference.  The  statistical  information 
and  the  items  of  history  in  connection 
with  the  colonization  of  this  people 
have  been  intensely  interesting  to  me, 
and  the  beautiful  lessons  that  have 
been  drawn  from  them  have  increased 
my  testimony,  and  I  doubt  not  that  my 
brethren  and  sisters  have  been 
strengthened  in  their  faith  and  have 
felt  to  rejoice  to  know  that  they  are 
identified  with  this  'wonderful  work 
that  our  heavenly  Father  has  set  His 
hand  to  do  in  the  age  in  which  we 
live.  I  am  proud  to  be  identified  with 
the  people  of  God,  and  to  have  a  stand- 
ing in  His  holy  Church.  I  feel  to  re- 
joice for  the  testimony  that  the  Lord 
has  blessed  me  with;  for  I  do  know  that 
this  is  in  very  deed  His  work. 

The  Church  of  Christ  has  been 
builded  upon  the  rock  of  revelation;  and 
those  who  have  received  a  ^stimony 
that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord — and 
we  often  hear  it  proclaimed  from  this 
stand — and  that  Joseph  Smith  was 
divinely  inspired  of  God  in 
ushering  in  this  the  dispensation  of 
the  fulness  of  times,  have  received 
it  through  the  inspiration  of  the  Al- 
mighty. "We  ought  to  be  grateful  that 
->ur  Heavenly  Father  has  blessed  us 
with  a  knowledge  of  the  truth,  and  that 
we  are  not  compelled  to  rely  upon  oth- 
ers, but  that  we  know  it  for  ourselves, 
because  we  have  received  it  through 
revelation  from  our  Father.  We  can 
read  in  the  scriptures  that  wonderful 
conversation  that  took  place  between 
the  Savior  and  His  Apostles,  when  He 
asked  them  whom  men  said  that  He 
was. 

"Whom  do  men  say  that  I  the  Son 
of  man  am? 

And  they  said.  Some  say  that  thou 
art  John  the  Baptist:  some.  Elias;  and 
others,  Jeremiah,  or  one  of  the  Pro- 
phets. 

He  saith  unto  them,  But  whom  say  ye 
that  I  am? 

And  Simon  Peter  answered  and  said, 
Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the 
living  God. 

And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto 
him,  Blessed  are  thou,  Simon  Barjona: 
for  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  revealed 
it  unto  thee,  but  my  Father  which  is  in 
heaven. 

And  I  say  unto  thee,  That  thou  art 
Peter,  and  upon  this  rock  I  will  build 
my  Church;  and  the  gates  of  hell  shall 
not  prevail  against  it." 


From  this  we  learn  concerning  the 
solid  foundation  of  the  Church  of 
Christ,  of  which  we  are  members.  It 
has  been  built  upon  the  broad  princi- 
ple of  revelation,  by  which  we  can 
know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son 
of  the  living.  God.  I  rejoice  to  know 
that  there  is  a  means  of  coming  to  a 
knowledge  of  God.  Without  revelation 
it  would  be  impossible  to  obtain  a  per- 
fect testimony.  It  is  true,  there  are 
many  external  evidences  of  the  divinity 
of  this  work  and  of  the  mission  of 
Joseph  Smith.  I  have  sometimes  been 
asked  the  question,  How  do  you  know 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  divinely  in- 
spired? and  my  first  answer  has  al- 
ways been  that  the  Lord  had  manifest- 
ed it  to  me  through  His  Holy  Spirit; 
but  in  addition  to  that  there  are  many 
outward  evidences  that  have  appealed 
strongly  to  me.  During  the  meetings 
of  this  conference  we  have  heard  some 
of  these  evidences.  The  question  might 
be  asked,  How  do  you  know  that  Moses 
was  a  prophet  of  God?  We  who  have 
not  had  the  privilege  of  associating  with 
that  great  prophet, and  have  not  felt  the 
impress  of  the  Spirit  in  listening  to  his 
voice,  can  we  judge  by  the  work  he 
acomplished.  We  find  that  he  was  given 
a  mission  by  the  Lord  to  deliver  the 
children  of  Israel  from  bondage  in 
Egypt.  Looking  back  at  the  marvelous 
work  accomplished  through  his  in- 
strumentality— how  the  children  of  Is- 
rael were  in  very  deed  delivered  from 
bondage,  how  they  were  planted  in  the 
land  of  promise,  and  how  they  grew  to 
be  a  mighty  people — it  seems  to  bear 
the  very  impress  of  divinity,  and  we 
know  from  such  evidence  that  he  was  a 
prophet  sent  of  God. The  Lord  has  never 
accomplished  any  great  purpose  in  the 
earth,  except  he  has  raised  up  a 
prophet  and  given  him  a  mission  to 
perform.  Neither  has  the  Lord  ever 
given  revelations  to  man  that  did  not 
have  some  importance  attached  to 
them.  The  Lord  has  not  been  engaged 
as  many  so-called  miracle-workers  are 
in  this  day  and  age  of  the  world,  in 
manifesting  Himself  unto  His  children 
unless  there  has  been  something  wor- 
thy of  the  dignity  of  the  Supreme  Be- 
ing connected  with  that  revelation. 
When  the  great  work  of  atonement 
had  to  be  accomplished,  He  raised  up 


ELDER  GEORGE  REYNOLDS. 


43 


His  only  Begotten  Son,  who  performed 
a  work  the  effects  of  which  are  felt  to- 
•day  throughout  the  whole  world.  Par- 
ticularly do  we  find  the  result  of  His 
work  and  that  of  His  Apostles  among 
the  so-called  civilized  nations  of  the 
earth.  The  impress  of  divinity  is  upon 
the  work  of  Christ.  He  was  the  great- 
est Prophet  that  ever  trod  the  earth. 
Judging  from  the  same  standpoint, 
whenever  the  Lord  has  raised  up  any 
prophet  the  impress  of  divinity  has 
been  upon  the  work  that  he  was 
called  to  accomplish.  It  has  always 
been  something  important,  and  it  has 
had  for  its  primary  object  the  salva- 
tion and  betterment  of  the  children  of 
God.  When  the  Lord  raised  up  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  he  ushered  in  this 
.great  gathering  dispensation.  It  was 
not  an  idle  purpose;  it  was  not  merely 
for  the  amusement  of  mankind;  but  there 
was  something  grand  to  be  accomplished 
namely,  the  gathering  of  the  house  of 
Israel  from  all  the  nations  of  the  earth, 
in  fulfilment  of  those  wonderful  pre- 
dictions uttered  by  many  prophets  who 
lived  hundreds  and  even  thousands  of 
years  ago.  Today  those  who  are  fa- 
miliar with  the  development  of  this 
work;  those  who  have  visited  the  vari- 
ous. Stakes  of  Zion,  from  one  end  of 
this  intermountain  region  to  the  other, 
and  have  seen  people  from  all  nations 
with  their  feet  planted  in  these  fast- 
nesses of  the  Rocky  Mountains,  have 
not  failed  to  see  that  there  was  a  vital 
force  that  seemed  to  possess  the  people 
— something  beyond  the  power  of  man — 
that  was  accomplishing  a  wonderful 
work  in  the  earth.  I  recollect  a  cer- 
tain valley  here  in  the  southern  part  of 
Idaho.  A  number  of  people  not  of  our 
faith  first  went  and  settled  in  that  val- 
ley, and  called  the  place  Gentile  Valley, 
and  they  made  the  boast  that  never 
should  "Mormons"  come  into  that 
valley  and  take  possession  of  it.  A 
short  time  ago  I  had  the  privilege  of 
visiting  the  Bannock  Stake  conference. 
It  was  held  in  Gentile  Valley,  and  there 
I  saw  a  congregation  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  who  had  gathered  there  from 
the  nations  of  the  earth,  in  fulfillment 
of  these  mighty  predictions.  They  were 
planted  in  that  valley,  tilling  the  soil, 
and  their  cattle  were  grazing  upon  the 
hills;    and   I  was   informed   that  you 


could  count  the  Gentiles,  as  they 
termed  themselves,  upon  the  fingers  of 
one  hand.  Even  that  is  an  object  les- 
son to  me  illustrating  that  this  is  the 
land  of  Zion,  appointed  and  dedicated 
for  the  gathering  of  Israel  in  the  latter 
days.  The  impress  of  divinity  is  upon 
this  work,  the  Lord  is  with  His  people, 
and  we  see  it  manifest  on  every  hand. 

I  bear  testimony  to  the  fact  that  I 
know  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  sent 
of  God.  The  Lord  has  manifested  it  to 
me  as  an  individual.  I  have  felt  the 
impress  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  When 
I  have  been  in  the  missionary  field  and 
have  borne  this  testimony,  I  have  felt 
tingling  in  all  my  being,  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord,  bearing  witness  within  me 
that  the  words  which  I  spoke  were  true. 
My  young  brethren  and  sisters,  who 
have  not  yet  had  experience  in  the  mis- 
sionary field,  let  me  tell  you  that  this 
is  the  work  of  God,  that  the  Lord  is 
at  our  helm  and  will  bear  us  on  tri- 
umphantly, and  that  the  thing  called 
Mormonism,  despised  though  it  be  in 
the  world,  is  the  greatest  thing  on  the 
earth.  It  is  the  Church  of  God  estab- 
lished upon  the  earth,  never  again  to 
be  thrown  down.  It  is  the  little  stone 
that  was  hewn  out  of  the  mountains 
without  hands,  and  it  has  begun  to  roll, 
and  will  continue  to  roll  until  it  shall  fill 
the  whole  earth.  Through  its  operations 
"in  and  iniquity  will  be  banished  from 
the  face  of  the  earth,  and  righteous- 
ness shall  predominate  and  cover  the 
earth,  even  as  the  waters  cover  the 
mighty  deep.  This  is  my  testimony, 
and  I  bear  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  REYNOLDS. 

A  God  of  miracles— Saints  should  not  scatter 
abroad  —  Priesthood  should  be  consulted  — 
Work  of  auxiliary  organizations. 

While  Elder  Seymour  B.  Young  has 
been  speaking  to  us  this  morning  many 
thoughts  on  the  topics  to  which  he  has 
referred  have  passed  through  my  mind. 
He  first  spoke  of  the  Lord  answering 
the  prayers  of  His  people  in  behalf  of 
the  sick,  and  I  believe  that  at  the  pres- 
ent time  the  Lord  is  very  markedly  do- 
ing this.  I  have  heard  some  of  my 
brethren  and  sisters  speak  as  though 
there  was  a  time  in  the  Church  when 
these  manifestations  of  God's  power 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


were  more  frequent  than  they  are  to- 
day. In  this  I  do  not  agree.  My  ex- 
perience tells  me  that  there  never  was 
a  time  in  the  history  of  the  Church 
when  God  was  more  willing  to  answer 
the  prayers  of  His  people  than  He  is 
now.  A  discussion  has  been  going  on 
recently  among  our  friends,  on  the 
question  of  the  healing  of  the  sick 
through  faith  and  prayer,  and  whether 
God  is  a  God  of  miracles  today  or  not. 
From  my  standpoint,  this  discussion  is 
absurd,  almost  grotesque;  for  my  tes- 
timony is  that  God  continues  to  hear 
the  prayers  of  His  people,  and  that  we 
are  living  ill  a  period  of  daily  miracles 
amongst  this  people.  It  is  simply  those 
who  will  not  see  who  are  blind  to  these 
circumstances.  The  Prophet  Mormon 
has  told  us  in  his  record  that  God:s 
ways  are  one  eternal  round;  that  He 
is  the  same  yesterday,  today  and  for- 
ever; that  He  was,  He  is,  and  He  evei 
will  be  a  God  of  miracles,  or  He  would 
cease  to  be  God.  The  God  who  an- 
swers prayer  today  as  He  did  an- 
ciently; the  God  who  listens  to  the 
pleadings  of  His  children  and  loves 
them  with  the  same  all-powerful  love 
as  He  did  those  of  former  dispensa- 
tions, is  the  God  in  whom  I  believe, 
and  whom  I  worship.  I  believe  in  Him 
among  other  things  by  reason  of  the 
manifestations  of  His  power  that  I 
know  are  taking  place  in  the  midst  of 
the  Saints,  not  only  in  the  healing  of 
Ihe  sick,  but  in  their  enjoyment  of  the 
gifts  of  the  Spirit  which  He  has  prom- 
ised to  the  believers;  and  I  have  good 
reason  to  worship  Him. 

There  is  another  thing  that  has  im- 
pressed me  in  the  remarks  of  the 
brethren  before  this  conference.  I  re- 
fer to  the  warning  they  have  given  to 
some  of  our  restless  brethren,  and  pos- 
sibly sisters,  who  seem  to  be  always  in- 
clined to  2:0  further  and  further  from 
the  headquarters  of  the  Church  and 
take  up  their  residence  in  far-off  lands. 
I  have  lately  had  the  privilege  of  visit- 
ing some  of  the  more  remote  settle- 
ments of  the  Saints.  Within  the  last 
few  weeks  I  have  been  to  Alberta,  to 
Grande  Ronde  valley  in  Oregon,  and  to 
the  Big  Horn  Basin  in  Wyoming;  and  I 
have  been  full  of  gratitude  to  God  to 
see  the  vast  extent  of  good  country — al- 
most measureless— that  still  remains  for 


the  Saints  to  occupy,  with  soil  as  good 
and  rivers  as  large  as  any  yet  settled 
upon  and  brought  out  by  our  people. 
Yet  there  are  some  people  who  would  go 
still  further  afield.  '  We  are  told  that 
there  are  some  of  our  brethren  who 
have  wandered  off  to  the  north  of  Al- 
berta, far  on  the  Edmonton  road,  which 
lies  300  miles  to  the  northward  of  our 
settlements.  Others  have  wandered  off 
in  different  directions,  apparently  to  get 
from  under  the  influence,  direction  and 
counsel  of  the  servants  of  God.  To  do 
this  is  a  suicidal  policy  on  the  part  of 
those  who  attempt  it.  In  the  kingdom 
of  God  the  path  of  obedience  is  not  only 
the  path  of  safety,  but  it  is  the  path  of 
salvation.  All  our  strength,  all  our 
power  with  God,  comes  from  our  union 
with  the  Priesthood,  with  the  living  or- 
acles, who  have  the  right  and  the  au- 
thority from  God  to  direct  us  in  things 
both  great  and  small,  if  we  may  use 
that  expression,  for  all  things  are  but 
relatively  large  or  small;  but  every- 
thing that  it  pleases  God  to  reveal  to 
us  is  important,  because  on  it  hinges 
our  salvation.  It  is  by  neglect  of  the 
small  things  that  we  too  often  wreck 
our  faith.  As  the  scriptures  tell  us,  it 
is  the  little  foxes  that  spoil  the  vines. 
I  have  greatly  marveled  and  been 
pleased  'with  the  prospects  of  our  peo- 
ple in  their  new  settlements  and  colo- 
nies; and  I  can  perceive  that  there  is 
vast  room  for  Israel  to  grow,  and  grow 
legitimately,  without  spreading  beyond 
the  borders  that  the  servants  of  God 
recognize  as  proper  places  for  homes 
for  Latter-day  Saints. 

As  one  interested  in  the  youth  of 
Israel,  I  have  felt  great  satisfaction  in. 
the  remarks  of  the  brethren.  Many  of 
you  know  me  more  as  a  Sunday  school 
man  than  in  any  other  position  in  the 
Church,  and  the  instructions  which 
have  been  given  at  this  conference  with 
regard  to  the  training  of  our  youth  find 
an  echo  in  my  heart.  I  know  the  ne- 
cessity of  this  training  and  develop- 
ment in  righteousness,  and  in  fighting 
that  which  God  has  said  is  not  good  for 
us.  Surely  it  is  inconsistent  in  the 
highest  degree  for  those  who  claim  to- 
be  Latter-day  Saints  to  take  the  name- 
of  God  in  vain,  to  disregard  the  teach- 
ings of  the  Church  with  regard  to  the 
Sabbath,  and  to  treat  with  disrespect 


ELDER  J.  W.  McMURRIN. 


45 


those  whom  God  has  called  to  be  His 
servants.  We  need  encouragement  to 
do  right,  warning  to  avoid  wrong.  We 
need  a  reformation  in  some  of  these 
matters,  that  we  may  live  nearer  unto 
God.  I  feel  that  our  Sunday  schools, 
our  Improvement  associations  and  oth- 
er auxiliary  organizations  have  a  great 
work  before  them,  to  lead  the  youth  of 
Israel  in  the  path  in  which  they  should 
walk,  first  by  us  who  claim  to  be  teach- 
ers setting  the  example,  and  then  by 
good  instruction  persuading  our  chil- 
dren to  follow  in  our  footsteps.  May 
God  bless  you,  and  bless  this  confer- 
ence. I  ask  it  through  Jesus,  our  Re- 
deemer. Amen. 

ELDER  J.  W.  McMURRIN. 

Manifestations  of  divine  favor  —  Educational 
foundation  laid  by  the  Saints — Disposition  to 
build  up  and  beautify  the  land— Excellence  of 
public  school  system — Paramount  importance 
of  Church  schools— Tribute  to  those  who";have 
aided  their  establishment. 

I  certainly  feel,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  to  stand  up  in  the  presence  of 
this  vast  congregation  of  people  is  a 
very  serious  responsibility,  and  I  could 
appreciate  the  words  whispered  to  me  a 
few  moments  ago  by  Brother  Golden 
Kimball.  I  suppose  he  felt  that  I  would 
be  called  upon  to  occupy  a  portion  of 
the  time  of  this  meeting,  and  he  whis- 
pered in  my  ear,  "Brother  Joseph, 
brace  up;  you  have  my  sympathy."  I 
feel  that  I  need  the  sympathy,  the  faith 
and  the  prayers  of  this  vast  multitude, 
If  I  am  to  say  anything  that  will  be  of 
advantage  to  you  who  have  assembled 
together  in  this  conference  to  worship 
the  Lord. 

There  is  a  responsive  feeling  in  my 
■soul  fo  the  words  that  have  been  ut- 
tered by  the  brethren  who  have  occu- 
pied this  position  during  the  conference. 
My  heart  has  been  made  glad,  and  I 
"have  felt  that  my  spirit  was  in  harmony 
with  the  Spirit  that  actuated  the  breth- 
ren in  the  instructions  they  were  led 
to  impart;  and  I  hope  that,  through  the 
kindness  of  my  Father  in  heaven,  I  may 
be  prompted  by  the  same  Spirit. 

In  connection  with  the  brethren,  I 
marvel  at  the  wonderful  development  of 
the  work  of  the  Lord  and  the  manifes- 
tations of  our  Father's  divine  favor  on 
every  hand  in  the  remarkable  advance- 
ment being  made  by  the  Church  of 


Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
While  sitting  here  today  I  have  won- 
dered what  the  feelings  must  be  of 
strangers  in  our  midst,  who  have  been 
told  all  manner  of  falsehoods  concern- 
ing the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  have  had 
some  experience  as  a  missionary  in  the 
world,  and  among  those  who  had  not 
investigated  the  doctrines  of  the  Gos- 
pel I  found  almost  universally  the  feel- 
ing that  the  Latter-day  Saints  were  a 
priest-ridden  people,  held  in  a  condition 
of  ignorance  and  of  bondage,  and  that 
they  had  to  be  kept  in  such  a  state, 
lest  they  might  break  away  from  the 
priestly  rule  that  dominated  them. 
I  have  often  wondered  what  the  feel- 
ings of  the  people  could  be  who  visited 
us  in  our  mountain  home  and  discov- 
ered that  this  chief  city  of  the  Saints  is 
a  city  of  peaceful  and  happy  homes, 
and  splendid  schools. 

Beautiful  buildings  have  been  erected 
here  for  the  education  of  the  rising  gen- 
eration; and  while  it  is  true  that  they 
have  been  built  by  the  united  effort  of 
all  the  citizens  of  this  city,  "Mormon" 
and  non-"Mormon,"  it  is  nevertheless  a 
fact  that  the  desire  to  give  education 
to  the  youth  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
has  always  been  a  prominent  feature  in 
the  building  up  of  Zion.  The  founda- 
tion of  "the  education  now  so  richly  giv- 
en in  this  state  of  Utah  was  laid  by 
the  Latter-day  Saint  pioneers.  The 
great  University  that  stands  upon  the 
brow  of  the  hill,  overlooking  this  city, 
was  founded  by  our  people  in  the  days 
of  their  poverty;  and  in  establishing  it 
they  looked  forward  with  the  eye  of 
faith  to  the  future  educational  necessi- 
ties of  the  children  and  the  development 
of  the  country.  Traveling  through  the 
various  Stakes  of  Zion,  we  find  in  al- 
most every  settlement  costly  and  beau- 
tiful buildings  that  have  been  erected 
for  educational  purposes.  When  we 
think  of  what  has  been  accompb'sned  in 
this  direction,  we  should  be  exceedingly 
glad  in  our  hearts.  If  we  are  judged 
by  our  works,  it  will  be  very  difficult 
for  honest,  observing  men  and  women 
to  go  away  from  this  community  with 
the  feeling  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
are  opposed  to  education. 

I  had  the  privilege  recently  of  taking 
a  visit  with  Apostle  Cowley  through 
some  of  the  outlying  Stakes  of  Zion  — 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  Stakes  in  Arizona  and  Mexico — and 
I  was  greatly  impressed  with  the  eforts 
being  made  by  our  people  in  those 
Stakes  in  favor  of  education.  In  St. 
John,  Ariz.,  where  it  has  been  almost 
impossible  for  the  people  to  live,  be- 
cause of  the  lack  of  water,  the  mineral 
in  the  soil,  and  the  difficulty  of  con- 
trolling what  little  water  they  had,  we 
found  in  spite  of  such  obstacles,  and 
other  discouraging  features,  a  Stake 
academy  that  would  ornament  any 
street  in  this  city,  erected  principally 
by  the  free  will  offerings  of  the  people, 
notwithstanding  their  poverty  and 
their  distressed  condition.  Similar 
conditions  prevail  in  other  Stakes.  An 
Academy  building  is  nearing  comple- 
tion in  the  Snowflake  Stake,  which  is 
a  credit  to  the  people  of  the  Stake,  an 
excellent  and  commodious  building  has 
been  erected  in  Juarez  and  an  Acad- 
emy in  St.  Joseph  Stake,  at  Thatcher, 
which  is  said  to  be  the  largest  school 
in  the  Teritory  of  Arizona.  An  ac- 
quaintance with  the  condition  that 
prevails  in  Colonia  Juarez  relative  to 
education  led  me  to  think  that  it  was 
not  an  unmixed  evil.  .They  are  not 
blessed  with  the  assistance  of  public 
taxation  for  the  support  of  the  schools, 
such  as  we  have  in  the  United  States, 
but  the  people  there  have  imposed  up- 
on themselves  an  income  tax  of  six 
per  cent.,  that  they  might  have  in  their 
midst  a  school  for  the  education  of 
their  children.  I  may  say  here  that 
we  were  very  much  gratified  to  learn 
that  in  the  Juarez  Stake  there  is  an  al- 
most entire  absence  of  profanity  among 
the  jV»ung  men,  and  that  ninety  per 
cent  of  all  the  people  of  the  Stake  ob- 
serve the  Word  of  Wisdom.  We  were 
there  in  the  interest  of  the  Mutual  Im- 
provement Associations;  and  during  oui 
visit  of  several  days  in  the  town  of 
Juarez  I  do  not  think  we  discovered 
one  young  man  with  a  cigarette  in  his 
mouth,  and  we  never  heard  one  word  of 
profanity.  I  feel  that  this  may  be  at- 
tributed, at  least  in  part,  to  the  fact 
that,  because  they  support  their  own 
educational  interests,  they  are  privi- 
leged to  have  God  in  the  schools,  and 
the  teachers,  being  filled  with  the  Spir- 
it of  the  Gospel,  are  as  anxious  con- 
cerning the  moral  and  spiritual  devel- 
opment of  the  students  as  they  are  for 


their  mental  development.  It  is  a  bless- 
ing to  any  community  to  have  the 
privilege  of  inviting  into  the  school- 
room the  servants  and  handmaidens  of 
the  Almighty,  to  impress  upon  the- 
children  the  truths  of  the  Gospel.  I 
felt  in  my  heart  to  bless  the  brethren 
who  were  engaged  in  this  goodly  work, 
and  who  had  so  great  an  interest  in 
the  proper  education  of  their  children 
that  they  were  willing  to  impose  a 
heavy  tax  upon  themselves  for  that 
worthy  purpose. 

I  have  sometimes  thought  that  we 
have  given  greater  attention  to  the 
mental  development  of  our  children 
than  to  their  moral  and  spiritual  devel- 
opment. Advancement  is  the  spirit  of 
the  age.  In  the  State  Fair  now  being 
held  in  this  city  we  can  witness  the 
improvements  that  have  been  made  in 
our  stock.  There  seems  to  be  a  strong 
desire  on  the  part  of  our  farmers  and 
stockraisers  to  have  the  best  kind  of 
stock,  which  is  very  commendable. 
There  is  a  growing  tendency,  also  on 
the  part  of  the  people  generally,  to 
improve  the  architecture  of  the  pub- 
lic buildings  and  houses  of  worship. 
Then  in  all  the  towns  and  villages  of 
the  Saints  there  is  a  disposition  mani- 
fested on  every  hand  to  build  beautiful 
homes.  Away  down  in  Mexico  we 
found  elegant  homes  that  would  adorn 
the  most  beautiful  residence  part  of 
Salt  Lake  City.  This  feeling  to  ad- 
vance and  to  improve  is  abroad  in  the 
land.  NoW,  ought  we  not  in  our  edu- 
cational matters  to  try  and  keep  pace 
with  this  general  improvement?  We 
have  great  schools  here.  I  would  not 
desire  to  say  aught  that  would  detract 
from  the  importance  of  the  public 
school  system  of  Salt  Lake  City.  We 
ought  to  be  proud  of  it.and  every  citizen 
should  rejoice  that  he  has  been  priv- 
ileged to  have  a  part  in  bringing  the 
school  system  of  this  city  to  its  pres- 
ent standard.  I  am  thankful  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  have  always  been 
willing  to  vote  Tes  on  every  reason- 
able proposition  of  taxation  for  the 
benefit  of  the  schools.  I  am  thankful 
that  the  Deseret  News,  the  Church  or- 
gan, published  in  this  city,  has  always 
advocated  the  advancement  of  the 
schools  and  encouraged  the  people  to 
vote  in  favor  of  everything  that  was- 


ELDER  J.  W.  McMURRIN. 


47 


for  the  improvement  of  the  system. 

There  is  one  thing  in  connection  with 
education  that  I  desire  to  draw  your 
attention  to,  and  that  is  that  we  have 
,  in  our  midst  a  Church  school  system, 
where  the  children  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  are  brought  under  the  influence 
of  men  and  women  who  have  the  love 
of  the  everlasting  Gospel  in 
their  hearts  and  the  spirit  of  the 
missionary  in  their  educational  labors; 
men  and  women  who  feel  that  mental 
advancement  is  not  all  that  should  be 
looked  after  in  the  education  of  the 
young,  but  that  it  is  highly  important, 
if  not  the  most  important  feature  of 
education,  that  young  people  should  be 
impressed  with  the  fact  that  there  is 
a  living  and  true  God,  and  that  He  has 
established  Upon  the  earth  His  Churon, 
in  fulfillment  of  the  prophecies  that 
have  been  delivered  by  the  ancient  ser- 
vants of  God  concerning  the  dispensa- 
tion of  the  fulness  of  times. 

I  think  there  should  be  a  greater  in- 
terest on  the  part  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  in  regard  to  the  Church  schools. 
We  have  found  in  some  Stakes  that  the 
Stake  academies  are  struggling  for  an 
existence,  and  that  there  has  been  a 
coldness  manifested  by  some  in  regard 
to  their  support,  perhaps  for  the  reason 
That  they  could  send  their  children  to 
the  public  schools  free  of  cost,  or  per- 
chance because  the  academy  was  not 
located  in  the  place  where  they  desired 
it.  I  feel,  in  connection  with  the  im- 
provement of  our  public  buildings,  our 
homes,  our  farms,  and  our  stock,  that 
above  all  these  things  should  be  the 
spiiitual  as  well  as  mental  improve- 
ment of  the  precious  "sons  and  daugh- 
ters that  our  Father  has  committed  to 
our  care.  It  is  written  in  the  revela- 
tions that  our  Father  will  hold  us  re- 
sponsible for  the  education  that  we  give 
to  our  children;  and  He  has  given  us  a 
commandment  that  we  should  not  only 
i  seek  wisdom  from  good  books,  but  also 
by  faith.  We  must  have  faith  in  the 
requiring  of  information.  But  faith  to 
a  very  large  extent  has  been  shut  out 
from  the  public  school  system.  The  or- 
ganization of  the  earth,  the  creation 
of  the  inhabitants  thereof,  and  all  such 
things  are  accounted  for  by  science  so- 
.called  independent  of  God;  and  the  re- 


sult has  been  in  many  instances  that 
young  people  have  graduated  from  sem- 
inaries of  learning  without  any  faith 
in  God  and  entertaining  infidelic  ideas. 
Brother  Kimball  told  us  yesterday  of 
fathers     who    felt    there  was  great 
need      for      missionary      work  in 
families.     I     would     like     to  sug- 
gest       to        the        fathers  and 
mothers  of  Israel,  if  they  desire  mis- 
sionary work  in  their  families,  no  bet- 
ter work  of  this  character  can  be  ac- 
complished than  by  placing  their  sons 
and  daughters  in  the  institutions  that 
have  been  established  for  the  education 
of  the  children  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
It  will  be  a  very  rare  thing  for  a  son 
or  a  daughter  to  go  to  a  Church  school 
for  two,  three  or  four  years,  and  come 
away  from  it  without  faith  in  God. 
Such  a  thing,  I  believe,  is  almost  un 
heard  of  in  our  Church  schools.  Young 
men  and  young  women  of  a  skeptical 
turn  of  mind  have  oft  times  been  sent 
to  these  schools,  and  faith  has  been  es 
tablished  in  their  hearts.    There  is  no 
experience  that  I  know  of  that  equals 
the    education    given    in  our  Church 
schools  for  establishing  faith  in  the 
hearts  of  the  rising  generation,save  only 
the  experience  that  is  gained  abroad  by 
the  missionaries  in  preaching  the  ever- 
lasting Gospel.   When  I  am  brought  in 
contact  with  a  class  of  young  men  in 
one  of  these  Church  schools,  I  always 
feel  as  though  I  was  in  the  company  of 
a  number  of  missionaries  in  some  con- 
ference abroad.    There    is  the  samc 
spirit  in  these  instituions  that  accom- 
panies the  missionary.    That  spirit  can 
be  felt  when  we  come  in  contact  with 
the  professors  who  are    engaged  in 
teaching.    Therefore,  I  say,  if  we  love 
our  children  we  will  give  them  oppor- 
tunities   in  these  educational  institu- 
tions that  have  been  established  for  the 
express  purpose  of  planting  faith  in  the 
hearts  of  the  young.    It  is  not  suffi- 
cient that  our  children  should  go  to  thb 
Sabbath  school  for  an  hour  or  two  once 
a  week;  it  is  not  sufficient  that  they 
should  go  to  the  Improvement  associa- 
tion or  to  the  Primary  association  for 
an  hour  or  two  once  a  week,  and  all  the 
rest  of  the  week  be  brought  in  contact 
with  influences   that  are  opposed  to  the 
work    of    the    Lord.     They    will  be 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


strong  boys  and  girls  and  blessed 
indeed  if  they  can  devote  eight  or 
nine  hours  every  day  to  the 
study  of  things  wherein  God  is  not 
mentioned,  and  one  hour  a  week  to 
the  study  of  theology,  and  yet  have 
their  feet  firmly  established  in  the  right 
path.  "We  should  be  anxious  for  them 
to  have  all  the  opportunities  for  gain- 
ing a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel  that  sur- 
round us;  such  advantages  abound 
throughout  Zion.  There  never  should 
have  to  be  a  report  made  by  any  Stake 
Presidency  that  the  Church  Academy 
in  their  Stake  is  in  a  languishing  con- 
dition. The  story  all  the  time  should 
be,  give  us  more  room;  the  students 
are  filling  our  halls,  and  we  do  not 
have  sufficient  accommodation.  "With 
every  Church  academy  it  should  be  the 
story  that  they  have  the  largest  at- 
tendance of  any  school  in  the  Stake. 
There  should  be  greater  interest  in 
these  Church  schools,  because  better 
results  flow  from  this  education  than 
from  any  other  that  is  given  in  the 
land.  It  ought  to  be  this  way,  be- 
cause God  is  in  the  movement,  and 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  rests  upon  the 
teachers. 

Across  the  road  from  here  is  an  ele- 
gant building  that  has  been  erected  as 
a  part  of  the  Latter-day .  Saints'  Uni- 
versity by  the  freewill  offerings  of  a 
number  of  men  in  the  community 
whom  the  Lord  has  blessed  with  means. 
I  think  I  heard  a  report  made  when 
the  building  was  dedicated,  that  the 
Presidency  of  this  Stake  and  a  number 
of  other  brethren  met  together  and  ap- 
pointed a  committee  to  solicit  sub- 
scriptions for  the  erection  of  the  build- 
ing, the  land  having  been  donated  by 
President  Lorenzo  Snow  as  the  trustee- 
in-trust,  and  in  a  few  days  $30,000  was 
given  for  that  purpose.  I  look  upon 
that  building  as  a  monument  to  the 
men  who  contributed  the  means,  and  I 
would  like  to  see  a  tablet  placed  in  the 
Latter-day  Saints'  Business  College 
with  their  names  engraved  upon  it.  The 
money  that  erected  that  building  is  a 
contribution  to  the  youth  of  Zion— to 
my  sons  and  daughters  and  to  your 
sons  and  daughters,  that  they  may 
have  a  place  to  go  where  they  can  be 
educated,  not  only  in  the  learning  of 
the  world,  but  also  in  the  learning  of 


heaven.  I  feel  grateful  to  the  men  who 
donated  the  means  for  the  erection  of 
that  building,  and  their  names  will  live 
in  the  history  of  this  people.  Recently 
there  died  in  this  city  a  young  man, 
Brother  Samuel  Barratt,  who  had  had  it 
in  his  heart  to  assist  this  same  institu- 
tion, but  he  was  cut  off  before  he  ac- 
complished what  he  desired,  and  the 
heart  of  his  mother  went  out  to  the 
son  and  to  the  educational  interests  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  with  the  result  that  she 
contributed  something  like  $25,000  to  er- 
ect a  building  to  be  known  as  Barratt 
hall,  for  the  benefit  and  blessing  of 
the  youth  of  Israel,  and  in  doing  so 
she  has  reared  a  monument  to  her  son 
and  has  made  it  possible  for  his  name 
and  her  name  to  live  for  generations 
in  the  hearts  of  the  people,  though 
the  perpetuation  of  anyi  name  is  but 
a  small  thing  in  comparison  with  the 
blessing  that  will  come  to  thousands 
of  the  youth  of  our  community  by 
reason  of  this  liberality.  Brother  Ezra 
T.  Clark,  of  Davis  County,  has  also 
contributed  $1,000  of  his  means  toward 
the  establishment  of  a  library  of  Nat- 
ural Science  in  the  Latter-day  Saints' 
University.  Other  members  of  the 
Church  have  given  freely  for  the  sup- 
port and  encouragement  of  our  church 
school  system.  Their  names  will  also 
be  held  in  honorable  remembrance 
among  the  people,  and  I  believe  they 
and  their  children  after  them  will  be 
blessed  because  of  this  liberality. 

I  would  like  to  say  to  all  the  rich 
men  among  the  Latter-day  Saints:  If 
you  desire  to  live  in  the  hearts  of  the 
people,  if  you  desire  to  have  men  and 
women  stand  up  in  the  future  and 
bless  your  names  and  your  memories, 
let  a  portion  of  your  substance  which 
God  has  given  you  be  consecrated  to 
the  blessing  of  the  youth  of  Israel,  that 
their  feet  may  be  established  in  the 
straight  way. 

There  are  many  examples  of  this 
character  among  those  who  are  not  of 
us.  In  the  southeastern  part  of  this 
city,  is  a  magnificent  structure — the 
Kearns'  St.  Ann's  Orphanage — for  the 
blessing  and  comfort  of  the  orphans 
of  the  Catholic  Church  (and,  for  aught 
I  know,  the  orphans  of  any  church), 
to  erect  which  Mrs.  Kearns  contributed 


ELDER  J.  W. 

$50,000;  and  the  name'  of  Kearns  will, 
by  reason  of  that,  live  in  the  future 
history  of  Utah.  Although  the  citizens 
of  this  State  have  honored  Hon.  Thom- 
as Kearns  with  the  greatest  political 
gift  they  had  to  give,  and  have  sent 
him  to  represent  them  in  the  Senate 
of  the  United  States,  the  name  of 
Kearns  will  be  remembered  in 
connection  with  this  orphanage  long 
after  the  fact  that  he  was  Senator  of 
the  United  States  shall  have  been  for 
gotten.  "We  hear  of  other  men  in  this 
community  who  have  contributed  $10,- 
000  each  toward  the  erection  of  the 
Catholic  cathedral  now  being  reared  in 
this  city;  and  I  say  that  their  examplt 
is  worthy  of  imitation. 

We  ought  to  be  willing  and  anxious, 
if  God  has  blessed  us  with  an  abund- 
ance of  this  world's  goods,  to  give  of 
that  substance  for  the  benefit  and 
blessing  of  the  people.  President  Young 
set  the  example.  His  name  will  live 
forever  with  every  instructor  and  every 
student  in  the  Church  schools.  Can 
they  ever  forget  Brigham  Young,  the 
man  who  established  the  Brigham 
Young  College  and  the  Brigham  Youn& 
Academy;  the  man  who  left  a  valuable 
block  of  land  as  a  site  for  a  Latter-da> 
Saint  University,  the  proceeds  from  the 
sale  of  which  are  to  be  used  to  erect 
the  Brigham  Young  Memorial  Hall  on 
,the  ground  of  the  Latter-day  Saints' 
University?  Men  talk  about  his  oppo- 
sition to  education.  Why,  in  giving  his 
means  so  generously  he  demonstrated 
that  he  stood  foremost  in  the  midst  of 
the  people  in  favor  of  education.  The 
Latter-day  Saints  have  nothing  to  fear 
from  proper  education.  God  Almight} 
has  commanded  us  to  seek  for  wisdom 
by  faith  and  by  study.  If  we  desire  to 
honor  God  and  keep  His  commandments, 
the  more  education  we  obtain,  the 
greater  will  be  the  glory  that  we  will 
bring  to  our  Father  in  heaven.  We 
ought  to  be  an  educated  people.  It  is 
the  decree  of  God  that  we  shall  be. 
There  should  be  houses  of  learning, 
wherein  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  can 
be  taught,  springing  up  in  every  part 
of  the  land.  This  educational  work  wab 
commenced  by  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  He  got  learned  professors  to 
teach  the  early  Elders  of  the  Church, 
that  they  might    have  understanding 


McMURRIN,  49 

concerning  science,  history,  and  lan- 
guages. This  Church  is  and  always  will 
be  opposed  to  ignorance.  The  uplifting 
of  our  sons  and  daughters  should  be 
above  all  else.  I  desire  to  impress  upon 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  this  fact, 
your  children  who  attend  Church 
schools  can  be  advanced  in  every  line 
of  education.  In  science,  art,  literature, 
and  in  every  other  desirable  branch  of 
book  learning.  In  addition  to  rhi°  the^ 
are  trained  in  a  knowledge  of  God.  To 
know  the  Lord,  and  to  have  faith  in  His 
work,  is  of  the  utmost  importance.  Let 
the  children  receive  a  part  of  their  edu 
cation  in  institutions  where  these 
precious  things  are  taught. 

I  thank  God  for  this  conference  and 
for  the  glorious  instructions  that  have 
been  imparted.  I  thank  the  Lord  with 
all  my  heart  for  a  testimony  concern 
ing  the  truth  of  this  work,  and  that  I 
can  join  with  these  my  beloved  breth- 
ren in  bearing  record  of  its  divinity, 
that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  mighty  Prophet 
of  the  Lord,  that  the  authority  of  the 
Holy  Priesthood  has  been  restored  to 
men  upon  the  earth,  and  that  it  is  the 
decree  of  our  Father  that  we  shall  con- 
tinue to  spread  out,  to  colonize,  to  build 
up  and  to  increase  in  strength  and  pow- 
er in  this  promised  land,  under  a  gov- 
ernment which  has  been  established  by 
the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  God  ana 
by  His  commandment,  that  all  men 
might  have  liberty,  and  that  His  work 
might  be  accomplished.  God  help  us  to 
be  true,  faithful  and  steadfast  to  the 
covenants  that  we  have  made,  and  in 
our  allegiance  to  our  Father  in  heaven, 
and  also  in  our  allegiance  to  and  sup- 
port of  His  Priesthood  and  servants 
who  lead  us  in  this  dispensation,  is  my 
prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem, 
Light  and  Truth. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Charles  O.  Card. 

AT  THE  ASSEMBLY  HALL. 

An  overflow  meeting  was  held  in  the 
Assembly  Hall,  at  2  p.  m.  Elder  Anthon 
H.  Lund  presiding. 

The  Temple  choir  and  congregation 
sang: 

"Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  sal- 
vation, 

No  longer  as  strangers  on  earth  need 
we  roam." 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Thomas 
E.  Taylor. 
The  Temple  choir  sang: 
"Our  mountain  home  so  dear." 

ELDER  BEN  E.  RICH. 

I  humbly  ask  for  your  faith  ana 
prayers  for  the  few  moments  I  ma> 
stand  before  you.  I  make  this  request 
because  I  believe  God  answers  the 
prayers  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  be- 
lieve it  is  necessary  for  us  to  have  His 
aid  when  we  meet  together  upon  occa- 
sions of  this  kind  for  the  purpose  of 
being  instructed  in  the  work  of  th* 
Lord  and  our  duties  towards  Him. 

Tvhen  Apostle  Lund  was  speaking  in 
the  Tabernacle  yesterday  he  referred 
to  a  portion  of  that  revelation  of  the 
Apostle  John,  given  while  upon  the  Islt 
of  Patmos,  concerning  the  penalty  at- 
tached to  any  one  adding  to  the  words* 
of  that  revelation,  and  also  the  con- 
struction placed  upon  it  by  the  divines* 
of  the  age  in  their  endeavors  to  con- 
vert mankind  to  the  idea  that  it  was> 
the  intention  of  the  Almighty  to  close 
the  heavens  against  the  earth  and  to 
give  to  His  children  no  more  revelation. 

I  fully  realize  that  among  some  of 
the  divines  of  the  day,  especially  those 
who  have  lived  in  these  valleys  of  the 
mountains  and  who  seem  to  be  filled 
with  a  desire  to  lead  the  Latter-day 
Saints  from  what  they  consider  the  er- 
ror of  their  way,  that  they  place  this* 
construction  upon  that  passage. 

Brother  Lund  very  beautifully  called 
attention  to  and  quoted  other  passages 
of  scripture  which  went  to  show  that  no 
intention  of  this  kind  was  placed  upon 
those  words  by  the  Lord  who  gave 
them,  through  the  inspiration  of  His 
Holy  Spirit,  to  the  Apostle  who  was  up- 
on that  lonely  and  desolate  island. 

I  know  there  are  those  who  have  a 
desire,  and  have  so  expressed  it  to  lead 
away  the  young  from  the  faith  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  they  have  gone 
so  far  as  to  make  the  assertion  that 
with  the  older  members  of  the  Church 
there  is  no  use  bothering  with  them. 
And  I  thought  it  would  be  well  if  1 
called  their  attention  to  something  that 
does  carry  with  it  a  responsibility,  ana 
that  does  not  merely  refer  to  the  ag<* 
in  which  they  were  written. 


Inasmuch  as  they  profess  to  bw 
ministers  of  the  Gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ;  inasmuch  as 
they      pretend      to      be  preaching 

the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  1  would  like 
to  call  their  attention  to  something 
that  bears  with  it  a  great  responsi- 
bility for  them;  and  the  words  are 
found  in  the  1st  portion  of  that  letter 
written  by  the  Apostle  Paul  to  the 
Galatian  Saints,  some  of  whom,  even  in 
that  early  day  were  wandering  from 
the  truth.   He  says: 

) 

"I  marvel  that  ye  are  so  soon  re- 
moved from  him  that  call  you  into  the 
grace  of  Christ  unto  another  gospel, 
which  is  not  another;  but  there  be  some 
that  trouble  you  and  would  pervert  the 
Gospel  of  Christ.  But  though  we  or 
an  angel  from  heaven  preach  any  other 
Gospel  unto  you  than  that  which  we 
have  preached  unto  you,  let  him  be  ac- 
cursed." 

-J 

Even  in  that  early  day  there  were 
men  found  in  the  church  who  had  be- 
come filled  with  the  evil  spirit  and  who 
were  engaged  in  introducing  errors  or 
changes  in  the  Gospel  of  Christ.  That 
Gospel,  which  is  the  same  yesterday, 
tomorrow,  and  for  ever.  It  admits  of 
no  changes;  and  the  Apostle  Paul  mar- 
vels that  there  were  some  even  at  that 
time  beginning  to  be  turned  towards 
another  gospel.  He  therefore  makes 
that  sweeping  charge  and  statement 
which  I  have  read,  and  then  as  if  he 
desired  to  impress  it  more  strongly 
upon  their  minds  he  repeats  his  words 
by  saying:  'As  we  said  before,  so  say 
I  now  again,  if  any  man  preach  any 
other  gospel  unto  you  than  that  ye 
have  received,  let  him  be  accursed." 

These  words  bear  greater  responsibil- 
ity than  the  construction  placed  upon 
them  by  many  of  the  divines  of  the 
age;  and  there  is  no  question  that  the 
responsibility  mentioned  in  these  words 
reach  down  to  our  day,  and  will  reach 
to  every  age  so  long  as  mankind  is* 
working  out  his  salvation  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ. 

Every  man  who  stands  before  a  con- 
gregation of  people  for  the  purpose  of 
teaching,  professing  to  be  preaching 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ;  professing 
to  be  a  minister  of  the  Gospel,  should 
always  bear  in  mind  the  words  of  the 
Apostle  Paul  that  if  they  preach  any 
other  Gospel;  if  they  try  to  pervert 


ELDER  BEN  E.  RICH. 


51 


the  gospel;  if  they  present  to  mankind 
something  that  is  not  the  gospel  and 
call  it  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  that 
the  curse  of  God  will  rest  upon  them; 
and  inasmuch  as  they  have  a  desire  to 
lead  away  the  young  men  and  the 
young  women  from  the  faith  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  I  trust  that  they 
will  picture  up  in  their  minds  what 
was  the  gospel  1800  years  ago,  what  it 
should  he  today,  what  it  must  be  to- 
morrow, the  doctrines  that  are  pleas- 
ing in  the  sight  of  God.  That  Gospel 
which  was  the  power  of  God  unto  sal- 
vation while  Christ  was  upon  the  earth. 
That  Gospel  which  He  left  to  His 
Apostles  when  He  commanded  them  to 
go  into  all  the  world  and  preach  the 
Gospel  to  every  creature,  with  the 
statement  that  they  who  believed 
and  were  baptized  should  be  saved  and 
they  who  believed  not  should  be 
damned. 

Now,  for  a  few  moments,  as  time 
will  justify,  let  us  touch  upon  a  few 
of  the  principles  which  went  to  make 
xip  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  First, 
faith  in  God,  the  God  of  Abraham, 
Isaac  and  Jacob.  That  is  the  founda- 
tion stone.  And  when  these  professed 
ministers  attempt  to  lead  away  the 
young  people  of  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
they  must  preach  a  belief  in  that  being 
unto  them,  and  in  no  other,  for  "Thou 
shalt  serve  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all 
thy  might,  with  all  thy  mind  and  with 
all  thy  strength."  "We  must  not  serve 
an  unknown  God,  but  worship  the  true 
and  Living  God;  that  being  who  made 
man  in  His  image  and  placed  him  upon 
the  earth.  Not  a  supreme  power  be- 
lieved in  by  the  infidel  world,  only 
called  by  another  name;  not  a  supreme 
power  that  you  feel  in  the  air  or  see  in 
the  leaves  upon  the  trees  which  in- 
fidels call  by  the  name  of  nature,  and 
which  modern  christians  call  God — both 
the  same  thing,  only  called  by  different 
names.  That  Being  in  whose  image 
man  is  made,  of  whom  Christ  was  in 
the  express  image,  and  that  Being 
whom  Stephen  saw  as  he  gazed  up 
steadfastly  into  heaven  when  they  were 
stoning  him  to  death,  and  when  he 
bore  testimony  that  he  saw  Jesus 
standing  upon  the  right  hand  of  God; 
that  is  the  God  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and 
Jacob. 


Now,  this  is  the  foundation  stone. 
This  is  the  supreme  being  that  they 
must  believe  in,  because  it  is  the  foun- 
dation of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
and  or.e  of  His  Holy  Apobtles  said 
the  curse  of  God  would  rest  upon  any 
man,  even  though  he  be  an  angel  from 
heaven,  who  pretended  to  preach  any 
other  Gospel. 

It  is  true,  they  call  upon  mankind  to 
believe  in  something,  but  the  starting 
point  is  to  believe  in  that  God  who  gave 
us  life,  whose  children  we  are,  and  Him 
we  expect  to  obey  while  we  live  upon 
the  earth;  and  if  they  reject  the  founda- 
tion, then  their  whole  structure  must 
fall  to  the  ground  as  worthless.  Be- 
cause if  the  evil  one  may  succeed  in 
having  you  worship  something  that  is 
not  God,  then  he  has  gained  a  victory, 
for  he  has  taken  from  the  work  of  the 
Lord  the  very  foundation  upon  which 
the  structure  stands.  Therefore,  it  is 
important  that  the  ministers  first  con- 
vert themselves  to  the  idea  of  a  per- 
sonal God  before  they  pretend  to  be  His 
servants  and  attempt  to  lead  any  one 
into  the  paths  of  righteousness. 

It  is  true,  they  may  call  upon  man- 
kind to  repent;  it  is  true,  some  of  them 
may  call  upon  mankind  to  be  bap- 
tized— some  of  them  do  not;  and  some 
of  them  say  you  must  be  baptized  in 
one  way,  and  some  in  another,  and  still 
some  in  a  different  manner,  while  the 
Gospel  of  Christ,  as  contained  within 
the  lids  of  this  sacred  book  teaches  that 
there  is  but  one  faith,  one  Lord  and 
one  baptism.  This  Gospel  is  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation.  So  these  divines 
should  become  converted  among  them- 
selves as  to  whether  baptism  is  neces- 
sary, and  if  so,  what  kind  of  baptism  is 
necessary,  and  they  themselves  dis- 
pense with  all  forms  of  baptism  except 
the  one  sanctioned  by  God,  before  they 
can  hope  to  have  any  force  or  weight 
in  trying  to  lead  the  children  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  unto  them.  The  Gos- 
pel taught  anciently  was,  that  as  many 
as  were  baptized  were  buried  as  in  a 
watery  grave,  typical  of  Christ's  death, 
and  that  they  came  forth  from  the 
watery  grave  as  typifying  the  resur- 
rection of  Christ  from  the  tomb,  and 
laid  the  old  man  of  sin  in  the  grave, 
coming  forth  with  a  pure  and  resur- 
rected body  in  newness  of  life. 


52 

The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  tells  us 
what  the  organization  was-that  God 
had  Placed  in  the  Church  ApoBtles, 
Prophets  and  other  officers.  That  He 
placed  them  there  for  the  work  of  the 
ministry.  Those  who  profess  to  he 
ministers  of  Christ  and  desire  to  con- 
vert the  Latter-day  Saints  will  admit 
that  there  is  a  necessity  for  the  work 
of  the  ministry,  and  if  that  be  so,  then 
there  is  also  a  necessity  for  those  whom 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  the  people.  And  he  seeks  to  lead 
them  astray  by  influencing  them  to 
sing  praises  to  the  dead  prophets,  while 
he  is  leading  them  from  the  living  ones. 
He  did  so  in  the  days  of  Jesus,  and  1 
want  to  tell  you  there  were  the  same 
kind  of  people  then  who  loved  to  offer 
long  prayeis  in  their  synagogues,  who 
pretended  to  act  as  ministers  of  the 
Gospel  message,  who  were  leaders  or 
men,  who  vote  learned  in  the  laws,  who 


there  is  also  a  necessity  for  those ,  wnom    ^  ^  ^  ^ 

Christ  Placed  in  the  Church  to  do   hat       i  ^  ^ 


111  AO  L  ,f   

work  The  divine  record  teaches  us  that 
they  were  placed  there  for  the  perfect- 
ing of  the  Saints,  for  the  work  of  the 
ministry  and  that  they  should  remain 
there  until  we  all  come  to  a  unity  of 
the  Faith.    And  they  were  to  keep  the 
Saints  steadfast,  to  preserve  them  from 
being  tossed  about  by  every  wind  of 
doctrine  taught  by  men.    But  what  is 
the  condition  we  find  in  Christendom  to- 
day, after  they  have  been  preaching 
that  the  heavens  are  as  brass  over  our 
heads,  and  that  God  gives  no  more  rev- 
elations; that  he  has  no  more  inspired 
men    upon    the     earth     today.  No 
Prophets,  no  Apostles.   Therefore,  there 
is  no  wonder  that  they  are  tossed  about 
by  everv  wind  of  doctrine  taught  by 
men,  and  instead  of  coming  to  a  unity 
of  the  faith,  they  are  fast  becoming 
divided  and  subdivided  more  and  more 
every  year.    God  says,  Except  ye  are 
one  ye  are  not  Mine.    Are  they  one. 
They  are  one  only  in    this— they  are 
united  in  fighting  against  the  one  pure 
living  faith,  organized  by  God  through 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  who  was 
actuated  by  that  eternal  principle,  rev- 
elation, the  only  principle  that  ever  did 
save  mankind. 

I  believe  I  made  the  statement  here 
one  year  ago  that  the  devil  never  did 
care  how  many  dead  prophets  the  peo- 
ple believed  in,  and  he  does 
not  care  today;  but  he  does  care 
if  they  believe  in  the  living  prophets. 
Whenever  the  Lord  has  sent  Hi$> 
prophets  upon  the  earth  to  deliver  His, 
message  to  the  children  of  men,  what 
did  the  devil  care  how  much  the  people 
believed  in  dead  prophets,  so  long  as  he 
could  influence  them  to  reject  the  liv- 
ing ones.  That  is  his  business.  That  it, 
what  he  dtsires  to  accomplish.  He 
knows  the  living  prophets  upon  the 
earth  have  a  message  of  life  or  death 


ing  'crucify  Him,  crucify  Him."  And 
that  same  pretended  divine  power  that 
fought  Christ  1800  years  ago,  is  the 
power  that  is  fighting  the  Latter-da> 
Saints  today.  The  devil  does  not  care 
how  many  Christian  ministers  sing  the 
praises  of  Peter  James  and  John,  how 
many  times  they  go  to  the  churches 
and  offer  long  prayers,  but  he  does  cart 
when  honest  souls  are  turned  to  listen 
to  the  living,  oracles.  He  knows  that 
God  has  spoken  from  the  heavens  in  tht 
age  in  v.h'ch  we  live.  He  knows  there 
are  prophets  upon  the  earth  today  who 
have  a  message  of  life  or  death  to  the 
generation  of  the  earth  at  the  present 
time;  and  his  business  is  to  close  the 
people's  ears  and  to  blind  their  eyes> 
against  this  message. 

I  want  to  tell  you  young  men  and 
young  girls  belonging  to  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  it  is 
a  duty  you  owe  to  yourselves  and  to 
your  parents  to  pray  for  the  faith  oi 
this  Go?pel  and  to  gain  a  testimony 
concerning  the  truthfulness  of  the 
same. 

They  say  we  have  our  little  children 
singing  the  songs  of  Zion  and  singing 
the  taith  of  the  Gospel.  That  is  good. 
That  is  what  we  should  do.  I  have 
heard  men  nay  they  would  not  inter- 
fere with  the  faith  of  their  children 
but  let  them  grow  up  to  manhood  and 
choose  for  themselves,  and  whenever 
hear  a  person  claiming  to  be  a  Latter 
day  Saint  making  remarks  of  this  kind) 
I  feel  in  my  heart  that  he  is  a  hypocrite 
when  he  says  he  has  a  love  for  th< 
truth  and  has  a  testimony  of  the  Gos 
pel.  If  God  has  given  me  a  testlmon: 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet  o 
God,  that  the  men  standing  at  the  hea< 
of  this  Church  are  prophets  and  apos 
ties,  then,  so  long  as  I  do  not  bear  tha 
testimony,  and  commence  and  teach  m 


ELDER  ABRAHAM  O.  WOODRUFF. 


53 


children  in  their  infancy  the  great 
truths  of  the  Gospel  and  try  and  instil 
i:i  their  mines  and  hearts  these  prin- 
ciples, then  I  am  a  hypocrite. 

I  bear  witness  to  the  world  that 
God  has  revealed  these  truths  to  the 
children  of  men  in  thig  our  day,  that 
the  Gospel  as  taught  by  this  people 
came  from  God,  and  I  want  my  children 
to  sing  it,  I  want  them  to  get  it  in  to 
the  marrow  of  their  bones  so  that  these 
hypocritical  agents  of  hell,  who  pretend 
to  be  ministers  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ, 
cannot  git  it  out. 

I  pray  God  to  bless  you  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Sister  Maggie  Swan  Hull  and  Brother 
Martin  S.  Lindsay  sang  a  duet  entitled: 
"The  Better  Land." 

ELDER  ABRAHAM  O.  WOODRUFF, 

of  the  quorum  of  the  Twelve:  My  be- 
loved brethren  and  sisters:  During  the 
few  moments  that  I  will  occupy  this 
responsible  position,  I  pray  that  I  may 
enjoy  the  light  and  inspiration  of  our 
Maker,  that  I  may  address  you  under 
the  same  spirit  that  has  actuated  the 
other  speakers  of  our  conference. 

I  rejoice  in  contemplating  the  Gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  with  its 
blessings  and  privileges.  The  works  of 
God  are  eternal.  That  which  was  true 
a  thousand  years  ago  is  just  as  true 
today.  There  is  no  necessity  for  the 
Elders  of  this  Church  to  call  a  conven- 
tion of  the  Presidents  of  Stakes  and 
other  leading  men  in  the  different  de- 
partments of  the  Church,  to  revise 
their  creed  or  to  counsel  together  for 
days  or  for  weeks  to  ascertain  whether 
or  not  God  is  a  material  being,  or 
whether  He  is  without  body,  parts  or 
passions. 

There  is  no  need  of  this  people  being 
called  together  to  change  the  Articles 
of  their  Faith,  or  their  creed,  for  that 
which  they  have  received  is  not  of 
man,  but  from  God.  It  must  be  very 
humiliating  indeed  to  a  religionist 
when  he  thinks  upon  the  fact  that  his 
religious  sect  is  forced  to  call  its  rep- 
resentatives together  from  time  to 
time  for  the  purpose  of  revising  its 
creed,  for  the  reason  that  the  age  has 
outgrown  it;  that  scientific  and  other 
discoveries  have  brought  to  light  cer- 


tain truths  that  prove  the  creeds  of 
fifty  or  a  hundred  years  ago  to  be  In- 
correct. 

I  thank  God  that  this  is  not  the  case 
with  Mormonism,  and  that  there  has 
never  been,  nor  will  there  ever  be,  any 
change  in  the  creed  or  principles  of 
the  system  upon  which  the  faith  of  this 
people  is  founded.  And  this  is  a  grand 
difference  between  the  work  of  man 
and  the  work  of  God.  That  which  is  of 
man  must  be  modified  and  changed  to 
meet  the  demands  of  various  ages  in 
which  mankind  live,  but  that  which  is 
of  God  will  endure,  as  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  as  revealed  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  has  endured  the 
scrutiny  of  critics,  the  discoveries  and 
the  light  of  science  in  our  day  and  time. 

If  this  work  had  not  come  from  God, 
it  would  be  necessary  for  the  Book  of 
Mormon  to  be  revised  in  order  to  keep 
pace  with  the  times;  because  the  re- 
markable discoveries  which  have  been 
made  would  have  proven  the  record  en- 
tirely false,  had  it  been  originated  by 
man.  But  it  has  stood  the  test  of 
time,  of  science,  of  investigation  and 
discovery  and  stands  today  a  monu- 
ment of  revealed  truth.  It  must  be 
very  humiliating,  indeed,  for  people 
who  have  pinned  their  faith  to  a  creed 
that  requires  constant  modification  and 
change  to  keep  the  foundation  stones 
replaced  with  better  ones  they  deem 
more  safe,  secure  and  substantial.  With 
this  people  and  their  faith,  there  has 
never  been  one  stone  removed  or  re- 
placed in  the  foundation  of  the  Gospel 
of  Christ  as  revealed  through  the  Pro- 
phet Joseph  Smith.  This  can  not  be 
said  of  any  other  religion  upon  the  face 
of  the  earth.  Some  of  the  greatest 
among  them  have  many  times  changed 
and  revised  their  creeds  to  suit  the 
times  and  the  conditions  of  the  people. 
Every  time  they  now  change  their 
creeds  they  incorporate  some  truth  re- 
vealed through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  This  is  because  the  gospel  has 
gone  forth,  the  people  are  becoming  en- 
lightened, the  honest  see  the  beauties 
of  the  truth  and  are  no  longer  satisfied 
with  mere  theories  of  men. 

We  have  great  reason  to  rejoice  in 
these  things  and  in  this  record  of  the 
Nephite  prophets,  which  has  been  hand- 
ed down  to  us.     Notwithstanding  the 


54 


GENERAL  conference 


remarkable  discoveries  that  have  been 
made  through  researches  of  scientific 
men  upon  this  continent,  nothing  has 
been  brought  to  light  that  conflicts 
with  the  testimony  and  belief  in  that 
record,  and  all  other  great  truths  of 
the  everlasting  Gospel  revealed  through 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  our  day 
and  time.  Thank  the  Lord  for  these 
things.  Thank  Him  for  the  unchange- 
able Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
which,  if  it  had  been  of  man,  would 
have  been  altered  many  times. 

Any  Latter-day  Saint  who  neglects 
his  duty,  finds  fault  with  the  authori- 
ties of  this  Church  and  speaks  evil  of 
them  will,  if  he  does  not  repent,  apos- 
tatize, for  we  must  be  true  to  God. 
We  cannot  endure  if  we  be  half-heart- 
ed. We  must  receive  the  Gospel  and 
make  it  the  foundation  of  our  lives 
here,  or  some  day  we  will  not  have 
faith  sufficient  to  carry  us  through 
this  life.  But  when  we  attend  confer- 
ences and  partake  of  the  light  and  in- 
spiration there  administered,  we  think 
it  would  be  impossible  for  anyone  to 
be  so  foolish  as  to  become 
beclouded  and  turn  away  from 
the  truth  of  the  Gospel.  But  we  are 
liable  to  go  away  from  this  gathering 
return  to  our  homes  and  forget  that 
which  we  have  been  taught.  Doubt  may 
creep  in  on  the  part  of  those  who  do 
not  keep  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord,  and  they  will  be  left  by  the  way- 
side,  while  those  who  adhere  steadfast- 
ly to  the  Gospel  truths  will  have  faith 
sufficient  to  carry  them  out,  and  will 
gain  life  eternal. 

We  are  willing  that  the  Gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  as  we  have  re- 
ceived it,  should  be  put  to  the  test 
which  Jesus  laid  down.  He  said  we 
should  know  the  tree  by  the  fruit  that 
it  bears.  One  of  the  prominent  princi- 
ples of  our  faith  is  our  form  of  mar- 
riage to  which  I  wish  to  direct  your 
attention.  He  who  receives  a  wife  in 
this  Church  receives  her,  if  faithful, 
for  time  and  for  all  eternity;  and 
through  the  blessing  of  God  and 
through  their  faithfulness  there  will  be 
no  end  to  their  posterity  and  to  the 
kingdom  over  which  they  will  be  per- 
mitted some  day  to  preside. 

On  the  contrary,  the  sectarian  belief, 
according  to  the  marital  contract  they 


enter  into,  is  simply  binding  upon  them 
until  death  does  them  part.  That  prin- 
ciple which  produces  light,  life  and 
knowledge  must  be  of  God,  while  that 
which  destroys  life,  which  takes  away 
or  prevents  life  is  of  the  opposite  pow- 
er. For  everything  good,  is  from  the 
Lord,  and  that  which  is  evil,  comes 
from  Satan. 

In  the  Eastern  and  New  England 
States,  in  old  New  England  families, 
from  which  many  of  us  have  sprung, 
on  the  old  homesteads  of  our  fathers 
and  grandfathers  many  of  the  names 
of  those  who  did  not  accept  the  Gos- 
pel have  become  almost  extinct.  This  is 
because  it  is  customary  now  not  to 
have  large  families;  therefore  children 
in  many  places  in  the  East  are  rare. 
But  this  is  not  the  case  with  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  It  is  contrary  to  their 
principles  and  practice.  For  instance. 
President  Edward  H.  Snow,  of  the  St. 
George  Stake,  recently  called  upon  his 
uncle  at  the  close  of  his  mis- 
sion in  the  East,  and  he  found 
him  respected  and  loved  by  those 
who  knew  him  in  his  neighborhood. 
He  was,  however,  without  posterity, 
while  his  brother,  who  had  embraced 
the  Gospel,  when  he  passed  away  left 
about  a  score  of  children,  grand  chil- 
dren and  great  grandchildren  upon  the 
earth  to  bear  his  name. 

My  own  father,  who  embraced  the 
Gospel,  and  his  brother,  who  did  not, 
furnish  another  example.  Father's 
brother  left  but  one  or  two  lineal  rep- 
resentatives when  he  passed  away, 
while  my  father  left  something  like 
twenty-three  children,  eighty-five 
grandchildren  and  fourteen  to  fifteen 
great  grandchildren.  I  could  call  ex- 
amples of  this  kind  to  your  attention 
by  the  score  to  show  what  the  Gospel 
has  done  for  this  people  in  teaching 
them  to  build  for  eternity  and  not  for 
time  alone.  This  people  do  not  believe 
i»  the  evil  of  destruction  of  life,  which 
is  eating  at  the  root  and  sapping  the 
vitality  of  this  nation  today  and  which 
is  believed  in  by  so  many  of  the  world 
outside  of  those  who  have  accepted  the 
Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  This 
people  believe  in  promoting  and  sus- 
taining life.  This  is  what  the  Gospel 
tree  produces.  And  we  leave  it  to  the 
judgment  of  all   honorable   men  and 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 


55 


women  upon  the  earth,  to  he  their  own 
judges  as  to  whether  this  fruit  is  good 
or  not. 

"We  should  thank  God  for  the  light  of 
the  Gospel  restored  through  the  Proph- 
et Joseph.  It  is  of  God,  the  Eternal 
Father.  He  did  not  speak  of  Himself; 
he  only  spoke  as  he  was  inspired  and 
commanded  of  God.  Every  prophecy  he 
ever  uttered  will  he  fulfilled;  for  he 
was  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  living 
God,  ordained  from  before  the  founda- 
tion of  the  world,  to  come  forth  in  this 
day  and  time  and  be  the  Instrument 
in  ushering  in  the  greatest  and  last  dis- 
pensation. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  be  true  to 
this  Gospel  which  we  have  espoused, 
that  we  may  be  led  by  its  light,  dic- 
tated by  its  principles  and  influenced 
by  its  power,  that  we  may  gain  eternal 
life.  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 

It  would  not  be  in  good  taste  for  me 
to  occupy  more  than  a  short  time  as 
there  are  a  number  of  speak- 
ers present.  As  I  catch  a  glimpse 
of  the  outside  it  appears  gloomy, 
as  the  sun  is  not  shining. 
Although  it  might  appear  that  it  wou'd 
not  shine  again,  it  will  in  due  time. 
This  idea  came  to  me  as  I  looked  into 
your  faces  and  I  fancied  you  were  tak- 
ing life  too  seriously.  Do  not,  dear 
brethren  and  sisters,  take  life  too  seri- 
ously, for  we  are  not  altogether  respon- 
sible for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  am  very  seri- 
ous and  solemn  at  times  and  worry  a 
great  deal.  I  read  somewhere  that  the 
man  that  worries  is  not  well  balanced. 
Let  us  cease  fretting  about  the  Lord's 
Church  and  become  evenly  balanced, 
so  that  we  are  not  under  the  necessity 
of  trusting  to  the  "arm  of  flesh,"  but 
are  fixed  and  fastened  to  the  "rock  of 
revelation." 

Some  of  us  are  very  much  exercised 
about  certain  things  that  are  trans- 
piring in  the  Church,  and  in  relation  to 
the  actions  of  others.  This  has  always 
been  the  case  since  the  organization  of 
this  work.  While  it  may  be  true  that 
many  of  this  people  have  been  tried 
over  the  actions  of  men,  it  will  con- 
tinue to  be  the  case  as  long  as  men  pre 


side  over  us.  I  desire  to  inform  you 
that  men  and  women  that  are  not  keep- 
ing the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  but 
are  continually  giving  way  to  their 
weaknesses,  justify  themselves  by 
pointing  out  what  they  consider  mis- 
takes in  the  presiding  officers  of  the 
Church.  They  worry  very  much  more 
about  something  that  does  not  come 
under  their  supervision  than  they  do 
about  their  transgressions. 

I  have  noticed  in  associating  among 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  it  has  been 
my  happy  privilege  to  come  in  close 
contact  with  very  many  of  our  young 
people,  and  older  ones  for  that  matter. 
They  explain  to  me  some  of  the  things 
they  are  worried  about,  and  quite  fre- 
quently it  is  discovered  that  they  are 
most  concerned  about  matters  that 
they  have  absolutely  no  faith  in.  For 
example:  A  person  that  pays  no  tith- 
ing is  continually  laying  awake  for  fear 
it  will  not  be  properly  used,  and 
this  kind  of  people  finally  wind  up 
by  apostatizing  because  of  fancied  and 
oftentimes  imaginary  wrongs  their 
brethren  have  done  them.  The  Lord  has 
said,  in  the  Doctrine  &  Covenants,  page 
421,  "But  those  who  cry  trangression 
do  it  because  they  are  the  servants  of 
sin  and  are  the  children  of  disobedience 
themselves." 

The  question  always  arises  in  my 
mind  as  to  whether  we  joined  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  or  joined  ourselves  to  the  presid- 
ing officers.  I  remember  hearing  re- 
lated a  story  of  one  of  our  brethren 
being  very  severely  reproved  by  Presi- 
dent Brigham  Young,  and  he  after- 
wards said:  "  Now  go  and  apostatize." 
The  reply  came  back,  "I  will  never  do 
it,  this  is  not  your  Church  but  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints." 

We  must  each  and  every  one  of  us 
have  this  lesson  indelibly  impressed 
upon  us,  and  cease  troubling  ourselves 
outside  of  those  things  for  which  we 
are  responsible.  Try  and  be  cheerful, 
realizing  that  the  sun  will  shine  and 
"by  hearkening  to  observe  all  the 
words  which  I  the  Lord  their  God  shall 
speak  unto  them,  they  shall  never  cease 
to  prevail."  There  is  every  reason  for 
us  to  believe  that  we  will  prevail  over 
our  enemies  if  we  will  sustain  and  sup- 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


port  the  Priesthood  and  "mind  our  own 
business." 

One  of  the  difficulties  that  comes  to  us 
in  laboring  among  the  Priesthood 
quorums  and  the  young  men,  is  the  mis- 
take of  reaching  out  for  a  season  and 
then  to  all  outward  appearances  ceas- 
ing to  climb.  It  seems  as  if  the  Lord 
has  breathed  into  everything  to  look  up. 
I  am  speaking  more  particularly  about 
intellectual  progress,  of  knowledge 
gained.  I  am  not  converted  to  the 
theory  of  the  mother  that  taught  her 
child  "to  hang  her  clothes  on  a  hickory 
limb  and  not  go  near  the  water,"  for 
we  must  be  reaching,  climbing,  towell- 
ing and  trying  to  prepare  ourselves  foi 
the  great  events  of  life.  There  is  al- 
ways some  chances  to  be  taken  and  it 
is  expected  that  mistakes  will  be  made 
and  that  "we  will  change  our  opinions 
and  correct  our  mistakes." 

I  desire  to  illustrate  the  idea  I  wish 
to  convey,  by  telling  the  following  story, 
I  once  heard:  One  of  our  Bishops  in 
early  days  was  accustomed  to  float- 
ing logs  down  the  Missisippi 
river.  Occasionally  one  would  break 
loose  and  find  its  way  into  a  whirlpool, 
and  it  would  go  round  and  round  until 
it  was  wasted  away.  The  log  was  trav- 
eling all  the  time  but  was  left  behind 
and  made  no  progress. 

So  it  is  with  some  of  our  presiding 
officers  and  young  men.  We  frequent- 
ly meet  with  men  and  women,  boys 
and  girls,  that  have  a  most  promising 
future.  These  young  people  oftentimes 
graduate  and  through  their  talent  and 
genius  have  prospects  of  becoming  most 
useful  men  and  women.  At  the  ex- 
piration of  a  little  time,  inquiry  is 
made  about  some  of  them  and  to  our 
sorrow  they  have  fallen  into  the  whirl- 
pool and,  like  the  log,  are  merely  trav- 
eling in  a  circle  and  are  not  cultivating 
the  talent  which  the  Lord  has  given 
them.  This  does  not  apply  to  all,  but 
is  too  frequently  the  case.  We  are 
surely  aware  that  the  course  of  the 
Latter-day  Gospel  is  onward  and  up- 
ward, and  if  we  young  men  get  into 
ruts,  or  if  we  undertake  to  impede  the 
progress  of  this  work  we  will  be 
ground  to  powder. 

There  is  another  principle  I  very 
much  desire  to  call  your  attention  to, 
and  that  is,  the  eternal  progression  of 


the  Gospel  and  what  it  requires  to  se- 
cure eternal  life. 

When  we  Elders  go  among  the  chil- 
dren of  men  in  the  world,  we  teach  them 
Faith,  Repentance,  Baptism  and  the 
Laying  on  of  Hands  for  the  Holy 
Ghost.  To  receive  the  Holy  Ghost  by 
the  laying  on  of  hands  is  to  be  greatly 
favored  of  the  Lord.  We  readily  ac- 
cept the  fact  that  there's  a  "light  that 
lighteth  every  man,"  that  cometh  into 
the  world  and,  as  Paul  puts  it,  "But  the 
manifestation  of  the  spirit  is  given  to 
every  man  to  profit  withal."  Now,  we 
claim  greater  light  because  the  Holy 
Ghost  will  always  remain  with  us,  if 
we  do  not  violate  the  commandments 
of  the  Lord,  "as  the  Holy  Ghost  cannot 
be  received  by  the  laying  on  of  hands 
through  the  medium  of  any  other  prin- 
ciple, than  the  principle  of  righteous- 
ness.' 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  informs  us 
that  the  first  Comforter  or  Holy  Ghost 
has  no  other  effect  than  pure  intelli- 
gence, and  the  Prophet  continues  by 
saying  "The  other  Comforter  spoken  of 
is  a  subject  of  great  interest  and  per- 
haps understood  by  few  of  this  gen- 
eration. After  receiving  the  first  Com- 
forter then  let  him  continue  to  hum- 
ble himself  before  God,  hungering  and 
thirsting  after  righteousness,  and  liv- 
ing by  every  word  of  God,  and  the 
Lord  will  say  unto  him,  Son,  thou  shalt 
be  exalted,  etc.  When  the  Lord  has 
thoroughly  proven  him  and  finds  that 
the  man  will  serve  Him  at  all  hazards 
then  the  man  will  find  his  calling  and 
election  made  sure.  Then  it  will  be 
his  privilege  to  receive  the  other  Com- 
forter which  the  Lord  has  promised 
the  Saints  as  recorded  in  the  testimony 
of  St.  John,  14:  12,  27.  "Now  what  is 
this  other  Comforter?"  says  Joseph: 
"It  is  no  more  nor  less  than  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  and  this  is  the  sum  and 
substance  of  the  matter,  that  when  any 
man  obtains  this  last  Comforter  he  will 
have  the  personage  of  Jesus  Christ  to 
attend  him,  or  appear  unto  him  from 
time  to  time  and  even  He  will  manifest 
the  Father  unto  him." 

The  above  statement  is  sufficient 
proof  of  what  is  required  to  secure 
eternal  life. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us 
be  serious  for  a  few  moments.  How 


I 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS. 


many  are  there  amongst  us  that  have 
advanced  far  enough  to  have  gained 
this  knowledge?  We  have  had  the 
Holy  Ghost  conferred  upon  us  for  many 
years.  I  was  baptized  and  received 
the  laying  on  of  hands  when  eight 
years  old.  I  have  not  made  my  elec- 
tion sure.  I  have  not  attained  to  that 
great  desire  as  yet.  Are  we  going  to 
be  satisfied  and  cease  to  hunger  and 
thirst  after  righteousness,  and  the  mo- 
ment we  meet  with  adversity  and  trou- 
ble, lay  down  and  cease  our  progression 
and  advancement?  I  have  seen  new 
colonies  of  the  Saints  built  up  in  some 
of  our  little  settlements  almost  like 
magic.  They  reached  a  certain  place 
with  their  improvements  and  like  the 
Arkansas  traveler  became  satisfied  and 
made  no  further  improvements.  I  am 
sometimes  fearful  that  many  of  our 
people  "climb  their  little  hill"  and  then 
go  down  again.  Young  people  get 
married,  and  oftentimes  reach  a  place 
where  all  climbing,  towering  and  reach- 
ing out  after  knowledge  ceases  and 
they  merely  eke  out  an  existence. 
To  see  young  men  with  such  grand 
opportunities  and  prospects  stop  and 
wait  for  something  to  come  to  them 
is  most  deplorable.  I  ask  you,  to  con- 
sider the  changes,  advancement  and 
improvement  your  foreign  missionary 
Elders  undergo  after  a  brief  mission 
of  two  years.  Their  very  being  is 
changed,  but  note  the  frequency  with 
which  they  cease  progression  and  fall 
back  to  old  habits,  and  become  "men- 
tally lazy." 

The  Lord  is  not  well  pleased  with 
this  evil,  for  it  is  found  in  our  Priest- 
hood quorums.  The  Lord  made  plain 
to  His  servant  Oliver  Cowdery,  "Be- 
hold, you  have  not  understood;  you 
have  supposed  that  I  would  give  it  unto 
you,  when  you  took  no  thought.  But 
behold,  I  say  unto  you,  that  you  must 
study  it  out  in  your  mind;  then  you 
must  ask  me  if  it  be  right,  and  if  it  is 
right  I  will  cause  that  your  bosom  shall 
burn  within  you;  therefore  you  shall 
feel  that  it  is  right.  But  if  it  be  not 
right  you  shall  have  no  such  feelings, 
but  you  shall  have  a  stupor  of  thought 
that  shall  cause  you  to  forget  the  thing 
which  is  wrong." 

The  effects  of  idleness  and  mental 
laziness  cause  a  stupor  of  thought  and 


57 

will  grieve  the  spirit  of  the  Lord,  and 
if  persisted  in  will  result  in  the  with- 
drawal of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  I  am 
in  favor  of  repenting  of  this  evil  and 
feel  that  we  should  dedicate  a  part  at 
least  of  our  time  to  attaining  wisdom 
and  in  preparing  ourselves  for  the  great 
work  that  is  before  us. 

I  am  in  no  wise  alarmed  that  Chris- 
tian ministers  are  coming  among  our 
people.  I  wish  they  would  send  500  to 
visit  among  them.  There  is  nothing 
better  than  opposition,  to  awaken  and 
arouse  us  from  our  seeming  security 
and  lethargy.  Every  one  should  know 
that  the  Gospel  is  true  and  be  able  to 
vindicate  his  people.  It  amuses  me  to 
hear  our  Elders  sometimes,  almost 
boastingly,  relate  how  they  dumb- 
founded the  Christian  ministers.  While 
this  is  true  in  many  cases,  it  is  also 
true  that  we  do  not  always  meet  the 
learned,  intelligent  preachers  of  the 
world.  These  educated  men  treat  our 
Elders  indifferently  and  will  not  deign 
to  meet  them.  They  put  me  in  mind  of 
the  Pharisees  that  wrapped  their  robes 
around  them  as  they  stood  on  the  Tem- 
ple steps  for  fear  the  Apostles'  clothing 
might  touch  them.  We  will  yet  meas- 
ure arms  with  the  most  learned  and 
greatest  men  of  the  world,  as  our 
Seventies  will  find  their  way  among  the 
nations  and  peoples.  As  Paul  stood  be- 
fore King  Agrippa  so  will  the  Elders 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  stand  before  kings  and 
queens  and  the  great  men  of  the  world. 
You  can  put  that  down,  for  it  is  true. 

May  the  Lord  bless  and  help  you  to 
remember  these  things  and  enable  you 
to  not  take  life  too  seriously,  I  ask  it 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS. 
The  semi-annual  conference  for  the 
year  1901,  with  this  session,  is  draw- 
ing to  its  close.  I  have  tried  to  re- 
capitulate in  my  thought  the  great 
things  that  have  been  taught  us;  and 
I  have  come  to  this  conclusion  with 
reference  to  all  our  conferences,  that 
while  a  great  variety  of  instruction  is 
imparted,  it  is  generally  the  case  that 
one  doctrine  will  rise  up  in  prominence 
above  every  other,  according,  I  pre- 
sume, as  the  development  or  circum- 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


stances  of  the  Saints  require  that  now 
this  and  now  that,  and  then  another 
doctrine  should  be  impressed  upon  their 
minds. 

I  think  when  you  return  to  your 
homes,  the  one  thing-  which  above  all 
others  you  will  carry  with  you  from 
this  conference  will  be  the  emphasis 
that  has  been  placed  upon  the  doctrine 
of  reverence  for  the  name  of  Deity. 
The  time  had  come  in  the  history  of 
our  people  when  it  became  absolutely 
necessary  that  their  attention  be  called 
particularly  to  this  commandment;  for 
it  is  a  commandment,  as  much  in  force 
today  as  it  was  when  first  given  amidst 
the  thunders  that  were  heard  from  the 
summit  of  that  lonely  mountain  in  the 
wilderness  —  Mount  Sinai)  —  namely, 
"Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God 
with  all  thy  might,  mind  and  strength;" 
and  also,  "Thou  shalt  not  take  the 
name  of  the  Lord  In  Vain;  for  God  will 
not  hold  him  guiltless  who  taketh  His 
name  in  vain."  That  law,  I  say,  is  in 
force  today,  and  yet  there  has  grown 
up  among  us  a  carelessness  with  refer- 
ence to  this  commandment.  Blas- 
phemy has  become  Quite  common 
among  some  of  the  youth  of  Zion  and 
it  is  proper,  therefore,  that .  this  evil 
should  be  corrected,  even  if  it  requires 
the  whole  attention  of  a  great  con- 
ference of  the  Church  such  as  that 
which  is  now  drawing  to  a  close.  The 
time  is  opportune  for  calling  the  atten- 
tion of  the  youth  to  this  subject.  The 
junior  classes  of  the  Young  Men's  Im- 
provement Associations  will  be  taking 
up  the  study  of  the  life  of  Christ  dur- 
ing the  winter;  while  the  senior  classes 
are  about  to  begin  a  rather  advanced 
course  of  study  on  the  First  Principles 
of  the  Gospel.  Some  five  lessons  of 
their  manual  are  devoted  to  the  sub- 
ject of  "God  and  the  Godhead;"  and 
since  there  will  be  such  universal 
thought  and  study  upon  this  great  and 
fundamental  doctrine  of  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  among  members  of  the 
Church,  it  is  eminently  fitting  that  Bide 
by  side  with  this  study  on  the  being 
and  character  of  God,  there  should  be 
taught  also  a  reverence  for  His  holy 
name;  and  that  reproof  where  ever 
necessary  be  properly  administered  to 
those  who  do  not  respect  the  name  of 
Deity. 


It  is  not  necessary,  however,  in  the 
closing  moments  of  this  conference  for 
me  to  attempt  to  add  anything  to  what 
has  already  been  said,  and  so  well  said, 
upon  this  important  subject. 

During  the  few  moments  that  remain 
for  us  to  be  assembled  I  want  to  call 
your  attention  to  one  or  two  things 
closely  related  to  this  main  topic  of  the 
conference.  There  is  another  command- 
ment that  might  well  be  regarded  al- 
most as  a  continuation  of  this  com- 
mandment calling  for  respect  for  the 
name  of  deity;  and  that  is  respect  for 
Father  and  Mother.  He  who  command- 
ed man  to  honor  God  and  reverence 
His  name,  also  said,  "Honor  thy  father 
and  thy  mother  that  thy  days  may  be 
long  in  the  land  which  the  Lord  Thy 
God  giveth  thee."  It  was  also  the  law 
of  God  in  ancient  Israel  that  when  dis- 
respect for  father  or  for  mother  went 
so  far  as  to  lead  the  thoughtless  or 
wicked  son  or  daughter  to  curse  father 
or  mother,  death  was  the  penalty.  (Exo- 
dus, xxi:  17).  Of  course,  that  would  be 
regarded  as  a  very  extreme  doctrine 
now;  but  extreme  as  you  may  think  it, 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  Himself  placed 
the  seal  of  His  approval  upon  it.  You 
remember,  perhaps,  the  circumstance 
of  a  number  of  the  Pharisees  coming  to 
Jesus  and  complaining  against  His  dis- 
ciples because,  forsooth,  they  ate  with 
unwashed  hands,  and  thus  violated  the 
"tradition  of  the  Elders."  A  wonderful 
thing,  was  it  not?  But  Jesus  replied 
with  a  counter  charge  against  them, 
which  I  will  read  to  you:  "But  He 
answered  and  said  unto  them:  Why  do 
ye  also  transgress  the  commandment  of 
God  by  your  tradition?"  A  more  serioua 
thing,  I  take  it,  than  transgressing  the 
"tradition  of  the  Elders"  by  eating  with 
unwashed  hands.  "Why  do  ye  trans- 
gress the  commandment  of  God  by  your 
traditions?"  For  God  commanded  say- 
ing: "Honor  thy  father  and  thy  moth- 
er, and  he  that  curseth  father  or  moth- 
er, let  him  die  the  death."  But  ye  say: 
Whosoever  shall  say  to  his  father  or 
mother.  It  is  a  gift  by  whatsoever  thou 
mightest  be  profited  by  me;  and  honor 
not  his  father  or  his  mother,  he  shall 
be  free.  Thus  have  ye  made  the  com- 
mandment of  God  of  none  effect  b> 
your  tradition.  Ye  hypocrites!  Well 
did  Esaias    prophesy  of  you.  saving: 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS. 


59 


This  people  draweth  nigh  unto  me  with 
their  mouth  and  honoreth  me  with  their 
lips,  but  their  heart  is  far  from  me." 

So  that  however  harsh  you  may  think 
the  law  of  God  as  given  to  Moses  upon 
this  matter  of  requiring  that  there 
shall  be  honor  for  father  and  for  mo- 
ther among  God's  people,  I  answer  your 
charge  of  harshness  against  the  law  of 
God  with  the  statement  that  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  approved  of  it,  harsh  as 
it  may  seem.  And  reproved  sharply 
those  who  rendered  of  non-effect  the 
commandment,  by  their  tradition.  Now 
all  I  desire  to  do  on  this  occasion  is  to 
impress  upon  your  minds  the  import- 
ance of  this  doctrine,  of  honoring  fath- 
er and  mother,  as  well  as  of  honoring 
the  name  of  Deity.  These  are  kin- 
dred commandments,  and  there  is  al- 
most as  much  need  to  teach  the  youth 
of  Israel  respect  for  father  and  mother 
as  there  is  to  teach  them  reverence 
for  the  name  of  Deity. 

There  is  still  another  commandment 
closely  related  to  these  two,  viz.:  re- 
spect for  the  Priesthood  of  God.  In 
addition  to  respect  for  father  and  for 
mother,  and  respect  for  the  name  of 
God,  there  should  also  be  respect  for 
the  Priesthood  of  God.  And  when  I 
speak  of  respecting  the  Priesthood,  I 
do  not  mean  merely  the  President  of 
the  Church  nor  for  the  Apostles  of  the 
Church,  nor  the  general  authorities  of 
the  Church.  I  mean  them  of  course; 
but  I  also  mean  all  those  who  hold  the 
Priesthood.  I  bespeak  respect  for  the 
.presidents  of  Stakes;  for  Bishops  of 
wards;  and  also  for  the  Priests,  who 
teach  the  Gospel  at  the  firesides  of  the 
people.  I  bespeak  respect  for  the  hum- 
blest of  God's  servants,  as  well  as  for 
the  highest;  for  it  is  all  one  authority; 
it  all  comes  from  God.  Priesthood  is 
God's  power  delegated  to  man,  and  the 
humblest  that  holds  that  power  has  a 
claim  upon  the  respect  of  both  old  and 
young  in  the  midst  of  the  Saints. 

I  sometimes  think  that  the  Priesthood 
is  a  little  too  common  in  our  thought, 
not  too  plentiful,  for  there  is  work 
enough  for  all  to  do.  But  in  thinking 
upon  it  we  take  into  account  too  much 
the  weaknesses  of  men,  and  do  not 
honor  sufficiently  the  Priesthood  they 
hold,  and  by  which  they  teach  the  chil- 
dren of  men  and  administer  the  or- 


dinances of  the  Gospel.  Just  one  pas- 
sage from  the  words  of  Jesus  regard- 
ing this  power  and  authority,  that  I 
may  show  you  how  respect  for  the 
Priesthood  of  God  is  really  but  a  piece 
of  the  commandment  that  men  shall 
honor  God.  We  can  trace  the  doctrine 
of  honoring  the  Priesthood  of  God 
right  back  to  the  first  commandment 
to  which  I  refer,  namely  reverence  for 
Deity  Himself. 

It  is  written  here  in  the  Scriptures, 
that  when  Jesus  was  sending  out  His 
disciples  to  evangelize  the  world,  he 
said:  "He  that  receiveth  you  receiv- 
eth  me,  and  he  that  receiveth  me  re- 
ceiveth Him  that  sent  me."  And  the 
converse  of  the  proposition  is  of  course 
equaly  true;  namely  that  he  that  re- 
jecteth  those  whom  God  sends  also  re- 
jects God. 

It  is  written  in  this  same  chapter 
from  which  I  am  quoting  that  the  peo- 
ple who  reject  the  apostles,  reject  God; 
and  they  are  commanded  to  bear  wit- 
ness of  it  in  the  most  solemn  manner, 
and  the  Lord  promises  His  servants 
that  it  shall  be  more  tolerable  for  the 
cities  of  Sodom  and  Gomorrah  in  the 
day  of  judgment,  than  for  those  who 
reject  them. 

When  the  humble  teacher  comes  into 
your  homes,  Latter-day  Saints,  or  when 
the  Priest  seeks  opportunity  to  sit  by 
your  fireside  and  teach  the  peaceable 
things  of  the  Kingdom  to  your  children, 
and  build  up  their  faith  in  God,  let 
me  say  they  are  God's  messengers  to 
your  household,  and  ought  to  be  receiv- 
ed as  coming  from  the  Lord;  and  as 
being  possessed — as  indeed  they  are — 
with  a  portion  of  His  authority;  and 
it  is  just  as  binding  upon  us  to  receive 
these  humble  servants  of  God  as  it  is 
to  receive  those  who  hold  the  highest 
authority  in  the  Church.  We  make 
a  mistake  if  we  think  we  are  fulfilling 
the  law  of  God  which  commands  that 
His  servants  shall  be  honored  by  hon- 
oring the  more  prominent  officials  in 
the  church  while  we  sneer  at  and  laugh 
at  and  deride  the  efforts  of  the  more 
humble  servants  of  God  who  come 
among  us  to  instruct  us  in  the  things 
of  the  Kingdom.  Let  this  conference, 
then,  O,  Latter-day  Saints,  be  remem- 
bered for  teaching,  first  of  all,  rever- 
ence henceforth  in  Israel  for  the  name 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  Deity;  and  as  collateral  parts  of 
that  same  doctrine — honor  for  parents; 
and  profound  respect  for  the  priesthood 
of  God. 

The  Lord  bless  you,  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

Praise  God,  from  whom  all  blessings 
flow. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Joshua  H.  Paul. 
AT  THE  TABERNACLE. 

CLOSING  SESSION. 

Closing  session,  Sunday,  2  p.  m. 

President  Lorenzo  Snow  was  able  to 
be  present  this  afternoon,  to  the  great 
gratification  of  the  assemblage. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

"We  thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet, 
To  guide  us  in  these  latter  days." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Frank 
Y.  Taylor. 
The  choir  sang  the  anthem: 
'The  Mountain  of  the  Lord's  House." 

PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 

Evidence  of  advancement — Responsibilities  of  stake 
and  ward  officers— They  must  not  lay  their 
duties  upon  the  Twelve— Apostles  to  look  after 
interests  of  the  world — Selection  of  Second 
Counselor. 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  it  i& 
rather  a  marvel  to  me  that  I  venture  to 
talk  to  you  this  afternoon;  not  but  that 
I  have  something  to  say  and  would 
really  like  to  have  the  time  and  the 
voice  to  say  it,  and  perhaps  by  the  ex- 
ercise of  your  faith  and  prayers  I  ma> 
have  the  voice  to  address  you  for  a  few 
minutes.  I  have  been  delighted  to  hear 
of  the  spirit  that  has  attended  the 
speakers  since  this  conference  opened. 
It  shows  to  me  one  glorious  fact — that 
during  the  last  six  months  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  have  not  been  idle.  When 
the  Elders  address  this  conference  and 
the  Spirit  is  upon  them  more  than  it 
was  at  the  preceding  conference,  it 
shows  most  clearly  that  there  has  been 
an  advance  on  the  part  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  in  the  performance  of  theii 
duties.  The  next  conference  we  have, 
if  the  Saints  will  continue  to  improve  as 
they  have  done  during  the  last  six 
months,  our  Elders  will  have  more  of 
the  Spirit,  and  their  addresses  will  be 
even  more  intelligent  and  more  service- 
able to  you  than  they  have  been  during 
this  conference. 


Brethren  and  sisters,  God  bless  you. 
This  is  what  I  wanted  to  say  to  you. 
I  have  had  a  distressing  cold  the  last 
eight  or  ten  days,  which  has  made  me 
very  hoarse,  and  I  feared  that  I  would 
not  be  able  to  appear  at  all  during  this 
conference. 

I  want  to  say  a  few  words  in  refer- 
ence to  one  particular  subject,  and  I 
do  not  want  what  I  shall  say  to  be  for- 
gotten. It  is  a  matter  that  concerns 
all  the  Saints;  you  are  all  interested  in 
it,  and  especially  the  Presidents  of 
Stakes,  their  counselors,  the  High 
Councilors,  the  Bishops  and  their 
counselors,  and  all  those  who  have  been 
appointed  to  hold  certain  portions  ot 
the  Holy  Priesthood  and  to  bo 
actively  engaged  in  the  various 
Stakes  of  Zion.  There  are  now  fifty 
Stakes  of  Zion  and  these  Stakes  are 
composed  of  several  wards.  On  an 
average  there  are  probably  seven  or 
eight  wards  to  each  Stake.  Over  each 
Stake  there  are  a  president  and  two 
counselors  and  twelve  High  Councilors. 
Then  there  are  Bishops  and  counselors 
over  the  respective  wards.  And  now, 
what  responsibilities  rest  upon  the  of- 
ficials of  these  fifty  Stakes!  The 
dominion  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  to 
a  large  extent,  and  the  highest  and 
most  sacred  responsibilities  are  de- 
pending upon  these  fifty  presidents; 
and  there  is  something  to  do  for  each 
of  these  authorities  that  I  have  men- 
tioned. The  most  extensive  and  im- 
portant responsibilities  devolve  upon 
these  officials.  And  although,  I  doubt 
not,  they  have  been  pretty  faithful  in 
the  past,  they  have  not  been  so  faith- 
ful in  some  respects,  as  they  ought  to 
have  been;  they  have  not  realized  their 
sacred  responsibilities  so  much  as  they 
might  have  done. 

This  Church  is  now  nearly  seventy 
two  years  of  age,  and  we  are  not  ex- 
pected to  do  the  work  of  the  days  of 
our  youth,  but  to  do  greater,  larger  and 
more  extensive  work.  The  Lord  is 
coming  one  of  these  days,  and  He  is 
interested  in  the  work  that  you  ought 
to  be  doing,  and  anxious  to  be  doing. 
You  ought  to  do  all  that  you  possibly 
can,  and  leave  everything  in  your  busi- 
ness affairs  that  you  wisely  can  do 
and  attend  to  these  matters.  The 
presidents  of  these  fifty  Stakes  shoula 


ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 


61 


consider  the  people  in  their  respective 
Stakes,  in  their  various  dominions. 
They  should  regard  them  as  their  own 
family,  as  their  sons  and  daughters; 
and  take  as  deep  an  interest  in  them 
as  they  ought  to  take  in  their  own 
wives  and  children.  It  should  be  their 
thought  by  uay  and  by  night,  how  and 
in  what  way  they  can  be  most  service- 
able to  their  respective  charges.  Oh! 
brethren,  do  remember  these  things 
that  I  am  now  talking  about;  do  not 
forget  them.  You  presidents,  when 
you  retire  to  your  rest,  you  probably 
can  spend  half  an  hour  before 
you  go  to  sleep,  and  let  your  thoughts 
run  over  your  several  jurisdictions.  See 
wherein,  either  physically,  financially 
or  spiritually,  you  can  help,  and  what 
can  be  done  best  in  advancing  the  in- 
terests of  your  official  family.  These 
Bishops,  however  wise  and  energetic 
they  may  think  themselves— and  the 
most  of  them  certainly  are  very  wist- 
and  energetic— need  to  be  looked  after.  It 
is  not  the  duty  of  the  Apostles  to  look 
after  them. 

The  Apostles  have  a  work  that  is  in 
another  direction  altogether.  I  want 
the  Presidents  of  Stakes  hereafter  to 
realize  that  it  is  their  business,  not  the 
business  of  the  Apostles;  it  is  the  busi- 
ness of  the  High  Priests,  the  Elders, 
the  Bishops,  Priests,  Teachers  and  Dea- 
cons to  look  after  these  things.  Do  not 
lay  this  duty  upon  the  shoulders  of  the 
Apostles.  It  is  not  in  their  line,  at  least 
only  occasionally.  There  is  a  certain 
channel  by  and  through  which  the  Lord 
intends  to  exalt  His  sons  and  daugh- 
ters, to  remove  wickedness  from  the 
earth  and  to  establish  righteousness, 
and  that  channel  is  the  Priesthood, 
which  God  has  established  and  shown 
clearly  the  nature  and  character  of  the 
various  officers  and  duties  thereof.  The 
Apostles  and  the  Seventies,  it  is  their 
business  by  the  appointment  of  the  Al- 
mighty, to  look  after  the  interests  of 
the  world.  The  Seventies  and  the 
Twelve  Apostles  are  special  witnesses 
unto  the  nations  of  the  earth.  The 
.business  of  the  High  Priests,  the  Elders 
and  the  Bishops  is  to  look  after 
the  interests  of  these  various  or- 
ganizations that  I  have  mentioned. 
You  presiding  officers  of  the  vari- 
ous   Stakes    of    Zion,    the    time  is 


coming  when  you  will  not  have 
to  call  and  depend  so  much  upon  the 
Twelve  Apostles.  They  will  be  direct- 
ed in  other  channels,  and  I  want  you 
to  distinctly  understand  it;  and  do  not 
seek  to  throw  responsibilities  that  be- 
long to  you  upon  these  Twelve  Apostles 
and  upon  the  Seventies. 

I  wanted  to  say  this,  and  to  speak 
it  with  energy  and  in  a  way  that  you 
will  not  forget  it,  that  you  cannot  for- 
get it.  It  is  a  wonderful  responsibility, 
and  the  Lord  expects  it  of  you.  You 
ought  to  know  how  the  laws  of  God 
are  observed  in  your  respective  locali- 
ties—how the  Sabbath  is  kept;  whether 
the  young  people  are  swearing,  and  off 
at  midnight  when  they  ought  to  be  at 
home;  how  the  parents  govern  and  con- 
trol them;  how  far  the  people  are  pay- 
ing their  tithing  correctly;  what  they 
are  doing  in  regard  to  their  meeting 
houses,  their  school  houses,  and  their 
houses  of  amusement;  whether  they 
are  expending  their  time  and  means  too 
much  in  these  directions,  or  not 
enough;  and  what  you  can  do  in  help- 
ing them  along.  Look  at  these  things, 
and  everything  that  pertains  to  the 
happiness  of  your  children,  the  mem- 
bers of  this  family  of  yours,  see  what 
you  can  do  about  it.  And  the  Lord 
God  of  Israel  will  help  you  in  this,  be- 
cause it  is  just  what  He  wants  you  to 
do.  It  is  the  duty  that  He  has  placed 
upon  you  to  discharge,  and  He  certain- 
ly will  help  you.  But  when  you  take 
any  other  course— when  you  depend  up- 
on the  Apostles  to  reform  your  respec- 
tive Stakes— you  are  doing  that  which 
you  have  no  business  to  do.  Do  it  your- 
selves, you  Presidents  of  Stakes  and 
counselors,  you  High  Councilors,  and 
you  Bishops.  The  High  Council  should 
visit  all  through  the  Stake  which  they 
have  charge  of  in  connection  with  the 
President  and  his  counselors.  It  is  not 
the  business  altogether  of  the  High 
Council  to  just  wait  till  some  persons 
come  before  them  and  want  some  little 
trifle  settled.  They  have  got  to  do 
something  else,  more  noble  and  grand 
than  such  little  matters.  Go  where  you 
can  do  good,  and  be  lively  in  it. 

Now,  God  bless  you  Latter-day 
Saints.  I  am  glad  to  see  such  a  vast 
multitude  as  there  is  here,  and  that  I 
understand  has  been  throughout  this 


62 


GENERAL.  CONFERENCE. 


conference.  I  repeat,  I  am  so  delighted 
to  hear  that  the  Spirit  of  God  has  been 
on  the  Elders  so  bountifully  as  it  has, 
and  that  they  have  spoken  so  well  and 
so  wisely  to  you  as  they  have.  I  thank 
you  for  the  faith  you  have  exercised, 
because  when  I  arose  here  I  did  not 
know  that  I  could  speak  five  words; 
but  now  I  have  said  what  I  wanted  to 
say.  A  great  deal  could  be  enlarged 
upon  this,  and  the  brethren  will  do  so 
as  opportunity  serves. 

There  is  still  one  matter  that  I  might 
speak  of.  I  am  going  on  pretty  fast  to- 
ward my  eighty-eighth  year;  I  will 
soon  be  eighty-eight  years  old;  and  I 
have  been  laboring  now  for  some 
months  with  but  one  counselor— Presi- 
dent Joseph  P.  Smith.  I  feel  as  though 
I  wanted  a  little  more  help — another 
counselor;  and  I  have  selected  one, 
(through,  I  believe,  the  manifestations 
of  the  Lord),  who,  I  think,  will  be  ener- 
getic and  strong,  will  serve  the  people, 
and  help  me  and  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith  along  in  a  proper  way;  and  I 
hope  you  will  sustain  and  support  him. 
God  bless  you.  Amen. 

THE  GENERAL,  AUTHORITIES 

were  presented  for  the  votes  of  the 
general  assembly  by  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  as  follows: 

Lorenzo  Snow,  as  Prophet,  Seer  and 
Revelator  and  President  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Joseph  F.  Smith  as  first  counselor  in 
the  First  Presidency. 

Rudger  Clawson  as  second  counselor 
in  the  First  Presidency. 

As  members  of  the  council  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles:  Brigham  Young, 
Francis  M.  Lyman,  John  Henry  Smith, 
George  Teasdale,  Heber  J.  Grant,  John 
W.  Taylor,  Marriner  W.  Merrill,  An- 
thon  H.  Lund,  Matthias  F.  Cowley, 
Abraham  O.  Woodruff  and  Reed  Smoot. 

The  counselors  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency and  the  Twelve  Apostles  as 
Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Patriarch  to  the  Church,  John  Smith. 

First  Seven  Presidents  of  Seventies, 
Seymour  P».  Young,  Christian  D.  Fjeld- 
sted,  Brigham  Henry  Roberts,  George 
Reynolds,  Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon 
S.  Wells  and  Joseph  W.  McMurrin. 

William  B.  Preston  as  presiding  Bish- 


op, with  Robert  T.  Burton  and  John 
R.  Winder  as  his  first  and  second  coun- 
selors. 

Anthon  H.  Lund  as  Church  Historian 
and  general  Church  recorder. 

As  Trustee-in-trust  for  the  body  of 
religious  worshippers  known  as  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  Lorenzo  Snow. 

As  members  of  the  general  Church 
ooard  of  education,  Lorenzo  Snow, 
Willard  Young,  Anthon  H.  Lund, 
James  Sharp,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  John 
Nicholson,  Gorge  H.  Brimhall,  Rudger 
Clawson  and  Joseph  M.  Tanner. 

As  general  superintendent  of  Church 
schools,  Joseph  M.  Tanner. 

As  secretary  of  the  general  Church 
board  of  education,  George  Reynolds. 

As  members  of  the  board  of  examin- 
ers, Joseph  M.  Tanner,  George  H. 
Brimhall,  Joshua  H.  Paul,  James  H. 
Linford  and  John  M.  Mills. 

As  secretary  of  the  board  of  examin- 
ers, John  M.  Mills. 

Owing  to  the  recent  death  of  Sister 
Zina  D.  H.  Young,  late  president  of  the 
Relief  Society,  and  there  therefore  not 
being  a  full  organization,  the  officers 
were  not  presented. 

General  authorities  of  the  Sunday 
schools: 

Lorenzo  Snow,  general  superintend- 
ent; George  Reynolds,  first  assistant 
general  superintendent;  Joseph  M.  Tan- 
ner, second  assistant  general  superin- 
tendent. Members  of  the  Deseret  Sun- 
day School  Union  Board:  Lorenzo 
Snow,  George  Reynolds,  Joseph  M. 
Tanner,  Thomas  C.  Griggs,  Joseph  W. 
Summerhays,  Levi  W.  Richards, 
Francis  M.  Lyman,  Heber  J.  Grant, 
George  Teasdale,  Hugh  J.  Cannon,  An- 
drew Kimball,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  John 
W.  Taylor,  L.  John  Nuttall,  James  W. 
Ure,  John  F.  Bennett,  John  M.  Mills, 
William  D.  Owen,  Seymour  B.  Young, 
George  D.  Pyper,  Henry  Peterson,  An- 
thon H.  Lund,  George  D.  Pyper,  general 
secretary;  George  Reynolds,  treasurer. 

General  authorities  of  the  Young 
Men's  Mutual  improvement  associa- 
tions: 

Lorenzo  Snow,  general  superintend- 
ent; Joseph  F.  Smith,  Heber  J.  Grant, 
B.  H.  Roberts,  assistants;  Thomas 
Hull,  secretary  and  treasurer;  Evan 


ELDER  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


63 


Stephens,  music  director;  Horace  S. 
Ensign,  assistant  music  director. 

Board  of  Aids — Francis  M.  Lyman, 
John  Henry  Smith,  Matthias  F.  Cowley, 
Abraham  O.  Woodruff,  J.  Golden  Kim- 
hall,  Junius  F.  Wells,  Milton  H.  Hardy, 
Rodney  C.  Badger,  George  H.  Brimhall, 
Edward  H.  Anderson,  Douglas  M.  Todd, 
Nephi  L.  Morris,  Willard  Done,  Le  Roi 
C.  Snow,  Frank  T.  Taylor,  Rudger 
Clawson,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W. 
McMurrin,  Reed  Smoot,  Briant  S. 
Hinckley,  Moses  W.  Taylor,  B.  F. 
Grant,  Henry  S.  Tanner. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Young 
Ladies'  Mutual  Improvement  Associa- 
tions: 

Elmina  S.  Taylor,  president;  Maria  Y. 
Dougall,  first  counselor;  Martha  H. 
Tingey,  second  counselor;  Ann  M.  Can- 
non, secretary  and  treasurer;  Joan 
Campbell,  recording  secretary. 

Board  of  Aids — Adella  W.  Eardley, 
Sarah  Eddington,  Agnes  Campbell, 
Lillie  T.  Freeze,  Minnie  J.  Snow,  May 
Booth  Talmage,  Rose  W.  Bennett, 
Emma  Goddard,  Alice  K.  Smith,  Eliza- 
beth C.  McCune,  Ruth  M.  Fox,  Julia  M. 
Brixen,  Helen  W.  Woodruff,  Augusta 
W.  Grant,  Mary  A.  Freeze,  Susa  Y. 
Gates. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Primary 
associations: 

Louie  B.  Felt,  president;  Lillie  T. 
Freeze,  first  counselor;  Josephine  R. 
West,  second  counselor;  May  Anderson, 
secretary  and  treasurer;  Olive  Der- 
bidge,  assistant  secretary;  Euphemia 
I.  Burnham,  recording  secretary. 

Board  of  Aids — Aurelia  S.  Rogers, 
Lulu  L.  Greene  Richards,  Camilla  C. 
Cobb,  Cornelia  H.  Clayton,  Belle  S. 
Ross,  S.  E.  Hyde,  Edna  L.  Smith. 

Officers  of  Religion  Classes — Anthon 
H.  Lund,  general  superintendent;  Rud- 
ger  Clawson,  first  assistant;  Joseph  M. 
Tanner,  second  assistant;  L.  John  Nut- 
tall,  general  secretary  and  aid;  John  M. 
Mills,  Henry  Peterson,  aids. 

Leader  and  Director  of  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir— Evan  Stephens,  with  Hor- 
ace S.  Ensign  as  his  assistant;  John  J. 
McClellan  as  organist,  and  all  the  mem- 
oers  of  the  choir. 

John  Nicholson,  as  clerk  of  the  gen- 
eral conference. 

All  the  voting  was  affirmative. 


The  choir  sang: 
'Arouse,  O  ye  mortals." 

ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 

The  extension  of  Zion — Officers  ehould  utilize  the 
talents  of  those  under  their  watchcare — A 
testimony  to  the  truth  of  the  work. 

The  spirit  of  this  conference  has  been 
such  that  the  saints,  in  returning  to 
their  homes  in  the  various  parts  of  the 
country,  will  carry  with  them,  I  be- 
lieve, a  fixed  determination  to  seek  in 
every  way  the  improvement  of  the  peo- 
ple. President  Smith,  in  the  opening 
of  our  conference,  laid  upon  the  breth- 
ren the  necessity  of  the  Priesthood  im- 
pressing fully  and  thoroughly  upon  tne 
minds  of  the  brethren  and  sisters  the 
room  for  improvement  which  exists 
among  some  of  the  members  of  the 
community  in  the  character  of  the  lan- 
guage they  used.  He  also  sought  to 
impress  upon  the  minds  of  the  breth- 
ren and  sisters  that  if  we  would  make 
ourselves  acceptable  to  our  Heavenly 
Father,  a  more  thoughtful  observance 
of  many  of  the  primary  principles  of 
the  Gospel  and  the  moral  rules  and 
regulations  of  the  law  of  God  would  be 
required  on  the  part  of  the  Saints,  and 
the  presiding  officers  would  have  to  fol- 
low up  any  evidence  of  laxness  in  mor- 
ality, any  tendency  to  profanity  or  to 
the  use  of  intoxicating  drinks,  in  the 
districts  over  which  they  were  called 
to  preside.  Several  of  the  brethren 
have  spoken  upon  this  subject,  and  the 
spirit  of  their  instructions,  I  believe, 
has  found  lodgment  in  the  hearts  of 
those  who  were  permitted  to  listen  unto 
them.  President  Snow  comes  to  us  this 
afternoon,  in  the  closing  hours  of  this 
conference,  and  presents  to  us  his  sug- 
gestions looking  to  a  more  active  labor 
upon  the  part  of  presiding  officers  in 
the  wards  and  Stakes  of  Zion,  and  em- 
phasizes the  suggestions  presented  in 
the  remarks  of  President  Smith  that 
more  care  is  requisite  on  the  part  of 
the  Saints  to  hold  themselves  in  closer 
communion  with  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
and  to  seek  to  avoid  the  possibility  of 
profanity,  coarseness  of  language,  or 
the  disobeying  of  any  of  the  plain  and 
simple  requirements  of  the  Gospel. 

In  the  time  I  may  occupy  I  de- 
sire    to     say     to     the  Latter-day 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saints  that  the  work  of  the  Lord 
is  extending.  Its  growth  cannot  be 
questioned  by  those  who  administer  in 
the  various  sections  of  the  country  and 
discover  in  their  visits  the  constant  on- 
ward movement  on  the  part  of  the 
members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  to  seek  to  extend 
the  borders  of  Zion.  As  President  Snow 
remarked,  the  organization  of  fifty 
Stakes  presents  to  the  world  a  body  of 
150  men  as  presidents,  equipped  by  the 
possession  of  the  High  Priesthood,  set 
apart  and  instructed  in  the  doctrines  of 
the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus.  Called  to 
the  aid  of  each  of  these  presidencies,  as 
a  rule,  in  every  Stake  of  Zion,  are 
eighteen  more  High  Priests  in  the  form 
of  High  Council  and  alternates.  These 
men  are  selected  from  among  the  most 
capable.  God-fearing  and  earnest  men 
that  can  be  found  in  the  organization. 
They  are  the  chosen  judges  among  the 
people;  and,  as  has  been  explained  by 
President  Snow,  they  are  not  alone 
judges  of  doctrine,  judges  of 
the  conditions  of  their  breth- 
ren who  may  be  in  transgression, 
judges  to  adjust  differences  in  mat- 
ters of  finance,  but  they  are  men  who 
by  their  experience  in  the  world  in 
teaching  the  principles  of  the  Gospel 
and  in  seeking  to  extend  the  borders  of 
Zion  are  presumed  to  be  thoroughly 
prepared  for  the  discharge  of  the  sacred 
obligation  of  preaching  the  principles  of 
righteousness  and  pointing  the  way  of 
life  to  the  people  over  whom  they  are 
called  to  preside  in  connection  with  the 
presidency  of  the  Stake.  Following  in 
their  wake,  in  every  one  of  these 
Stakes  are  several  wards,  fully  and 
thoroughly  organized  for  the  perform- 
ance of  the  duty  of  guarding  the  inter- 
ests, temporal  and  spiritual,  of  the 
people  in  their  districts.  Many  of  the 
Bishops  of  the  wards  selected  to  ad- 
minister under  the  direction  of  the  pre- 
siding authority  of  the  Church 
through  the  presidency  of  the 
Stake,  have  had  an  extended  experi- 
ence in  the  practical  things  of  life, 
and  there  are  but  few  of  them  but 
what  have  had  an  extended  experience 
in  various  lands  and  climes  seeking  to 
enlarge  the  borders  of  Zion  in  the  pro- 
mulgation of  the  principles  of  the  Gos- 
pel of  the  Lord  Jesus.   These  men  have 


won  their  spurs,  if  you  please,  from, 
the  fact  that  their  hearts  have  been 
given  to  the  accomplishment  or  our 
Father's  purposes.  It  is  sometimes 
manifest,  however,  that  in  the  fulfill- 
ment of  the  duties  attaching  to  the 
Bishopric  the  same-  skill  and  ability  is 
not  manifested  by  them  as  they  exhibit- 
ed in  heralding  the  truth  among  the 
children  of  men  and  calling  the  world  to 
repentance.  The  suggestions  couched  in 
the  instructions  of  President  Snow, 
that  he  wished  these  Presidents  of 
Stakes  to  be  fathers  of  these  families, 
to  love  them  as  their  own  wives  and 
children,  and  to  guard  their  interests 
and  establish  in  their  breasts  a  deter- 
mination to  obey  the  commandments  of 
God,  are  suggestions  that  I  trust  every 
presiding  officer  in  the  Stakes  and 
wards  of  Zion  will  receive;  and  it  is  to 
be  hoped  that  the  same  spirit  and  senti- 
ment shall  be  engendered  in  the  breasts 
of  the  presidents  of  the  High  Priests' 
quorums,  the  Seventies'  quorums  and 
the  Elders'  quorums,  that  at  any  time 
and  place  where  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church  may  require  capable  and  thor- 
ough men  for  the  discharge  of  any  duty 
in  connection  with  the  development  of 
the  work  of  God,  they  shall  be  enabled 
to  supply  such  men  fully  equipped  for 
the  performance  of  the  part  that  may 
be  required  at  their  hands.  There  does 
sometimes  manifest  itself  in  some  of 
the  presiding  officers,  as  I  have  discov- 
ered in  my  experience  among  the  Stakes 
and  wards  of  Zion,  a  fear  of  the  de- 
velopment of  men.  These  conditions,  it 
is  true,  are  rare,  but  they  have  existed. 
"When  young  men  have  sought  to  equip 
themselves  for  the  performance 
of  theif  part,  their  development 
seems  to  have  given  rise  to  a  fear  on 
the  part  of  the  presiding  officer 
that  they  were  ambitious  and  were 
seeking  to  secure  an  influence  that 
would  belittle  him  in  the  management 
and  control  of  his  district.  It  seems  to 
me  that  the  President  of  the  Stake,  or 
the  Bishop  of  the  ward,  should  have  a 
body  of  men  working  under  his  watch- 
care  whose  talents  he  will  utilize  in 
Ithose  directions  where  <(hey  exhibit 
skill  and  ability.  The  man  who  fails 
to  utilize  and  develop  the  men  who  are 
called  to  labor  under  him,  is  indeed 
lacking  in  the  spirit  of  the  work  of 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 


65 


God,  and  is  not  himself  equipped  for 
the  performance  of  his  part  looking  to 
the  preparation  of  the  men  under  his 
watchcare  for  the  mission  and  destiny 
that  should  be  theirs. 

I  recognize  the  fact,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  my  time  is  now  far  spent. 
I  desire,  in  connection  with  my  associ- 
ates, to  bear  testimony  to  the  truth 
of  the  Gospel  of  the  Son  of  God.  I  know 
that  it  is  true.   I  know  that  the  organ- 
ization established  through  the  minis- 
trations of  the  Savior  of  the  world,  un- 
der  the   direction   of   the   Father,  is 
among  the  children  of  men;  that  it  has 
come  to  aid  in  the  regeneration  of  the 
human  family,  and  in  the  due  time  of 
the  Lord  to  establish  our  Father's  king- 
dom in  majesty  and    power  in  the 
earth;  that  He  has  gathered  the  ele- 
ments from  the  corners  of  the  earth 
which  have  thus  far  united  themselves 
with  the  work,  and    while  perchance 
they  may  not  be  all  that   they  should 
be,  they  have  been  those  elements  that 
have  drunk  in  of  the  Spirit  of  Almighty 
God  and  have  been  impressed  with  a 
determination  that,  so  far  as  the  Fa- 
ther shall  give  them  the  power,  they 
will  minister  for  the  accomplishment 
of  His  purposes  and  call  mankind  to 
repentance.    To  this  end,  my  brothers 
of  the  Presidencies  of  the  Stakes,  of 
the  High  Councils,  of  the  Bishoprics; 
you  High  Priests,  Seventies,  and  El- 
ders, upon  whose  heads  have  been  be- 
stowed the  Holy  Priesthood,  see  to  it 
that  in  the  struggle  for  accomplish- 
ment of  the  purposes  of  Almighty  God 
your  hands  shall  not  slacken,  but  with 
a  determined  purpose,  with  your  face 
to  the  accomplishment  of  the  divine 
will,  you  will  crowd  forward  our  Fa- 
ther's work  and  aid  in  the  establish- 
ment of  His  kingdom,  that    the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world  shall    come  and 
reign  in  righteousness  over  a  people 
equipped  for  the  accomplishment  of  the 
destiny  our  Father  has  marked  out  for 
them. 

May  our  Father  bless  the  organiza- 
tion of  His  Church.  May  the  spirit  of 
life  rest  upon  this  aged  man  who  holds 
the  sceptre  in  his  hands.  May  the 
glory  of  God  shine  round  about  him, 
and  may  his  days  be  lengthened  as 
long  as  he  may  desire.  May  his  asso- 
ciates be  governed  by  the  same  spirit, 


and  engaged  in  the  self-same  work,  be 
found  stalwart  for  the  cause  of  truth 
and  for  the  maintenance  of  righteous- 
ness in  the  world;  and  may  all  the 
Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God  magnify 
their  callings  and  stand  for  the  truth, 
is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 
The  choir  sang: 

"Arouse,  Oh  Te  Mortals." 

PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 

All  should  ba  willing  to  labor  according  to  as- 
signment— Eternal  character  of  the  Priesthood. 

I  desire,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to 
make  myself  heard,  if  possible,  by  this 
vast  congregation  of  people,  though  I 
feel  it  will  be  a  difficult  matter.  I  want 
to  say  that  this  call  has  come  to  me  as 
a  great  surprise— doubtless  as  great  a 
surprise  to  me  as  to  you  who  are  as- 
sembled upon  this  occasion.    I  feel  my 
weakness  and  my  inefficiency,  and  that 
there  is  nothing  that  could  make  me 
equal    to  the  acceptance    of  this  ap- 
pointment, of  this  high  responsibility, 
except  a  knowledge  that  this  is  the 
work  of  the  Lord.    I  testify  to  you  that 
it  is  the  work  of  the  Lord.    I  feel  and 
realize  that  the  Lord  can  make  His  ser- 
vants equal  to  every  responsibility.  I 
have  this  faith  and  this  desire;  I  am 
willing  to  work  and  to  labor  wherever 
the  Lord  wants  me  to  labor,  under  the 
direction  of  my  brethren.   I  desire  your 
faith  and  prayers,  and  your  support; 
that  you  will  sustain  me  in  this  high 
calling,  as  I  desire  te  sustain  and  hope 
to    be  able    to  sustain  my  President, 
President  Lorenzo  Snow.   I  desire  to  be 
a  help  and  a  strength  to  him,  and  a 
counselor  in  very  deed.    It  is  the  aim 
of  my  life  that  wherever  I  am  called  to- 
labor,  in  any  position,  to  give  my  heart 
and  soul  to  that  labor.   I  want  to  say 
to  this  great  congregation  of  people 
that  I  am  willing  to  be  used  where  the 
Lord    wants  me,    as  I  feel    that  this 
should  be  the  case  with  all  the  author- 
ities of  the  Church  of  Christ.  There 
is  no  appointment  in  this  Church,  that 
I  know  of,  that  is  absolutely  permanent, 
excepting  the  Holy  Priesthood,  which 
we  are  called  to  hold.    When  we  re- 
ceive that  we  hold  it  in  this  life,  and 
we  take  it  with  us  in  the  life  to  come. 
We  exercise  it  in  the  world,  and  we  ex- 


66 


GENERAL.  CONFERENCE. 


ercise  it  out  of  the  world,  so  long  as 
we  are  faithful.  I  think  that  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  ought  to  be  educated  to 
the  great  truth  that  there  are  some  of- 
fices in  this  Church  that  are  permanent, 
and  others  that  are  not  necessarily  so. 
There  are  some  offices  conferred  upon 
men  that  when  they  remove  their  resi- 
dence, or  die,  cease  with  them;  but  not 
so  with  the  Priesthood.  I  rejoice  in 
this  Priesthood  and  in  this  testimony, 
and  I  pray  God  to  give  me  His  Spirit 
and  to  strengthen  me,  and  I  invoke  your 
blessing,  your  assistance  and  your 
faith,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  BRIGHAM  YOUNG. 

Future  labors  of  the  Twelve  in  the  nations— The 
w  jrkers  at  hornu— Prim  ed  revelations  should 
be  studied. 

I  am  glad  that  I  have  the  privilege 
of  speaking  here,  brethren  and  sisters, 
before  the  close  of  this  conference.  I 
thank  God  for  the  words  that  have 
been  spoken,  for  the  testimony  of  the 
Spirit  that  we  have  witnessed  in  the 
speakers,  and  for  the  good  feeling  that 
has  pervaded  all  the  congregations. 
Those  who  have  been  present  are  wit- 
nesses that  the  Lord  has  been  with  the 
speakers  and  with  the  hearers.  I  am 
pleased,  indeed,  that  President  Snow 
is  able  to  visit  us,  and  thankful  to  the 
Lord  to  hear  his  voice.  I  pray  God 
that  his  voice  may  be  heard  in  the  con- 
gregations of  the  Saints  for  many 
years  to  come,  that  he  may  be  pre- 
served to  give  us  counsel  and  to  guide 
us  by  the  inspiration  which  rests  upon 
him  so  powerfully  in  his  declining 
years;  for  God  has  blessed  him,  and 
President  Lorenzo  Snow  has  been  a 
blessing  to  this  people.  I  acknowledge 
that  he  has  been  to  me.  God  has  sus- 
tained him,  and  long  may  he  be  sus- 
tained, that  we  may  hear  his  counsels 
and  behold  his  face,  that  he  may  flour- 
ish in  the  home  of  the  Saints,  and  that 
lie  may  be  spared  to  give  counsel  to  us 
who  are  younger,  and  who  feel  inade- 
quate to  walk  alone,  like  children  in 
swaddling  clothes.  If  it  were  not  for 
God,  how  could  we  sustain  this  vast 
work  that  is  resting  upon  the  shoulders, 
in  many  instances,  of  comparatively  in- 
experienced men?  But  God  is  with  the 
brethren,  as  He  is  with  President  Snow, 


as  He  has  been  with  all  our  leaders. 
Thank  God,  it  is  His  work,  not  ours; 
but  it  is  our  privilege  to  labor  in  it. 

The  remarks  of  President  Snow  shad- 
owed forth  a  feeling  which  is  found  in 
the  breasts  of  the  Twelve  Apostles — a 
desire  to  go  forth  to  the  nations  of  the 
earth,  to  open  the  Gospel  door  to 
those  who  sit  in  darkness.  The  eyes 
of  the  Twelve  have  been  roaming 
over  the  habitable  globe,  and  they  have 
looked  upon  Turkey,  Austria,  Russia, 
and  especially  South  America.  Our 
minds  have  been  led  to  the  Spanish- 
speaking  people  of  the  Southern  re- 
publics, and  especiallv  to  the  remnants 
of  the  land  that  are  so  numerous  in 
South  America.  We  have  felt  and  do 
now  feel  that  it  is  our  duty  to  act 
under  the  guidance  of  the  Spirit  of  God, 
and  to  go  forth,  as  that  Spirit  may  dic- 
tate and  in  accordance  with  the  Presi- 
dent's views,  to  the  nations  of  the 
earth  to  proclaim  the  Gospel.  As 
Brother  Heber  J.  Grant  has  gone,  so 
others  will  go  when  the  Spirit  indi- 
cates the  place  and  the  time,  which  we 
hope  will  be  in  the  near  future.  The 
President's  remarks, followed  by  Broth- 
er John  Henry  Smith's,  in  relation  to 
the  Presidents  of  Stakes,  High  Coun- 
cils, and  Bishops  of  Wards,  were  to  the 
point.  Here  is  a  field  of  labor  for  the 
High  Priests,  for  the  home  mission- 
aries, for  the  presiding  officers  in  the 
Stakes,  and  for  all  whose  labor  is  at 
home.  The  Twelve  are  relegated  to  the 
various  parts  of  the  earth,  to  establish 
the  Gospel  among  the  people.  For  there 
was  one  significant  remark  dropped  by 
the  President  this  afternoon,  to  the  ef- 
fect that  Christ  is  coming,  and  it  is  not 
far  distant.  It  will  need  all  the  power 
and  Spirit  that  God  will  give  us  to 
prepare  ourselves  for  that  great  event. 
The  Presidents  of  Stakes  and  all  the 
brethren  who  are  laboring  in  the  midst 
of  the  people,  as  well  as  the  Elders 
abroad,  must  rise  up  in  greater  power 
and  disseminate  this  Gospel  among  the 
nations  of  the  earth;  for  then  the  pro- 
gress of  this  work  will  be  accelerated, 
the  judgments  of  the  Almighty  will 
come  faster,  and  His  blessings  will  be 
poured  out  without  stint  upon  those 
that  are  seeking  to  establish  His  work. 
Ere  long  the  wicked  will  know  that 
these  are  the  last  days  with  a  ven- 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  YOUNG. 


67 


geance.  They  do  not  seem  to  realize  that 
the  words  which  have  been  uttered  by 
the  servants  of  God  during  the  last 
seventy-one  and  a  half  years  have  been 
delivered  by  the  inspiration  of  Al- 
mighty God. 

I  hold  in  my  hands  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  It  was  translated 
by  the  gift  and  power  of  God.  It  is  too 
much  slighted,  in  the  midst  of  this  peo- 
ple. I  say  unto  you  fathers,  let  the  Bi- 
ble, the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants  be  upon  your  ta- 
bles, and  have  them  read  in  your 
households.  Elders  of  Israel,  read  them, 
especially  the  Book  of  Mormon,  which 
is  a  pure  translation  from  the  original. 
He  who  reigns  above  has  said  that  it  is 
true.  There  is  more  contained  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon  pertaining  to  this 
great  work  of  the  latter  days  than  can 
be  found  in  all  the  rest  of  the  books  put 
together,  save  only  the  Book  of  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants.  It  delineates  and 
foreshadows  the  destiny  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  We  have  been  here  now 
for  three  days  listening  to  the  testi- 
monies of  the  brethren.  We  have  had  a 
wonderful  outpouring  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  and  I  shall  be  glad  when  the 
pamphlet  is  published  containing  all  the 
teachings  and  suggestions  that  have 
been  given,  so  that  we  may  ponder  up- 
on them,  because  they  are  the  counsels 
of  the  Holy  Spirit.  I  want  to  read  to 
you  a  couple  of  verses  that  are  found 
in  II  Nephi,  and  then  I  will  close: 

"Wo  be  unto  him  that  shall  say,  We 
have  received  the  word  of  God,  and  we 
need  no  more  of  the  word  of  God,  for 
we  have  enough." 

Is  there  anyone  in  this  congregation 
who  felt  that  he  had  enough  of  the 
word  of  God  before  coming  to  this  con- 
ference? Is  there  any  Latter-day  Saint 
that  has  not  absorbed  all  that  has  been 
said  here?  But  there  are  men  and  wo- 
men who  do  not  want  any  more  of  the 
word  of  God.    They  died  when  the 


Prophet  Joseph  died,  or  when  Presi- 
dent Young  died;  and  the  good  old 
"Mormonism,"  as  it  was  taught  in  the 
days  of  these  men,  and  perhaps  in  the 
days  of  Presidents  Taylor'  and  Wood- 
ruff, is  good  enough  for  them.  But  let 
me  say,  this  is  a  progressive  work,  and 
what  you  receive  at  this  conference  you 
never  received  before,  in  its  entirety. 
There  are  things  both  new  and  old,  and 
we  must  accept  everything  that  comes 
to  us  by  the  spirit  of  revelation,  be- 
cause it  is  God's  way  of  improving  the 
minds  of  His  Saints. 

"For  behold,  thus  saith  the  Lord  God: 
I  will  give  unto  the  children  of  men 
line  upon  line,  precept  upon  precept, 
here  a  little  and  there  a  little;  and 
blessed  are  those  who  hearken  unto  my 
precepts,  and  lend  an  ear  unto  my 
counsel,  for  they  shall  learn  wisdom; 
for  unto  him  that  receiveth,  I  will  give 
more;  and  from  them  that  shall  say, 
We  have  enough,  from  them  shall  be 
taken  away  even  that  which  they 
have." 

The  words  of  President  Snow  brought 
forcibly  to  my  mind  the  fact  that  we 
are  progressing  and  advancing.  This 
is  the  work  of  God.  One  conference 
follows  another,  and  we  advance,  our 
minds  are  enlarged,  we  can  receive  the 
Spirit  and  power  of  God,  and  we  know 
how  to  use  it  better  now  than  we  did 
six  months  ago.  May  God  give  us  all 
the  grace  that  is  necessary  for  our  per- 
fect salvation  in  His  kingdom,  is  my 
humble  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem: 

"There  is  a  sound  in  the  vale; 
There  is  a  voice  in  the  mountain." 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith. 
Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 
The  stenographic  work,  in  taking  an 
account  of  the  proceedings  of  the  con- 
ference, was  done  by  Arthur  Winter. 

JOHN  NICHOLSON, 
Clerk  of  Conference. 


SPECIAL  CONFERENCE. 


Heldjn  the  Tabernacle  Sunday,  Nov.  10,  1901,  in  Response  to  a  Call 
Made  by  the  First  Presidency. 


MORNING  SESSION. 

In  response  to  the  following  an- 
nouncement, a  special  conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  assembled  in  the  Tabernacle, 
Salt  Lake  City,  at  10  a.  m.  on  Sunday, 
November  10,  1901. 

Dear  Brethren  and  Sisters— Agree- 
able with  the  decision  of  the  Council  of 
Apostles  at  their  regular  meeting, 
Thursday,  October  17,  we  hereby  call  a 
general  conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  to  be 
held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City, 
on  Sunday,  the  10th  of  November,  next, 
at  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  for  the  purpose  of 
voting  upon  the  Church  authorities. 

JOSEPH  F.  SMITH, 
JOHN  R.  WINDER, 
ANTHON  H.  LUND, 
First  Presidency. 

There  were  present,  of  the  general 
authorities:  Of  the  First  Presidency, 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  John  R.  Winder  and 
Anthon  H.  Lund. 

Of  the  quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apos- 
tles, there  were:  Brigham  Young,  John 
Henry  Smith,  George  Teasdale,  Mar- 
riner  W.  Merrill,  Matthias  F.  Cowley, 
Abraham  O.  Woodruff,  Rudger  Claw- 
son,  Reed  Smoot  and  Hyrum  M.  Smith; 
Patriarch  John  Smith;  of  the  First 
Seven  Presidents  of  Seventies;  Sey- 
mour B.  Young,  C.  D.  Fjeldsted,  B.  H. 
Roberts,  George  Reynolds,  Jonathan 
G.  Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells  and  Joseph 
W.  McMurrin;  of  the  Presiding  Bishop- 
ric: William  B.  Preston,  Robert  T. 
Burton  and  Orrin  P.  Miller. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

Our  God,  we  raise  to  Thee 
Thanks  for  Thy  blessings  free, 
We  here  enjoy. 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Matthias  F.  Cowley. 
Singing  by  the  choir: 


All  hail  the  glorious  day, 
By  Prophets  long  foretold. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

The  course  the  Saints  should  pursue — Necessity 
of  Complete  organization— The  order  and 
authority  and  functions  of  the  Priesthood. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  do  not  ex- 
pect to  occupy  very  much  time  this 
morning,  but  I  feel  that  it  would  be 
proper  for  me  to  make  a  few  remarks, 
as  we  are  gathered  here  in  the  capacity 
of  a  special  general  conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  for  the  purpose  of  acting  upon 
matters  that  may  be  presented  to  us,  in 
the  regular  order  of  the  Church  and  of 
the  Priesthood.  It  is  only  recently  that 
we  held  our  semi-annual  general  con- 
ference, which  was  largely  attended, 
and  at  which,  on  the  last  day,  we  were 
privileged  to  hear  the  voice  of  Presi- 
dent •  Lorenzo  Snow,  who  spoke  to  us 
for  the  last  time  in  the  flesh,  and  left 
with  us  his  instruction  and  counsel  in 
relation  to  some  of  the  most  important 
matters  that  pertain  to  the  continuance 
of  the  ministry  and  the  labor  of  the 
Apostles  of  Jesus  Christ  throughout  the 
world.  We  little  supposed  then  that  it 
would  be  the  last  time  he  would  ap- 
pear before  us,  or  that  we  would  be 
favored  with  his  presence,  his  counsel 
and  wisdom;  but  the  Lord  has  taken 
him  from  our  midst.  He  has  finished 
his  mission  here,  and  the  labor  now 
devolves  upon  us  who  survive.  It  is 
our  duty  to  take  hold  of  the  work 
vigorously,  with  lull  determination  and 
purpose  of  heart  to  carry  it  on,  with 
the  help  of  the  Lord,  and  in  accordance 
with  the  inspiration  of  His  Spirit,  as  it 
has  been  done  in  the  past.  It  is  our 
privilege  to  live  nearer  to  the  Lord,  if 
we  will,  than  we  have  ever  done,  that 


70 


SPECIAL  CONFERENCE. 


we  may  enjoy  a  greater  outpouring  of 
His  Spirit  than  we  have  ever  enjoyed, 
and  that  we  may  advance  faster,  grow 
in  the  knowledge  of  the  truth  more 
rapidly,  and  become  more  thoroughly 
established  in  the  faith.  All  this,  how- 
ever, will  depend  upon  the  increased 
faithfulness  of  the  people — of  those 
who  have  made  covenant  with  God  by 
sacrifice,  w  ho  have  come  before  the 
Lord  with  broken  hearts  and  contrite 
spirits,  and  with  unshaken  determina- 
tion in  their  souls  that  they  will  fight 
the  good  fight,  that  they  will  keep  the 
faith,  that  they  will  work  righteous- 
ness and  that  they  will  defend  the  cause 
of  Zion  by  their  example  as  well  as  by 
their  professions. 

We  can  make  no  advancement  only 
upon  the  principles  of  eternal  truth.  In 
proportion  as  we  become  established 
upon  the  foundation  of  these  princi- 
ples, which  have  been  revealed  from 
the  heavens  in  the  latter  days,  and  de- 
termine to  accomplish  the  purposes  of 
the  Lord,  will  we  progress,  and  the 
Lord  will  all  the  more  exalt  and  mag- 
nify us  before  the  world  and  make  us 
to  assume  our  real  position  and  stand- 
ing in  the  midst  of  the  earth.  We 
have  been  looked  upon  as  interlopers, 
as  fanatics,  as  believers  in  a  false  re- 
ligion; we  have  been  regarded  with 
contempt,  and  treated  despicably;  we 
have  been  driven  from  our  homes,  ma- 
ligned and  spoken  evil  of  everywhere, 
until  the  people  of  the  world  have  come 
to  believe  that  we  are  the  offscourings 
of  the  earth  and  scarcely  fit  to  live. 
There  are  thousands  and  thousands  of 
innocent  people  in  the  world  whose 
minds  have  become  so  darkened  by  the 
slanderous  reports  that  have  gone  forth 
concerning  us  that  they  would  feel 
they  were  doing  God's  service  to  de- 
prive a  member  of  this  Church  of  life, 
or  of  liberty,  or  the  pursuit  of  happi- 
ness, if  they  could  do  it. 

The  Lord  designs  to  change  this  con- 
dition of  things,  and  to  make  us  known 
to  the  world  in  our  true  light — as  true 
worshipers  of  God,  as  those  who  have 
become  the  children  of  God  by  repent- 
ance, and  by  the  law  of  adoption  have 
become  heirs  of  God  and  joint  heirs 
with  Jesus  Christ;  and  that  our  mission 
in  this  world  is  to  do  good,  to  put  down 
iniquity  under  our  feet,  to  exalt  right- 


eousness, purity  and  holiness  in  the 
hearts  of  the  people,  and  to 
establish  in  the  minds  of  our 
children,  above  all  other  things, 
a  love  for  God  and  His  word,  that  shall 
be  in  them  as  a  fountain  of  light, 
strength,  faith  and  power,  lead- 
ing them  on  from  childhood 
to  old  age,  and  making  them 
firm  believers  in  the  word  of  the  Lord, 
in  the  restored  Gospel  and  Priesthood, 
and  in  the  establishment  of  Zion,  no 
more  to  be  thrown  down  nor  given  to 
another  people.  If  there  is  anything 
that  I  desire  above  another  in  this 
world,  it  is  that  my  children  shall  be- 
come established  in  this  knowledge  and 
faith,  so  that  they  can  never  be  turned 
aside  from  it. 

We  have  met  on  this  occasion  to  con- 
firm or  reject,  as  we  feel  disposed  or  as 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  us  may  direct, 
the  action  that  has  been  taken  by  the 
leading  councils  of  the  Priesthood  since 
our  last  conference  and  since  the  death 
of  oar  beloved  President  Lorenzo  Snow. 
I  desire  to  state  to  this  congregation 
one  or  two  things  that  may  be  proper  to 
mention,  in  order  that  you  may  under- 
stand why  we  have  acted  as  promptly 
as  we  have  done  in  these  matters. 

After  the  death  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  the  Twelve  Apostles  continued 
as  the  presiding  quorum  of  the  Church 
for  a  number  of  years;  but  finally 
they  were  moved  upon  by  the 
Holy  Spirit  to  reorganize  the  First 
Presidency  of  the  Church,  with  Brig- 
ham  Young  as  President,  and  Heber  C. 
Kimball  and  Willard  Richards  as  his 
counselors.  In  reality  this  organization 
might  have  been  effected  within  twen- 
ty-four hours  after  the  death  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  but  their 
action  was  delayed,  until  they 
found  by  experience  that  the 
exercise  of  the  functions  of 
Presidency  and  the  government 
of  the  Church  by  twelve  men  at  the 
head  was  not  only  cumbersome,  but 
was  not  fully  perfect  in  the  order  of 
the  Holy  Priesthood  as  established  by 
the  Lord. 

On  the  death  of  President  Brig- 
ham  Young,  President  John  Taylor 
followed  in  some  measure  the  example 
of  his  predecessor,  and  it  was 
some  time  before  the  Presidency  of  the 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  P.  SMITH. 


71 


Church  was  organized.  The  Presidency 
was  finally  organized,  however,  with 
John  Taylor  as  President  and  George 
Q.  Cannon  and  myself  as  counselors. 

At  the  death  of  President  Taylor, 
President  Woodruff  hesitated,  and  he 
allowed  a  little  time  to  pass  before 
the  Presidency  was  again  organized. 
When  at  last  he  became  convinced  that 
it  was  his  duty,  and  necessary  in  order 
to  carry  out  the  purposes  of  the  Lord, 
he  reorganized  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church.  At  that  time  he  gave  a  solemn 
injunction  to  his  fellow  servants  in  re- 
lation to  this.  He  desired  it  understood 
that  in  all  future  time,  when  the  Pres- 
ident of  the  Church  should  die  and 
thereby  the  First  Presidency  become 
disorganized,  it  would  be  the  duty  of 
the  proper  authorities  of  the  Church  to 
proceed  at  once.,  without  any  unneces- 
sary delay,  to  reorganize  the  First 
Presidency. 

As  soon  as  the  news  reached  us  of 
the  death  of  President  Woodruff,  who 
was  in  California  at  the  time,  Presi- 
dent Lorenzo  Snow  said  to  me,  "it  will 
be  our  duty  to  proceed  as  soon  as  pos- 
sible to  reorganize  the  Presidency  of 
the  Church."  As  you  are  aware,  after 
the  burial  of  the  remains  of  President 
Woodruff,  he  proceeded  at  once  to  do 
this.  In  this  connection  I  may  tell  you 
another  thing.  President  Snow  said  to 
me,  "you  will  live  to  be  the  President  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  when  that  time  comes 
you  should  proceed  at  once  and  reor- 
ganize the  Presidency  of  the  Church." 
This  was  his  counsel  to  me,  and  the 
same  was  given  to  the  Twelve  Apostles. 
In  accordance  with  this  principle  and 
with  the  injunction  of  President  Snow, 
within  one  week  after  his  death  the 
Apostles  proceeded  to  designate  the  new 
Presidency  of  the  Church,  and  we  did 
it  strictly  in  accordance  with  the  pat- 
tern that  the  Lord  has  established  in 
His  Church,  unanimously. 

I  desire  to  read  a  little  from  the  reve- 
lation in  relation  to  the  order  of  the 
Holy  Priesthood,  that  you  may  under- 
stand our  views  concerning  adhering  as 
nearly  as  we  can  to  the  holy  order  of 
government  that  has  been  established 
by  revelation  through  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith  in  the  dispensation  of  the 
fulness  of  times.    We  cannot  deny  the 


fact  that  the  Lord  has  effected  one  of 
the  most  perfect  organizations  in  this 
Church  that  ever  existed  upon  the 
earth.  I  do  not  know  of  any  more  per- 
fect organization  than  exists  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  today.  We  have  not  always  car- 
ried out  strictly  the  order  of  the  Priest- 
hood; we  have  varied  from  it  to  some 
extent;  but  we  hope  in  due  time  that, 
by  the  promptings  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  we 
will  be  led  up  into  the  exact  channel 
and  course  that  the  Lord  has  marked 
out  for  us  to  pursue,  and  adhere  strict- 
ly to  the  order  that  He  has  established. 
I  will  read  from  a  revelation  that  was 
given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  at 
Nauvoo,  Hancock  Co.,  Illinois,  January 
19,  1841,  which  stands  as  the  law  gf  the 
Church  Hi  relation  to  the  presentation 
of  the  authorities  of  the  Holy  Priest- 
hood as  tiiey  were  established  in  the 
Church,  anu  from  which  I  feel  that  we 
have  no  right  to  depart.  The  Lord 
says: 

"First,  I  give  unto  you  Hyrum  Smith, 
to  be  a  Patriarch  unto  you.  to  hold  the 
sealing  blessings  of  my  Church,  even 
the  Holy  Spirit  of  promise,  whereby  ye 
are  sealed  up  unto  the  day  of  redemp- 
tion, that  ye  may  not  fall,  notwith- 
standing the  hour  of  temptation  that 
may  come  upon  you." 

It  may  be  considered  strange  that  the 
Lord  should  give  first  of  all  the  Pa- 
triarch; yet  I  do  not  know  any  law^ 
any  revelation  or  any  commandment 
from  God  to  the  contrary,  that  has  ever 
been  given  through  any  of  the  Prophets 
or  Presidents  of  the  Church.  At  the 
same  time  we  well  know  that  this  order 
has  not  been  strictly  followed  from  the 
day  we  came  into  these  valleys  until 
now — and  we  will  not  make  any  change 
at  present.  But  we  will  first  take 
it  into  consideration;  we  will  pray 
over  it,  we  will  get  the  mind  of 
the  Spirit  of  God  upon  it,  as  upon  other 
subjects,  and  be  united  before  we  take 
any  action  different  to  that  which  has 
been  done. 

The  revelation  continues: 

"I  give  unto  you  my  servant  Joseph, 
to  be  a  presiding  Elder  over  all  my 
Church,  to  be  a  Translator,  a  Revela- 
tor,  a  Seer,  and  Prophet. 

"I  give  unto  him  for  counselors  my 
servant  Sidney  Rigdon  and  my  servant 
William  Law,  that  these  may  consti- 
tute a  quorum  and  First  Presidency, 


72 


SPECIAL!  CONFERENCE. 


to  receive  the  oracles  for  the  whole 
Church. 

"I  give  unto  you  my  servant  Brigham 
Young,  to  be  a  President  over  the 
Twelve  traveling  Council, 

"Which  Twelve  hold  the  keys  to  open 
up  the  authority  of  my  kingdom  upon 
the  four  corners  of  the  earth,  and  after 
that  to  send  my  word  to  every  crea- 
ture; 

"They  are — Heber  C.  Kimball,  Parley 
P.  Pratt,  Orson  Pratt,  Orson  Hyde, 
William  Smith,  John  Taylor,  John  E. 
Page,  Wilford  Woodruff,  Willard  Rich- 
ards, George  A.  Smith; 

"David  Patten  I  have  taken  unto 
myself;  behold  his  Priesthood  no  man 
taketh  from  him;  but,  verily  I  say  un- 
to you,  another  may  be  appointed  unto 
the  same  calling. 

"And  again,  I  say  unto  you,  I  give 
unto  you  a  High  Council,  for  the  cor- 
ner stone  of  Zion; 

"Viz.,  Samuel  Bent,  H.  G.  Sherwood, 
George  W.  Harris,  Charles  C.  Rich, 
Thomas  Grover.  Newel  Knight,  David 
Dort,  Dunbar  Wilson;  (Seymour  Brun- 
son  I  have  taken  unto  myself,  no  man 
taketh  his  Priesthood,  but  another  may 
be  appointed  unto  the  same  Priest- 
hood in  his  stead,  and  verily  I  say  unto 
you,  let  my  servant  Aaron  Johnson  be 
ordained  unto  this  calling  in  his  stead), 
David  Fullmer,  Alpheus  Cutler,  Wil- 
liam Huntington. 

"And  again,  I  give  unto  you  Don  C. 
Smith,  to  be  a  president  over  a  quorum 
of  High  Priests; 

"Which  ordinance  is  instituted  for 
the  purpose  of  qualifying  those  who 
shall  be  appointed  standing  presidents 
or  servants  over  different  Stakes  scat- 
tered abroad. 

"And  they  may  travel  also  if  they 
choose,  but  rather  be  ordained  for 
standing  presidents,  this  is  the  office 
of  their  calling,  saith  the  Lord  your 
God. 

"I  give  unto  him  Amasa  Lyman,  and 
Noah  Packard,  for  counselors,  that 
they  may  preside  over  the  quorum  of 
High  Priests  of  my  Church,  saith  the 
Lord. 

"And  again,  I  say  unto  you,  I  give 
unto  you  John  A.  Hicks,  Samuel  Wil- 
liams, and  Jesse  Baker,  which  Priest- 
hood is  to  preside  over  the  quorum  of 
Elders,  which  quorum  is  instituted  for 
standing  ministers,  nevertheless  they 
may  travel,  yet  they  are  ordained  to  be 
standing  ministers  to  my  Church,  saith 
the  Lord. 

"And  again,  I  give  unto  you  Joseph 
Young,  Josiah  Butterfield,  Daniel  Miles, 
Henry  Ilerriman,  Zera  Pulsipher,  Levi 
Hancock,  James  Foster,  to  preside  over 
the  quorum  of  Seventies, 

"Which  quorum  is  instituted  for 
traveling  Elders  to  bear  record  of  my 
name  in  all  the  worldt  wherever  the 
traveling  High  Council,  my  Apostles, 
shall  send  them  to  prepare  a  way  be- 
fore my  face. 

"The  difference  between  this  quorum 


and  the  quorum  of  Elders  is,  that  one 
is  to  travel  continually,  and  the  other 
is  to  preside  over  the  churches  from 
time  to  time;  the  one  has  the  responsi- 
bility of  presiding  from  time  to  time, 
and  the  other  ha.s  no  responsibility  of 
presiding,  saith  the  Lord  your  God." 

The  Seventies  have  no  responsibility 
of  presiding.  It  is  not  the  calling  or 
duty  of  their  office  to  preside.  They 
are  traveling  Elders,  and  they  are  to 
preach  the  Gospel  to  the  world,  under 
the  direction  of  the  Twelve  Apostles, 
Who  constitute  the  traveling  High 
Council  of  the  Church,  and  who  are 
special  witnesses  of  Jesus  Christ  to  all 
the  world. 

"And  again,  I  say  unto  you  I  give 
unto  you  Vinson  Knight,  Samuel  H. 
Smith,  and  Shadrach  Roundy,  if  he  will 
receive  it,  to  preside  over  the  bishopric; 
a  knowledge  of  said  bishopric  is  given 
unto  you  in  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants. 

"And  again,  I  say  unto  you,  Samuel 
Rolfe  and  his  counselors  for  Priests, 
and  the  president  of  the  Teachers  and 
his  counselors,  and  also  the  president 
of  the  Deacons  and  his  counselors,  and 
also  the  president  of  the  Stake  and  his 
counselors; 

"The  above  offices  I  have  given  unto 
you,  and  the  keys  thereof,  for  helps 
and  for  governments,  for  the  work  of 
the  ministry,  and  the  perfecting  of  my 
Saints; 

"And  a  commandment  I  give  unto 
you  that  you  should  fill  all  these  of- 
fices and  approve  of  those  names  which 
I  have  mentioned,  or  else  disapprove 
of  them  at  my  general  conference." 

These  are  the  offices  of  the  Priesthood 
as  the  Lord  has  given  it,  and  we  pro- 
pose to  follow  it  as  near  as  we  know 
how  in  the  future;  but  we  will  take 
such  other  measures  as  may  be  deemed 
proper  and  right  in  due  time.  These 
things  shall  be  presented  from  time  to 
time  to  the  general  annual  and  semi- 
annual conferences  of  the  Church,  that 
all  the  business  of  the  Church  may  be 
done  in  accordance  with  the  law  of 
God.  that  the  people  may  have  the 
privilege  of  sanctioning  or  disapprov- 
ing that  which  is  suggested  to  them 
by  the  mind  of  the  Spirit  through 
those  who  are  placed  to  preside,  and 
that  all  things  may  be  done  by  com- 
mon consent. 

This  afternoon  it  is  intended  to  pre- 
sent before  this  conference  the  neces- 
sary changes  that,  have  been  made 
within  the  last  few  days.    All  the  au- 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


73 


thorities  of  the  Church  will  not  be  pre- 
sented to  you  at  this  conference,  for 
the  simple  reason  that  they  have  al- 
ready been  sustained  at  the  regular 
semi-annual  conference  of  the  Church. 
We  shall  present,  in  the  main,  only 
those  who  have  been  called  to  fill  va- 
cancies, and  put  before  you  that  which 
has  been  done  in  order  to  perfect  the 
organization  of  the  Priesthood.  These 
matters,  and  as  little  as  possible  that  is 
unnecessary,  will  be  presented  before 
this  conference  for  your  action.  We 
intend  that  the  Priesthood  shall  vote 
upon  these  questions  by  quorums.  The 
Presidency  of  the  Church  will 
first  express  their  mind,  thus  in- 
dicating, at  least  in  some  de- 
gree, the  mind  of  the  Spirit  and 
the  suggestions  from  the  head.  Then 
the  proposition  will  be  submitted  to  the 
Apostles,  for  them  to  show  their  will- 
ingness or  otherwise  to  sustain  the  ac- 
tion of  the  First  Presidency.  It  will 
then  go  to  the  Patriarchs,  and  they  will 
have  the  privilege  of  showing  whether 
they  will  sustain  the  action  that  has 
been  taken;  then  to  the  Presidents  of 
Stakes  and  counselors  and  the  High 
Councilors;  then  to  the  High  Priests 
(that  office  in  the  Melchisedek  Priest- 
hood which  holds  the  keys  of  presi- 
dency) :  next,  the  traveling  Elders — the 
Seventies — will  be  called  to  express 
their  feelings,  and  then  the  Bishoprics 
of  the  Church  and  the  Lesser  Priest- 
hood, and  after  them  the  whole  con- 
gregation. All  the  members  of  the 
Church  present  will  have  the  privilege 
of  expressing  their  view  in  relation  to 
the  matters  which  shall  be  proposed, 
by  a  rising  vote  and  by  the  uplifted 
hand. 

We  propose  to  follow  this  order  of  the 
Priesthood  this  afternoon.  We  would 
like  the  people  to  be  punctual  in  com- 
ing together,  and  for  all  to  observe  the 
regulations  that  shall  be  made.  If  each 
one  will  do  his  or  her  duty,  there  will 
be  no  confusion,  but  there  will  be  or- 
der in  the  house  of  God.  The  house  of 
God  is  a  house  of  order,  and  we  expect 
that  this  house,  which  is  a  house  of 
God,  will  be  a  house  of  order,  and  we 
will  have  things  done  in  their  proper 
order  if  we  can. 

God  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints.  The 


Lord  Almighty  bless  His  servants  the 
Apostles,  and  His  servants  the  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church,  and  all  those  who 
labor  for  the  welfare  of  Zion  and  for 
the  establishment  of  righteousness  in 
the  hearts  of  the  people.  God  bless  the 
poor  and  the  needy,  the  fatherless  and 
the  widow,  and  those  that  sorrow  and 
are  bowed  down  because  of  affliction 
and  the  loss  of  loved  ones.  May  the 
Lord  bless  and  comfort  them,  buoy  up 
their  spirits,  and  give  them  hope,  joy 
and  consolation  in  anticipation  of  the 
glorious  future  that  awaits  them,  both 
in  time  and  in  eternity;  for  no  man 
can  foretell  or  foresee  the  glorious 
things  that  await  the  people  of  God,  if 
only  they  are  faithful.  It  hath  not  en- 
tered into  the  heart  of  man  to  con- 
ceive, neither  has  eye  seen  nor  ear 
heard,  the  magnitude  and  fullness  of 
the  glory  of  God  that  awaits  the  faith- 
ful beyond  the  veil.  God  bless  you,  is 
my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  ANTON  H.  LUND. 

A  Perfect  Organization— Permanent  and  Indis- 
pensable. 

I  will  read  a  few  words  from  the  4th 
chapter  of  Ephesians: 

'And  he  gave  some,  apostles;  and 
some,  prophets;  and  some,  evangelists; 
and  some,  pastors  and  teachers; 

"For  the  perfecting  of  the  Saints,  for 
the  work  of  the  ministry,  for  the  edify- 
ing of  the  body  of  Christ: 

"Till  we  all  come  in  the  unity  of  the 
faith,  and  of  the  knowledge  of  the  Son 
of  God,  unto  a  perfect  man,  unto  the 
measure  of  the  stature  of  the  fullness 
of  Christ: 

"That  we  henceforth  be  no  more 
children,  tossed  to  and  fro,  and  carried 
about  with  every  wind  of  doctrine,  by 
the  sleight  of  men,  and  cunning  craf- 
tiness, whereby  they  lie  in  wait  to  de- 
ceive." 

I  have  been  very  much  interested  in 
the  remarks  of  our  President  this 
morning.In  contemplating  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  Priesthood  which  God  has 
placed  in  His  Church, it  seems  to  me  that 
it  is  a  perfect  institution.  It  is  not  an 
organization  that  has  been  devised  by 
man,  or  evolved  for  the  first  time  in  our 
system  of  Church  government:  but 
it  is  like  the  one  which  Christ 
gave  to  His  people  formerly. 
It      is      necessary      that  apostles 


74 


SPECIAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  prophets  and  all  these  different 
officers  of  the  Priesthood  should  be  in 
the  Church.  The  Church  cannot  do 
without  them.  They  were  not  placed  in 
the  Church  temporarily,  as  many  of  our 
Christian  friends  claim.  Most  of  the 
denominations  of  the  day  affirm  that 
Apostles  were  to  be  special  witnesses 
of  Christ  in  the  early  days  only,  and 
that  after  their  death  the  Apostleship 
was  no  longer  needed.  But  that  was 
not  the  view  of  Paul.  He  understood 
what  the  Lord  meant  by  His  organi- 
zation of  the  Church.  There  are  those 
who  claim  that  Jesus  had  no  system 
of  Church  government;  that  He  had  no 
officers  in  the  Church,  but  left  it  en- 
tirely to  the  people.  We  are  told  here, 
however,  that  He  gave  unto  the  Church 
three  different  officers  in  the  Priest- 
hood. Nor  is  it  said  that  it  was  to  be 
only  a  temporary  organization.  We  read 
that  these  officers  were  given  for  cer- 
tain purposes,  viz.,  "for  the  perfecting 
of  the  Saints,  for  the  work  of  the  min- 
istry, for  the  edifying  of  the  body  of 
Christ." 

These  things  are  as  necessary  in  the 
nineteenth  and  twentieth  centuries  as 
they  were  in  the  first  century. 
If  the  body  of  Christ  shall  be  edified, 
these  men  are  necessary  in  the  Church. 
If  the  Saints  shall  be  perfected,  if  the 
work  of  the  ministry  shall  be  per- 
formed, these  officers  must  be  in  the 
Church.  Besides,  Paul  tells  us  that 
they  should  remain  in  the  church  "till 
we  .'all  come  in  the  unity  of  the  faith, 
and  of  the  knowledge  of  the  Son  of  God, 
unto  a  perfect  man,  unto  the  measure 
of  the  stature  of  the  fullness  of  Christ." 
If  men  have  been  placed  in  the  Church 
for  a  certain  purpose,  as  long  as  they 
are  there  and  fulfill  their  duty,  that 
purpose  will  be  accomplished.  When  any 
divisions  or  contentions  arose  in  the 
Church  formerly,  they  were  referred  to 
the  Apostles;  for  they  were  placed  in 
the  Church  to  lead  the  people  into  the 
unity  of  the  faith.  They  were  the  liv- 
ing oracles,  to  whom  could  be  referred 
all  matters  of  dispute;  and  the  Saints 
who  lived  out  in  the  world,  when  they 
did  not  understand  certain  matters, 
would  send  to  the  head  and  have  these 
points  of  doubt  cleared  up  and  the  true 
doctrine  explained.  They  were  for  the 
work  of  the  ministry.    How  could  the 


ministry  of  an  Apostle  be  performed 
unless  an  Apostle  were  in  the  Church 
to  perform  it?  They  were  for  the  edify- 
ing of  the  body  of  Christ— meaning  the 
whole  Church.  How  could  the  Church 
be  edified  without  these  officers  whom 
the  Lord  had  authorized  to  give  His 
word  unto  the  people?  If  these  are  not 
found  in  the  Church,  I  hold  that  the 
objects  for  which  they  were  placed  in 
the  Church  by  Christ  cannot  be  accom- 
plished. As  an  evidence  of  this,  you 
will  find  that  when  those  authorized 
servants  of  God  were  martyred,  the 
Church  failed  in  accomplishing  these 
objects.  Instead  of  union  in  the  Church, 
there  was  disunion.  Men  differed  in 
their  opinions  so  strongly  that  dissen- 
sions arose,  and  the  Church  was  split 
up  into  many  different  factions.  Apos- 
tasy was  the  result.  Paul  had  foreseen 
this,  and  had  warned  the  people  that 
the  day  of  Christ  would  not  come  until 
"there  come  a  falling  away  first,  and 
that  man  of  sin  be  revealed, 
the  son  of  perdition;  who  oppos- 
eth  and  exalteth  himself  above  all 
that  is  called  God,  or  that  is 
worshiped;  so  that  he  as  God  sitteth 
in  the  temple  of  God,  showing  himself 
that  he  is  God."  We  have  seen  this 
taking  place.  The  Church  in  losing  its 
officers,  failed  to  carry  out  the  purposes 
for  which  they  were  placed  in  it. 

When  the  time  came  to  which  the 
prophets  had  looked,  when  God  would 
again  restore  His  Church  and  Priest- 
hood to  the  earth  and  usher  in  the  dis- 
pensation of  the  fullness  of  times,  we 
find  the  same  organization  again  in  the 
Church.  It  is  true  that  for  a  few  years 
after  the  Church  was  organized  in  this 
day  there  were  no  Apostles  and  no  Sev- 
enties; but  their  appointment  had  been 
indicated.  It  was  not  a  gradually 
growing  system  in  which  it  was  thought 
that  we  would  imitate  the  Church  es- 
tablished formerly;  but  the  Lord  re- 
vealed to  the  Prophet  Joseph  in  the  be- 
ginning what  the  organization  of  His 
Church  should  be.  In  June,  1829— a  year 
before  the  Church  was  organized — the 
Lord  revealed  to  the  Three  Witnesses, 
through  the  Prophet,  that  they  were 
called  upon  to  choose  the  Twelve  Apos- 
tles of  this  last  dispensation.  Remem- 
ber, there  was  no  Church  then;  but  the 
Lord  knew  what  He  was  going  to  estab- 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


lish.  Before  the  Church  was  organized 
He  told  the*  people  that  a  marvelous 
work  was  about  to  be  established  in  the 
earth.  When  the  Church  was  organized 
on  the  6th  day  of  April,  1830,  as  far  as 
we  can  learn  there  were  but  nine  per- 
sons in  the  Church.  Of  course,  with 
nine  persons  it  was  impossible  to  es- 
tablish this  perfect  organization  of 
the  Priesthood.  Joseph  Smith  and  Oli- 
ver Cowdery  were  called  and  ordained 
Apostles;  but  there  could  not  be  Twelve 
Apostles,  there  could  not  be  Seventy, 
for  at  that  time  the  Church  was  too 
small.  It  took  time  for  the  work  to 
grow;  but  the  Lord  had  given  revela- 
tion upon  the  subject,  and  when  the 
proper  time  came  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church  was  organized,  with  the  Pro- 
phet Joseph  as  President  and  Sidney 
Rigdon  and  Frederick  G.  Williams  as 
his  counselors.  Afterwards  the  Twelve 
Apostles  were  chosen,  and  then 
the  Seventies.  But  in  the  be- 
ginning, when  there  were  not 
enough  to  form  these  different  quorums, 
the  Elders  presided,  because  they  held 
the  Melchisedek  Priesthood.  The  Lord, 
however,  had  a  perfect  organization  for 
His  Church,  and  He  gave  it  unto  them 
when  they  were  ready  to  receive  it. 

We  have  found  by  experience  that  the 
Lord  is  able  to  perform  His  work 
through  these  men.  When  the  first  ex- 
igency arose  in  regard  to  who  should 
succeed  in  the  Presidency,  the  people 
were  not  prepared  for  it;  but  see  how 
naturally  the  succession  came.  As  we 
read  in  the  revelations,  given  in  the 
early  years  of  the  Church,  the  Apostles 
form  a  quorum  equal  in  authority  to  the 
First  Presidency,  when  the  First 
Presidency  is  not,  and  upon  their 
shoulders  falls  the  authority  of  govern- 
ing the  Church  until  the  First  Presi- 
dency shall  be  organized  again.  And 
this  was  the  procedure  at  that  time, 
and  it  has  been  the  procedure  in  such 
cases  ever  since.  The  Lord  has  done 
nothing  in  vain;  there  is  an  object  in  all 
He  does;  and  we  have  seen  the  blessing 
it  is  to  the  Church  to  have  a  First 
Presidency.  I  was  glad  this  morning  to 
hear  President  Smith  state  to  us  the 
necessity  of  having  this  quorum  or- 
ganized, that  there  should  not  be  an  in- 
terregnum, only  as  far  as  was  neces- 
sary.  How  broad   the   platform  is  up- 


on which  the  Lord  has  built  His 
Church.  There  is  no  room  for  doubt  or 
uncertainty.  If  the  First  Presidency 
is  dissolved  through  the  death  of  the 
Prophet,  then  the  Twelve  Apostles  have 
the  authority  to  take  the  reins  of  gov- 
ernment. Should  there  ever  arise  such 
a  case  as  the  Apostles'  quorum  also  be- 
ing dissolved  (which  I  do  not  think 
will  ever  happen),  the  Lord  has  further 
provided  that  a  quorum  of  Seventy  can 
hold  and  exercise  the  same  power.  I 
see  a  beautiful  illustration  here  of  the 
Lord's  providence,  in  providing  that 
His  Church  shall  not  be  left  in  doubt. 
This  is  not  a  new  thing,  either.  When 
Jesus  was  crucified  and  ascended  on 
high,  the  Twelve  took  hold  of  the  work. 
He  certainly  presided  while  He  was  up- 
on the  earth,  for  He  was  the  founder 
and  the  head  of  the  Church.  He  called 
Twelve  Apostles  to  His  aid,  and 
when  He  left,  the  authority  fell 
upon  them.  While  we  are  not 
told  in  express  words  that  there  was 
a  Presidency  of  three,  we  find  that 
three  among  the  Twelve  became  the 
prominent  ones,  and  to  them  were  re- 
ferred Church  matters.  I  refer  to  Pe- 
ter James  and  John.  I  have  no  doubt 
that  they  were  the  presiding  quorum  of 
the  Church,  that  they  held  the  presi- 
dency of  the  higher  Priesthood,  and 
that  the  Lord  revealed  to  them  His 
will;  for  we  know  that  they  came  in  our 
day  and  transferred  these  keys  unto  the 
Prophet  Joseph — the  keys  of  presiden- 
cy over  the  Melchisedek  Priesthood. 
How  long  they  continued  to  fill  up  the 
vacancies  occurring  in  the  quorum,  I 
cannot  say;  we  have  so  little  in  the 
New  Testament  concerning  it.  You  will 
remember  that  the  history  of  the 
Church  given  us  in  the  inspired  writ- 
ings covers  a  period  of  less  than  thir- 
ty-three years — if  we  accept  the  year 
66  as  that  in  which  Peter  and  Paul  suf- 
fered martyrdom.  But  during  those 
years  we  have  indications  that  men 
were  chosen  to  be  Apostles.  The  place 
of  Judas,  who  became  a  traitor,  was 
filled  b*7  the  vote  of  the  Apostles,  Mat- 
thias being  chosen.  Then  we  read  in 
the  New  Testament  of  there  being  four 
other  Apostles— Paul,  Barnabas,  Junia 
and  Andronicus.  Of  the  latter  two, 
Paul  says  in  our  English  version  of  the 
Bible  that  they  were  of  note  among- 


76 


SPECIAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  Apostles,  and  in  Luther's  transla- 
tion they  are  called  famous  Apostles. 
Hence  they  did  have  more  than  the 
original  Twelve.  As  long  as  the  true 
Priesthood  remained  upon  the  earth 
these  officers  were  found  in  the  Church, 
fulfilling-  the  purpose  for  which  they 
were  placed  there. 

I  rejoice  that  we  live  in  a  day  when 
the  Lord  has  revealed  His  will  unto 
men  and  has  given  us  His  Priesthood. 
He  has  also  given  us  many  promises, 
which  we  know  will  be  fulfilled.  It  is 
for  us  to  live  so  as  to  show  the  Lord 
that  we  appreciate  what  He  has  done 
for  us;  to  do  the  best  we  can  in  the 
places  which  God  has  called  us  to  oc- 
cu—r,  and  to  make  ourselves  better  men 
and  women.  May  God  bless  us,  and 
bless  His  work  upon  the  earth,  that  it 
may  prosper,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  BRIGHAM  YOUNG. 

The  Gispel  a  great  educational  system— Over- 
ruling power  of  God— Present  necessity  for 
perfect  organization. 

I  am  thankful  for  the  privilege  of  be- 
ing here  this  morning,  and  rejoice  in 
the  words  that  we  have  heard  from  the 
Presidency.  There  are  many  things  in 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  which  we 
read  and  re-read  without  fully  under- 
standing them.  I  have  often  read  the 
revelation  which  President  Smith  has 
referred  to,  and  have  tried  to  study  and 
comprehend  the  order  which  God  has 
instituted,  but  I  must  say  that  entirely 
new  ideas  came  to  my  mind  while 
President  Smith  was  speaking..  I  see 
that  it  is  impossible  for  humanity  to 
come  directly  and  without  proper  train- 
ing into  the  presence  of  God.  It  is  a 
long,  hard  labor  that  we  shall  have  to 
perform  to  prepare  ourselves  for  His 
presence.  We  need  cultivation.  It  is 
like  the  farmer  cultivating  the  soil,  or 
like  cultivating  the  mind  in  an  educa- 
tional way,  only  this  is-  the  greatest 
system  of  education  that  I  have  ever 
heard  of.  It  is  a  gradual  raising  of  the 
people.  The  mind  is  clearer  each  day 
in  the  man  who  studies  and  who  un- 
derstands the  ways  of  God.  In  this 
way  we  draw  nearer  to  God;  and  by 
and  by,  when  Jesus  appears,  we  shall 
know  Him;  for  we  shall  be  like  Him. 
Without  this  training  we  would  be  as 


ignorant  as  the  world  at  large;  but 
with  this  system  of  education  and  cul- 
tivation which  God  has  instituted,  we 
may  rise  to  the  dignity  of  being  heirs 
of  God  and  joint  heirs  with  Jesus 
Christ. 

I  thank  God  for  the  knowledge  He 
has  given  unto  us.  I  thank  Him  for 
the  testimonies  of  His  Spirit,  which  He 
has  given  to  me.  All  that  I  could  rea- 
sonably claim  at  His  hands  has  been 
given  me,  and  He  has  never  forsaken 
me  in  days  of  trial.  This  is  an  epitome 
of  the  history  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
God  has  been  with  them,  individually 
and  as  a  people.  Our  individual  cir- 
cumstances are  known  to  him;  the 
circumstances  of  the  people  are  known 
to  Him,  and  He  overrules  in  every 
emergency  for  the  uplifting, 
strengthening,  and  binding  togeth- 
er of  His  Saints.  We  witness 
this  in  our  daily  lives.  Every  day 
there  is  a  closer  communion  between 
the  brethren  who  hold  the  Priesthood, 
in  their  quorums,  if  they  are  magnify- 
ing their  Priesthood.  Every  day  there 
is  a  closer  communion  between  the 
husband  and  the  wife,  if  they  are  mag- 
nifying that  which  God  has  given  unto 
them.  Every  day  there  is  an  increase 
of  affection  between  the  children  and 
the  parents,  an  increase  of  faith  and 
confidence  in  neighbor  for  neighbor; 
and  we  are  growing  together,  under  the 
admonition  and  power  of  God,  in  a 
manner  that  is  astonishing;  at  least, 
it  astonishes  me,  for  I  find  it  in  my- 
self as  I  do  in  my  brethren. 

I  rejoice  in  the  organization  of  the 
Church  as  it  exists  today.  After  we 
had  paid  our  last  respects  to  our  late 
beloved  President,  I  felt  the  Spirit  in. 
me  so  strong  that  I  could  not  rest  in 
my  feelings  until  the  First  Presidency 
was  organized.  I  wanted  a  President 
of  the  Church;  I  wanted  him  to  have 
counselors,  and  to  see  the  organization 
of  the  Church  perfect.  I  never  saw  a 
time  in  my  life  when  I  believed  the 
perfect  organization  of  the  Church, 
with  all  the  strength  and  power  God 
has  given  us  in  the  quorums  of  the 
Priesthood,  was  more  necessary  than  it 
is  today.  God  intimated  through  His 
Spirit  that  it  was  His  mind  and  will 
that  the  organization  should  be  com- 
pleted.  I  do  not  speak  of  men;  I  speak 


PRESIDENT  BRIGHAM  YOUNG. 


77 


of  principle.  It  was  the  mind  and  will 
of  God  that  these  things  should  be 
done;  and  I  do  not  know  of  anyone, 
unless  it  was  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  that  had  more  anxiety  of  mind 
on  this  subject  than  I  had.  It  is  now 
accomplished,  and  I  feel  thankful  that 
we  behold  this  day,  when  the  people 
have  come  together,  in  answer  to  the 
call,  for  the  purpose  of  ratifying  what 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  so  strongly  im- 
pressed upon  His  servants  to  do.  It 
may  seem  to  some  that  action  has  been 
taken  with  unseemly  haste,  but  it  was 
the  prompting  of  the  Holy  Spirit  to  at- 
tend to  the  organization  of  the  First 
Presidency  and  not  allow  it  to  linger. 

I  remember  the  time  when  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  were  led  by  the  quorum 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  with  President 
Young  at  their  head,  and  I  recollect, 
when  the  First  Presidency  was  organ- 
ized at  Kanesville,  in  the  winter  of 
1847-48,  my  father  saying  that  he  had 
worked  for  three  years  with  one  hand 
tied  behind  him,  and  that,  according 
to  the  spirit  in  him,  the  First  Presi- 
dency should  be  organized.  It  seemed 
all  right  to  everybody  until  the  Spirit 
began  to  manifest  itself  through  the 
leaders  that  this  was  a  necessity.  We 
had  gone  along  from  the  martyrdom  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  1S44.  We 
had  passed  through  those  terrible 
scenes  while  journeying  through  the 
then  Territory  of  Iowa,  when  it  seemed 
to  me  as  if  there  was  death  on  every 
hand.  I  was  but  a  boy  at  the  time, 
but  it  looked  to  me  as  if  there  would 
not  be  enough  people  to  last  till  we 
could  emerge  from  that  dreadful  ordeal 
in  the  months  of  February  and  March. 
Day  after  day  those  who  were  in  the 
rear  part  of  the  train  thought  they 
were  doing  well  if  they  could  camp 
where  the  head  of  the  train  had  camped 
the  previous  day.  If  they  made  in  one 
day  a  journey  of  three  miles,  they 
thought  they  were  doing  excellently, 
because  they  had  to  bridge  the  streams, 
and  over  every  swamp  they  had  to 
build  corduroy  bridges.  I  never  will 
forget  them.  They  were  like  the  lives 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  We  have  to 
journey  sometimes  in  water  up  to  our 
necks,  where  we  can  hardly  keep  our 
mouths  above  the  surface.  So  it  was 
at  that  time.     We  would  make  these 


corduroy  bridges  across  swamps  every 
two  or  three  hundred  yards,  and  they 
would  sink  till  the  wagon  bed  would 
be  partly  filled  with  water  on  some 
occasions.  We  traveled  in  this  man- 
ner day  after  day,  and  I  have  seen  the 
tracks  of  the  wagons  a  quarter  of  a 
mile  up  and  down  a  certain  swale  in 
the  road,  perhaps  where  they  had  di- 
verged to  cross  a  grassy  place,  because 
if  a  wagon  cut  through  the  sod  there 
was  no  bottom  to  the  lake  underneath. 
I  relate  this  to  give  you  an  idea  of  our 
condition  in  journeying  through  Iowa. 
I  remember  a  little  playmate  of  mine 
died,  and  was  to  be  buried.  In  digging 
his  grave  as  soon  as  they  cut  through 
about  twelve  inches  of  grass  roots  they 
struck  a  lake  that  seemed  unfathom- 
able, and  they  had  to  bury  the  child  on 
top  of  the  sod.  All  who  died  in  that 
country  had  to  be  buried  on  the  sod, 
and  a  fence  built  around  to  preserve 
them  from  the  wild  animals.  It  was 
a  condition  that  appalled  the  stoutest 
heart;  and  President  Young  and  the 
brethren  of  the  Apostles  were  laboring 
day  and  night  to  avert  the  evils  that 
seemed  to  come  upon  the  people.  But 
when  the  Spirit  came  upon  them  to 
organize  the  First  Presidency,  the 
whole  people  sanctioned  it,  just  as  they 
will  do  on  this  occasion,  and  as  they 
would  have  done  years  before  had  the 
Twelve  expressed  themselves  in  that 
manner.  I  feel  thankful  that  things 
have  changed.  I  contrast  today  with 
the  days  of  my  early  youth.  If  the 
Prophet  Joseph  could  have  stood  in  a 
tabernacle  like  this,  with  such  a  con- 
gregation, and  spoken  the  revelations  of 
God  to  them,  it  seems  to  me  that  he 
would  have  felt  as  if  he  was  in  heaven. 
As  it  was,  he  frequently  faced  a  body  of 
maniacs  in  the  form  of  mobs,  who 
thirsted  for  his  blood.  At  no  time,  day 
nor  night,  within  my  recollection,  was 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  safe  from  as- 
sassination. He  could  not  stand  before 
a  congregation  like  this,  as  President 
Smith  has  done — before  his  friends,  and 
deliver  the  word  of  God.  He  had  to  face 
death  at  every  step  he  took,  and  he 
never  saw  a  moment  when  he  was  not 
liable  to  be  arrested  by  men  who  would 
try  to  slay  him.  He  scarcely  ever  stood 
before  a  congregation  in  which  there 
were  not  some  men  armed  to  the  teeth 


78 


SPECIAL,  CONFERENCE. 


and  thirsting  for  his  blood,  only  wait- 
ing the  opportunity  to  kill  him  and  to 
get  away  safely.  What  a  contrast  to- 
day! And  what  a  sea  of  trouble  we 
have  waded  through  to  reach  it!  Tet 
how  the  people  have  grown  and  in- 
creased! It  is  like  a  field  of  lucerne  af- 
ter it  has  been  cut.  Take  the  harrow 
and  go  over  the  field,  tear  it  to  pieces, 
and  you  get  a  better  crop.  The  har- 
row has  been  upon  this  people,  and 
they  have  thrived  under  it,  because  God 
is  at  their  head.  He  is  engineering  this 
work,  and  He  has  preserved  the  people. 
So  it  will  continue  to  be.  Today  I  feel 
thankful  the  blessing,  prosperity, 

union,  and  the  complete  organization 
that  God  has  given  us.  Thank  God  for 
peace  that  dwells  within  the  confines 
of  the  state  of  Utah.  Thank  God  for 
the  people  that  are  spreading  abroad  to 
the  north  and  the  south,  to  the  east 
and  the  west.  They  are  living  in  har- 
mony, as  a  rule,  and  growing  and  pros- 
pering. Our  children,  too,  are  increas- 
ing, and  crying,  Give  us  room  that  we 
may  dwell.  I  am  thankful  for  the  op- 
portunity of  bearing  my  testimony  to 
this  order  which  has  been  established, 
and  to  the  work  that  has  been  done.  I 
am  thankful  that  we  all  have  the  priv- 
ilege of  lifting  up  our  hands  before 
God,  angels  and  men,  to  manifest  that 
we  sustain  this  work  and  this  organiza- 
tion with  all  the  energy  and  power 
God  will  give  us  from  this  time  hence- 
forth and  forever;  which  may  He  grant 
us  strength  and  ability,  good  health  and 
long  life,  to  do,  is  my  humble  prayer  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 

Importance  of  maintenance  of  the  organizations 
instituted  by  tbe  Lord 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  with 
you  in  the  privilege  of  attending  this 
conference,  although,  with  you  doubt- 
less, I  have  my  regrets  that  it  has  been 
found  necessary,  so  soon  after  our  late 
conference,  to  convene  the  people  for 
the  purpose  of  considering  questions 
that  are  of  vital  interest  to  us  all.  I 
am  most  happy  in  saying  that  the 
Council  of  Apostles  have  been  a  unit 
thus  far  in  every  action  that  has  been 
taken  by  them.  I  am  one  of  those  that 
believe  it  is  the  duty,  most  sacred,  of 


the  men  who  have  been  chosen  to  of- 
ficiate as  witnesses  for  the  Redeemer, 
to  see  that  the  quorums  and  organiza- 
tions of  the  Priesthood  are  fully  and 
thoroughly  maintained,  and  that  no 
question  is  permitted  to  enter  into  our 
organizations  that  would  weaken  them 
in  any  of  their  functions.  I  believe 
that  the  methods  used  to  break  down 
the  force  of  the  Christian  religion  as 
presented  by  the  Redeemer  and  sus- 
tained in  the  ministry  of  Llis  chosen 
Apostles  of  that  dispensation,  were 
due  in  some  measure  to  the  fact  that 
the  brethren  presumed  to  take  long  pe- 
riods for  their  deliberations  upon  the 
question  of  the  maintenance  of  the  or- 
ganizations that  the  Master  had  estab- 
lished. As  a  result,  there  grew  up  a 
variety  of  schisms,  which  so  destroyed 
the  purity  and  power  of  the  organiza- 
tion that  it  degenerated  into  what  we 
now  witness  in  the  world. 

In  the  consideration  of  the  questions 
involved  in  the  speedy  establishment  of 
the  presiding  head  in  its  proper  p!ace 
in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  there  has  been  no  quib- 
ble, no  contention,  but  our  spirits  have 
been  absolutely  in  unison  with  each 
other.  There  does  exist  in  con- 
nection with  this  organization  the  ne- 
cessity for  a  power  that  can  legitimate- 
ly and  properly  transact  a  great  varie- 
ty of  business  which  no  one  is  virtually 
in  a  position  to  perform  until  the  body 
of  the  Church  passes  upon  the  ques- 
tion. While  I  presume  no  man  or 
woman  conversant  with  the  doctrines 
of  the  Church  and  in  harmony  there- 
with would  question  for  a  moment  the 
action  of  the  Council  of  the  Apostles  in 
pointing  the  way  for  the  performance 
of  any  part  in  connection  with  the 
work  of  God,  there  might  arise  in  the 
minds  of  the  people  a  question  as  to 
whether  all  the  rights  involved  had 
been  properly  and  thoughtfully  consid- 
ered by  the  presiding  quorum,  in  such 
an  exigency  as  has  arisen  since  our 
last  general  gathering. 

I  endorse  to  the  fullest  the  remarks 
made  by  President  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
and  the  doctrine  enunciated  in  the  rev- 
elation from  which  he  has  read.  I  en- 
dorse the  sentiments  and  spirit  that 
have  actuated  the  utterances  of  Presi- 
dent Lund,  as  also  the  remarks  that 


ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 


7!) 


have  been  made  by  President  Brigham 
Young.  I  trust  that  in  the  future,  as  the 
Lord  shall  manifest  '  His  designs  in 
connection  with  the  development  of  His 
work,  the  power,  wisdom  and  judgment 
to  exercise  the  functions  bestowed  will 
be  given  to  the  men  who  may  stand  in 
the  forefront  of  the  work,  as  He  has 
guided  and  directed  the  movements  of 
that  grand  body  of  men  who  have 
wielded  the  destinies  of  this  people  up 
to  the  present  moment.  I  believe  that 
it  would  have  been  possible,  after  the 
martyrdom  of  the  Prophet  and  Patri- 
arch of  the  Church,  had  the  Saints  seen 
the  necessity  of  action  in  connection 
with  the  presiding  quorum  (although  it 
is  not  for  me  to  cast  words  of  censure), 
to  have  preserved  the  Church  from  a 
number  of  factions  that  grew  out  of 
the  circumstances  surrounding  the  peo- 
ple at  that  time.  You  can  see  the  atti- 
tude in  which  we  would  be  placed  to- 
day if,  as  was  the  case  in  those  days, 
the  Prophet  of  God  was  taken  by  the 
Tiand  of  assassins,  and  twelve  men  hold- 
ing the  Apostleship  should  each  one 
presume  to  strike  out  in  any 
direction  that  he  might  think 
proper  without  regard  for  the 
opinions  of  the  others.  We  recall 
that  Lyman  Wight  went  in  one  direc- 
tion, and  other  bold  spirits  went  off  in 
various  directions.  Had  such  exam- 
ples been  followed  generally  by  the 
Apostles,  we  would  have  been  a  broken, 
disorganized  band,  and  the  power  and 
force  of  the  Priesthood  among  the 
people  would  have  been  shattered.  But 
when  the  time  was  reached  that  the 
man  whom  God  selected  to  guide  ths 
destinies  of  His  people  and  plant  them 
in  these  mountain  vales  began  to  exer- 
cise the  functions  of  His  Priesthood,  in 
harmony  with  the  wishes  of  his  asso- 
ciates, the  few  that  were  dissatisfied 
withdrew  themselves,  or,  surrendering 
their  views,  united  themselves  with  the 
body  and  aided  in  the  gathering  of  Is- 
rael and  the  establishment  of  the  Gos- 
pel among  the  nations  of  the  earth. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  these  are 
matters  for  thought.  The  union  of  the 
people  should  lie  near  to  our  hearts. 
The  development  of  our  beings  in  har- 
mony with  divine  rule  should  be 
our  wish  and  ambition.  It  should 
characterize  the  actions  of  the  presid- 


ing authority  in  this  Church,  whether 
it  rest  upon  a  First  Presidency  of  three 
or  whether  it  falls  briefly  upon  the 
shoulders  of  that  body  of  men  to  whom 
the  Prophet  made  the  remark  that 
where  he  was  not  there  was  no  presi- 
dency over  the  Council  cf  the  Apostles— 
not  meaning  himself  personally,  but 
that  species  of  leadership  couched  in 
a  Presidency  of  three,  who  should  direct 
the  movements  of  the  Apostles  in  the 
dissemination  of  the  Gospel,  calling  the 
Seventies  to  work  in  harmony  with 
them  for  the  accomplishment  of  this 
purpose. 

I  recognize  the  fact  that  our  time  is 
far  spent;  but  I  say  to  you  that  I  have 
never  discovered  in  all  my  association 
with  this  body  of  men  since  the  death  of 
that  eminent  leader,  Lorenzo  Snow,  the 
least  thought  on  the  part  of  him  who 
now  stands  at  the  head,  or  his  asso- 
ciates, to  do  aught  than  carry  out  the 
purposes  of  our  Father  in  the  organ- 
ization of  His  Church  and  in  the  estab- 
lishment of  that  rule  of  Priesthood  giv-' 
en  by  Him,  which  is  destined  to  guide 
the  work  until  it  shall  accomplish 
His  purpose  in  regard  thereto.  I  bear 
testimony  to  its  truth,  and  to  tht 
revelations  of  the  divine  will  to  myself, 
showing  me  the  positions  which  Broth- 
er Joseph  F.  Smith  and  Brother  Brig- 
ham  Young  occupy  today  as  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church  and  the  President  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles  respectively.  God 
gave  me  a  revelation  concerning  this  as 
clear  and  explicit  as  ever  came  to  any 
man,  and  it  was  given  to  me  over  ten 
years  ago.  I  saw  then  the  positions 
which  these  brethren  would  occupy  in 
connection  with  this  work;  and  yet  my 
associates  will  credit  me  with  being  as 
modest  as  a  man  need  be  in  relation  to 
this;  for  at  no  time  or  place,  save  on 
two  occasions,  have  I  ever  presumed  to 
say  that  my  Father  had  revealed  to  me 
and  pointed  out  the  way  in  which  the 
leadership  of  this  Church  would  be  de- 
veloped as  it  stands  today.  I  pray 
that  His  peace  may  abound  in  your 
souls,  that  the  knowledge  of  His  truth 
shall  be  written  upon  your  hearts,  that 
a  comprehension  of  His  purposes  may 
ever  be  with  you,  that  every  movement 
made  for  the  development  of  His  Zion 
and  the  establishment  of  His  righteous- 
ness shall  find  a  response  in  your  souls, 


80 


SPECIAL,  CONFERENCE. 


that  your  action  shall  indeed  be  in  har- 
mony with  H|is  holy  will.  This  is  my 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

G-od  moves  in  a  mysterious  way, 
His  wonders  to  perform. 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Pa- 
triarch John  Smith. 

CLOSING  SESSION— 2  P.  M. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Arouse, 
O  ye  mortals." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Marriner 
W.  Merrill. 

The  choir  sang: 

The  nations  bow  to  satan's  thrall; 

He  fills  with  strife  the  souls  of  men. 
He  seeks  to  blind  them,  one  and  all, 

Lest  they  the  way  of  life  obtain. 

The  quorums  of  the  Priesthood  were 
present,  in  solemn  assembly,  for  the 
purpose  of  voting,  in  that  capacity,  for 
General  Authorities  of  the  Church. 
They  were  arranged  in  the  following  or- 
der: 

The  First  Presidency,  Apostles,  First 
Seven  Presidents  of  Seventies  and  Pre- 
siding Bishopric,  in  their  respective 
places  on  the  main  stand. 

On  the  south  wing  of  the  stand,  the 
presidencies  of  Stakes  and  High  Coun- 
cilors. 

On  the  north  wing,  Patriarchs,  Bish- 
ops and  their  counselors. 

On  the  south  wing  and  adjacent  sec- 
tion of  the  floor  of  the  hall,  High 
Prjests. 

On  the  north  lower  wing,  Bishops. 

On  the  four  central  and  rear  sections 
of  the  body  of  the  hall  were,  each  in 
respective  order,  the  Seventies,  Elders 
and  Lesser  Priesthood. 

The  remaining  portions  of  the  build- 
ing, including  the  galleries,  were  oc- 
cupied by  members  at  large. 

•  ORDER  OF  VOTING. 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith  said  that 
in  voting  it  was  expected  that  each 
quorum  or  body  of  the  Priesthood 
would  rise  to  their  feet  and  raise  their 
right  hands,  and  be  seated  quickly  in 
order  that  the  business  to  be  transacted 
might  not  be  delayed.  Those  wishing  to 
vote  negatively  were  to  rise  and  raise 
the  left  hand. 


The  order  of  voting  by  quorums  and' 
as  a  whole  was  as  follows: 

First— The  First  Presidency. 

Second — The  Apostles. 

Third— The  Patriarchs. 

Fourth— Presidents  of  Stakes  and 
their  counselors,  and  the  High  Council- 
ors. 

Fifth— High  Priests. 
Sixth — Seventies. 
Seventh — Elders. 

Eighth — Bishops  and  their  counselors. 

Ninth — Priests,  Teachers  and  Deacons 
(the  Lesser  Priesthood). 

Tenth — All  members  of  the  Church, 
evidently  embracing  the  whole  congre- 
gation. 

In  each  instance,  successively,  Presi- 
dent Smith  announced  the  motion  to 
sustain  the  authorities  and  called  for 
the  affirmative  vote.  After  the  response 
the  negative  of  the  question  was  pre- 
sented, and  those  who  favored  it,  should 
there  be  any,  were  requested  to  express 
their  will  in  the  matter. 

The  voting  was,  however,  affirmative- 
ly unanimous  throughout. 

The  spectacle  presented  by  the  im- 
mense assembly,  especially  while  the 
voting  was  in  progress,  was  indescrib- 
ably grand  and  impressive. 

OFFICERS  VOTED  UPON. 

Following  were  the  officers  voted  up- 
on: 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES. 

Joseph  F.  Smith — As  Prophet,  Seer 
and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

John  R.  Winder — As  first  counselor 
in  the  First  Presidency. 

Anthon  H.  Lund — As  second  coun- 
selor m  the  First  Presidency. 

Brigham  Young — As  President  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles. 

As  members  of  the  Council  of  Twelve 
Apostles— Brigham  Young,  Francis  M. 
Lyman,  John  Henry  Smith,  George 
Teasdale,  Heber  J.  Grant,  John  W. 
Taylor,  Marrimer  W.  Merrill,  Matthias 
F.  Cowley,  Abraham  O.  Woodruff, 
Rudger  Clawson,  Reed  Smoot  and  Hy- 
rum  M.  Smith. 

John  Smith— As  presiding  Patriarch 
of  the  Church. 

The  counselors    in  the    First  Presi- 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES. 


81 


dency  and  the  Twelve  Apostles  as 
Prophsts,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

First  Seven  Presidents  of  Seventies — 
Seymour  B.  Young,  Christian  D.  Fjeld- 
sted,  Brigham  Henry  Roberts,  George 
Reynolds,  Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon 
S.  Wells  and  Joseph  W.  McMurrin. 

William  B.  Preston — As  Presiding 
Bishop,  with  Robert  T.  Burton  ana 
Orrin  P.  Miller  as  his  first  and  second 
counselors. 

Joseph  F.  Smith — As  trustee-in-trust 
for  the  body  of  religious  worshipers 
known  as  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  we  hereb> 
ratify  and  confirm  all  that  he  has  done, 
as  such  trustee-in-trust,  since  his  ap- 
pointment to  said  office  on  the  17th  day 
•of  October,  1901. 

As  members  of  the  general  Church 
board  of  education — Joseph  F.  Smith, 
Willard  Young,  Anthon  H.  Lund, 
James  Sharp,  John  Nicholson,  Georgfe 
H,  Brimhall,  Rudger  Clawson,  Joseph 
M.  Tanner  and  John  R.  Winder. 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  as  general  superin- 
tendent. 

George  Reynolds,  as  first,  and  Joseph 
M.  Tanner,  as  second  assistant  general 
superintendents. 

John  R.  Winder,  James  E.  Talmage, 
George  M.  Cannon  and  Horace  Cum- 
mings,  members  of  the  Sunday  School 
Union  Board,  in  addition  to  those  voted 
upon  at  the  last  general  conference. 

Y.  M.  M.  I.  ASSOCIATION. 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  general  superinten- 
dent. 

Heber  J.  Grant  and  B.  H.  Roberts, 
assistants-. 

RELIEF  SOCIETY. 

Bathshtba  W.  Smith,  president. 

Annie  T..  Hyde,  as  first,  and  Ida 
Smoot  Dusenberry,  as  second  coun- 
selors. 

Emmeline  B.  Wells,  secretary. 
Clarissa  S.  Williams,  treasurer. 

ACTION  IN  THE  STAKES. 

On  the  22nd  of  October  last,  the  fol- 
lowing explanatory  letter,  which  was 
addressed  to  the  presidencies  of  all  the 
Stakes  of  Zion  excepting  those  of 
Davis,  Granite,  Jordan  and  Salt  Lake, 


to  whom  it  was  deemed  unnecessary  to 
send  it,  was  read  by  President  Smith: 

"As  you  will  have  learned  through 
the  columns  of  the  Deseret  News,  we 
have  called  a  special  general  confer- 
ence of  the  Church  to  be  held  on  the 
10th  of  November  next  for  the  purpose 
of  voting  on  the  authorities  of  the 
Church  as  they  were  sustained  by  the 
Council  of  Apostles  on  the  17th  inst., 
and  officially  announced  in  the  Des- 
eret News  of  the  same  date.  And  being 
desirous  that  as  full  a  representation 
as  possible  of  the  Stakes  of  Zion  may 
be  had  upon  that  occasion,  and  fearing 
that  distance  and  expense  may  prevent 
many  of  your  people  from  attending, 
we  therefore  advise  that  you  call  and 
hold  a  special  conference  of  your  Stake 
on  Sunday,  the  3rd  prox.,  for  the  pur- 
pose of  voting  on  the  .  same  question; 
and  that  the  sense  of  said  conference 
be  expressed  by  resolution,  and  a  cer- 
tified copy  thereof  be  sent  either  by 
mail  or  special  representative  to  be 
read  at  the  forthcoming  conference  in 
this  city.    Your  brethren, 

JOSEPH  F.  SMITH, 
JOHN  R.  WINDER, 
ANTHON  H.  LUND, 
First  Presidency. 

Pursuant  to  the  instructions  con- 
tained in  the  foregoing  communication, 
all  the  Stakes  to  whom  these  letters 
were  written  have  been  officially  re- 
ported (except  Uintah)  as  having  held 
conferences  and  passed  resolutions  sus- 
taining the  authorities  of  the  Church 
as  at  present  constituted. 

As  a  sample  of  the  resolutions  of- 
ficially reported  as  having  been  adopt- 
ed by  the  Stake  conferences,  the  first 
in  alphabetical  order  is  Alpine  Stake. 
It  reads  as  follows: 

"American  Fork,  Utah, 

October  31,  1901. 
To  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church 

of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

Dear  Brethren: — We  the  undersigned 
Presidency  of  the  Alpine  Stake  of  Zion 
do  hereby  certify  that  at  a  regular 
quarterly  conference  of  said  Stake  of 
Zion,  held  in  Lehi,  October  27,  1901,  at 
which  there  was  a  very  large  attend- 
ance, the  following  persons  were  unani- 
mously sustained  to  the  offices  set  op- 
posite their  respective  names,  to  wit: 

Joseph  F.  Smith — Prophet,  Seer  and 
Revelator,  and  President  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
in  all  the  world. 

John  R.  Winder — First  Counselor  in 
the  First  Presidency. 

Anthon  H.  Lund — Second  Counselor 
in  the  First  Presidency. 

Brigham  Young — President  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles. 


S2 


SPECIAL  CONFERENCE. 


Members  of  the  Council  of  Twelve 
Apostles — Brig-ham  Young,  Francis  M. 
Lyman,  John  Henry  Smith,  George 
Teasdale,  Heber  J.  Grant,  John  W. 
Taylor,  Marriner  W.  Merrill,  Matthias 

F.  Cowley,  Abraham  O.  Woodruff,  Rud- 
ger  Clawson,  Reed  Smoot,  Hyrum  M. 
Smith. 

The  counselors  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency and  the  Twelve  Apostles  as  Pro- 
phets, Seers  and  Revelators. 

John  Smith — Patriarch  of  the  Church. 

First  Seven  Presidents  of  Seventies — 
Seymour  P>.  Young,  C.  D.  Fjeldsted,  B. 
H.  Roberts,  George  Reynolds,  Jonathan 

G.  Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W. 
McMurrin. 

William  B.  Preston — As  Presiding 
Bishop,  Robert  T.  Burton,  as  first,  and 
Orrin  P.  Miller,  as  second  counselors. 

Anthon  H.  Lund — As  Church  his- 
torian and  general  Church  recorder. 

Joseph  F.  Smith — As  trustee-in-trust 
for  the  body  of  religious  worshipers 
known  as  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

STEPHEN  L.  CHIPMAN, 

President. 
JAMES  H.  CLARKE, 

First  Counselor. 
A.  J.  EVANS, 

Second  Counselor. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

Duties  and  responsibilities  of  the   First  Presi- 
dency. • 

I  desire  to  make  another  remark  or 
two  before  we  close  our  conference.  I 
will  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that 
the  Lord  in  the  beginning  of  this  work 
revealed  that  there  should  be  three 
High  Priests  to  preside  over  the  High 
Priesthood  of  His  Church  and  over  the 
whole  Church,  (Doc.  and  Cov.  107:  22, 
64,  65,  66,  67,  91  and  92.)  He  conferred 
upon  them  all  the  authority  necessary 
to  preside  over  all  the  affairs  of  the 
Church.  They  hold  the  keys  of  the 
house  of  God,  and  of  the  ordinances  of 
the  Gospel,  and  of  every  blessing 
which  has  been  restored  to  the  earth 
in  this  dispensation.  This  authority 
is  vested  in  a  Presidency  of  three  High 
Priests.  They  are  three  Presidents. 
The  Lord  himself  so  calls  them.  (D.  & 
C,  sec.  107:  29.)  But  there  is  one  pre- 
siding President,  and  his  counselors  are 
Presidents  also.  I  propose  that  my 
counselors  and  fellow  Presidents  in  the 
First  Presidency  shall  share  with  me  in 
the  responsibility  of  every  act  which  I 
shall  perform  in  this  capacity.  I  do  not 
propose  to  take  the  reins  in  my  own 
hands  to  do  as  I  please;  but  I  propose 
to  do  as  my  brethren  and  I  agree  upon 
and  as  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  manifests 


to  us.  I  have  always  held,  and  do  hold, 
and  trust  I  always  shall  hold,  that  it 
is  wrong  for  one  man  to  exercise  all 
the  authority  and  power  of  presidency 
in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  I  dare  not  assume  such 
a  responsibility,  and  I  will  not,  so  long 
as  I  can  have  men  like  these  [pointing 
to  Presidents  Winder  and  Lund]  to 
stand  by  and  counsel  with  me  in  the 
labors  we  have  to  perform  and  in  do- 
ing all  those  things  that  shall  tend  to 
the  peace,  advancement  and  happiness 
of  the  people  of  God  and  the  building 
up  of  Zion.  If  at  any  time  my  breth- 
ren of  the  Apostleship  shall  see  in  me 
a  disposition  to  depart  from  this  prin- 
ciple or  a  forgetfulness  on  my  part  of 
this  covenant  that  I  make  today  before 
this  body  of  Priesthood,  I  ask  them  in 
the  name  of  my  Father,  that  they  will 
come  to  me,  as  my  brethren,  as  coun- 
selors in  the  Priesthood,  as  watchmen 
on  the  towers  of  Zion,  and  remind  me 
of  this  covenant  and  promise  which  I 
make  to  the  body  of  the  Church  in  gen- 
eral conference  assembled  at  this  time. 
The  Lord  never  did  intend  that  one  man 
should  have  all  power,  and  for  that 
reason  He  has  placed  in  His  Church 
Presidents,  Apostles,  High  Priests,  Sev- 
enties, Elders  and  the  various  offices 
of  the  Lesser  Priesthood,  all  of  which 
are  essential  in  their  order  and  place 
according  to  the  authority  bestowed  on 
them.  The  Lord  never  did  anything 
that  was  not  essential  or  that  was  su- 
perfluous. There  is  a  use  for  every 
branch  of  the  Priesthood  that  He  has 
established  in  His  Church.  We  want 
every  man  to  learn  his  duty,  and  we 
expect  every  man  will  do  his  duty  as 
faithfully  as  he  knows  how.  and  carry 
off  his  portion  of  the  responsibility  of 
building  up  Zion  in  the  latter  days. 

I  felt  like  I  wanted  to  say  that  much 
to  these  my  brethren  who  bear  the  Holy 
Priesthood — men  who  wield  influence 
for  the  salvation  of  souls,  who  set  good 
examples  before  the  people  among 
whom  they  dwell,  who  teach  them  the 
right  way,  admonish  them  for  sin,  lead 
them  in  the  path  of  duty,  and  enable 
them  to  stand  firm  and  steadfast  in  the 
faith  of  the  Gospel,  wherewith  they 
have  been  made  free  from  sin  and  from 
the  grasp  of  Satan.  God  bless  all  Is- 
rael, is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 


PRESIDENT  JOHN  R.  WINDER. 


3 


PRESIDENT  JOHN  R.  WINDER. 

Acceptance  of  higbrffice  and  its  responsibilities. 

My  trethren  and  sisters,  in  all  my 
experience  of  between  fifty  and  sixty 
years  i:i  the  Church,  I  never  to.c  my 
weakness  as  I  do  on  this  occasion.  I 
have  scarcely  overcome  the  shock  that 
I  received  a  short  time  since  when 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith  made  known 
to  me  his  wishes,  and  I  feel  very  much 
my  ir.al  ilify  to  occupy  this  exalted  po- 
sition. At  the  same  time,  in  the  past  I 
have  many  times  been  compelled  to 
seek  the  Lord  in  the  hour  of  need,  and  T 
want  to  say  today  that  I  never  failed  to 
find  Him;  consequently  I  feel  ancou- 
aged  at  the  present.  My  dependence  is 
on  the  Lord,  and  I  propose  to  seek  af- 
tei  His  Spirit  to  guide  and  direct  me. 
Seeing  that  I  have  been  placed  in 
this  position,  I  propose,  with  all  my 
might  and  power,  assisted  by  the 
blessings  of  the  Lord,  to  uphold  and 
sustain  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  in 
th.;  pofrilion  to  which  you  have  called 
him:  and  while  I  uphold  and  sustain 
him,  I  am  willing  to  share  with  him 
the  burden  and  the  responsibilities  of 
his  h?gh  and  holy  calling.  In  my  hum- 
ble efforts  I  will  do  all  in  my  newer 
to  s.i.2  bun  and  my  fellow  counselor, 
Brother  Lund. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  had  very 
little  experience  in  preaching  the  Gos- 
pel. I  have  scarcely  ever  stood  before 
a  congregation  of  this  size  to  talk  to 
them.  My  duties  have  been  in  another 
direction  ever  since  I  have  been  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Church.  But  I  am  thankful 
to  the  Lord  today  that  through  all  these 
long  years  He  has  been  so  good,  and 
kmd  and  gracious  to  me,  and  has  thus 
far  sustained  me.  I  hope  and  pray  that 
you  will  sustain  us  in  our  calling,  that 
we  may  be  able  to  discharge  the  duties 
devolving  upon  us  acceptably  to  the 
Lord  and  profitably  to  the  people; 
which  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  cf 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 
A  maj^ntic  power  for  good. 
In  looking  at  this  magnificent  body  of 
Priesthood  and  witnessing  the  united 
action  of  this  vast  congregation,  can 
you  doubt  that  that  which  has  been 
done  has  been  in  accordance  with  the 


mind  of  the  Spirit  and  will  be  sanc- 
tified of  the  Lord  for  the  good  of  the 
house  of  Israel?  God  bless  this  body 
of  Priesthood.  I  see  here  a  majestic 
power  for  good  rising  up  in  the  .land. 
It  is  the  duty  of  this  vast  body  of 
men  holding  the  Holy  Priesthood,  wire  h 
is  after  the  order  of  the  Son  of  God, 
to  exert  their  influence  and  exercise 
their  power  for  good  among  the  peo- 
ple of  Israel  and  the  people  of  the  wor  ld. 
It  is  their  bounden  duty  to  preach  and  to 
work  righteousness,  both  at  home  and 
abroad.  With  this  power  at  work  in 
the  earth,  how  is  it  possible  for  the 
work  of  the  Lord  not  to  roll  forward 
until  His  purposes  shall  be  consum- 
mated? I  rejoice  in  my  heart  today. 
This  scene  that  we  have  witnessed  ''s 
one  that  should  be  rndellibly  impressed 
upon  the  minds  of  all,  that  we  may 
carry  with  us  the  remembrance  that 
we  have  this  day  unitedly  sustained  ttw 
general  authorities  of  the  Churcn  by 
uranimous  vote.  Now  let  us  carrv  out, 
in  the  acts  of  our  lives,  the  expression 
that  re  have  given  here,  and  God  will 
sustain  His  servants,  and  people  and 
Hif  work  will  roll  on  until  it  shall  be 
accomplished.  God  bless  you  forever, 
is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jjsus. 
Amen. 

ELDER  HTRUM  M.  SMITH. 

Dependence  upon  the  assistance  of  God. 

I  feel,  my  bretren  and  sisters,  as  if 
there  was  an  intense  anxiety  in  the 
minds  of  the  people  to  see  me,  and  per- 
haps some  curiosity  to  hear  my  voice; 
consequently,  I  feel  somewhat  embar- 
rassed. 

AH  I  wish  to  say  at  this  time  is  that 
I  accept  the  call  that  has  been  made 
upon  me,  and  I  thank  the  Latter-day 
Saints  for  their  endorsement  of  it.  I 
feel  that  the  brethren  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles  and  the  First  Presidency  are 
responsible,  under  the  Lord,  for  this 
call.  It  is  my  desire,  inasmuch  as  I 
have  been  called  and  sustained  by  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  to  do  everything  in 
my  power  to  sustain  my  brethren  and 
the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  hope  I  will  al- 
ways be  found,  in  season  and  out,  de- 
fending the  faith  which  we  all  have 
espoused.  A  testimony  of  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  was  born  in  me,  and  it  has 


84 


SPECIAL  CONFERENCE. 


gro.vn  with  me.  I  have  felt  it  all  my 
lite.  I  have  been  proud  and  glad  to  be 
counted  a  member  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Cnrist  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Today  I  have  witnessed  the  most  im- 
posing and  impressive  ceremony  I  ever 
saw,  namely,  the  way  in  which  we  have 
done  our  voting.  It  ssems  to  have  been 
a  confirmation  of  my  testimony.  I  could 
not  desrribt  the  feelings  I  had  while 
witnessing  the  voting. 

Brethren  ana  sisters,  I  feel  for  the 
first  time  since  I  have  been  called  to 
this  position  to  be  firmly  and  soundly 
on  my  feet  again.  Nobody  knows,  save 
those  who  are  called  to  undergo  the 
same  experience,  just  how  I  felt  and  do 
feel.  But  I  have  thrown  myself  entire- 
ly on  the  will  of  the  people  and  my 
brethren:  and  I  have  determined  in  my 
heart  to  yo  forth  and  to  the  best  of  my 
ability  and  with  the  power  God  gives 
me,  justify  my  brethren  and  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  in  calling  and  sustaining 
me  ir.  this  position.  I  ask  for  i  nnn- 
tinuance  of  your  confidence.  I  hcpe 
and  feel  that  all  who  have  voted  for  me 
and  for  my  brethren  have  voted  as  I 


voted  myself,  not  only  with  the  hand, 
but  with  the  heart,  in  sincerity  and  in 
truth.  I  purpose,  with  the  help  of  the 
Lord,  and  the  assistance  of  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  by  every  word  and  act,  to 
live  consistent  with  the  action  of  ris- 
ing on  my  feet  and  raising  my  hand 
as  I  have  done  this  afternoon.  I  pray 
the  Lord's  blessings  to  rest  upon  you 
and  upon  me.  May  you  pray  for  me 
and  all  whom  you  have  sustained  this 
day.  I  ask  it  of  you  and  of  the  Lord, 
in  the  name  c  f  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  motion  to  adjourn  the  conference 
until  next  April — to  meet  on  a  date  to 
be  hereafter  announced,  was  put  to  the 
assembly  and  carried  unanimously. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

We  thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet, 
To  guide  us  in  these  latter  days. 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by 
Elder  Abraham  O.  Woodruff. 

The  stenographic  work  of  the  Con- 
ference report  was  done  by  Arthur 
Winter. 

JOHN  NICHOLSON, 

Clerk  of  Conference. 


FUNERAL 

OF 

PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 


A   Great   Demonstration   of    Affection   and.  Respect 
on  Sunday  Morning,  Oct.  13th. 


The  mortal  remains  of  President 
Lorenzo  Snow  were  borne  from  the 
Bee  Hive  House  to  the  Tabernacle, 
where  the  grand  old  organ,  whose 
tones  he  so  dearly  loved,  pealed 
his  requiem,  and  Apostles  and  associ- 
ates spoke  his  praise.  But  before  the 
beloved  form  was  taken  from  the  his- 
toric house  forever,  thousands  of  peo- 
ple took  advantage  of  the  opportunity 
to  view  the  features  which  were  known 
throughout  the  length  and  breadth  of 
the  nation  and  indeed  in  many  foreign 
countries.  For  one  hour  and  a  half  a 
stream  of  people  poured  past  the  bier 
and  many  seemed  stricken  to  the  heart. 
No  telling  how  long  the  people  would 
have  continued  to  come,  but  at  9:30 
the  casket  was  closed  and  many  were 
turned  away  disappointed.  There  was 
an  evident  element  of  sincere  regard 
and  in  most  cases,  reverence  on  the 
part  of  those  who  gathered  to  the 
coffin  of  the  late  President.  As  Presi- 
dent Snow  commanded  respect  while 
living,  it  was  freely  given  to  him  after 
death  had  closed  the  light  from  his 
noble  features. 

Every  feature  of  the  obsequies  was 
in  keeping  with  the  exalted  station 
that  was  held  by  the  deceased.  The 
interest  that  all  classes  took  in 
the  occasion  showed  how  his  kindly 
spirit  had  spread  its  influence  over  the 
entire  population;  The  flowers  wer.e 
purchased  without  any  reference  to 
cost,  apparently,  and  woven  into  em- 
blematic forms  and  designs  until  the 
flori.n  s  brightest  fancies  seemed  to  be 
exhausted  The  music  was  sung  by 
voices  familiar  to  the  departed,  and 


the  songs  were  among  those  that  he 
had  loved  to  hear. 

So  large  a  funeral  as  that  of  yes- 
terday was  perhaps  never  in  the  hands 
of  more  competent  directors.  The  com- 
mittees who  were  charged  with  vari- 
ous features  of  the  ceremonies  never 
neglected  one  item,  and  the  ser- 
vices, begun  in  Salt  Lake  and  impres- 
sively concluded  in  Brigham  City,  were 
carried  through  without  a  jar.  The 
general  sorrow  and  interest  that  was 
felt  here  was  projected  ahead  of  the 
funeral  train  and  in  every  village  and 
city  between  Salt  Lake  and  Brigham 
City  people  were  standing  at  the  sta- 
tion to  see  the  train  go  through.  The 
trip  to  Brigham  was  the  quickest  ever 
made  by  a  Short  Line  train. 

The  funeral  march  from  the  Bee  Hive 
began  at  9:44  and  was  led  by  Chief 
Hilton  and  a  platoon  of  police.  Held's 
band  played  the  dirge  "Dolores,"  while 
the  sad  march  was  made  to  the  Taber- 
nacle. The  casket  was  borne  by  three 
sets  of  pallbearers,  each  relieving  the 
other  at  brief  intervals,  as  it  was  very 
heavy.  The  bearers  were  Apostles 
Brigham  Young,  John  Henry  Smith, 
George  Teasdale,  M.  W.  Merrill,  M.  F. 
Cowley,  A.  O.  Woodruff,  Rudger  Claw- 
son,  Reed  Smoot,  Oliver  G.  Snow,  Lu- 
cius A.  Snow,  Frank  Snow,  Lorenzo 
Snow,  Dr.  L.  W.  Snow, Dr.  M.  W.  Snow, 
Mansfield  Snow,  Le  Roi  C.  Snow,  Sey- 
mour B.  Young,  B.  H.  Roberts,  George 
Reynolds,  J.  Golden  Kimball,  Rulon  S. 
Wells  and  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  Prest. 
Joseph  F.  Smith  walked  immediately 
behind  the  casket  and  then  came  the 


86 


FUNERAL,  OF  PRESIDENT  SNOW. 


members  of  the  family  and  other 
mourners.  The  procession  had  to  pass 
through  a  dense  throng-  ail  the  way  to 
the  Tabernacle,  and  the  same  from  the 
Tabernacle  to  the  depot. 

The  people  of  Brigham  City  and  of 
Boxelder  county  are  entitled  to  praise 
for  the  noble  manner  in  which  they  re- 
sponded to  the  request  of  the  commit- 
tee for  vehicles  with  which  to  convey 
the  people  to  the  cemetery.  In  short 
there  was  such  a  unanimity  of  action 
and  sympathy  everywhere  that  there 
was  nothing  left  to  be  done  that  should 
have  been  done. 

FLORAL,  TRIBUTES. 

The  catafalque,  upon  which  rested 
the  handsome  casket  containing  the 
mortal  remains  of  the  departed  leader 
presented  the  appearance  of  being  ver- 
itably embedded  in  flowers.  All  classes 
of  floral  tokens  were  represented  from 
the  handsome  pieces,  which  spoke  of 
the  esteem  and  love  of  the  employes  of 
financial  and  mercantile  establishments, 
down  to  the  handful  of  blossoms  which 
had  been  gathered  from  the  garden  of 
the  humblest  Saint.  The  west  end  of 
the  vast  building  had  been  transformed 
into  a  regular  bower  of  blossoms,  palms 
and  foliage.  White  and  green  was  the 
'prevailing  effect  from  the  casket  down 
in  front  of  the  stand  to  the  draperies 
which  hung  in  artistic  festoons  from 
the  gilded  pipes  of  the  organ.  The  first 
four  pillars  which  support  the  galleries 
on  either  side  of  the  building  at  the 
west  end  were  covered  with  white 
draperies  around  which  were  entwined 
ropes  of  ivy  and  sprigs  of  autumn 
leaves.  The  galleries  above  were  also 
draped  in  similar  effects  relieved  by 
cord,  tassels  and  white  rosettes.  This 
effect  was  carried  out  upon  the  railings 
in  front  of  the  choir.  The  same  decor- 
ative scheme  prevailed  upon  the  stand 
with  the  addition  of  cream  effects  in 
satin  ribbons  and  potted  palms.  At  the 
back,  above  the  choir,  was  the  life- 
sized  oil  portrait  of  the  departed  Presi- 
dent. Immediately  beneath  the  por- 
trait was  the  tribute  of  the  Temple 
workers  in  the  form  of  a  four-foot 
square  reproduction  of  the  Salt  Lake 
Temple  in  white  and  purple  flowers  up- 
on a  solid  background  of  deep  green 
ivy    leaves.     No    less    striking  floral 


pieces  were  those  which  flanked  the 
speakers'  stand  at  the  top  of  the  stair- 
way. At  the  right  hand  facing  the 
catafalque  stood  the  floral  design,  the 
token  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Apostles, 
at  the  left  the  piece  offered  by  the  Des- 
eret  Sunday  School  Union.  The  first 
named  consisted  of  an  arc  nearly  five 
feet  in  height  wrought  in  white  ever- 
lasting flowers  and  relieved  at  set  in- 
tervals by  twelve  stars  comprised  of 
pink  carnations  with  each  a  cream  rose- 
bud in  the  center.  Within  this  frame 
stood  a  Corinthian  pillar  in  white  ever- 
lastings and  decked  with  cream  colored 
rosebuds,  fern  leaves  and  a  knot  of 
white  crepe.  On  either  side  of  this  pil- 
lar stood  one  broken  column  entwined 
with  smilax  and  white  carnations,  the 
whole  standing  upon  a  base  of  astors, 
chrysanthemums  and  roses;  surmount- 
ing the  whole  was  a  white  dove  with 
wings  outstretched.  The  Deseret  Sun- 
day School  Union  tribute  consisted  of 
a  big  bee-hive  upon  a  background  of 
ivy  leaves,  the  hive  consisting  of  yellow 
astors  and  chrysanthemums.  The  oth- 
er big  set  floral  designs  were  both  nu- 
merous and  elaborate.  Prominent 
among  those  which  rested  on  big  easels 
upon  the  table  which  stood  at  the  south 
side  of  the  casket  was  a  large  scroll  in 
pink  and  white  roses,  dahlies,  carna- 
tions and  other  choice  flowers.  In  the 
center  of  the  scroll  appeared  the  purple 
letters  which  read,  "As  God  is  Man 
May  Be."  Adjacent  stood  a  big  lyre  of 
artistic  design  in  half  a  dozen  different 
kinds  of  flowers  and  smilax  which  bore 
a  card  setting  forth  that  it  was  a  token 
from  the  employes  and  directors  of 
Zion's  Savings  Bank  and  Trust  com- 
pany. 

The  Z.  C.  M.  I.  also  was  represented 
in  the  form  of  a  big  half-moon  crescent 
and  a  star  standing  upon  an  easel 
which  was  smothered  in  fern  leaves  and 
smilax.  A  floral  anchor  with  a  crown 
in  the  center  and  a  white  dove  sur- 
mounting the  easel  represented  the  love 
of  the  faculty  and  students  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints'  University,  while  Hon. 
B.  H.  Roberts  laid  upon  the  steps  of 
the  catafalque  a  double-armful  of  some 
of  the  most  perfect  American  Beauty 
roses,  with  two  foot  stems,  that  it  was 
possible  for  Utah  florists  to  procure. 

Other  pieces,'  which  were  greatly  ad- 


SERVICES  AT  THE  TABERNACLE. 


ST 


mired,  were  an  elaborate  lyre  from  the 
Elks  of  Salt  Lake;  bouquet  on  easel, 
from  the  Utah  Light  and  Power  com- 
pany; basket  from  Salt  Lake  Primary 
association;  spray  Of  roses,  from  John 
W.  Young  of  New  York;  spray  of  roses, 
from  Relief  corps;  design  in  chrysan- 
themums from  R.  E.  Evans  and  wife; 
horseshoe  of  roses  and  ivy,  from  the 
general  board  of  the  Y.  M.  M.  I.  A.; 
pillow  of  roses  and  chrysanthemums, 
from  the  general  board  of  the  Y.  L.  M. 
I.  A.;  wreath  from  the  general  board 
of  the  Primary  association;  harp  with 
design  "Father,"  from  the  family; 
bouquet  of  roses,  from  Gov.  Wells  and 
wife;  piece  2%x4  feet,  in  white  and 
pink  roses,  carnations,  dahlies  and 
chrysanthemums,  with  sheaves  of 
wheat,  from  the  Priesthood  and  Sun- 
day schools  of  Weber  Stake.  In  addi- 
tion to  this  there  were  dozens  of  smaller 
pieces  and  simple  bouquets. 

AT  THE  TABERNACLE. 

Services  at  the  Tabernacle,  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith  presiding. 
The  choir  sang: 

"O  My  Father,  Thou  that  dwellest, 
In  the  high  and  glorious  place." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Marriner  W.  Merrill. 
Singing: 

■"Zion  stands  with  hills  surrounded." 
ELDER  BRIGHAM  YOUNG. 

It  appears  to  me  that  we  have  met 
frequently  on  occasions  of  this  kind 
in  this  building;  still  we  acknowledge 
the  providences  of  God  in  what  has  be- 
fallen us  in  our  bereavement,  and  also 
in  all  our  successes  and  mutations  in 
life.  I  have  been  called  upon  within 
the  last  few  months  to  mourn  the  loss 
of  friends  who  were  as  dear  to  me  per- 
haps as  any  friends  I  ever  had  upon 
earth.  I  have  looked  upon  President 
Lorenzo  Snow  as  a  second  father.  I 
have  loved  him  as  a  father,  and  I 
mourn  his  departure;  but  I  feel  thank- 
ful that  he  was  surrounded  with  every 
comfort,  that  peace  prevailed  in  his 
home  and  with  the  people,  and  that 
he  passed  to  his  rest  in  the  midst  of 
his  loving  family  and  friends.  About 
two  hours  before  his  death  I  laid  my 
hand  upon  his  brow  and  said,  "Presi- 


dent Snow,  do  you  recognize  me?"  He 
looked  at  me  with  his  sweet  smile  and 
eyes  full  of  intelligence,  and  said,  "I 
rather  think  I  do."  He  was  intelligent 
nearly  to  the  last,  and  he  knew  that 
his  time  had  come,  for  he  spoke  of  it. 
If  the  prayers  and  faith  of  the  people 
could  have  saved  him,  President  Snow 
would  be  alive  today;  but  God  has 
willed  it  otherwise,  and  we  are  de- 
prived of  a  man  who  has  been  one  of 
the  most  valiant  of  those  who  were 
raised  up  by  the  Almighty  to  assist  in 
laying  the  foundations  of  the  great 
cause  which  He  instituted  for  the  sal- 
vation of  His  sons  and  daughters. 

I  have  known  President  Snow  since 
before  the  death  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  I  knew  him  well  before  the  Pro- 
phet was  martyred,  and  I  knew 
he  was  a  friend  of  the  Prophet, 
a  friend  of  the  leaders  of  the 
Church,  and  a  friend  of  God.  Though 
but  a  boy,  I  recognized  in  this 
man  a  power  that  was  born  of  the  Holy 
Spirit.  I  have  known  his  works  since 
1843,  and  no  man  that  has  lived  among 
us  has  been  more  thorough,  more  dili- 
gent, wiser  in  all  positions  where  he 
has  been  placed,  and  shown  more  integ- 
rity to  the  work,  than  the  late  Presi- 
dent Lorenzo  Snow.  I  loved  that  man, 
as  I  loved  his  predecessors;  and  the 
grand  work  that  he  has  accomplished 
in  the  last  three  years  will  live  in  the 
history  of  the  Church,  showing  forth 
the  greatness  and  the  executive  and 
financial  ability  of  the  man.  He  will 
stand  among  the  foremost  of  those 
who  have  inaugurated  this  great  and 
glorious  work  of  the  latter  days.  Thank 
God  that  I  was  acquainted  with  him! 
Though  I  mourn  the  loss  of  his  society, 
I  know  that  he  has  gone  to  a  reward 
that  is  great  and  glorious.  For  him 
there  is  a  crown  laid  up  that  shall 
never  fade.  I  know  his  family  will  miss 
him,  and  his  brethren  will  miss  himj 
but  Lorenzo  Snow  has  done  a  magnifi- 
cent work,  and  his  example  is  worthy 
of  emulation.  His  life  is  a  monitor  to 
me,  an  example  that  I  wish  to  emulate 
as  far  as  possible  in  my  place  and  call- 
ing in  the  Church.  I  am  sure  that 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  who  will 
succeed  him,  will  also  emulate  the  ex- 
ample of  this  man.  When  men  mani- 
fest in  their  lives  that  they  desire  to 


88 


FUNERAL  OF  PRESIDENT  SNOW. 


obey  His  laws  and  keep  His  command- 
ments, God  moves  upon  them  to  do  the 
work  that  He  has  for  them  to  fulfil', 
and  they  do  it  in  a  way  that  is  often 
wonderful  to  us.  Wonderful  has  been 
the  work  of  President  Snow.  God  has 
overruled  and  shaped  affairs  so  that 
he  has  passed  along  with  a  serenity, 
an  evenness  and  a  judgment  that  could 
only  have  been  born  of  God.  He  la- 
bored for  this  all  his  life.  I  can  look 
back  upon  his  life  and  see  that  he  was 
in  training  all  his  days  for  the  very 
work  he  has  accomplished.  So  it  has 
been  with  all  our  leaders.  Those  who 
led  us  to  this  country  were  in  training; 
so  were  those  who  have  presided  since 
we  have  dwelt  in  these  mountains. 
Everything  has  moved  along  harmonir 
ously,  and  each  man  has  seemed  to 
have  his  labor  cut  out  for  him  to  ac- 
complish in  the  service  of  his  God. 

I  rejoice  that  President  Snow  has 
passed  away  peacefully.  We  are  not 
now  in  the  midst  of  mobs;  we  are  in 
the  midst  of  friends.  It  seems  as  if  all 
classes  are  ready  and  willing  to  pay 
tribute  to  the  remarkable  qualities  of 
our  beloved  leader,  and  to  recognize 
him  as  a  great  man,  as  the  Latter-day 
Saints  do.  He  has  wrought  wondrous- 
ly,  under  the  power  of  God,  for  the  sal- 
vation of  this  people;  and  not  until  the 
history  of  his  acts  for  the  last  three 
years  is  laid  before  us  will  we  know 
precisely  the  stupendous  work  he  has 
accomplished.  God  has  blessed  him 
abundantly.  While  under  the  rule  of 
President  Woodruff  we  were  robbed  and 
maltreated  by  our  enemies  on  the  right 
and  on  the  left,  under  the  presidency 
of  President  Snow,  God  has  showered 
His  blessings  upon  the  people,  and  the 
way  has  been  opened  up  in  a  manner 
that  to  me  is  miraculous.  It  is  God's 
power  that  has  done  these  things,  and 
we  give  him  the  glory;  but  under  Him 
this  man  has  wrought  wondrously  for 
the  salvation  of  Israel. 

May  God  bless  his  wives  and  his 
children.  May  his  sons  emulate  his  ex- 
ample, and  seek  by  every  power  of 
mind  and  body  to  be  worthy  to  go  into 
the  presence  of  their  father,  when  their 
time  shall  come.  I  have  a  desire  in  my 
heart  for  all  sons  to  be  worthy  of  their 
worthy   fathers.     May  this  family  of 


President  Snow's  be  comforted.  They 
have  the  sympathy  and  love  of  the  peo- 
ple; for  we  have  all  lost  a  friend,  a 
brother,  a  prophet,  seer  and  revelator  in 
this  man  who  has  gone  to  his  reward. 
May  God  help  us  all  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  when  we  lay  our  bodies  down 
and  our  friends  carry  us  to  our  last 
resting  place,  it  can  truthfully  be  said 
of  us,  "Well  done,  good  and  faithful 
servant  (or  handmaiden) ;  enter  into  the 
joy  of  thy  Lord."  May  He  give  us 
strength  to  emulate  the  example  of 
these  worthies  that  have  gone 
before;  for  of  all  things  that 
are  in  my  heart  I  desire  most 
to  stand  in  their  presence  in  the 
world  to  come,  in  the  presence  of  God, 
and  receive  his  welcome  plaudit.  May 
this  be  our  happy  lot,  I  humbly  ask, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 

With  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
feel  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  have 
some  cause  for  mourning,  and  yet  when 
I  think  of  the  great  age  to  which  our 
chief  had  attained,  it  seems  to  me  that 
it  would  have  been  unjust  on  our  part 
to  have  desired  his  continuance  very 
much  longer  in  the  performance  of  the 
arduous  duties  that  came  to  him  as 
President  of  the  Church.  I  was  not  in- 
timate with  President  Snow  in  the  ear- 
lier days  of  his  ministry  in  the  Apostle- 
ship;  in  fact,  not  until  he  became  the 
President  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  was  it 
my  privilege  to  become  extremely  inti- 
mate with  him;  but  from  the  period  of 
his  presidency  over  the  Council  of  the 
Apostles  I  have  learned  to  esteem  him, 
to  love  him,  for  his  eminent  abilities 
and  for  his  integrity  to  the  cause  to 
which  he  had  devoted  his  early  life. 

Upon  a  recent  visit  to  the  city  of 
Washington  I  was  the  bearer  of  a  mes- 
sage from  President  Lorenzo  Snow  to 
President  William  McKinley;  and  up- 
on that  occasion  President  McKinley 
expressed  his  very  great  pleasure  in 
hearing  from  President  Snow  and  re- 
ceiving his  expressions  of  regard.  In 
our  conversation  he  remarked  that  he 
had  known  President  Snow  from  his 
boyhood,  and  gave  us  to  understand 
that  upon  a  certain  occasion,  when 
President  Snow  was  in  the  heyday  of 


ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 


S9 


his  young  manhood,  erect  in  person,  and 
with  a  graceful,  dignified  bearing,  he 
had  had  the  privilege  of  an  introduc- 
tion to  him,  and  he  said  he  had  remem- 
bered him  very  distinctly  ever  since. 
He  further  said:    "I  desire  you,  upon 
your  return  to  your  mountain  home,  to 
bear  to  him  my  kind  regards;  for  I 
esteem  him  as  a  man  devoted  to  the  in- 
terests and  wellbeing  of  his  fellowmen, 
who  loves  his  God  ana  his  country." 
My  brothers  and  my  sisters,  these  ex- 
pressions, coming  as  they  did  from  the 
chief  magistrate  of  the  nation,  though 
not  given  here  probably  in  the  exact 
language      in      which      they  were 
spoken,     made     a     deep  impression 
upon  my  mind;  and  I  had  little  doubt 
of  the  possibilities  for  the  accomplish- 
ment of  good  in  the  interests  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  through  the  minis- 
trations and  efforts  of  the  man  whom 
Providence  had  placed  at  the  head  of 
His  people  and  the  man  whom  Provi- 
dence had  placed  at  the  head  of  our  na- 
tion.   We  may  not  fully  sense  the  posi- 
tion in  which  we  sometimes  find  our- 
selves, but  there  is  this  sure  fact  in 
connection  with  the  work  of  God:  He 
has  provided  that  that  work  shall  not 
lack  at  any  time  or  place  in  its  ac- 
complishment through  failure  on  the 
part  of  any  of  His  servants.    As  the 
necessities  have  demanded,  the  men 
have  been  found  and  raised  up  for  the 
labor  required.    Commencing  with  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  along  through  the  ad- 
ministrations   of    President  Brigham 
Young,  President  John  Taylor,  Presi- 
dent Wilford  Woodruff,  down  to  the 
life  and  labor  of  the  grand  man  whose 
remains  lie  before  us,  it  will  readily 
be  recognized  that  each  has  had  the 
characteristics  requisite  for  the  ac- 
complishment of  the  purposes  of  his 
administration.    I  rejoice  that  it  has 
been  my  privilege  to  personally  know 
all  of  them,  except  the  Prophet  Joseph, 
with  whom  I  was  not  conversant  in  his 
life  time,  however  much  I  should  like 
to  have  been.    11  was  my  privilege  to 
mingle  in   the  society    of  President 
Young  and  to  be  in  his  companionship 
under  some  trying  circumstances.  The 
dignity    of    his    character    and  the 
strength  of  his  abilities  marked  him 
as  a  man  among  his  fellow  men.  His 
mission  was  fraught  with  blessing  to 


the  people  our  Father  had  selected  him 
to  preside  over.  The  same  is  true  of 
the  lives  and  labors  of  the  heroic  iner. 
who  have  succeeded  him  in  this  great 
work,  which  is  designed  by  our  Father 
to  accomplish  its  wonderful  destiny  in 
the  regeneration  of  mankind.  They 
ministered  in  the  interests  and  well- 
being  of  their  fellow  men.  Their 
hearts  were  given  to  the  accomplish- 
ment of  our  Father's  purpose.  Their  suc- 
cess has  been  indeed  wonderful,  and  the 
method  adopted  by  our  Father  to  utilize 
them  in  fulfilling  His  purposes,  as 
remarked  by  my  brother  Brigham,  is 
a  marvel  among  the  children  of  men.  I 
remember  distinctly  the  visit  of  Gen. 
Thomas  L.  Kane  to  this  city  just  fol- 
lowing the  demise  of  President  Brig- 
ham Young.  After  he  had  met  with 
the  brethren  and  conversed  over  the 
situation  as  it  existed  here,  it  was  my 
privilege  to  spend  some  time  with  him 
by  ourselves,  and  he  remarked  to  me 
upon  that  occasion:  "When  the  word 
came  to  me  of  President  Young's  de- 
mise, I  was  somewhat  concerned  in  my 
spirit  as  to  the  position  in  which  mat- 
ters would  be  placed,  looking,  as  I  nat- 
urally did,  more  from  a  worldly  point 
Qf  view  than  from  the  view  of  faith; 
but  when  I  met  with  the  brethren,  con- 
versed with  President  Taylor,  looked 
over  the  men  who  stood  around  him  as 
leaders,  I  said  to  myself,  the  Lord  has 
made  ample  provision  for  the  preserva- 
tion of  that  cause  which  lies  near  to  my 
heart." 

I  trust,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that 
each  one  of  us  shall  receive  an  inspira- 
tion from  the  life  and  character  of 
these  grand  men  who  laid  the  founda- 
tions of  these  commonwealths  in  this 
intermountain  region,  who  sought  to 
disseminate  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Je- 
sus among  the  children  of  men, 
and  who  in  the  station  they  were 
called  to  occupy  by  divine  providence 
betrayed  no  trust,  violated  no 
honorable  pledge,  broke  no  faith, 
but  fulfilled  their  part  and  minis- 
try with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of 
God  and  the  accomplishment  of  the 
work  that  He  set  their  hands  to  do. 
When  our  Father  clusters  His  jewels 
together  in  the  eternal  worlds,  among 
them  will  be  found  the  heroic  man  who 
suffered  imprisonment,  who  offered  his 


90 


FUNERAL  OF  PRESIDENT  SNOW. 


life  in  the  interests  and  wellbeing  of 
our  Father's  cause,,  and  who  never  fal- 
tered, no  matter  what  requirement  or 
obligation  was  laid  upon  him.  The  roll 
has  been  called,  the  drums  have  sound- 
ed, and  another  hero,  true  to  the  prin- 
ciples of  righteousness,  has  answered 
his  Father  in  heaven:  Yes,  I  am  here, 
Father.  I  accepted  the  duties  Thou 
didst  give  me,  with  the  deter- 
mination that  Thy  name  should 
be  honored,  and  that  Thy  truths 
should  be  written  in  the  hearts 
and  beings  of  the  children  of  men.  as 
far  as  Thou  gavest  me  abilitv  to  help 
in  that  direction. 

In  connection  with  my  brother,  I  pray 
that  the  peace  of  heaven  may  abound 
upon  his  household.  May  his  sons  and 
his  daughters  be  of  that  sterling  stuff 
which  characterized  this  hero.  May 
their  backs  never  be  turned  upon  the 
truth;  but  in  every  extremity,  in  every 
place  where  our  Father  shall  seek  to 
utilize  them,  may  the  heroic  mold  of 
that  father  who  gave  his  life  that  they 
might  be,  ever  show  itself  in  their  min- 
istry and  efforts  for  the  accomplishment 
of  our  Fathers'  purpose.  Before  you, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  an  example 
of  devotion  to  the  cause  of  eternal 
truth.  Register  it  deep  and  thorough  in 
your  souls,  and  by  and  by,  when  the 
Eternal  One  shall  gather  His  jewels, 
your  names  will  be  registered  in  the 
Lamb's  book  of  life.  I  pray  that  hea- 
ven's peace  may  abound  upon  his  loved 
ones,  that  their  hearts  may  be  true  and 
steadfast,  as  his  was.  I  trust  that  his 
associates,,  upon  whom  responsibility 
will  fall  in  his  demise,  may  possess  the 
same  heroic  mind,  the  same  determin- 
ation, the  same  undying  courage  and 
faith  that  has  characterized  him  in  his 
long  life  among  the  people  of  God.  His 
heart  was  one  that  enabled  him  to  love 
the  world,  to  bless  Father's  children, 
whether  of  his  own  faith  or  not,  to 
treat  them  with  respect  and  honor,  and 
to  guard  them  as  faithfully  and  well 
as  he  would  his  own.  May  that  spirit 
be  our  spirit;  may  our  faith  be  as  his 
faith,  gentle  and  considerate  as  a  child 
when  necessity  required,  but  bold  and 
unyielding  a?  the  rock  of  ages  when 
such  kind  of  courage  was  called  for. 
May  our  Father  bless  and  prosper  His 


cause;  may  the  truth  extend  until  it 
shall  encompass  the  earth;  may  we  love 
His  righteousness,  bless  His  children, 
and  live  so  that  the  truth  may  extend 
all  over  the  world,  is  my  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 
The  Temple  choir  sang: 

"Who  are  these  arrayed  in  white." 

ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 
My  dear  brethren  and  sisters  and 
friends:  I  have  been  requested  by  Pres- 
ident Smith  to  make  a  few  remarks 
this  morning,  and  the  prayer  of  my 
heart  is  that  our  Heavenly  Father  will 
bless  me  with  a  portion  of  His  Holy 
Spirit,  that  whatever  I  may  say  may  be 
in  accordance  with  His  mind  and  will 
and  appropriate  to  the  present  occasion. 
I  feel  it  a  very  great  honor  to  have 
the  privilege  of  saying  a  few  words 
here.  Lying  before  us  are  the  remains 
of  President  Lorenzo  Snow,  who  was 
the  prophet,  seer  and  revelator  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  in  all  the  world.  He  was  the 
fifth  man  who  has  been  honored  to  hold 
this  high  position  among  this  people. 

There  were  several  characteristics  in 
the  life  of  President  Lorenzo  Snow  that 
always  impressed  me  very  strongly,  and 
whenever  I  think  of  him  they  come  up 
in  the  vision  of  my  mind.  I  have  heard 
him  relate  that  when  he  was  a  young 
man  he  received  a  revelation  from  God. 
the  Eternal  Father.  It  was  soon  after 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  came  forth 
proclaiming  that  He  had  received  a 
visit  from  God  the  Eternal  Father  and 
His  Son  Jesus  Christ.  President  Snow 
heard  the  testimony  of  the  Prophet  and 
believed  on  his  words.  Afterwards  he 
received  a  testimony  from  the  Lord 
himself.  On  another  occasion,  while 
pondering  upon  some  principles  that 
had  been  taught  him  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  he  heard  a  voice  from  heaven, 
and  that  voice  made  known  unto  him 
the  principle  embodied  in  these  words: 
"As  man  now  is,  God  once  was;  as  God 
now  is,  man  may  be."  President  Snow 
held  to  those  two  testimonies  during  his 
whole  life. 

I  desire  here  to  emphasize  the  prin- 
ciples set  forth  in  this  sentence.  In 
the  first  place,  he  received  a  revelation 
from  God.    Here  was  the  principle  of 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 


91 


new  revelation.  Secondly,  it  was  made 
known  unto  him  that  the  sons  and 
daughters  of  men  may  attain  unto 
that  perfection  which  the  Eternal  Fath- 
er possesses. 

Now,  these  principles  are  either  true 
or  false,  and  I  feel  impressed,  if  the 
Lord  will  direct  me  by  His  Holy  Spirit, 
to  speak  a  little  upon  them. 

Jesus,  referring  to  this  principle  of 
revelation  said: 

"Man  shall  not  live  by  bread  alone, 
but  by  every  word  that  proceedeth  out 
of  the  mouth  of  God." 

In  relation  to  the  other  principle,  He 
said  to  His  Apostles: 

"Be  ye  therefore  perfect,  even  as  your 
Father,  which  is  in  heaven,  is  perfect." 

Paul,  in  speaking  of  Jesus,  says: 

"Who,  being  in  the  form  of  Go:l, 
thought  it  not  robbery  to  be  equal  with 
God." 

Here  is  set  forth  in  inspired  lan- 
guage, what  it  is  possible  for  the  chil- 
dren of  men  to  attain  to  in  the  eternal 
worlds,  through  their  faithfulness  and 
diligence  in  keeping  the  commandments 
of  God  while  they  live  upon  the  earth. 
Just  imagine  for  a  moment  the  idea 
that  through  the  principle  of  eternal 
progression  we  can  ultimately  become 
like  our  Father  and  God! 

This  revelation  was  given  to  Presi- 
dent Lorenzo  Snow  in  his  early  man- 
hood, and  the  principle  of  revelation 
was  his  guiding  star  to  the  hour  of  his 
death. 

This  principle  of  revelation  is  a 
strange  thing  among  the  children  of 
men.  It  should  not  be;  for  Jesus  said 
to  His  disciples  that  when  the  Com- 
forter should  come  it  should  guide  them 
into  all  truth,  it  should  partake  of  the 
things  of  the  Father  and  reveal  them 
unto  them.  This  was  the  Spirit  that 
rested  tipon  President  Snow,  and  that 
gave  him  a  testimony  of  the  truth; 
and  it  is  exactly  in  accordance  with 
the  promise  of  our  Lord  and  Savior, 
who  said,  as  recorded  in  the  7th  chap- 
ter of  John,  16  and  17  verses. 

"My  doctrine  is  not  mine,  but  His 
ihat  sent  me. 

"If  any  man  will  do  His  will,  he  shall 
know  of  the  doctrine  whether  it  be  of 
God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself." 

Undoubtedly  President  Snow,  in  his 
youth,  relying  upon  this  promise,  look- 
ed unto  God  for  a  knowledge  of  the 


truth.  When  Joseph  Smith  declared 
that  God  the  Father  and  His  Son  Jesus 
Christ  had  committed  unto  him  the 
plan  of  life  and  salvation  for  the  re- 
demption of  the  children  of  men,  Presi- 
dent Snow  put  that  declaration  to  the 
test.  The  Prophet  and  his  associates 
made  the  bold  statement  that  whoso- 
ever would  believe  and  be  baptized  and 
accept  the  message  which  they  de- 
clared, could  know  from  the  Father 
concerning  the  doctrine,  whether  it  was 
of  God  or  whether  they  spoke  of  them- 
selves. President  Snow,  I  say,  put  it 
to  the  test,  and  he  received  a  testimony 
from  God  that  filled  him  with  joy  un- 
speakable. 

Now,  my  beloved  friends,  have  you 
ever  considered  what  it  means  to  at- 
tain unto  that  perfection  which  Jesus 
referred  to?  I  will  read  a  little  con- 
cerning the  works  of  our  Father,  and 
then  you  can  imagine  what  possibilities 
you  may  attain  to  by  reaching  the 
same  degree  of  perfection.  I  will  read 
from  the  "Pearl  of  Great  Price,"  which 
contains  some  revelations  that  were 
given  by  the  Lord  to  the  Prophet 
Josepn  Smith: 

"And  God  spake  unto  Moses,  saying, 
Behold,  I  am  the  Lord  God  Almighty, 
and  Endless  is  my  name;  for  I  am 
without  beginning  of  days  or  end  of 
years;  and  is  not  this  Endless?  And, 
behold,  thou  art  my  son,  wherefore 
look,  and  I  will  show  thee  the  work- 
manship of  mine  hands,  but  not  all, 
for  my  works  are  without  end,  and 
also  my  words;  for  they  never  cease; 
wherefore,  no  man  can  behold  all  my 
works,  except  he  behold  all  my  glory; 
and  no  man  can  behold  all  my  glory, 
and  afterwards  remain  in  the  flesh  on 
the  earth.  And  I  have  a  work  for  thee, 
Moses,  my  son;  and  thou  art  in  the 
similitude  of  mine  Only  Begotten;  and 
mine  Only  Begotten  is  and  shall  be  the 
Savior,  for  he  is  full  of  grace  and 
truth:  but  there  is  no  God  beside  me, 
and  all  things  are  present  with  me,  for 
I  know  them  all.  And  now,  behold,  this 
one  thing  I  show  unto  thee,  Moses,  my 
son,  for  thou  art  in  the  world,  and  now 
I  show  it  unto  thee. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  Moses 
looked  and  beheld  the  world  upon 
which  he  was  created,  and  as  Moses 
beheld  the  world  and  the  ends  thereof, 
and  all  the  children  of  men  which  are, 
and  which  were  created  of  the  same, 
he  greatly  marvelled  and  wondered. 
And  the  presence  of  God  withdrew 
from  Moses,  that  his  glory  was  not 
upon  Moses;  and  Moses  was  left  unto 
himself.   And  as  he  was  left  unto  him- 


92 


FUNERAL  OF  PRESIDENT  SNOW. 


self,  he  fell  unto  the  earth.  And  it 
came  to  pass  that  it  was  for  the  space 
ot  many  hours  before  Moses  did  again 
receive  his  natural  strength  like  unto 
man;  and  he  said  unto  himself,  now, 
for  this  cause  I  know  that  man  is  noth- 
ing, which  thing  I  never  had  supposed, 
but  now  mine  eyes  have  beheld  God, 
but  not  my  natural,  but  my  spiritual 
eyes,  for  my  natural  eyes  could  not 
have  beheld;  for  I  should  have  withered 
and  died  in  his  presence;  but  his  glory 
was  upon  me;  and  I  beheld  his  face, 
tor  I  was  transfigured  before  him." 

"And  it  came  to  pass,  as  the  voice 
was  still  speaking,  he  cast  his  eyes, 
and  beheld  the  earth,  yea,  even  all  the 
face  of  it;  and  there  was  not  a  particle 
of  it  which  he  did  not  behold,  discern- 
ing it  by  the  Spirit  of  God.  And  he  be- 
hfeld  also  the  inhabitants  thereof,  and 
there  was  not  a  soul  which  he  beheld 
not,  and  he  discerned  them  by  the 
Spirit  of  God;  and  their  numbers  were 
great,  even  as  numberless  as  the  sand 
upon  the  sea  shore.  And  he  beheld 
many  lands;  and  each  land  was  called 
earth,  and  there  were  inhabitants  on 
the  face  thereof. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  Moses 
called  upon  God,  saying,  Tell  me,  I 
pray  thee,  why  these  things  are  so, 
and  by  what  thou  madest  them?  And 
behold,  the  glory  of  God  was  upon 
Moses,  so  that  Moses  stood  in  the  pres- 
ence of  God,  and  he  talked  with  him 
face  to  face;  and  the  Lord  God  said 
unto  Moses,  For  mine  own  purpose 
have  I  made  these  things.  Here  is  wis- 
dom, and  it  remaineth  in  me.  And  by 
the  word  of  my  power  have  I  created 
them,  which  is  my  Only  Begotten  Son, 
who  is  full  of  grace  and  truth.  And 
worlds  without  number  have  I  created; 
and  I  also  created  them  for  mine  own 
purpose;  and  by  the  Son  I  created 
them,  which  is  mine  Only  Begotten 
And  the  (irst  man  of  all  men  have  I 
called  Adam,  which  is  many.  But  only 
an  account  of  this  earth,  and  the  in- 
habitants thereof  give  I  unto  you.  Foi 
behold,  there  are  many  worlds  that 
have  passed  away  by  the  word  of  my 
power.  And  there  are  many  also  which 
now  stand,  and  numberless  are  they 
unto  man,  but  all  things  are  numbered 
unto  me,  for  they  are  mine  and  I  know 
them. 

"And  it  came  to  pass,  that  Moses 
spake  unto  the  Lord,  saying,  Be  mer- 
ciful unto  thy  servant,  O  God.  and  tell 
me  concerning  this  earth,  and  the  in- 
habitants thereof,  and  also  the  heavens, 
and  then  thy  servant  will  be  content. 
And  the  Lord  God  spake  unto  Moses, 
saying,  The  heavens,  they  are  many, 
and  they  cannot  be  numbered  unto 
man.  but  they  are  numbered  unto  me, 
for  they  are  mine,  and  as  one  earth 
shall  pass  away,  and  the  heavens 
thereof  even  so  shall  another  come, 
and  there  is  no  end  to  my  works, 
neither  to  my  words." 

I  ask  you,  my  friends,  as  intelligent 


sons  and   daughiers  of  God   to  look 
back  to  the  time  when  you  were  born 
into  the  world,  think  of  your  condition 
then,  and  now  consider  the  improve- 
ment that  you   have   made.     In  the 
short  space  of  seventy  years  see  what 
can  be  accomplished  by  a  man  or  a 
woman.      Look     at     the  wonderful 
achievements  of  men,  and  how  they 
control      the      mighty      powers  of 
earth.      On     every     hand     you  can 
see  the  greatness    and    grandeur  of 
the  works  of  men — and    all    done  by 
men,    as    a    rule,    before    they  are 
fifty    years    of    age.     Think    of  the 
increase  of  intelligence  and  the  devel- 
opment of  man  in  the  few  years  be- 
tween the  cradle  and  the  grave,  and 
then  consider  the  fact  that  God's  plait 
for  the  glory  and  immortality  of  man 
reaches   into   the   eternal   worlds  and 
comprehends      never-ending  develop- 
ment and  progression.      Can  you  not 
imagine  a  day  when  it  will  be  possible 
for  you  to  be  perfect  as  your  Father 
in  heaven  is  perfect?  when  you  will 
have   progressed   to   such   an  exalted 
condition  that  you  will  be  able  to  do 
the  works  of  the  Father?     Such  will 
be  the  case,  whether  you  can  imagine 
it  or  not.     But  there  are  certain  con- 
ditions to  which  we  must  subscribe 
in  order  to  attain  to  this  great  glory. 
This  perfection  can  only  be  reached  on 
the  principles  of  righteousness. 

Now  I  desire  to  read  another  revela- 
tion that  was  given  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  concerning  the  privilege 
of  men  to  hold  His  divine  authority 
upon  the  earth.  Here  is  a  man  lying 
before  us  who  professed  to  be  a  pro- 
phet, seer  and  revelator.  If  he  were 
such,  we  should  look  upon  it  with  great 
solemnity,  and  investigate  it.  When 
the  Lord  raised  up  Moses,  He  talked 
with  him  face  to  face.  Joseph  Smith, 
in  his  message  to  the  world,  claimed 
that  God  the  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ  had  appeared  unto  him  and 
that  they  gave  him  revelations,  one 
of  which  I  am  about  to  read.  First, 
however,  I  want  to  impress  upon  you 
the  importance  of  men  in  all  the  walks 
of  life  acting  under  proper  authority. 
Suppose  I  should  open  an  office  in  Salt 
Lake  City  and  begin  to  administer 
the  oath  of  allegiance  to  men  and  wo- 
men who  desired  to  become  citizens 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 


93 


of  the  United  States;  what  would  be 
the  result?  Why,  I  would  be  arrest- 
ed as  an  imposter,  because  I  had  not 
the  authority  to  act  in  that  calling. 
No  man  can  act  legally  without  au- 
thority, either  in  temporal  or  in  spirit- 
ual matters.  Now  I  will  read  what 
the  Lord  says  in  relation  to  this: 

"Therefore,  as  I  said  concerning  the 
sons  of  Moses-for  the  sons  of  Moses, 
and  also  the  sons  of  Aaron  shall  offer 
an  acceptable  offering  and  sacrifice  in 

litn  £USl  °l  the  Lord'  whic*>  house 
shall  be  built  unto  the  Lord  in  this 
generation,  upon  the  consecrated  soot 
as  I  have  appointed; 

ci3jn?  th|,f°,ns  of  Moses  and  of  Aaron 
shall  be  filled  with  the  glory  of  the 
Lord,  upon  Mount  Zion  in  the  Lord's 
house,  whose  sons  are  ye;  and  also 
many  whom  I  have  called  and  sent 
forth  to  build  up  my  church- 

"For  whoso  is  faithful  unto  the  ob- 
taining these  two  Priesthoods  of  which 
ti3aVe  sP.oken  and  the  magnifying 
their  calling,  are  sanctified  by  the 
fepmt  unto  the  renewing  of  their 
Doaies; 

"They  become  the  sons  of  Mos?s  and 
*L  +tr°n  vanl  the  seed  of  Abraham, 
elect   of  God      ^  kingdom-  and  the 

"And  also  all  they  who  receive  this 
Priesthood  receiveth  me.  saith  the 
i-»ord; 

"For  he  that  receiveth  my  servants 
receiveth  me; 

"And  he  that  receiveth  me  receiveth 
my  Father; 

"And  he  that  receiveth  my  Father 
receiveth  my  Father's  kingdom-  there- 
fore all  that  my  Father  hath  shall  be 
given  unto  him." 

Here  is  a  promise  that  all  that 
the  Father  hath  shall  be  given 
unto  the  man  who  is  "faithful  unto  ob- 
taining these  two  Priesthoods  of  which 
I  have  spoken,  and  the  magnifying 
their  calling."  Such  a  man  is  a  pro- 
phet, seer  and  revelator.  He  holds  the 
Melchisedek  Priesthood,  which  is  after 
the  order  of  the  Son  of  God,  and  "all 
that  my  Father  hath  shall  be  given  un- 
to him."  This  is  exactly  in  accord  with 
the  testimony  of  our  Lord  and  Savior 
Jfesus  Christ;  for  He  said  to  His  disci- 
ples : 


said  to  you.  "Be  ye  perfect,  even  as 
your  Father  in  heaven  is  perfect." 

President  Snow,  whose  body  lies  be- 
fore us  today,  is  entitled  to  "all  that 
the  Father  hath."  As  I  have  read  to 
you,  the  creations  of  God  are  innumer- 
able to  men,  and  they  are  all  controlled 
by  His  own  word.  Imagine,  my  friends 
the  omnipotence  of  God!  Can  you  com- 
prehend His  glory  and  power?  Now 
carry  your  minds  ten  thousand  years 
hence  and  try  to  conceive  of  the  im- 
provement that  men  will  make,  free 
from  the  limitations  of  mortality,  and 
enjoying  immortality  and  eternal  life! 
I  say  unto  you,  it  is  possible  for  men 
to  become  like  our  Father  and  God.  I 
bear  testimony  to  the  truth  of  the  reve- 
lation which  President  Lorenzo  Snow 
received  in  his  youth. 

I  will  read  still  further  from  this 
same  revelation: 

"For  the  word  of  the  Lord  is  truth 
and  whatsoever  is  truth  is  light,  and 
whatsoever  is  light  is  Spirit,  even  the 
Spirit  of  Jesus  Christ; 

"And  the  Spirit  giveth  light  to  every 
man  that  cometh  into  the  world;  and 
the  Spirit  enlighteneth  every  man 
through  the  world,  that  hearkeneth  to 
the  voice  of  the  Spirit; 

"And  everyone  that  hearkeneth  to  the 
voice  of  the  Spirit,  cometh  unto  God 
even  the  Father; 

"And  the  Father  teacheth  him  of  the 
covenant  which  he  has  renewed  and 
confirmed  upon  you,  which  is  con- 
firmed upon  you  for  your  sakes 
and  not  for  your  sakes  only,  but  for 
the  sake  of  the  whole  world; 

"And  the  whole  world  lie'th  in  sin 
and  groaneth  under  darkness  and  un- 
der the  bondage  of  sin; 

"And  by  this  you  may  know  they 
are  under  the  bondage  of  sin,  because 
they  come  not  unto  me. 

"For  whoso  cometh  'not  unto  me  is 
under  the  bondage  of  sin." 


Seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God. 
and  his  righteousness;  and  all  these 
things  shall  be  added  unto  you." 

If  all  things  are  added  unto  you,  ul- 
timately you  will  become  like  our  Fa- 
ther and  God.  It  is  true,  however,  that 
*hen  you  reach  the  position  He  occu- 
pies today.  He  will  be  that  much  fur- 
ther ahead  of  you,  and  it  will  still  be 


I  declare  to  this  great  congregation 
that  President  Snow  is  not  under  the 
bondage  of  sin;  for  he  listened  to  the 
voice  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  he  yielded 
obedience  to  the  Gospel,  and  he  at- 
tained unto  the  fulness  of  these  two 
Priesthoods. 

Here  is  another  revelation  given  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  indicating 
the  glory  and  exaltation  of  those  who 
keep  the  commandments  of  God: 

"And  we  heard  the  voice,  saying 
Write  the  vision,  for  lo!  this  is  the  end 
of  the  vision  of  the  sufferings  of  the 
ungodly! 

"And  again,  we  bear  record,  for  we 


94 


FUNERAL  OF  PRESIDENT  SNOW. 


saw  and  heard,  and  this  is  the  tes- 
timony of  the  Gospel  of  Christ,  concern- 
ing them  who  come  forth  in  the  resur- 
rection of  the  just; 

"They  are  they  who  received  the  tes- 
timony of  Jesus,  and  believed  on  his 
name  and  were  baptized  after  the  man- 
ner of  his  burial,  being  buried  in  the 
water  in  his  name,  and  this  according 
to  the  commandment  which  he  has 
given, 

"That  by  keeping  the  commandments 
they  might  be  washed  and  cleansed 
from  all  their  sins,  and  receive  the 
Holy  Spirit  by  the  laying  on  of  the 
hands  of  him  who  is  ordained  and 
sealed  unto  this  power, 

"And  who  overcome  by  faith,  and  are 
sealed  by  the  Holy  Spirit  of  promise, 
which  the  Father  sheds  f:rth  upon  all 
those  who  are  just  and  true. 

"They  are  they  who  are  the  church 
of  the  first  born. 

"They  are  they  into  whose  hands  the 
Father  has  given  all  things — 

"They  are  they  who  are  Priests  and 
Kings,  who  have  received  of  His  full- 
ness, and  of  his  glory, 

"And  are  Priests  of  th?  Most  High, 
after  the  order  of  Melchisedek,  which 
was  after  the  order  of  Enoch,  which 
was  after  the  order  of  the  Only  Begot- 
ten Son; 

"Wherefore,  as  it  is  written,  they  are 
Gods,  even  the  sons  of  God — 

"Wherefore  all  things  are  theirs, 
whether  life  or  death,  or  things  present 
or  things  to  come,  all  are  theirs  and 
they  are  Christ's  and  Christ  is  God's. 

"And  they  shall  overcome  all  things; 

"Wherefore  let  no  man  glory  in  man, 
but  rather  let  him  glory  in  God,  who 
shall  subdue  all  enemies  under  his 
feet— 

"These  shall  dwell  in  the  presence  of 
God  and  his  Christ  for  ever  and  ever. 

"These  are  they  whom  he  shall  bring 
with  him.  when  he  shall  come  in  the 
clouds  of  heaven,  to  reign  on  the  earth 
over  his  people. 

"These  are  they  who  shall  have  part 
in  the  first  resurrection. 

"These  are  they  who  shall  come  forth 
in  the  resurrection  of  the  just. 

"These  are  they  who  are  come  unto 
Mount  Zion,  and  unto  the  city  of  the 
living  God,  the  heavenly  place,  the  ho- 
liest of  all. 

"These  are  they  who  have  come  to  an 
innumerable  company  of  angels,  to  the 
general  assembly  and  church  of  Enoch, 
and  of  the  first  born. 

"These  are  they  whose  names  are 
written  in  heaven,  where  God  and 
Christ  are  the  judge  of  all. 

"These  are  they  who  are  just  men 
made  perfect  through  Jesus  the  media- 
tor of  the  new  covenant,  who  wrought 
out  this  perfect  atonement  through  the 
sheddng  of  his  own  blood. 

"These  are  they  whose  bodies  are  ce- 
lestial, whose  glory  is  that  of  the  sun, 
even  the  glory  of  God,  the  highest  of 


all,  whose  glory  the  sun  of  the  firma- 
ment is  written  of  as  being  typical. 

I  desire  to  bear  testimony  unto  you 
that  God  has  established  the  immor- 
tality of  the  soul  of  man,  and  that  all 
men  who  will  listen  to  and  keep  His 
commandments  can  have  the  privilege 
of  attaining  that  perfection  which  will 
bring  them  back  into  the  presence  of 
God,  the  Eternal  Father,  and  crown 
them  with  glory,  immortality  and  eter- 
nal life.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was 
a  prophet  of  God;  and  I  say  unto  you 
that  there  is  an  inspired  ministry  upon 
the  earth  today,  authorized  to  preach 
the  everlasting  Gospel  and  administer 
in  the  ordinances  thereof.  I  say  unto 
all  who  are  under  the  sound  of  my 
voice,  If  you  desire  to  come  into  the 
kingdom  of  God,  and  to  be  crowned  an 
heir  of  glory,  immortality  and  eternal 
life  ,  repent  of  your  sins,  be 
baptized  in  water,  and  you  shall 
receive  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the 
laying  on  of  hands,  and  every 
blessing  that  the  Father  hath  in  store 
for  the  faithful  shall  be  yours,  both 
in  time  and  in  eternity;  which  is  my 
testimony  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

Singing  by  the  Temple  choir: 
"Shall  we  meet  bej'ond  the  river?" 

PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 

i 

My  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends, 
we  have  gathered  here  upon  this  oc- 
casion to  pay  a  last  tribute  of  respect 
to  a  great  leader  in  Israel.  The  death 
of  President  Snow  is  known  today  in  all 
the  Stakes  of  Zion,  and  the  Saints  bow 
in  humble  submission  to  the  divine  will. 
We  are  assembled  to  mourn  his  depar- 
ture, and  to  weep  over  his  sacred  re- 
mains. Let  me  tell  you,  it  is  we  who 
weep;  he  does  not  weep.  I  believe  that 
he  is  a  very  happy  man.  His  life  is  an 
open  book.  His  works  are  well  known 
to  the  people.  He  went  down  to  the 
grave  full  of  years,  and  died  in  the 
harness;  and  I  repeat  that  I  believe 
President  Lorenzo  Snow  is  a  very  hap- 
py man.  Oh,  how  happy  he  must  be 
in  this  great  last  victory  of  his  life! 

A  short  time  since,  in  looking  at  an 
old  picture  of  a  group  of  leading  breth- 
ren, I  was  reminded  of  the  mighty 
changes  that  are  taking  place  in  our 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 


95 


for  a  moment,  we  shall  scarcely  realize 
midst,  and,  except  we  pause  and  reflect 
it.  Among  the  faces  shown  in  that 
group  were  the  following:-  Brigham 
Young,  Heber  C.  Kimball,  George  A. 
Smith,  Orson  Hyde,  Orson  Pratt,  John 
Taylor,  Wilford  Woodruff,  Ezra  T.  Ben- 
son Charles  C.  Rich,  Lorenzo  Snow, 
Erastus  Snow,  Franklin  D.  Richards, 
George  Q.  Cannon,  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
Brigham  Young,  Jr.,  and  Albert  Car- 
rington.  All  of  these  stalwart  men 
have  passed  away,  except  two,  and 
those  two  are  present  with  us  today — 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  who  now 
stands  at  the  head,  and  Brigham 
Young,  who  stands  next  to  him.  Those 
who  have  fallen  in  recent  years  are 
John  Taylor,  Abraham  H.  Cannon,  Wil- 
ford Woodruff,  Franklin  D.  Richards, 
George  Q.  Cannon  and  Lorenzo 
Snow.  All  these  men  who  have 
passed  away  have  gone  within  the  very 
short  period  of  fifty-four  years.  But 
notwithstanding  we  do  not  see  their 
faces  in  our  midst  any  more,  the  work 
of  God  moves  on  in  majestic  power.  I 
want  to  testify  to  this  vast  congrega- 
tion that  it  is  the  work  of  God,  and  not 
the  work  of  man,  and  God  will  have 
the  glory. 

But  I  would  more  particularly  speak 
for  a  moment  of  President  Lorenzo 
Snow,  whose  remains  are  before  us.  I 
was  intimately  associated  with  him  for 
some  eight  or  ten  years  in  the  Box- 
elder  Stake  of  Zion,  when  he  was  the 
resident  Apostle  of  that  Stake.  During 
that  time  I  had  the  advantage  of  his 
wisdom  and  experience,  and  I  learned 
to  know  his  worth,  the  integrity  of  his 
heart,  and  his  devotion  to  the  cause  of 
Christ.  My  confidence  in  him  was  made 
firm  and  strong,  and  I  know  that  with 
him  it  was  the  kingdom  of  God  and  His 
righteousness,  and,  as  has  been  re- 
marked, all  other  things  will  be  added 
to  him.  I  was  also  intimately  associat- 
ed with  President  Snow  for  eleven 
months  in  the  penitentiary,  where  he 
was  incarcerated  for  conscience  sake, 
and  I  want  to  say  to  this  great  congre- 
gation of  people  that  he  bore  the  trial 
with  fortitude  and  patience,  notwith- 
standing he  was  a  man  of  refinement 
and  culture.  His  life  in  the  peniten- 
tiary was  an  inspiration  to  your  humble 
servant,  and  also  to  the  members  of 
our  Church  who  were  sent  to  the  peni- 


tentiary. We  looked  upon  him  under 
those  trying  conditions,  and  we  loved 
him.  In  order  to  give  you  an  idea,  in 
brief,  of  his  character  and  how  he  met 
the  condition,  I  will  mention  an  inci- 
dent that  happened  there,  when,  upon 
one  occasion,  he  called  the  brethren  to- 
gether (there  were  some  thirty-five  or 
forty  in  all)  and  said  in  substance: 
"We  have  been  sent  to  this  place  and 
are  associated  together  in  prison.  It 
will  be  our  privilege,  if  we  so  desire, 
to  express  our  feelings  to  the  Lord  by 
offering  up  unto  Him  the  sacred  shout" 
— that  great  and  glorious  shout  which 
has  been  led  by  President  Snow  upon 
many  occasions,  more  particularly 
in  the  great  temple  of  the  Lord  stand- 
ing on  this  block,  at  its  dedication,  and 
also  at  Brigham  City,  and  in  this  Tab- 
ernacle. He  informed  these  prisoners 
for  Christ's  sake  that  it  would  be  their 
privilege  to  raise  their  voices  to  the 
Lord  in  the  sacred  shout,  if  they  felt 
the  spirit  of  it.  An  expression  was 
taken,  and  it  was  the  unanimous  feeling 
of  the  brethren  that  they  avail  them- 
selves of  this  great  and  glorious  priv- 
ilege. The  sacred  shout  was  then  of- 
fered up  within  those  prison  walls — a 
great  and  a  mighty  shout  to  God  and 
the  Lamb.  The  foundations  of  the  pri- 
son seemed  to  shake,  and  the  shout  as- 
cended to  heaven.  I  testify  to  you  it 
is  my  belief  that  that  great  shout  was 
acceptable  to  the  Lord  and  is  recorded 
in  the  library  of  the  celestial  kingdom. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  say 
that  it  was  my  privilege  to  attend  the 
last  fast  meeting  held  by  the  temple 
workers  in  the  Salt  Lake  Temple.  Presi- 
den  Snow  was  present,  though  in  fee- 
ble health.  At  the  conclusion  of  the 
meeting,  he  requested  the  choir  to  sing 
that  beautiful  hymn  which  you  have 
just  heard,  "Shall  we  meet  beyond  the 
river?"  and  for  his  benefit  and  pleas- 
ure it  was  rendered  with  great  pathos 
and  spirit.  After  its  rendition  Presi- 
dent Snow  arose  and  said:  "I  say  to 
you  brethren  and  sisters  of  this  meeting, 
we  shall  meet  beyond  the  river.  God 
bless  you,  God  bless  you,  God  bless 
you."  A  parting  benediction  to  those 
devoted  temple  workers,  and  very  im- 
pressive. 

I  feel  interested  in  the  family  of  Pres- 
ident Snow.  I  pray  that  God  will  let 
His  blessings  and  His  favor  rest  upon 


96 


FUNERAL  OF  PRESIDENT  SNOW. 


them,  that  they  may  be  sustained  and 
encouraged  in  this  hour  of  trial  and  be- 
reavement, and  that  all  Israel  may  be 
comforted,  and  that  we  may  be  able  to 
say,  O  God,  Thy  will  be  done,  not  ours. 
In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  we 
are  under  the  necessity  of  moving 
promptly,  and  as  the  time  Is  very  limit- 
ed I  will  not  attempt  to  make  any  re- 
marks, except  to  say  that  President 
Lorenzo  Snow  was  the  last  among  the 
Apostles  who  were,  in  their  mature 
years,  intimately  acquainted  with  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith;  and  with  the 
exception  perhaps  of  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith  himself,  there  has  never 
stood  a  man  upon  the  earth  in  this 
generation  who  has  borne  a  more  clear- 
cut,  positive  and  direct  testimony  of 
the  divine  mission  of  Joseph  Smith  and 
the  divinity  of  this  great  latter  day 
work  than  President  Lorenzo  Snow  did. 
I  was  acquainted  with  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph in  the  days  of  my  childhood.  With 
the  exception  of  Brother  Birgham 
Young  and  myself,  there  is  not  now 
any  member  of  the  quorum  of  the 
Apostles  who  had  the  privilege  and 
honor  of  being  acquainted  with  the 
Prophet  in  his  lifetime.  I  knew  Presi- 
dent Brigham  Young,  and  I  bear  my 
testimony  to  the  world  that  not  only 
was  Joseph  Smith  inspired  of  God  and 
raised  up  to  lay  the  foundations  of  this 
great  latter  day  work,  but  Brigham 
Young  was  raised  up  and  sustained  by 
the  power  of  Almighty  God  to  continue 
the  mission  of  Joseph  and  to  accom- 
plish the  work  that  he  laid  out  during 
his  lifetime.  I  have  been  connected 
with  President  John  Taylor,  and  I  tes- 
tify that  he  also  was  a  man  of  God.  He 
was  indeed  God's  mouthpiece.  He  was 
a  martyr  with  the  Prophet  Joseph,  for 
his  blood  was  shed  with  Joseph's  and 
Hyrum's,  but  the  Lord  preserved  his 
life,  that  he  might  fulfil  the  mission 
unto  which  he  was  called,  to  preside 
over  the  Church  for  a  season.  I  was 
intimately  acquainted  with  President 
Wilford  Woodruff,  and  I  bear  testimony 
to  the  mission  of  that  gracious,  good 
man.  I  have  also  been  more  or  less  in- 
timate with  President  Snow,  and  I  bear 


testimony  that  his  work  was  of  God. 
You  who  understand  what  he  has  done 
can  testify  to  his  good  work;  but  there 
are  some  things  he  accomplished  which 
may  never  be  known  or  seen;  save 
perhaps  in  the  subdued  spirits  and  in- 
creased devotion  and  faithfulness  of 
those  who  were  immediately  associated 
with  him. 

I  now  desire  to  say  just  one  word  to 
the  widows  and  the  sons  and  daughters 
of  the  Prophet  Lorenzo  Snow.  As 
your  husband  and  father  bore  the  Mel- 
chisedek  Priesthood  and  knew  whereof 
he  testified — for  he  was  not  deceived 
nor  misguided  in  his  knowledge  of  the 
mission  of  Joseph  Smith  and  of  the 
divinity  of  this  great  latter-day  work, 
but  possessed  an  absolute  knowledge 
from  the  Source  of  all  truth — I  plead 
with  the  sons  and  with  the  daughters 
of  President  Lorenzo  Snow  to  so  shape 
their  course  in  the  future  that  they 
may  follow  in  his  footsteps  ia  connec- 
tion with  this  great  '  work,  so  that 
when  their  mission  in  this  world  shall 
be  finished  and  they  shall  be  called 
hence  to  meet  their  father,  they  may 
do  so  proudly,  joyously,  and  with  an 
upright  mien,  having  an  assurance  in 
their  souls  that  they  have  obeyed  his 
counsel,  followed  in  his  footsteps,  and 
to  their  latest  breath  have  been  true 
to  the  cause  of  Zion.  That  God  may 
grant  this  to  the  offspring  of  President 
Lorenzo  Snow  from  generation  to  gen- 
eration, and  that  the  blessings,  peace 
and  consoling  influence  of  the  Holy 
Spirit  may  rest  mightily  upon  the  wid- 
ows of  this  good  man,  to  comfort  their 
hearts,  to  buoy  up  their  spirits,  and  to 
open  up  their  way,  that  they  may  not 
lack  while  they  shall  remain  with  us, 
is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

MARCH  OF  THE  PROCESSION. 

The  procession,  which  formed  at  the 
north  side  of  the  Tabernacle,  moved 
along  the  north  side  of  South  Temple 
street  to  the  railroad  depot,  and  ha"d 
to  pass  through  a  vast  throng  of  peo- 
ple, who  lined  the  sidewalk  the  entire 
dis  ranee. 

The  procession  was  headed  by  Chief 
Hilton  and  a  platoon  of  police,  followed 
by  Major  Young  and  Bishop  Empey. 
Held's  band,  with  twenty-four  pieces, 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 


97 


came  next,  plajang  a  funeral  march, 
then  came  President  Smith  and  Apostle 
Young.  At  intervals  the  casket  was 
lowered  upon  supports  to  permit  the 
pall-bearers  to  be  relieved  by  another 
set.  The  men  who  carried  the  floral 
offerings  marched  in  front  of  the  Apos- 
tles. The  smaller  tributes  were  carried 
by  ladies  representing  the  Sunday 
school  and  the  Y.  L.  M.  I.  A. 

After  the  casket  came  the  members  of 
the  family,  the  presiding  Bishopric, 
wives  of  the  General  Authorities,  presi- 
dents of  Stakes  and  missions,  Bishop- 
ric of  the  Eighteenth  ward,  in  which 
President  Snow  resided,  general  boards 
of  the  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union, 
Relief  Societies,  Y.  M.  M.  I.  A.,  Y.  L.  M. 
I.  A.,  Primary  associations,  Church 
school  and  religion  classes.  Then  came 
the  business  directorates  of  Z.  C.  M.  I., 
Zion's  Savings  Bank  and  Trust  com- 
pany, Utah  Light  and  Power  com- 
pany, Salt  Lake  and  Los  Angeles  Ry. 
company,  Salteir  Beach  company, 
Grass  Creek  Coal  company  and  the 
general  public. 

Ihere  was  a  large  concourse  of  peo- 
ple at  the  depot  to  see  the  train  leave. 
The  casket  was  placed  in  the  rear  car 
and  those  who  held  tickets  promptly 
boarded  the  train,  which  began  to  move 
in  the  very  minute  that  was  scheduled. 

JOURNEY  TO  BRIGHAM  CITY. 

The  funeral  train  was  composed  of 
seven  cars  and  the  journey  to  Brigham 
City  was  made  in  the  shortest  time  on 
record.  As  the  cars  sped  past  town 
and  village  groups  of  people  could  be 
seen  on  either  side  of  the  track,  until 
it  seemed  as  though  the  string  of 
groups  from  Salt  Lake  to  Brigham  City 
were  within  but  a  short  distance  of  one 
another. 

The  casket  was  placed  in  the  obser- 
vation end  of  General  Manager  Ban- 
croft's private  car  No.  5.  The  coach 
was  modestly  decorated  with  wreaths 
of  flowers  in  the  windows  and  festoons 
of  smilax  and  ferns  arranged  about  the 
interior.  The  remains  were  accom- 
panied in  the  private  car  by  President 
Smith,  Apostle  Brigham  Young  and  tlw 
pallbearers.  In  the  next  car  forward 
were  the  relatives,  and  the  rest  of  the 
cars  were  occupied  by  the  remainder  of 
the  funeral  party. 


About  750  people  were  on  the  train 
including  all  the  leading  authorities  of 
the  Church,  Governor  Wells,  and  other 
prominent  citizens.  There  was  but  one 
stop  made  on  the  trip,  and  that  was 
five  minutes  at  Ogden,  where  the  train 
was  met  by  the  Sunday  school  children 
of  the  city. 

At  3  o'clock  the  train  reached  Brig- 
ham City,     which     President  Snow 
had  founded  and  where  he  had  spent 
the  most  active  years    of    his  life. 
The    reception    there  was  altogether 
worthy.    In  response  to  the  request  of 
the  committee  the  citizens  of  Brigham 
City  and  Boxelder  county  were  at  the 
depot  with  over  100  teams  to  convey  the 
Salt  Lake  contingent  to  the  cemetery. 
The  work  of  getting  the  people  into  the 
carriages  was  put  through  with  dis- 
patch and  the  funeral  procession  began 
to  move  in  a  short  time.    The  line  of 
carriages  extended  over  one  mile.  Such 
a  funeral,  Brigham  City  never  witness- 
ed before  in  all  her  history.  Every 
vehicle  was  numbered  and    took  its 
place  in  the  procesion  indicated  by  the 
number,  and  the  same  vehicles  con- 
veyed their  respective  passengers  to 
arid      from     the     cemetery.  This 
greatly    facilitated    the     moving  of 
the  crowd  and  the  train  was  enabled 
to  start  on  the  return  trip  promptly 
on  schedule  time.   The  column  covered 
more  than  half-way  from  the  depot  to 
the  cemetery,  and  about  300  vehicles 
were  in  the  procession.   The  latter  was 
led  by  President  Kelly  of  the  Boxelder 
Stake  and  his  counselors,  followed  by 
Held's  band,  and  the    Apostles,  pall 
bearers  and  First  Council  of  Seventy. 
Then  came  the  hearse,  drawn  by  four 
white  horses,  with  a  groom  at  the  head 
of  each.    The  hearse  was  followed  by 
the  members  of  the  family,  the  wagon 
with  the  flowers  and  then  the  long  line 
of  vehicles.    The  procesion  was  under 
the     direction     of     Bishop  Empey, 
Major    Richard    W.    Young,  General 
C.    S.    Burton,  of    Salt    Lake,  and 
Mayor  Boden  of  Brigham  City,  Sheriff 
Cordon,  Marshal  White,  Wilford  Reed- 
er.  Isaac  H.  Jensen  and  other  citizens 
of  Brigham  City.    As  the  procession 
moved  to  the  cemetery  the  band  played 
"General  Sherman's   Funeral  March," 
Beethoven's     "Funeral     March,"  and 
"Dolores."   The  line  of  march  was  east 


98 


FUNERAL  OF  PRESIDENT  SNOW. 


on  Forest  street  to  Main.south  to  Third 
South  and  east  to  the  cemetery,  which 
is  at  Fourth  East.  The  buildings  were 
draped  in  mourning,  and  the  sidewalks 
were  lined  with  people.  One  of  the 
most  beautiful  spectacles  was  the  line 
of  Sunday  school  children,  1,057  of  them 
were  stationed  along  Main  from  Forest 
street  to  Third  South. 

THE  BURIAL. 
The  hearse  proceeded  to  the  Snow 
burial  lot,  in  the  Brigham  City  ceme- 
tery. The  casket  was  taken  from  the 
hearse  and  opened  for  a  brief  space  to 
give  the  people  of  Brigham  City  an  op- 
portunity to  take  a  last  view  of  the 
beloved  face.  During  this  time  the 
band  played,  "Nearer,  My  God,  to 
Thee."  The  four  walls  of  the  grave 
were  built  of  brick  and  lined  with 
white    broadcloth.      Evergreens  and 


flowers  were  strewn  on  the  bottom  and 
as  the  coffin  was  being  lowered  into  the 
receptacle  the  Brigham  City  choir,  un- 
der the  leadership  of  S.  M.  Lee,  sang 
the  "Resurrection"  hymn.  The  grave 
was  dedicated  by  Apostle  George  Teas- 
dale.  Apostle  Clawson,  in  behalf  of  the 
family,  expressed  thanks  to  the  people 
of  Boxelder  Stake  for  their  excellent 
help.  The  services  at  the  grave  ended 
by  the  choir  singing,  "Shall  We  Meet 
Beyond  the  River?" 

Three  red  sandstone  blocks  formed 
the  top  of  the  grave,  and  they  were 
cemented  to  the  brick  walls,  and  the 
grave  was  thus  sealed.  The  box  in 
which  the  coffin  was  encased  was  made 
of  polished  wood  with  silver  screws. 
When  the  grave  was  heaped  with  flow- 
ers and  all  had  taken  a  parting  look  at 
the  sacred  spot  they  turned  their  faces 
toward  their  homes. 


flew  Publications 


j  NOW  ON  SALE  BY 

I  THE  DESERET  NEWS 


4*  . 

| 

*  RISE  AND  FALL  OF  NAUVOO, 

t  By  B.  H.  Roberts.    Cloth  $1.25. 

±  niSSOURI  PERSECUTIONS, 

t  .    By  B.  H.  Roberts.    Cloth  $1.25. 

J  SALVATION  FOR  THE  LIVING  AND  THE  DEAD, 

f  (Liberality  of  the  Mormon  Faith),  by  Charles  W. 

5  Penrose.     A  pamphlet  of  thirteen  pages.  Price, 

j  3  cents;  2  for  5  cents. 

4-  THE  QOSPEL,  | 

^  By  B.  H.  Roberts.    Revised  and  enlarged.    Cloth,  4* 

4-  75  cents;  leather  gilt,  $1.25;  leather  extra  gilt,  $1.50.  ? 

i  THE  GREAT  SALT  LAKE,  J 

BP 


1' 


116  pages,  embossed  Princess  covers,  by  Dr.  James 
E.  Talmage.    Price,  25  cents. 


*  LIFE  OF  D.  W.  PATTEN, 

By  L.  A.  Wilson.   77  pages,  bound  in  board.  Price,  ? 
X  20  cents.    And  £ 


z 


%  DANISH  DOCTRINE  AND  COVENANTS,  $ 

X  — — —  *** 

a.  Carefully   revised   by  Apostle   Anthon  H.  Lund,  "f 

1  Price,  $1.00.  j 

X  Special  Discounts  to  Dealers  and  Agents.  t 


TO  MISSIONARIES: 

To  aid  missionaries  in 
their  fields  of  labor  the 

SEMI-WEEKLY 
NEWS 

Will  be  sent  to  subscribers 
sent  in  by  them  at 

ONE  DOLLAR  A  YEAR 


This  offer  applies  only  to  sub- 
scribers in  the  missionary  field. 


