Owl  dhrndfied,  JAi/deentk. 
ANNUAL 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

OftoJL  4, 5  and,  6,  J943 

With  Report  of  Discourses 


Published  by  the 

Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

PRINTED  IN  THE  UNITED  STATES  OP  AMERICA 


FOR  YOUR  CONSIDERATION 

WE  PRESENT 

JhsL  SodIl  ofc,  VyiffwuwL 

The  latest  edition  comes  to  you  in  four  different  bindings.  Of  course  the  text 
remains  the  same. 

Missionary  Edition 50o — by  modi  60c 

Cloth  Binding,  Embossed $1.50 

Full  Morocco $3.50 

3>Jwwl  filowJbojf  to  (p/wph&L 

AND 

WjothsLtL  SiifdsiA,  pvoifL  ihsL  Book  ofc  TTZoimjotL 

By  WILLIAM  A.  MORTON 

This  delightful  volume  republished  as  a  reiteration  of  the  stories  that  children 
love  to  hear  and  to  read. 

Price  in  Cloth $1.25 

J(cj^  Jto  Jhsoloqn* 

By  PARLEY  P.  PRATT 
(Reprint  'warranted  by  demand) 

"Aims  to  embody  in  a  concise  and  somewhat  original  manner  and  style. 
a  general  view  of  the  Science  of  Theology  as  gathered  from  revelation,  history, 
prophecy,  reason  and  analogy." 

Price  $1.00 

dtiAt&u^  ofc.  JhsL  QhwicPu 

Presented  in  two  important  sets  and  recommended  to  you  as  a  vital  record. 

DOCUMENTARY  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH 
By  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
Presented  in  7  volumes 

COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Presented  in  6  volumes 

For  prices  and  other  information  we  urge  you  to  write  to  us. 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


The 

One  Hundred  Thirteenth  Annual  Conference 

of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 

of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Thirteenth  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  held  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 
Sunday,  Monday,  and  Tuesday,  April  4,  5,  and  6,  1943. 

Sessions  of  the  Conference  were  held  in  the  great  Tabernacle  Sunday 
at  10  a.m.  and  2  p.m.,  Monday  at  10  a.m.,  2  p.m.,  and  7  p.m.,  and  Tuesday 
at  10  a.m. 

Through  the  courtesy  of  Radio  Station  KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City,  the 
proceedings  of  the  Sunday  morning  and  Monday  morning  meetings 
were  broadcast  for  the  benefit  of  the  general  public. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  was  present  and  presided  at  all  the  sessions 
of  the  Conference  with  the  exception  of  the  Sunday  afternoon  meeting. 
President  David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency, 
conducted  the  services  at  all  the  sessions. 

Owing  to  conditions  incident  to  the  War  emergency,  the  general 
public  were  not  invited  to  attend  the  Conference.  Those  present  consisted 
of  the  following: 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  Present 

The  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  and 
David  O.  McKay. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson,  George 
Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Stephen  L 
Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman,  John  A.  Widtsoe,  Joseph  F.  Merrill, 
Charles  A.  Callis,  A.  E.  Bowen,  *  and  Harold  B.  Lee. 

Assistants  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles :  Marion  G.  Rom- 
ney,  Thomas  E.  McKay,  Clifford  E.  Young,  Alma  Sonne,  and  Nicholas 
G.  Smith. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy :  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R. 
Ivins,  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  John  H.  Taylor,  Rufus  K.  Hardy,  Richard  L. 
Evans,  and  Oscar  A.  Kirkham. 

The  Presiding  Bishopric:  LeGrand  Richards,  Marvin  O.  Ashton, 
and  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin. 


*Elder  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon  absent  because  of  illness. 


2  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,    April    4  First   Day 

Other  Authorities  and  Officers  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  A. 
William  Lund,  assistant. 

Members  of  the  General  Committee,  Church  Welfare  Program. 

Superintendence  of  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union. 

Superintendency  and  General  Board  of  the  Y. M.M.I. A. 

Genealogical  Society  General  Board. 

Commissioner,  Seminary  supervisors,  and  members  of  the  Church 
Board  of  Education. 

Temple  Presidencies. 

Presidencies  of  Stakes,  former  Presidents  of  Stakes,  Patriarchs, 
High  Councilmen,  Presidencies  of  High  Priests  quorums,  Presidents 
of  Seventies  quorums,  Presidencies  of  Elders  quorums,  Bishoprics  of 
Wards,  Presidencies  of  Independent  Branches  in  organized  Stakes,  Presi- 
dents of  Dependent  Branches  in  organized  Stakes,  and  Presidents  of 
Stake  missions. 

FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  first  session  of  the  Conference  convened  Sunday  morning,  April 
4,  at  10  o'clock. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  was  present  and  furnished  the  music  for 
this  session. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

It  is  my  privilege  to  bid  you  welcome  to  this  the  opening  session  of 
the  113th  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  For  the  third  time  the  attendance  at  a  General  Conference 
of  the  Church  must  be  limited  because  of  the  restrictions  of  war. 

With  all  our  hearts  we  pray  that  the  terrible  conflict  which  is  now 
devastating  the  world  might  soon  be  brought  to  an  end,  and  that  right- 
eousness and  peace  will  eventually  permeate  the  hearts  of  men. 

President  Grant  who  is  present  and  presiding  at  this  meeting  has 
requested  that  I  conduct  the  exercises. 

Others  of  the  General  Authorities  present  are  the  two  Counselors 
in  the  First  Presidency,  members  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  the 
Patriarch  to  the  Church,  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve,  Presidents  of  the 
First  Council  of  the  Seventy,  and  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 

The  congregation  is  made  up  of  the  Stake,  Ward,  and  Quorum  of- 
ficers of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  as  heretofore  announced  in  the 
public  press. 

Through  the  courtesy  of  Radio  Station  KSL  the  proceedings  of 
this  meeting  are  being  broadcast.    'It  will  be  necessary,  therefore,  for 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  3 

the  information  of  the  radio1  audience  to  make  some  announcements 
which  to  you  here  assembled  may  seem  unnecessary. 

There  have  been  provided  1500  homes  for  Conference  visitors. 
Only  about  100  have  been  called  for  as  yet,  although  it  is  reported  a 
number  could  not  find  accommodations  in  hotels  last  night.  Reserva- 
tions may  be  made  through  Marion  G.  Romney,  312  Union  Pacific 
Building. 

May  we  also  ask  that  all  members  of  the  Priesthood  try  to  be  at  the 
gates  at  least  five  minutes  before  the  opening  of  each  meeting.  If  you 
will  do  this  the  brethren  of  the  General  Authorities  will  have  time  to  get 
into  their  seats  by  the  opening  of  each  session. 

Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  will  direct  the  music  at  this  session,  and 
Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  will  be  at  the  organ. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "O  Ye  Mountains 
High." 

Elder  Spencer  Kimball,  President  of  the  Mount  Graham  Stake, 
offered  the  invocation. 


President  David  0.  McKay:  This  vast  audience  of  Priesthood, 
filling  as  it  does  the  Tabernacle  to  capacity,  and  many  listening  in  over 
the  radio,  will  be  delighted  to  know  that  President  Grant  has  dictated 
a  message  for  the  opening  of  this  Conference,  and  has  asked  that  I  read 
this  message. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

To  the  Latter-day  Saints  all  over  the  world  I  send  my  love  and  my 
greetings. 

My  physician,  Dr.  Gill  Richards,  pleaded  with  me  not  to  speak  at 
this  conference,  but  he  gave  me  perfect  liberty  to  dictate  anything  I 
wanted  to  say,  I  am  therefore  sitting  down  to  dictate,  and  if  I  were  to 
dictate  all  I  would  like  to  say  I  fear  my  sermon  would  be  so  long  very  few 
would  read  it. 

Sympathy  for  Those  With  Sons  in  the  War 

I  want  to  say  that  my  heart  goes  out  in  the  deepest  sympathy  and  in 
the  most  sincere  and  earnest  prayer  that  I  have  ever  offered  for  the  com- 
forting influence  of  the  Lord  to  be  given  to  the  brethren  and  sisters  who 
have  sons  in  the  war  at  the  present  time.  I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless 
each  and  every  boy  who  has  been  called  or  who  has  gone  into  the  service, 
and  that  He  will  help  each  of  them  to  live  in  accordance  with  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  gospel,  so  that  each  may  have  a  claim  to  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord  to  the  full  extent  that  accords  with  His  wisdom.  I  pray  that,  so  far 
as  it  accords  with  the  providence  of  the  Lord,  each  of  them  may  be  pre- 
served from  accident,  sickness,  and  death  to  return  in  due  course  to  his 
loved  ones.  I  pray  God  to  help  them  to  stand  up  under  the  terrible  strain 
which  they  must  meet.    I  appeal  to  the  Lord  to  bring  the  war  to  an  end 


4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,    April  4  First   Day 

at  the  earliest  possible  date.  My  heart  goes  out  to  all  of  you.  One  of 
my  daughters  has  six  boys,  five  of  whom  have  been  called  to  the  service. 
Her  two  daughters  are  married,  so  that  her  family  consists  of  herself, 
her  husband,  and  one  son.  There  are  many  others  in  the  same  condition. 
Each  one  of  my  daughters  has  sons  or  daughters  that  are  in  the  war,  and 
I  pray  earnestly  for  the  comforting  influence  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
to  be  given  them  to  assist  them  in  carrying  their  burdens.  I  am  praying 
with  all  my  heart  and  soul  for  the  end  of  this  war  as  soon  as  the  Lord 
can  see  fit  to  have  it  stop,  and  I  am  praying  earnestly  for  the  sweet  and 
comforting  influence  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  be  with  each  and  all 
who'  have  their  loved  ones  in  the  war. 

Expression  of  Gratitude  for  Return  to  Health 

I  expressed  my  delight  in  the  following  language  years  ago  when  I 
came  back  after  a  serious  operation : 

It  is  a  source  of  great  pleasure  to  me  to  once  more  stand  before  the 
Latter-day  Saints  in  this  Tabernacle.  As  most  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
assembled  are  aware,  it  is  nearly  a  year  since  I  occupied  this  position,  during 
which  time  I  have  undergone  a  very  serious  surgical  operation,  which, 
according  to  medical  journals,  should  have  ended  my  life.  It  is  recorded 
that  it  is  impossible  for  a  man  to  recover  who  is  in  the  condition  that  I  was 
found  to  be  at  the  time  of  the  operation.  But  I  am  grateful  to  be  here ;  and 
I  feel  to  thank  my  Heavenly  Father,  and  the  brethren  of  the  Priesthood 
who  administered  to  me  and  blessed  me  during  the  ordeal  and  promised  me 
that  I  should  recover.  Since  that  time  I  have  also  been  very  sick  with 
pneumonia.  Some  years  ago  I  tried  to  insure  my  life,  but  the  companies 
refused.  Their  physicians  told  me  that  if  I  ever  took  pneumonia  I  would  die. 
But  I  am  still  here,  notwithstanding  the  report  of  the  physicians  of  the 
life  insurance  companies.  It  is  a  source  of  pleasure  to  me  to  again  mingle 
my  voice  with  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  to  bear  testimony  of  the  knowledge 
that  I  possess  of  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged. 

Architects  of  Our  Own  Lives 

I  express  my  delight  once  more  today  in  dictating  a  message  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  Years  ago  I  made  a  short  speech  that  lasted  a  minute 
and  a  half  to  the  effect  that  we  were  the  architects  of  our  own  lives,  and 
that  we  and  we  alone  are  responsible  for  not  making  a  success  of  life. 
What  I  said  was  as  follows : 

If  you  want  to  know  how  to  be  saved,  I  can  tell  you :  it  is  by  keeping 
the  commandments  of  God.  No  power  on  earth,  no  power  beneath  the  earth 
will  ever  prevent  you  or  me  or  any  Latter-day  Saint  from  being  saved, 
except  ourselves.  We  are  the  architects  of  our  own  lives,  not  only  of 
the  lives  here,  but  the  lives  to  come  in  the  eternity.  We  ourselves  are  able 
to  perform  every  duty  and  obligation  that  God  has  required  of  men.  No 
commandment  was  ever  given  to  us  but  that  God  has  given  us  the  power 
to  keep  that  commandment.  If  we  fail,  we,  and  we  alone,  are  responsible 
for  the  failure,  because  God  endows  His  servants  from  the  President  of  the 
Church  down  to  the  humblest  member,  with  all  the  ability,  all  the  knowledge, 
all  the  power  that  is  necessary,  faithfully,  diligently,  and  properly  to  dis- 
charge every  duty  and  every  obligation  that  rests  upon  them,  and  we,  and  we 
alone,  will  have  to  answer  if  we  fail  in  this  regard. 

This  would  be  forty-odd  years  ago.    These  were  my  sentiments  as 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  5 

expressed  then,  and  I  repeat  them  as  my  sentiments  today,  with  all  my 
heart  and  soul. 

Days  Full  of  Joy 

I  want  to  thank  the  people  for  their  prayers  in  my  behalf.  I  have 
not  been  well  now  for  a  period  of  more  than  three  years,  and  yet  during 
all  that  time  I  have  never  suffered  any  pain.  My  days  have  been  full  of 
joy.  I  have  seen  the  Church  grow  in  these  years  as  I  have  never  seen  it 
grow  before.  It  has  been  wonderful.  The  business  institutions  in  which 
the  Church  is  interested — the  sugar  business,  the  key  to  the  establishment 
of  which  was  given  through  the  inspiration  of  the  living  God  to  Wilford 
Woodruff — have  been  greatly  prospered.  In  every  respect  the  advance- 
ment of  the  Church  during  the  time  of  my  illness  has  been  so  great  that 
this  has  been  a  period  of  real,  genuine  joy  and  happiness  to  me.  I  want 
to  thank  all  the  people  connected  with  the  various  institutions  in  which 
the  Church  is  heavily  interested,  for  the  wonderful  work  they  have  done. 
I  have  not  the  language  to  express  the  gratitude  I  have  felt  and  the  joy 
I  have  experienced  during  these  three  years  because  of  the  marvelous 
growth  of  the  Church  and  the  prosperity  that  has  attended  it  on  every 
hand.  During  this  time  my  Counselors  have  been  most  helpful  to  me.  I 
have  been  relieved  of  the  drudgery  of  the  work.  I  have  been  informed 
on  everything  that  was  going  on,  and  I  repeat  the  Church  has  never  before 
experienced  anything  like  the  prosperity  it  has  enjoyed  during  this  time. 
The  way  in  which  these  brethren  have  assisted  me,  relieved  me  of  burdens, 
responded  to  every  suggestion,  fills  my  heart  with  unexpressible  gratitude 
to  them  and  to  my  Heavenly  Father. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  prosperity  that  has  come  to  me  and  that  I  have 
been  able  to  help  in  the  erection  of  temples  and  in  contributing  to  a  fund 
to  be  used  in  the  erection  of  other  temples  not  yet  built.  One  of  the  joys 
of  my  life  fifty  years  ago  was  the  dedication  of  the  Salt  Lake  Temple.  As 
a  child  I  commenced  by  donating  the  amount  of  twenty-five  cents  a  month 
and  continued  making  contributions  for  that  purpose  until  finally  the  little 
stake  over  which  I  presided — the  Tooele  Stake — raised  fifteen  thousand 
dollars  as  a  special  contribution  just  before  the  dedication.  I  am  grateful 
to  join  with  you  in  commemorating  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  its 
dedication. 

The  Lord  has  been  good  to  me,  and  he  has  answered  the  prayers  of 
the  people  as  well  as  my  own  prayers  that  while  the  Lord  should  leave  me 
here  upon  earth  I  should  be  able  physically  and  mentally  to  go  forward 
in  the  furtherance  of  His  work.  I  feel  that  the  recovery  I  have  made 
has  been  really  miraculous. 

Gratitude  for  Increase  in  Tithing 

I  am  grateful  to  the  Lord  for  the  way  in  which  He  has  opened  the 
hearts  of  the  people  and  led  them  to  pay  their  tithing.  The  Church  has 
never  in  all  its  history  been  in  as  strong  a  financial  position  as  it  is  today. 
When  I  think  that  in  President  Woodruff's  time  the  credit  of  the  Church 
was  so  low  that  he  could  not  borrow  a  thousand  dollars  and  that  now  the 


6  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,   April   4  First  Day 

credit  is  so  high  we  could  borrow  any  sum  that  we  might  need,  I  am  made 
happy  beyond  all  expression.  We  have  enough  money  to  do  all  the  things 
which  it  is  necessary  for  us  to  do  in  carrying  on  the  work  of  the  Church. 
I  want  to  say  to  the  people  that  we  are  guarding  the  funds  which  you 
place  in  our  hands.  We  are  spending  them  only  for  the  advancement 
of  the  work  of  the  Lord  and  we  feel  that  these  are  trust  funds  of  the  very 
highest  character.  Our  tithing  for  the  year  1942  was  more  than  fifty 
percent  greater  than  in  1941,  and  notwithstanding  the  enormous  burden 
of  taxes  which  the  people  now  have  to  pay  and  notwithstanding  the  many 
and  great  calls  which  are  made  upon  them  to  buy  government  bonds,  to 
make  Red  Cross  contributions,  to  contribute  to  community  chests,  and 
to  make  also  their  regular  Church  contributions  such  as  Fast  offerings, 
Welfare  contributions,  and  the  like,  nevertheless  for  the  opening  months 
of  this  year  our  tithing  is  far  and  away  beyond  what  it  was  for  the  same 
period  in  1942. 

Temple  Building  to  Continue 

I  am  happy  to  tell  you  that  we  have  purchased  in  the  Oakland  area 
another  temple  site.  The  negotations  have  been  finally  concluded  and 
the  title  has  passed.  The  site  is  located  on  the  lower  foothills  of  East 
Oakland  on  a  rounded  hill  overlooking  San  Francisco  Bay.  We  shall  in 
due  course  build  there  a  splendid  temple. 

We  are  prepared  to  go  forward  with  the  building  of  the  Los  Angeles 
Temple  on  the  beautiful  site  we  have  there  just  so  soon  as  it  is  possible  to 
do  so  in  view  of  priorities  and  other  war-time  conditions. 

The  Idaho  Falls  Temple  is  nearing  completion.  This  is  a  beautiful 
building.  It  is  being  artistically  decorated  and  furnished,  and  we  look 
forward  to  its  dedication  in  the  not  distant  future. 

Prayers  for  Youth  and  Parents 

I  am  grateful  to  our  Heavenly  Father  for  the  faith  and  faithfulness 
of  this  great  people,  for  their  devotion  to  His  service,  for  their  effort  and 
determination  to  live  in  accordance  with  His  laws  and  commandments. 

I  thank  our  Heavenly  Father  that  He  has  given  them  the  strength 
and  courage  to  resist  evils  as  well  as  they  have  been  able  to  do  so.  I  pray 
that  He  will  bless  the  youth  of  the  Church  and  give  them  strength  to 
overcome  temptation.  I  pray  that  He  will  bring  into  the  heart  of  every 
boy  and  of  every  girl  a  knowledge  that  cleanliness  is  next  to  godliness, 
that  they  must  live  clean  both  in  mind  and  in  body,  that  they  will  under- 
stand that  the  sin  of  unchastity  is  to  the  Lord  next  to  the  sin  of  murder. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  give  to  the  parents  of  the  youth  an  under- 
standing and  appreciation  of  the  dangers  and  temptations  to  which  their 
children  are  subjected,  that  they  may  be  led  and  guided  to  encourage 
their  children,  to  direct  them,  to  teach  them  how  to  live  as  the  Lord  would 
have  them  live.  The  Lord  has  said  He  would  sift  His  people,  and  I  pray 
that  when  that  sifting  comes  no  parent  may  have  failed  to  do  his  duty,  and 
no  child  shall  have  failed  to  obey  the  commandments  of  the  Lord. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  7 

Blessing  and  Commendation  of  Faithful  Saints 

Under  the  authority  and  power  given  to  me,  with  all  my  heart  and 
soul  I  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Again  I  thank  them  from  the  bottom 
of  my  heart  for  their  faith  and  for  their  prayers  in  my  behalf,  and  I  am 
grateful  to  have  had  their  faith  and  prayers.  I  believe  that  all  true, 
faithful,  diligent  Latter-day  Saints  have  given  to  me  the  best  that  is  in 
them,  in  supplicating  God  in  my  behalf,  for  His  Spirit,  for  health,  for  vigor 
in  body  and  mind.  I  pray  that  God's  blessings  may  be  upon  Israel  and 
upon  all  honest  men  everywhere.  I  pray  with  all  my  heart  that  those  who 
have  made  mistakes  will  repent ;  and  by  this  we  may  know  that  they  have 
repented — they  will  confess  their  sins  and  depart  from  them. 

I  desire  especially  to  extend  my  blessings  to  all  the  men  and  women 
who  preside  in  all  the  stakes  of  Zion  throughout  the  Church,  in  all  the 
missions,  in  all  the  wards,  in  all  the  quorums  of  the  Priesthood,  and  in 
all  the  auxiliary  organizations.  I  am  convinced  beyond  the  shadow  of 
a  doubt  that  there  cannot  be  found  in  any  part  of  the  world  other  men 
and  women  giving  so  unselfishly  of  their  time,  of  their  talents,  and  of  the 
best  that  is  in  them,  for  the  salvation  of  the  souls  of  men.  I  am  satisfied 
that  there  are  no  other  people  who  are  devoting  so  much  of  their  time,  of 
their  money,  of  their  thoughts,  and  of  their  very  being  for  the  advance- 
ment of  God's  work  at  home  and  abroad,  as  are  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
And  with  all  the  power  that  God  has  given  me,  I  desire  to  bless  the  men 
and  women  who  are  thus  giving  their  time  and  thought  and  are  setting 
examples  that  are  worthy  of  imitation,  not  only  of  those  over  whom  they 
preside,  but  of  all  men.  Every  man  and  woman  who  is  laboring  for  the 
salvation  of  the  souls  of  men  and  keeping  the  commandments  of  God  is 
entitled  to  be  blessed,  and  I  pray  God  that  His  blessings  may  come  to 
them. 

A  Testimony  of  the  Truth 

I  want  to  bear  you  my  witness  that  no  man  or  woman  ever  lived  and 
kept  the  laws  and  commandments  of  God  and  who'  lived  according  to 
the  teachings  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  God  did  not  love  and 
honor.  This  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  which  I  have  embraced  and  which 
you  have  embraced  is  in  very  deed  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation  which 
has  been  again  revealed  to  the  earth.  It  is  the  same  gospel  that  was  pro- 
claimed by  our  Lord  and  Master  Jesus  Christ. 

I  bear  witness  to  you  here  today  that  we  have  the  truth,  that  God  has 
spoken  again,  that  every  gift,  every  grace,  every  power  and  every  endow- 
ment that  came  through  the  holy  Priesthood  of  the  living  God  in  the  days 
of  the  Savior  are  enjoyed  today.  I  rejoice  in  knowing  that  these  things 
that  should  be  enjoyed — the  blessings,  the  healing  power  of  Almighty 
God,  the  inspiration  of  His  Spirit  whereby  men  and  women  have  mani- 
festations from  Him,  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  God  whereby  people 
speak  by  new  tongues  and  have  the  interpretation  thereof,  and  each  and 
every  grace  and  gift — are  enjoyed  today  by  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  know  that  God  lives.  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  I  know  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God.     I  have  reached  out  my  hand.     I 


8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,    April   4  First  Day 

have  plucked  the  fruits  of  the  gospel.  I  have  eaten  of  them,  and  they  are 
sweet,  yea,  above  all  that  is  sweet.  I  know  that  God  chose  His  prophet 
Joseph  Smith  and  gave  him  instructions  and  authority  to  establish  this 
work,  and  that  the  power  and  the  influence  of  Joseph  Smith  are  now  being 
felt  as  the  angel  promised.  His  name  is  known  for  good  or  evil  all  over 
the  world,  but  for  evil  only  by  those  who  malign  him.  Those  who  know 
him,  those  who  know  his  teachings,  know  his  life  was  pure  and  that  his 
teachings  were  in  very  deed  God's  law.  I  know  that  we  have  the  plan  of 
life  and  salvation,  not  only  for  the  living  but  for  the  dead.  We  have  all 
that  is  necessary  both  for  our  own  salvation,  that  we  may  be  in  very  deed 
saviors  upon  Mount  Zion  and  enter  into  the  temples  of  our  God,  and  also 
for  those  of  our  ancestors  who  have  died  without  a  knowledge  of  the 
gospel. 

I  say  again:  This  is  the  same  gospel  that  was  proclaimed  by  our 
Lord  and  Master  Jesus  Christ,  for  which  He  gave  His  life  in  testimony, 
and  that  the  lives  of  our  own  Prophet  and  Patriarch  were  given  as  a 
witness  to  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged.  Mormonism, 
so-called,  is  in  very  deed  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  God  has 
given  me  a  witness  of  these  things.  I  know  them,  and  I  bear  witness  to 
you,  in  all  humility,  and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

During  the  period  from  10:30  to  11:00  a.m.,  the  regular  Sunday 
morning  nationwide  broadcast  of  choral  and  organ  music  and  brief 
spoken  comment  was  presented  as  part  of  the  general  conference  pro- 
ceedings. This  program,  which  will  complete  its  fourteenth  year  of 
continuous  nationwide  broadcasting  in  July  of  this  year,  was  presented 
by  the  Tabernacle  choir  and  organ,  and  broadcast  through  the  courtesy 
and  facilities  of  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  System's  coast-to-coast  net- 
work, throughout  the  United  States.  The  broadcast,  written  and  an- 
nounced by  Elder  Richard  L.  Evans,  originated  with  radio  station  KSL, 
Salt  Lake  City,  and  was  presented  as  follows : 

TABERNACLE  BROADCAST 

(The  organ  and  choir  broke  into  "Gently  Raise"  singing  words  to 
end  of  second  line,  from  which  point  choir  hummed  for  announcer's 
background  to  end  of  verse.) 

Richard  L.  Evans :  As  another  week  of  life  begins  for  all  men,  we 
beckon  your  thoughts  again  unto  the  hills,  according  to  the  custom  of 
many  years.  Each  week  at  this  hour  Columbia  presents  the  music  of  the 
Tabernacle  choir  and  organ  from  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City. 
This  is  the  716th  nationwide  performance  of  this  traditional  broadcast 
from  the  Crossroads  of  the  West. 

The  Tabernacle  choir  is  conducted  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall.  Alex- 
ander Schreiner  is  at  the  organ.    The  spoken  word  by  Richard  Evans. 

Evans :    We  begin  with  a  musical  setting  by  Arkangelsky,  the  text 


TABERNACLE  CHOIR  BROADCAST  9 

for  which  is  from  the  Psalms  of  David.   "Hear  my  supplication,  O  Lord, 
I  pray.  Out  of  the  depths  I  cry  unto  Thee." 

(Choir  sang  "Hear  My  Supplication" — Arkangelsky) 

Evans :  We  turn  now  to  the  writings  of  Schumann  as  the  voice  of 
the  Tabernacle  organ  recalls  the  "Sketch  in  C  Major." 

(Organ  presented  "Sketch  in  C  Major" — Schumann) 

Evans :  From  Temple  Square  we  hear  now  the  words  of  a  nineteenth 
century  hymn  by  Parley  P.  Pratt — an  expression  of  a  fervent  yearning, 
increasingly  felt  by  all  the  world — "Come  O  Thou  King  of  Kings,  we've 
waited  long  for  Thee." 

(Choir  sang  "Come  O  Thou  King  of  Kings" — Pratt — arranged  by 
Cornwall) 

Evans:  A  colorful  musical  pattern  takes  shape  now,  as  the  Taber- 
nacle organ  moves  into  the  vigorous  phrases  of  the  "Finale  from  the 
First  Sonata"  by  Becker. 

(Organ  presented  "Finale" — Becker) 

Evans:  We  turn  now  to  "The  Elijah"  by  Mendelssohn  to  hear  the 
unforgettable  message  of  a  chorus  that  takes  its  text  from  Isaiah  and 
the  Psalms :  "Cry  aloud,  spare  not,  lift  up  thy  voice  like  a  trumpet,  and 
shew  my  people  their  transgressions.  .  .  .  And  then  shall  thy  light  break 
forth  as  the  light  of  morning  breaketh.  .  .  .  And  thy  righteousness  shall 
go  before  thee. . . .  Then  shalt  thou  call,  and  the  Lord  shall  answer." 

(Choir  sang  "And  Then  Shall  Your  Light"— "Elijah"— Mendels- 
sohn) 

"Thy  Speech  Bewrayeth  Thee" 

Richard  L.  Evans:  There  is  a  prevalent  practice  among  us  which 
we  would  like  to  ignore,  but  which  perhaps,  should  be  brought  into  the 
open,  and  freely  commented  upon.  We  have  reference  to  the  use  of  all 
manner  of  offensive  language — but  more  especially  to  that  language 
which  profanes  the  name  of  Deity.  There  was  a  day  when  the  uttering 
of  strong  and  violent  oaths  and  the  use  of  profanity  were  associated  with 
low  places — but  somehow  or  other  it  seems  to  have  over-run  the  confines 
of  the  back  street,  until  one  may  hear  it  sometimes  in  the  most  un- 
expected places  and  from  the  most  unexpected  people.  Frequently  those 
who  use  it  are  merely  careless ;  some  are  self-consciously  blase ;  others 
are  defiantly  offensive ;  and  sometimes  this  manner  of  language  is  heard 
from  those  who  really  want  to  give  strength  to  what  they  are  saying  and 
use  this  mistaken  means  of  doing  it.  But  whenever  a  man  feels  called 
upon  to  use  profanity  in  order  to  emphasize  his  words,  one  rather  suspects 
that  somehow  he  lacks  conviction,  that  his  words  are  lacking  an  inherent 
sincerity,  which  lack  he  is  trying  to  cover  up  by  the  use  of  an  overdose 
of  bad  language — like  trying  to  kill  a  bad  flavor  with  heavy  seasoning. 
The  free  use  of  profanity  and  oaths,  aside  from  its  religious  and  moral 
aspects,  does  more  perhaps  to  weaken  our  language  than  any  other 
practice.  The  English  tongue  is  a  powerful  tool  if  a  man  will  only 
use  it  with  simple  directness  and  not  attempt  to  blast  his  way  through 
it  with  obscene  or  irreverent  or  profane  speech.  But  if  he  accompanies 
virtually  everything  he  says  with  an  oath,  he  has  then  dissipated  his 


10  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,    April   i  First   Day 

strength  of  expression,  and  when  he  really  wants  to  impress  someone 
with  the.  gravity  or  importance  of  an  utterance,  he  has  no  adequate 
verbal  ammunition  left.  And  while  it  may  seem  paradoxical  to  say  so, 
it  is  even  possible  that  an  army  could  be  run  without  profanity.  Nor 
would  it  seem  consistent  that  we  should  pray  for  divine  favor,  for  de- 
liverance, for  the  preservation  of  the  lives  of  ourselves  and  our  young 
men,  for  the  victory  of  our  cause,  and  for  peace,  and  then  go  about 
profaning  the  name  of  that  God  whom  we  have  supplicated  for  these 
things.  "Thou  shalt  not  take  the  name  of  the  Lord  thy  God  in  vain;  for 
the  Lord  will  not  hold  him  guiltless  that  taketh  His  name  in  vain."  "Our 
Father  which  art  in  heaven,  hallowed  be  thy  name."  Would  that  all 
men  would  cease  this  thoughtless  and  offensive  practice. 

(Organ  presented,  "We'll  Sing  All  Hail  to  Jesus'  Name"— Coslett) 

Evans:  As  we  near  the  close  of  this  hour  from  Temple  Square  the 
choir  gives  voice  to  a  seventeenth  century  chorale  by  Johann  Cruger — ■ 
"Now  thank  we  all  our  God  .  .  .  who  from  our  mother's  arms,  hath  blest 
us  on  our  way.  .  .  .  O  may  this  bounteous  God  through  all  our  life  be 
near  us. . . .  Now  thank  we  all  our  God." 

(Choir  sang  "Now  Thank  We  All  Our  God"- — Cruger-Mueller) 

(Choir  sang  "Gently  Raise"  and  organ  modulated  into  "As  the 
Dew") 

Evans :  This  Sabbath  hour  from  the  Crossroads  of  the  West  is  ended. 
Until  we  beckon  your  thoughts  again  unto  the  hills,  may  peace  be  with  you 
this  day — and  always. 

This  concludes  the  716th  nationwide  performance  of  this  traditional 
broadcast  from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  presented  by 
the  Columbia  network  and  its  affiliated  stations,  originating  with  Radio 
Station  KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

With  the  passing  of  another  seven  days,  music  and  the  spoken  word 
will  be  heard  again  from  Temple  Square  at  this  same  hour  next  Sunday. 

The  singing  of  the  Tabernacle  choir  was  conducted  by  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall.  Alexander  Schreiner  was  at  the  organ.  The  spoken  word  by 
Richard  Evans. 

This  is  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  System. 

CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR  BROADCAST 

Immediately  after  the  conclusion  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ 
Broadcast,  an  additional  thirty  minute  period,  regularly  known  as  the 
Columbia  Broadcasting  System's  Church  of  the  Air,  was  presented  from 

11  :00  to  11 :30  a.m.,  as  a  part  of  the  proceedings  of  this  session  of  the 
Conference,  and  was  also  released  over  nationwide  and  international  net- 
work facilities.  Music  was  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir.  Alexander 
Schreiner  was  at  the  organ.  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  delivered  the  address. 

The  opening  number  was  by  the  Choir,  "King  of  Glory"  (Parks), 
Jessie  Evans  Smith,  soloist. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  11 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

"Blessed  is  the  nation  whose  God  is  the  Lord,  and  the  people  whom 
he  hath  chosen  for  his  own  inheritance."  (Psalms  33:12)  So  said  the 
Psalmist.  This  saying  it  would  be  well  for  the  people  of  America  to 
remember. 

Our  Country  Under  Divine  Guidance 

No  nation  has  been  more  greatly  blessed  than  has  the  United  States. 
We  live  in  a  land  which  has  been  called  choice  above  all  other  lands  by 
divine  pronouncement.  The  Lord  has  watched  over  it  with  a  jealous 
care  and  has  commanded  its  people  to  serve  Him  lest  His  wrath  be 
kindled  against  them  and  His  blessings  be  withdrawn.  Our  government 
came  into  existence  through  divine  guidance.  The  inspiration  of  the  Lord 
rested  upon  the  patriots  who  established  it,  and  inspired  them  through  the 
dark-  days  of  their  struggle  for  independence  and  through  the  critical 
period  which  followed  that  struggle  when  they  framed  our  glorious 
Constitution  which  guarantees  to  all  the  self-evident  truth  proclaimed  in 
the  Declaration  of  Independence,  "that  all  men  are  created  equal :  that 
they  are  endowed  by  their  Creator  with  certain  inalienable  rights :  that 
among  these  are  life,  liberty,  and  the  pursuit  of  happiness."  That  is  to 
say,  it  is  the  right  of  every  soul  to  have  equal  and  unrestricted  justice 
before  the  law,  equal  rights  to  worship  according  to  the  dictates  of  con- 
science and  to  labor  according  to  the  individual  inclinations,  independently 
of  coercion  or  compulsion.  That  this  might  be,  the  Lord  has  said,  "I 
established  the  Constitution  of  this  land,  by  the  hands  of  wise  men  whom 
I  raised  up  unto  this  very  purpose  and  redeemed  the  land  by  the  shedding 
of  blood."   (D.  &C.  101:80) 

The  founders  of  this  nation  were  men  of  humble  faith.  Many  of 
them  saw  in  vision  a  glorious  destiny  for  our  government,  provided  we 
would  faithfully  continue  in  the  path  of  justice  and  right  with  contrite 
spirits  and  humble  hearts,  accepting  the  divine  truths  which  are  found 
in  the  Holy  Scriptures.  The  appeal  of  these  men  has  echoed  down  the 
passing  years  with  prophetic  warning  to  the  succeeding  generations,  plead- 
ing with  them  to  be  true  to  all  these  standards  which  lay  at  the  founda- 
tion of  our  government.  This  country  was  founded  as  a  Christian  nation, 
with  the  acceptance  of  Jesus  Christ  as  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  It 
was  predicted  by  a  prophet  of  old  that  this  land  would  be  a  land  of  liberty 
and  it  would  be  fortified  against  all  other  nations  as  long  as  its  inhabitants 
would  serve  Jesus  Christ ;  but  should  they  stray  from  the  Son  of  God, 
it  would  cease  to  be  a  land  of  liberty  and  His  anger  be  kindled  against 
them. 

Danger  in  Forsaking  Righteousness 

It  is  a  sad  reflection,  but  one  that  cannot  be  successfully  refuted, 
that  we  have  forgotten  the  admonition  which  has  come  down  to  us,  just 
as  Israel  forgot  the  commandments  which  would  have  blessed  that  nation 


12  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,    April   4  Pir$t  Day 

in  the  land  of  Canaan  forever  had  they  been  observed.  In  forsaking  these 
laws  we  stand  in  danger  of  punishment  as  the  people  of  Israel  stood  in 
danger  of  punishment  because  they  forsook  the  Lord  and  failed  to  repent 
and  accept  the  warnings  of  their  prophets. 

Since  the  days  of  our  fathers  there  has  been  a  gradual  straying  from 
the  sacred  teachings  which  we  have  received.  In  later  years  we  have,  in 
fact,  fulfilled  the  prophecy  of  Paul : 

This  know  also,  that  in  the  last  days  perilous  times  shall  come. 

For  men  shall  be  lovers  of  their  own  selves,  covetous,  boasters,  proud, 
blasphemers,  disobedient  to  parents,  unthankful,  unholy, 

Without  natural  affection,  trucebreakers,  false  accusers,  incontinent, 
fierce,  despisers  of  those  that  are  good, 

Traitors,  heady,  highminded,  lovers  of  pleasures  more  than  lovers  of 
God; 

Having  a  form  of  godliness,  but  denying  the  power  thereof.  (II  Tim- 
othy 3:1-5) 

This  is  a  very  severe  indictment  made  by  Paul ;  but  can  we  honestly 
deny  the  charge  ?  The  Ten  Commandments  are  just  as  much  the  word 
of  the  Lord  today  as  they  were  when  written  by  the  finger  of  God  on 
Sinai.  They  have  not  been  abrogated ;  they  have  not  been  modified  and 
are  binding  upon  the  people  with  all  the  force  which  accompanied  them 
when  first  uttered.  As  sure  as  we  live,  we  are  to  be  judged  by  them  and 
all  other  divine  commandments,  for  God  will  not  permit  us  to  mock  Him 
and  hold  His  laws  in  contempt  with  impunity. 

Have  not  the  people  of  this  land  ignored  the  first  commandment  ? 

Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy 
soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind. 

This  is  the  first  and  great  commandment. 

And  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbour  as  thyself. 

On  these  two  commandments  hang  all  the  law  and  the  prophets.  (Matt. 
22 :37-40) 

In  other  words,  all  that  has  been  revealed  for  the  salvation  of  man 
from  the  beginning  to  our  own  time  is  circumscribed,  included  in,  and 
a  part  of  these  two  great  laws.  If  we  love  the  Lord  with  all  the  heart, 
with  all  the  soul,  and  with  all  the  mind,  and  our  neighbors  as  ourselves, 
then  there  is  nothing  more  to  be  desired.  Then  we  will  be  in  harmony 
with  the  total  of  sacred  law.  If  we  were  willing  to  live  in  harmony  with 
these  two  great  commandments — and  we  must  do  so  eventually  if  we  are 
worthy  to  live  in  the  presence  of  God — then  wickedness,  jealousy,  ambi- 
tion, covetousness,  bloodshed,  and  all  sin  of  every  nature  would  be 
banished  from  the  earth.  Then  would  come  a  day  of  eternal  peace  and 
happiness.  What  a  glorious  day  that  would  be !  We  have  been  endowed 
with  sufficient  reason  to  know  that  such  a  state  is  most  desirable  and  would 
establish  among  men  the  Fatherhood  of  God  and  the  perfect  brotherhood 
of  man. 

But  as  a  people  have  we  not  forsaken  these  commandments?  Can 
we  say  that  we  love  the  Lord  with  all  the  soul?  Can  we  say  we  are  as 
solicitous  for  the  welfare  of  our  neighbor  as  we  are  for  our  own?  As 
we  look  about  us,  we  cannot  fail  to  see  the  selfishness,  the  unbelief, 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  13 

blasphemy,  and  love  of  evil  which  are  found  everywhere  among  the 
people,  all  revealing  to  us  our  weakness  and  unwillingness  to  obey  these 
laws.  We  are  not  ignorant  of  the  things  of  God,  for  they  have  been  made 
known  to  us  from  the  days  of  Adam  until  now  and  are  recorded  in  the 
Holy  Scriptures.  Messengers  from  the  presence  of  God  have  been  sent 
to  the  earth  from  the  beginning  to  establish  in  the  hearts  of  men  and  to 
reveal  to  them  all  that  is  essential  for  man's  salvation.  If  any  among  us 
is  ignorant  of  these  things,  it  is  due  to  wilful  rebellion.  The  Son  of 
God  came  to  earth  Himself  to  show  us  by  example  the  way  to  eternal 
life,  and  was  Himself  free  from  all  sin.  We  cannot  excuse  ourselves 
for  the  violation  of  the  laws  of  God  on  the  ground  of  ignorance.  With  all 
of  these  commandments  before  us,  we  are  moral  agents  responsible  to  the 
Most  High  and  under  obligation  to  be  obedient.  Nevertheless,  because 
of  the  love  of  the  things  of  the  world  and  the  enticing  influence  of  the 
powers  of  darkness,  we  have  departed  from  the  strait  path  which  leads  to 
life  and  which  our  Lord  has  said  few  men  find  because  they  love  darkness 
rather  than  light,  their  deeds  being  evil.  We  have  permitted  the  philos- 
ophies of  men,  which  deny  the  divinity  of  Jesus  Christ  and  mock  at  the 
sacred  ordinances  of  the  gospel,  to  enter  into  our  schools,  our  businesses, 
and  our  homes,  thus  weakening  our  faith  and  our  reverence  for  our 
Creator.  We  have  forgotten  that  man  was  created  in  the  image  of  God, 
that  the  scriptures  declare  that  we  are  His  offspring,  and  that  we  are 
commanded  to  seek  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  His  righteousness. 

Laws  of  God  to  be  Obeyed 

Are  we  keeping  our  bodies  clean  and  free  from  all  contaminating 
influences?  We  are  informed  that  no  unclean  thing  can  inherit  the 
kingdom  of  God,  that  "he  that  is  unjust,  let  him  be  unjust  still :  and  he 
which  is  filthy,  let  him  be  filthy  still :  and  he  that  is  righteous,  let  him  be 
righteous  still:  and  he  that  is  holy,  let  him  be  holy  still."  (Rev.  22:11) 
So  it  will  be  in  the  judgment.  Every  man  shall  receive  a  reward  according 
to  his  works.  Unfortunately  there  are  many  selfish,  greedy  agencies  at 
work  playing  upon  the  credulity  and  ignorance  of  the  people,  enticing 
them  to  indulge  in  many  evil  habits  which  weaken  and  impair  their  vitality 
and  drive  them  from  the  spiritual  guidance  promised  them  through  their 
humility  and  faith. 

Have  we  observed  the  Sabbath  day  and  kept  it  holy?  Is  it  not  a 
fact  that  we  have  looked  upon  this  law  as  being  obsolete ;  something 
suited,  perhaps  to  the  needs  of  a  primitive  people,  who,  like  little  children, 
need  special  care,  but  not  necessary  for  us  to  observe  in  this  modern 
world  of  superior  wisdom?  Is  it  not  the  fact  that  through  the  length 
and  breadth  of  our  land,  this  sacred  commandment  has  been  treated,  and 
is  being  treated,  with  absolute  contempt  ?  Have  we  not  made  of  it  a  day 
of  pleasure,  of  indulgence,  and  have  we  not  lost  all  love  for  its  sacredness  ? 
How  can  we  expect  the  Lord  to  bless  us  when  we  ignore  so  universally 
this  holy  law  ? 

Have  we  not  forgotten  to  pray  and  to  thank  the  Lord  for  His  mercies 


14  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,    April   4  First  Day 

and  for  His  guidance  in  all  that  we  do?  If  at  times  we  have  been  re- 
quested to  seek  the  help  of  the  Lord  in  this  great  struggle  which  has 
deluged  the  world,  have  we  prayed  in  the  true  spirit  of  prayer?  What 
good  does  it  do  for  us  to  petition  the  Lord,  if  we  have  no  intention  of 
keeping  His  commandments?  Such  praying  is  hollow  mockery  and  an 
insult  before  the  throne  of  grace.  How  dare  we  presume  to  expect  a 
favorable  answer  if  such  is  the  case?  "Seek  ye  the  Lord  while  he  may 
be  found,  call  ye  upon  him  while  he  is  near:  Let  the  wicked  forsake 
his  way,  and  the  unrighteous  man  his  thoughts :  and  let  him  return  unto 
the  Lord,  and  he  will  have  mercy  upon  him ;  and  to  our  God,  for  he  will 
abundantly  pardon."  So  said  Isaiah  (Isaiah  55  :6-7) .  But  is  not  the  Lord 
always  near  when  we  petition  Him  ?  Verily  no !  He  has  said,  "They  were 
slow  to  hearken  unto  the  voice  of  the  Lord  their  God;  therefore,  the 
Lord  their  God  is  slow  to  hearken  unto  their  prayers,  to  answer  them  in 
the  day  of  their  trouble.  In  the  day  of  their  peace  they  esteemed  lightly 
my  counsel ;  but,  in  the  day  of  their  trouble,  of  necessity  they  feel  after 
me"  (D.  &  C.  101 :7-8).  If  we  draw  near  unto  Him,  He  will  draw  near 
unto  us,  and  we  will  not  be  forsaken ;  but  if  we  do  not  draw  near  to  Him, 
we  have  no  promise  that  He  will  answer  us  in  our  rebellion. 

Are  we  free  from  all  covetousness  ?  Do  we  refrain  from  desiring 
to  possess  unjustly  the  property  of  others  ?  Have  we  permitted  the  lusts 
of  the  flesh  and  the  desire  to  possess  that  which  is  not  our  honest  due, 
to  canker  our  souls? 

Have  we  not  come  to  look  upon  the  sacred  and  holy  bonds  of  matri- 
mony as  merely  a  civil  contract  which  may  be  broken  at  will  on  the  slightest 
whim  by  either  covenanting  party  ?  Has  not  divorce  become  a  blot  upon 
the  nation?  How  can  we  reconcile  our  practices  and  the  statutes  of 
many  states  with  the  commandments  given  us  by  Jesus  Christ  in  relation 
to  the  marriage  covenant?  The  home  is  the  foundation  of  civilization 
and  vital  to  the  safety  of  our  country.  When  the  home  is  destroyed, 
the  foundation  of  the  country  is  in  danger  of  destruction.  Such  has  been 
the  history  of  the  past  among  nations.  Marriage  is  a  sacred  ordinance 
instituted  before  death  came  into  the  world  when  the  Lord  said,  "It  is 
not  good  that  the  man  should  be  alone ;  I  will  make  him  an  help  meet  for 
him"  (Gen.  2:18). 

Suffering  Comes  Through  Loss  of  Blessings 

Throughout  our  land  we  see  the  tragedy  of  broken  homes,  fathers 
and  mothers  separated,  children  denied  the  natural  affections.  Children 
have  a  right  to  the  blessings  coming  from  this  sacred  union.  They  are 
entitled  to  the  love  and  care  of  faithful  parents  and  the  happiness  and 
devotion  which  true  worship  brings.  When  these  blessings  are  lost, 
the  whole  community  suffers  and  the  integrity  of  government  is  weakened. 
It  is  a  shame  and  a  disgrace  that  so  much  evil  is  coming  out  of  broken 
homes,  and  this  comes  largely  because  we  have  forgotten  God  and  our 
obligations  to  serve  and  honor  Him.  Truly  we  have  much  room  for 
repentance  and  a  return  to  the  simple  worship  of  true  Christianity. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  Fi ELDING  SMITH  15 

The  Need  for  Religion 
President  Calvin  Coolidge  once  said : 

Our  government  rests  upon  religion.  It  is  from  that  source  that  we 
derive  our  reverence  for  truth  and  justice,  for  equality  and  liberality  and 
for  the  rights  of  mankind.  Unless  the  people  believe  in  these  principles  they 
cannot  believe  in  our  government.  There  are  only  two  main  theories  of 
government  in  the  world.  One  rests  on  righteousness  and  the  other  on  force 
One  appeals  to  reason,  the  other  appeals  to  the  sword.  One  is  exemplified 
in  a  republic,  the  other  is  represented  by  a  despotism. 

The  government  of  a  country  never  gets  ahead  of  the  religion  of  a 
country.  There  is  no  way  by  which  we  can  substitute  the  authority  of  law 
for  the  virtue  of  men.  Of  course  we  can  help  to  restrain  the  vicious  and 
furnish  a  fair  degree  of  security  and  protection  by  legislation  and  police 
control,  but  the  real  reform  which  society  in  these  days  is  seeking  will  come 
as  a  result  of  religious  convictions,  or  they  will  not  come  at  all.  Peace, 
justice,  charity — these  cannot  be  legislated  into  being.  They  are  the  result 
of  Divine  Grace. 

It  is  true  that  a  country  cannot  get  ahead  of  its  religion.  The  higher 
our  ideals,  the  nearer  we  observe  divine  law,  and  the  stronger  are  our 
spiritual  forces.  No  Christian  country  can  forsake  the  divinity  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  not  suffer.  In  those  lands  in  Europe  where  paganism  has 
superseded  the  Christian  ideals,  there  is  bound  to  come  decay  and  eventu- 
ally, if  there  is  no  repentance,  their  former  greatness  will  be  forgotten. 
Jesus  said :  "And  why  call  ye  me,  Lord,  Lord,  and  do  not  the  things 
which  I  say?"   (Luke  6:46) 

Here  is  another  inspiring  thought.  It  was  copied  from  a  panel  on 
the  wall  in  the  chapel  at  Stanford  University. 

There  is  no  narrowing  so  deadly  as  the  narrowing  of  man's  horizon 
of  spiritual  things.  No  worse  evil  could  befall  him  in  his  course  on  earth 
than  to  lose  sight  of  heaven ;  and  it  is  not  civilization  that  can  prevent  this ; 
it  is  not  civilization  that  can  compensate  for  it.  No  widening  of  science, 
no  possession  of  abstract  truth,  can  indemnify  for  an  enfeebled  hold  on 
the  highest  and  eternal  truth  of  humanity. 

What  shall  a  man  give  in  exchange  for  his  soul  ? 

But  some  one  will  say :  "Are  we  not  living  in  the  most  enlightened 
age  the  world  has  ever  seen?  Is  it  not  true  that  great  progress  is  being 
made  to  lessen  the  burdens  and  increase  the  happiness  of  man?"  Yes, 
this  is  true  in  regard  to  many  material  things.  Great  progress  has  been 
made  in  mechanics,  chemistry,  physics,  surgery,  and  other  things.  Men 
have  built  great  telescopes  that  have  brought  the  hidden  galaxies  to  view. 
They  have,  by  the  aid  of  the  microscope,  discovered  vast  worlds  of  micro- 
organisms, some  of  which  are  as  deadly  as  are  men  towards  their  fellow 
men.  They  have  discovered  means  to  control  disease ;  they  have,  by  the 
aid  of  anesthesia,  made  men  insensible  to  pain,  thus  permitting  major  and 
delicate  operations  which  could  not  otherwise  be  performed.  They  have 
invented  machines  more  sensitive  than  the  human  touch,  more  far-seeing 
than  the  human  eye.  They  have  controlled  elements  and  made  machinery 
that  can  move  mountains,  and  many  other  things  have  they  done  too 
numerous  to  mention.  Yes,  this  is  a  wonderful  age.  However,  all  of 
these  discoveries  and  inventions  have  not  drawn  men  nearer  to  God ! 


16  GENERAL-CONFERENCE 

Sunday,    April   4  First  Day 

Nor  created  in  their  hearts  humility  and  the  spirit  of  repentance,  but  to 
the  contrary,  to  their  condemnation.  Nearly  everything,  it  seems,  which 
has  been  given  that  should  be  a  blessing  to  men,  has  been  turned  to  evil. 
Many  of  these  discoveries  and  inventions  are  now  being  used  to  bring 
destruction  to  the  human  race.  They  are  being  used  in  the  most  cruel, 
most  inhuman,  godless  war  this  world  has  ever  seen.  They  are  em- 
ployed by  criminals  to  aid  them  in  their  crimes,  by  the  ambitious  in  their 
efforts  to  destroy  the  agency  of  man,  and  by  despots  who  are  endeavoring 
to  subjugate  the  world  to  an  unholy,  wicked  rule. 

Faith  has  not  increased  in  the  world,  nor  has  righteousness,  nor 
obedience  to  God.  What  the  world  needs  today  is  to  draw  nearer  to  the 
Lord.  We  need  more  humble,  abiding  faith  in  our  Redeemer,  more  love 
in  our  hearts  for  our  Eternal  Father  and  for  our  fellow  men.  Yes,  this 
is  a  good  time,  a  vital  time — if  we  are  to  survive  the  forces  of  evil — for 
every  man  to  forsake  the  paths  of  sin  and  turn  unto  the  Lord  who  will 
abundantly  pardon.  If  we  will  do  this,  we  may  in  confidence  call  upon  the 
Lord  and  He  will  be  near.  He  will  help  us  fight  our  battles  to  cleanse 
the  world  of  despotism  and  make  it  a  fit  abode  for  all  who  love  the  prin- 
ciples of  truth  and  righteousness. 

"Blessed  is  the  nation  whose  God  is  the  Lord."  (Psalms  33:12) 
Let  us  make  our  nation  all  that  it  was  destined  to  be,  and  this  will  come 
if  we  will  humble  ourselves  and  learn  to  be  obedient  to  divine  law. 

May  the  peace  and  blessings  of  the  Lord  be  ours,  I  humbly  pray,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

After  the  address,  the  Choir  sang  "Rise  Up,  O  Men  of  God" 
(Noble). 

{End  of  Broadcast) 


The  Choir  and  congregation  sang,  "America." 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Inasmuch  as  ye  shall  keep  my  commandments,  ye  shall  prosper,  and 
shall  be  led  to  a  land  of  promise.     (I  Nephi  2:20) 

That  inspired  promise  made  over  two  thousand  years  ago,  referred 
to  America,  in  loyalty  to  which  every  true  American  can  say  in  his  heart : 

Breathes  there  a  man,  with  soul  so  dead, 

Who  never  to  himself  hath  said, 

This  is  my  own,  my  native  land ! 

Whose  heart  hath  ne'er  within  him  burned, 

As  home  his  footsteps  he  hath  turned, 

From  wandering  on  a  foreign  strand ! 

A  God-Blessed  Land 

In  the  giant  forest  of  the  Sequoia  National  Park  there  is  standing 


PRESIDENT  DAVID   0.  McKAY  17 

even  today,  a  living  tree  that  was  three  thousand  years  old  when  Columbus 
discovered  America.  One  cannot  stand  by  the  side  of  this,  in  all  probabi- 
lity the  oldest  living  thing  in  the  world,  without  wishing  that  it  had  the 
intelligence  and  power  to  tell  the  story  of  the  races  and  peoples  who  for 
forty  centuries  have  lived,  flourished,  and  decayed  in  this  choicest,  most 
wonderful  of  all  lands.  The  origin  and  the  rise  of  the  Incas  might  have 
antedated  this  old  tree's  birth,  and  possibly  the  coming  of  the  Jaredites 
might  have  preceded  by  a  few  hundred  years  this  ancient  tree's  beginning, 
but  the  downfall  of  the  Jaredites,  the  beginning,  rise,  and  end  of  the 
Nephites,  the  influx  of  European  peoples,  the  conquest  of  Mexico,  the 
subjugation  of  the  Indians,  and  the  flourishing  of  European  civilization, 
have  all  come  within  the  life-span  of  this  awe-inspiring,  death-defying, 
divinely  created  thing.  Nations  have  risen  and  nations  have  perished 
in  the  Americas — a  land  on  which  it  is  decreed  no  king  shall  ever  hold 
sway. 

To  each  and  all  of  these  nations  the  land  was  a  blessed  land,  and 
today  is  even  more  glorious  than  ever.  No  observer  can  travel  from  the 
sun-kissed  beaches  of  the  Pacific  to  the  wooded  hills  and  power-producing 
rivers  of  New  England  without  being  thrilled  by  the  greatness  of  these 
United  States.  The  painted  deserts  of  the  West,  flower-carpeted  in 
springtime,  and  holding  hidden  beauty  and  entrancing  interest  in  every 
season — the  inspiring  monuments  of  the  Rockies,  harboring  snows  as 
reservoirs  for  crops  in  valleys  below — the  colorful  canyons,  painted  only 
by  the  Creator  Himself — the  fertile  food-producing  valley  of  the 
Mississippi — the  mighty  forests  of  the  Northwest — the  navigable  rivers — 
the  climate,  varying  to  suit  all  needs  and  conditions — all  these  and  a 
thousand  other  equally  glorious  and  productive  features  bear  witness  to 
the  age-old  declaration  that  this  is  a  "land  choice  above  all  other  lands," 
and  inspire  every  patriot  to  say,  "This  is  my  own,  my  native  land." 
Millions  of  Americans  today  declare  with  Winthrop :  "Our  country,  to 
be  cherished  in  all  our  hearts,  to  be  defended  by  all  our  hands." 

America,  and  this  includes  Canada  and  the  Southern  Republics,  was 
a  choice  land  when  the  Jaredites  left  the  land  of  Shinar  approximately 
four  thousand  years  ago.  So  was  it  fourteen  hundred  years  later  when 
Lehi  and  his  colony  formed  the  nucleus  of  a  nation,  prospered  on  the 
bounty  of  the  country,  and  after  a  thousand  years  perished  because  of 
transgression. 

America  was  a  great  land  when  the  stately  Indian  chiefs  ruled  their 
tribes,  which  thrived  from  the  Behring  Sea  in  the  north  to  the  Panama 
and  the  towering  Andes  in  the  south. 

Today,  yielding  to  the  demands  of  the  greatest  economic  era  since 
the  dawn  of  her  creation  America  is  demonstrating  the  vastness  of  her 
resources  and  the  extent  of  her  natural  possibilities  as  never  before.  Well 
may  we  sing : 

I  love  thy  rocks  and  rills, 
Thy  woods  and  templed  hills ; 
My  heart  with  rapture  thrills 
Like  that  above. 


18  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,    April    4  First   Day 

This  country  is  not  only  the  choicest  of  all  lands,  but  now  the  preserver 
of  true  liberty,  and  the  hope  of  civilized  man ! 

However,  as  I  have  already  implied,  a  country  may  be  ever  so  great 
and  fruitful,  yet  a  nation  subsisting  upon  it  be  impotent  and  decadent. 
As  Lyman  Abbott  has  truly  said : 

The  greatness  of  a  nation  is  measured,  not  by  its  fruitful  acres,  but  by 
the  men  who  cultivate  those  acres ;  not  by  great  forests,  but  by  the  men  who 
use  those  forests ;  not  by  its  mines,  but  by  the  men  who  work  them. 

God  has  made  America  fruitful ;  man  must  make  and  keep  the  nation 
great. 

Integrity  Fundamental 

The  foundation  of  a  noble  character  is  integrity.  By  this  virtue  the 
strength  of  a  nation,  as  of  an  individual,  may  be  judged.  No  nation  can 
ever  become  truly  great,  and  win  the  confidence  of  other  peoples,  which 
to  further  its  own  selfish  ends  will,  for  example,  consider  an  honorable 
treaty  as  "a  mere  scrap  of  paper."  No  nation  will  become  great  whose 
trusted  officers  will  pass  legislation  for  personal  gain,  who  will  take  ad- 
vantage of  a  public  office  for  personal  preferment,  or  to  gratify  vain 
ambition,  or  who  will,  through  forgery,  chicanery,  and  fraud,  rob  the 
government  or  be  false  in  office  to  a  public  trust. 

Honesty,  sincerity  of  purpose,  must  be  the  dominant  traits  of  char- 
acter in  leaders  of  a  nation  that  would  be  truly  great. 

"I  hope,"  said  George  Washington,  "that  I  may  ever  have  virtue  and 
firmness  enough  to  maintain  what  I  consider  to  be  the  most  enviable  of  all 
titles — the  character  of  an  honest  man." 

It  was  Washington's  character  more  than  his  brilliancy  of  intellect 
that  made  him  the  choice  of  all  as  their  natural  leader  when  the  thirteen 
original  colonies  decided  to  sever  their  connection  with  the  mother 
country.    As  one  in  eulogy  to  the  father  of  our  country  truly  said : 

When  he  appeared  among  the  eloquent  orators,  the  ingenious  thinkers, 
the  vehement  patriots  of  the  Revolution,  his  modesty  and  temperate  profes- 
sion could  not  conceal  his  superiority;  he  at  once,  by  the  very  nature  of 
his  character,  was  felt  to  be  their  leader. 

Men  of  sterling  statesmanship,  unknown  or  renowned,  who  strive  to 
emulate  his  strength  of  character  constitute  today  as  always  the  greatest 
asset  of  our  mighty  and  much  beloved  United  States. 

Also  bearing  record  to  integrity  and  honor  as  being  an  indispensable 
element  in  a  truly  great  nation  is  the  life  of  the  immortal  Lincoln,  in 
whom  was  "vindicated  the  greatness  of  real  goodness,  and  the  goodness 
of  real  greatness,"  to  whose  character  the  passing  centuries  can  add  only 
more  brilliant  lustre. 

The  purest  treasure  mortal  times  afford 

Is  spotless  reputation  :  that  away, 

Men  are  but  guilded  loam,  or  painted  clay. 

(Richard  II,  Act  I,  Sc.  1) 


PRESIDENT  DAVID   0.  McKAY  19 

The  American  Home 

A  second  essential,  fundamental  element  in  the  building  and  in  the 
perpetuity  of  a  great  people  is  the  home.  "The  strength  of  a  nation, 
especially  of  a  republican  nation,  is  in  the  intelligent  and  well-ordered 
homes  of  the  people."  If  and  when  the  time  ever  comes  that  parents 
shift  to  the  state  the  responsibility  of  rearing  their  children,  the  stability 
of  the  nation  will  be  undermined,  and  its  impairment  and  disintegration 
will  have  begun. 

The  increasing  divorce  rate  in  the  United  States  today  is  a  threaten- 
ing menace  to  this  nation's  greatness.  Race  suicide  and  tandem  poly- 
gamous relationships  made  possible  by  lax  divorce  laws  are  enemies  of 
an  ideal  national  life.  The  increase  throughout  the  United  States  in  the 
percentage  of  divorces  is  alarming,  and  this  insidious  evil  is  increasing 
in  the  Church  itself.  There  are  too  many  couples  in  the  Church  who, 
when  difficulties  arise,  seek  the  remedy  in  divorce  courts. 

In  the  well-ordered  home  we  may  experience  on  earth  a  taste  of 
heaven.  It  is  there  that  the  babe  in  a  mother's  caress  first  experiences  a 
sense  of  security;  finds  in  the  mother's  kiss  the  first  realization  of  af- 
fection ;  discovers  in  mother's  sympathy  and  tenderness  the  first  assurance 
that  there  is  love  in  the  world. 

A  week  or  so  ago  conditions  made  it  necessary  that  I  share  a  Pullman 
with  forty  soldier  boys — gentlemen  they  were,  a  credit  to  any  nation.  In 
course  of  a  conversation,  one  of  them  remarked :  "My  dad's  hair  too 
is  white"  ;  then  he  added  in  a  tone  that  expressed  the  depth  of  his  feeling : 
"How  I  should  like  to  see  that  old  gray  head  this  morning !" 

He  and  his  companions  were  en  route  for  an  encampment  to  complete 
their  training  before  embarking  for  overseas.  They  are  enlisted  to  defend 
not  only  the  free  agency  of  man  but  the  rights  and  sanctity  of  home  and 
loved  ones.  Such  an  affection  for  home  and  loved  ones  as  felt  by  that 
soldier  boy  will  make  death  preferable  to  surrender  to  an  enemy  who 
would  destroy  all  that  true  American  soldiers  hold  dear. 

A  National  Nuisance 

At  this  point  I  must  mention  an  insidious  evil  that  is  destroying, 
termite-like,  the  foundation  of  character  as  well  as  that  of  the  home 
and  nation.  I  refer  to  the  appalling  increase  in  the  use  of  tobacco,  parti- 
cularly among  the  young.  Of  its  uselessness,  expensiveness,  injurious- 
ness  to  health,  I  will  say  nothing.  I  shall  refer  only  to  its  undermining 
effect  on  character  and  to  its  slovenliness. 

Respect  for  another's  rights  and  property  is  fundamental  in  good 
government.  It  is  a  mark  of  refinement  in  the  individual.  It  is  a  funda- 
mental Christian  virtue.  Nicotine  seems  to  dull,  if  not  kill  completely 
this  trait  of  true  culture,  and  women  are  fast  becoming  its  pitiable 
victims,  and  the  worst  offenders  in  society.  There  are  still  a  few  trains 
that  carry  non-smoking  compartments,  a  few  eating  places  with  signs, 
"No  smoking."  In  violation  of  such  placards,  it  is  not  infrequent,  how- 
ever, to  see  a  woman  with  utter  disregard  for  the  feelings  of  her  fellow- 


20  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,    April   4  First  Day 

passengers,  the  first  in  a  car  to  light  a  cigarette.  On  one  occasion,  when 
the  conductor  politely  called  a  woman's  attention  to  the  fact  that  a 
smoking  car  was  in  the  rear,  she  blandly  replied  :  "Oh,  I'm  quite  comfort- 
able where  I  am,  thank  you !" 

It  is  not  uncommon  now  to  see  bureaus,  dressing  tables,  desks, 
mantles,  and  other  pieces  of  furniture  in  first-class  hotels  marred  by 
burning  cigarettes.  Ashes  litter  costly  carpets.  Railroad  stations,  the- 
atre and  hotel  lobbies  are  littered  with  burnt-out  matches,  stubs  of 
cigarettes,  and  cigars.  Smoking  has  become  our  nationwide  nuisance 
number  one.  If  men  and  women  must  smoke,  and  it  seems  that  many 
are  now  slaves  to  that  habit,  then  for  the  sake  of  cleanliness  and  neat- 
ness, and  pride  of  our  country,  as  well  as  of  consideration  for  others, 
let  them  refrain  from  marring  furniture,  and  from  strewing  ashes  and 
burnt-out  matches  and  cigarette  stubs  in  buildings  where  people  assemble 
either  for  pleasure  or  instruction.  Because  of  thoughtlessness  in  this 
regard,  many  of  our  public  places  are  littered  as  unkept  barns. 

I  appeal  to  young  men  and  women  of  the  Church  to  refrain  from  this 
obnoxious  habit.  To  bishops,  I  would  say:  Choose  no  person  to  act  as 
either  an  officer  or  teacher  in  your  quorums  or  auxiliaries  who  is  guilty 
of  using  tobacco.  If  teachers  cannot  teach  by  example,  their  precepts 
will  be  as  "sounding  brass  and  tinkling  cymbal." 

Chastity  an  Important  Factor 

I  mentioned  the  home  as  the  most  important  factor  in  building  a 
great  nation.  The  most  vicious  enemy  to  home  life  is  immorality.  At 
the  present  time  social  workers  are  greatly  concerned  over  the  number 
of  young  girls  between  fifteen  and  nineteen  who  seem  to  have  lost  all 
sense  of  decency  and  who  shamelessly  sacrifice  themselves  on  the  altar  of 
lust.    Of  this  evil,  Victor  Hugo  writes  impressively : 

The  holy  law  of  Jesus  Christ  governs  our  civilization  ;  but  it  does  not  yet 
permeate  it ;  it  is  said  that  slavery  has  disappeared  from  European  civiliza- 
tion. That  is  a  mistake.  It  still  exists ;  but  it  weighs  now  only  upon 
woman,  and  it  is  called  prostitution. 

Life  and  social  order  have  spoken  their  last  word  to  her.  All  that  can 
happen  to  her  has  happened.  She  has  endured  all,  borne  all,  experienced  all, 
suffered  all,  lost  all,  wept  for  all.  She  is  resigned  with  that  resignation  which 
resembles  indifference  as  death  resembles  sleep.  She  shuns  nothing  now. 
She  fears  nothing  now.  Every  cloud  falls  upon  her  and  all  the  oceans  sweep 
over  her! 

This  corroding  evil  is  just  as  demoralizing  to  the  young  man  as  it 
is  to  the  young  woman.  In  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  there  is  no  double  standard  of  morality.  The  young  man  should 
approach  the  marriage  altar  just  as  fit  for  fatherhood  as  his  sweetheart 
is  worthy  of  motherhood. 

And  what  has  all  this  to  do  with  the  greatness  of  a  nation?  The 
answer  is  apparent.  Pure  water  does  not  flow  from  a  polluted  spring— 
nor  a  healthy  nation  from  a  diseased  parentage. 

Chastity,  not  indulgence,  during  the  pre-marital  years,  is  the  source 
of  harmony  and  happiness  in  the  home,  and  the  chief  contributing  factor 


PRESIDENT  DAVID   0.   McKAY  21 

to  the  health  and  perpetuity  of  the  race.  All  the  virtues  that  make  up  a 
beautiful  character — loyalty,  dependability,  confidence,  trust,  love  of 
God,  and  fidelity  to  man — are  associated  with  this  diadem  in  the  crown 
of  virtuous  womanhood  and  of  virile  manhood. 

The  word  of  the  Lord  to  His  Church  is :  Keep  yourself  unspotted 
from  the  world  ( Jas.   1 :27) . 

Yes,  America  is  a  "land  choice  above  all  other  lands."  It  is  the 
responsibility  of  Americans  to  build  a  mighty  and  superior  nation.  The 
history  of  the  nations  of  the  past  proves  that  nations  in  the  most  fruitful 
and  most  productive  of  all  lands  may  become  senile  and  decadent. 

While  our  sons,  sweethearts,  and  husbands  are  offering  their  lives 
in  defense  of  the  God-given  gift  of  free  agency  and  for  the  right  to  live 
without  the  domination  of  tyranny,  let  us  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  as  citizens  of  our  beloved  country,  use  our  influence  to 
see  that  men  and  women  of  upright  character,  of  unimpeachable  honor  are 
elected  to  office,  that  our  homes  are  kept  unpolluted  and  unbroken  by 
infidelity,  that  children  therein  will  be  trained  to  keep  the  commandments 
of  the  Lord,  to  be  "honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  and  virtuous,  and  to 
do  good  to  all  men."  Cherishing  such  ideals,  we  can  with  all  our  hearts 
say  with  the  poet  Longfellow : 

Thou,  too,  sail  on,  O  Ship  of  State ! 
Sail  on,  O  Union,  strong  and  great ! 
Humanity  with  all  its  fears, 
With  all  the  hope  of  future  years, 
Is  hanging  breathless  on  thy  fate ! 

In  the  present  crisis  of  the  nations  of  the  globe  I  pray  that  this  great 
nation  and  the  Dominion  on  the  north  may  be  truly  the  harbor  of  freedom, 
and  a  safe  guide  to  the  confused  peoples  of  the  world. 

May  the  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  preaching  the  re- 
stored gospel,  ever  remember  the  Savior's  injunction :  "Ye  are  the  light 
of  the  world.  .  .  .  Let  your  light  so  shine  before  men,  that  they  may  see 
your  good  works,  and  glorify  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven"  (Matt. 
5:14,16). 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

It  is  diffiicult  by  mere  words  to  express  our  appreciation  of  the  great 
mission  the  Tabernacle  Choir  is  performing.  This  morning  we  express 
gratitude  for  their  presence  and  the  inspirational  singing  they  have 
given  us. 


An  anthem,  "Hallelujah  Chorus"  ("Messiah") — Handel,  was  sung 
by  the  Choir. 

Elder  David  A.  Butler,  President  of  the  Snowflake  Stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  p.m. 


22  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.    April    4  First   Day 

FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  at  2  o'clock  p.m.,  Sunday,  April  4. 

President  David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, conducted  the  meeting. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

President  Grant,  as  you  know,  remained  throughout  the  entire  session 
this  morning.  He  thinks  it  wise  to  rest  this  afternoon  that  he  may  be 
with  us  again  tomorrow. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  afternoon  the  two  Counselors  in 
the  First  Presidency,  members  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  the  Patriarch 
to  the  Church,  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve,  the  presidents  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy,  and  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 

Elder  Richard  P.  Condie  will  lead  us  in  singing.  Elder  Alexander 
Schreiner  is  at  the  organ. 

We  have  the  following  telegram  from  Washington : 

First  Presidency,  Care  of  Mormon  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 
Inspiring  sermon  by  Elder  Smith  and  uplifting  music  by  Choir  gratefully 
and  perfectly  received.     God  bless  you  all. 

EZRA  T.  BENSON 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "High  On  The  Mountain  Top." 

Elder  Alex  F.  Dunn,  President  of  the  Tooele  Stake,  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Go  Ye  Messengers  of  Glory," 
(Words  by  John  Taylor). 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Brethren :  We  wish  to  thank  you  and  commend  you  for  your  punctu- 
ality at  this  session.  At  three  minutes  to  two  o'clock  every  seat  in  the 
body  of  the  hall  seems  to  have  been  taken,  and  at  two  o'clock  we  were 
all  in  perfect  order  for  the  commencement  of  this  service.  That  is  as  it 
should  be. 

Our  first  speaker  this  afternoon  will  be  President  Rudger  Clawson, 
President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON  23 

ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren,  at  the  set  time  Columbus  appeared,  and  the  new  world 
was  born.  At  the  set  time  Joseph  Smith  appeared,  and  it  was  predicted 
that  a  great  and  marvelous  work  was  to  commence.  Both  characters  were 
here  and  had  their  part  to  play  among  the  children  of  men.  Columbus 
discovered  the  new  world  on  October  12,  1492.  Joseph  Smith  organized 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  April  6,  1830,  and  it  is 
destined  to  fill  the  whole  earth. 

A  Vision  in  the  Kirtland  Temple 

I  am  impressed  this  afternoon  to  read  a  few  words  from  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  Section  110: 

The  veil  was  taken  from  our  minds,  and  the  eyes  of  our  understanding 
were  opened. 

We  saw  the  Lord  standing  upon  the  breastwork  of  the  pulpit,  before 
us ;  and  under  his  feet  was  a  paved  work  of  pure  gold,  in  color  like  amber. 

His  eyes  were  as  a  flame  of  fire;  the  hair  of  his  head  was  white  like 
•  the  pure  snow ;  his  countenance  shone  above  the  brightness  of  the  sun ; 
and  his  voice  was  as  the  sound  of  the  rushing  of  great  waters,  even  the  voice 
of  Jehovah,  saying: 

I  am  the  first  and  the  last ;  I  am  he  who  liveth,  I  am  he  who  was  slain ; 
I  am  your  advocate  with  the  Father. 

Behold,  your  sins  are  forgiven  you ;  you  are  clean  before  me ;  therefore, 
lift  up  your  heads  and  rejoice. 

Let  the  hearts  of  your  brethren  rejoice,  and  let  the  hearts  of  all  my 
people  rejoice,  who  have,  with  their  might,  built  this  house  to  my  name. 

For  behold,  I  have  accepted  this  house,  and  my  name  shall  be  here  ;  and 
I  will  manifest  myself  to  my  people  in  mercy  in  this  house. 

Yea,  I  will  appear  unto  my  servants,  and  speak  unto  them  with  mine 
own  voice,  if  my  people  will  keep  my  commandments,  and  do  not  pollute 
this  holy  house. 

Yea,  the  hearts  of  thousands  and  tens  of  thousands  shall  greatly  rejoice 
in  consequence  of  the  blessings  which  shall  be  poured  out,  and  the  endow- 
ment with  which  my  servants  have  been  endowed  in  this  house. 

And  the  fame  of  this  house  shall  spread  to  foreign  lands  ;  and  this  is  the 
beginning  of  the  blessing  which  shall  be  poured  out  upon  the  heads  of  my 
people.    Even  so.    Amen. 

After  this  vision  closed,  the  heavens  were  again  opened  unto  us ;  and 
Moses  appeared  before  us,  and  committed  unto  us  the  keys  of  the  gather- 
ing of  Israel  from  the  four  parts  of  the  earth,  and  the  leading  of  the  ten 
tribes  from  the  land  of  the  north. 

After  this,  Elias  appeared,  and  committed  the  dispensation  of  the  gospel 
of  Abraham,  saying  that  in  us  and  our  seed  all  generations  after  us  should 
be  blessed. 

After  this  vision  had  closed,  another  great  and  glorious  vision  burst 
upon  us;  for  Elijah  the  prophet,  who  was  taken  to  heaven  without  tasting- 
death,  stood  before  us,  and  said: 

Behold,  the  time  has  fully  come,  which  was  spoken  of  by  the  mouth  of 
Malachi — testifying  that  he  [Elijah]  should  be  sent,  before  the  great 
and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord  come — 

To  turn  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children,  and  the  children  to 
the  fathers,  lest  the  whole  earth  be  smitten  with  a  curse — 

Therefore,  the  keys  of  this  dispensation  are  committed  into  your  hands  ; 


24  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

and  by  this  ye  may  know  that  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord  is 
near,  even  at  the  doors. 

It  is  shown  here  very  clearly  that  before  this  marvelous  work  and 
wonder  should  be  accomplished  certain  keys  should  be  given  to  the  earth, 
and  I  have  read  in  your  hearing  cdncerning  these  keys,  and  it  throws  a 
great  deal  of  light  on  this  subject.  It  emphasizes  the  responsibility  resting 
upon  Latter-day  Saints  to  familiarize  themselves  with  these  keys  and  laws 
and  testimonies  that  are  given. 

A  Testimony 

I  testify  to  you,  my  brethren,  that  this  revelation  was  given  for  our 
profit,  and  I  express  to  you  my  testimony  in  these  words,  that  I  know  the 
Lord  is  with  us,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  and  is 
a  prophet  of  God.  We  are  engaged  in  a  glorious  work.  It  is  a  marvelous 
scene  to  look  out  upon  this  gathering  of  Priesthood. 

I  trust  that  I  may  never  lose  this  testimony  that  I  have. 

God  bless  you,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Ninety  years  ago,  on  the  sixth  of  April,  1853,  three  missionaries  were 
called  to  go  to  China  to  carry  the  gospel  message  to  the  people  of  that 
country.  One  of  those  young  men  was  Hosea  Stout,  then  a  Regent  of 
the  University  of  Deseret.  They  were  to  go  to  San  Francisco,  and  there 
take  a  sailing  ship  bound  for  Asiatic  ports.  The  history  of  that  mission- 
ary endeavor  is  among  the  most  thrilling  in  the  history  of  the  Church. 
During  that  same  year,  Elder  Lorenzo  Snow  laboring  in  Italy  edited 
and  printed  the  Book  of  Mormon  in  Italian,  and  Elder  John  Taylor 
supervised  the  printing  of  the  same  book  in  French,  in  the  city  of  Paris. 
What  a  far-reaching  work  was  done  in  those  early  days  by  the  mission- 
aries of  the  Church ! 

Importance  of  Local  Missionary  Work 

When  the  First  Presidency  issued  their  decision  in  1936  that  every 
stake  of  Zion  should  maintain  an  organized  mission,  the  message  was 
received  by  all  the  stake  presidents  as  a  clarion  call.  Within  a  few 
months,  every  stake  had  its  local  organization,  and  hundreds  of  mission- 
aries had  begun  their  work.  The  splendor  of  their  spirit  and  the  nobility 
of  their  achievements  have  already  become  known,  for  by  their  efforts 
hundreds  of  souls  have  been  brought  to  a  knowledge  of  the  gospel. 

The  call  of  these  local  missionaries  is  just  as  important  and  sacred 
as  the  call  of  the  missionaries  to  go  into  foreign  countries.  While  it 
comes  through  the  stake  presidents,  it  is  none  the  less  important  and 
divine,  for  the  First  Presidency  has  delegated  the  stake  presidents  to 
attend  to  this  important  work.  The  mission  is  for  two  years,  and  when 
a  brother  or  sister  accepts  the  call,  it  is  a  sacred  promise  to  God  that  he 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG  25 

or  she  will  go  forth  with  joy  and  faith  to  explain  the  message  of  eternal 
life.  They  may  have  felt  at  times  something  of  fear,  but  they  recall 
the  words  of  the  Apostle  Paul  to  Timothy : 

Wherefore  I  put  thee  in  remembrance  that  thou  stir  up  the  gift  of  God, 
which  is  in  thee  by  the  putting  on  of  my  hands. 

For  God  hath  not  given  us  the  spirit  of  fear ;  but  of  power,  and  of  love, 
and  of  a  sound  mind.    (II  Tim.  1 :6,  7) 

Advice  Given  to  Missionaries 

As  you  go  to  your  work,  remember  that  the  value  of  your  teaching 
depends  upon  the  spirit  in  which  it  is  done.  With  your  gifts  and  op- 
portunities you  converse  with  people  of  all  classes,  and  you  show  them 
how  they  may  glorify  their  lives  through  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  The 
call  you  have  accepted  is  much  larger  than  can  be  met  by  any  ethical 
code  or  teaching  of  philosophy.  You  put  into  your  work  your  best  thought, 
and  that  dignifies  your  lives.  You  are  capable  of  doing  better  work  than 
ever  before,  for  you  are  to  give  every  minute  of  your  spare  time  to  filling 
your  minds  with  knowledge,  for  to  be  missionaries,  you  must  be  good 
teachers.  Plan  your  work  and  devote  your  lives  to  it.  You  missionaries 
are  not  to  do  any  other  Church  work  than  that  of  the  true  missionary, 
and  no  gifts  of  God  can  make  good  unless  you  give  your  spare  hours  to 
quiet  and  devoted  study.  Your  success  will  depend  upon  the  spirit  of 
genuineness,  of  faith,  and  of  humility,  which  characterize  your  words. 
Thousands  of  people  have  come  recently  to  live  in  Utah.  Remember 
that  the  world  is  full  of  good  people  everywhere,  and  it  is  for  you  to  stir 
up  the  gift  of  God  within  them.  It  is  not  only  the  matter  but  the  manner ; 
not  only  the  doctrine,  but  the  man  that  count.  Read  the  Church  works 
with  deep  intent  and  purpose,  and  with  prayerful  hearts.  You  will  ap- 
preciate the  growing  strength  of  your  own  powers.  A  noted  scholar 
of  Oxford  University  spent  thirty-eight  years  in  studying  the  book  of 
Exodus,  and  think  of  the  many  scholars  who  have  given  their  lives  to  the 
study  of  the  book  of  Job.  If  you  will  read  carefully  the  first  chapter  of 
the  first  book  of  Nephi  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  you  will  see  why  one 
student  has  spent  months  in  analyzing  its  fine  content.  The  greatest  and 
most  enduring  satisfaction  comes  from  your  studies  and  in  your  influence 
on  individuals ;  in  guiding  them,  helping  them,  saving  them. 

There  is  something  noble,  something  ineffably  rich  and  magnificent 
about  your  work.  All  that  is  expected  of  you  besides  your  labors  in  the 
field  and  your  hours  of  study  is  your  attendance  at  sacrament  meetings 
as  well  as  your  regular  quorum  and  Priesthood  meetings.  Fulfill  your 
missions  with  all  your  hearts  and  may  God  bless  you  in  your  noble  work. 
Look  to  the  future.  Build  upon  the  past,  but  look  to  better  days.  Strive 
for  more  knowledge  and  a  better  understanding  of  the  "spirit  of  true 
religion."  Glorify  your  Father  in  heaven  by  glorifying  the  divine  gifts 
that  He  has  given  you.  Then  you  will  have  power  and  strength,  and 
people  will  sense  your  sincere  purposes  and  your  deep  and  abiding  testi- 
monies of  the  glory  of  the  Lord. 

If  you  missionaries  will  accept  your  call  as  a  divine  purpose,  then 


26  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,    April   4  First   Day 

you  shall  walk  unafraid  every  day  and  enjoy  your  hours  with  the  people 
whom  you  meet.  You  will  trust  instinctively  and  naturally  the  guidance 
of  the  Holy  Spirit  on  which  you  learned  to  rely  in  the  days  of  your 
strength.  May  the  Lord  bless  you  in  your  sacred  endeavors,  I  ask  in 
His  name.    Amen. 

ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Since  October  Conference  six  months  ago,  a  most  unusual  experience 
has  been  mine.  With  Brother  Roscoe  W.  Eardley,  I  have  visited  in  more 
than  one  hundred  and  twenty  of  the  one  hundred  and  forty-three  stakes 
of  the  Church  in  what  may  be  called  an  inspection  tour  of  Welfare 
projects  and  activities.  We  have  held  regional  Welfare  meetings  in  sixteen 
of  the  seventeen  Welfare  regions.  I  have  appreciated  this  assignment 
and  the  gracious  manner  in  which  you  brethren  have  received  us. 

Purpose  of  Welfare  Plan 

Being  thus  intensely  engaged  in  the  activities  of  Church  Welfare, 
I  am  led  to  refer  to  some  of  them  here.  In  April,  1936 — just  seven  years 
ago — the  First  Presidency,  in  "An  Important  Message  to  the  Presidents 
of  Stakes  and  Bishoprics  of  the  Church,"  stated  the  guiding  principles  of 
the  "Church  Welfare  Plan."  At  the  October  Conference  following,  they 
read  a  report  of  what  had  been  accomplished  during  the  intervening  six 
months.    Their  reason  for  inaugurating  the  plan  was  stated  as  follows : 

Our  primary  purpose  was  to  set  up,  insofar  as  it  might  be  possible,  a 
system  under  which  the  curse  of  idleness  would  be  done  away  with,  the  evils 
of  the  dole  abolished,  and  independence,  industry,  thrift  and  self-respect  be 
once  more  established  amongst  our  people.  Work  is  to  be  re-enthroned  as 
the  ruling  principle  of  the  lives  of  our  Church  members.  .  .  .  The  Church 
aims  to  help  provide  for  the  care  and  sustenance  of  those  on  direct  relief — 
federal,  state,  and  county,  as  also  for  those  for  whom  the  Church  has  here- 
tofore cared. 

The  progress  made  in  Welfare  production  since  the  beginning  has  been 
remarkable.  The  evidence  of  it  is  apparent  in  every  stake.  A  record  of 
the  time,  means,  and  enthusiasm  voluntarily  contributed  to  Welfare  pro- 
duction and  processing  would  fill  volumes. 

From  those  first  general  instructions  given  in  April,  1936,  that 
"every  bishop  should  aim  to  have  accumulated  by  next  October  conference 
sufficient  food  and  clothes  to  provide  for  every  needy  family  in  his  ward 
during  the  coming  winter,"  has  developed  what  has  come  to  be  known  as 
"the  annual  Churchwide  Welfare  budget,"  prepared  each  year  with  great 
care.  The  one  for  1943  now  in  your  hands,  if  produced,  processed,  and 
delivered  to  bishops'  storehouses,  will  supply  eighty  percent  of  life's 
necessities  for  thirteen  thousand  people.  We  are  getting  some  very 
valuable  experience  in  producing. 

There  are,  however,  two  objectives  of  Church  Welfare,  for  the 
accomplishment  of  which  we  must  accelerate  our  efforts.    First,  we  must 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY  27 

prayerfully  and  diligently  seek  to  develop  production  and  other  projects 
through  which  work,  that  is,  employment,  suited  to  the  capacity  of  our 
non-self-sustaining  members  shall  be  provided,  and  second,  we  must  with 
vigor  and  in  the  spirit  of  true  charity,  which  is  "the  pure  love  of  Christ" 
(Moroni  7:47)  seek  to  induce  these,  our  brothers  and  sisters,  to  help  us 
in  our  Welfare  activities  and  to  be  cared  for  in  the  Welfare  way.  Only 
thus  can  we  help  to  do  away  with  the  curse  of  idleness,  abolish  the  evils 
of  the  dole,  and  once  more  establish  industry,  thrift,  and  self-respect 
amongst  our  people. 

Duty  of  Church  Members  to  Be  Leaders 

There  is  still  a  tendency  amongst  us  to  place  our  hope  and  confidence 
for  economic  security  in  governmental  and  other  welfare  agencies  rather 
than  in  our  own  industry.  We  have  no  business  being  carried  away  by 
the  false  panaceas  of  the  world.  We  are  the  members  of  the  Church 
of  Christ.  The  Church  and  its  members  are  to  be  leaders — not  leaners — 
in  the  solution  of  the  problems  which  confront  us.  We  of  the  Church 
possess  the  "everlasting  covenant,  even  the  fulness  of  the  gospel"  (D.  & 
C.  66 :2),  which  is  to  be  our  guide  in  resolving  all  issues.  On  this  subject 
the  Lord  hath  thus  spoken : 

I  have  sent  mine  everlasting  covenant  into  the  world,  to  be  a  light  to 
the  world,  and  to  be  a  standard  for  my  people,  and  for  the  Gentiles  to  seek 
to  it,  and  to  be  a  messenger  before  my  face  to  prepare  the  way  before  me. 
(D.  &C.  45:9) 

And  again,  when  giving  instructions  for  the  organization  of  His 
people,  in  regulating  and  establishing  the  affairs  of  the  storehouse  for 
the  poor  of  His  people,  the  Lord  stated  His  purpose  to  be : 

That  through  my  providence,  notwithstanding  the  tribulation  which 
shall  descend  upon  you,  that  the  church  may  stand  independent  above  all 
other  creatures  beneath  the  celestial  world.    (D.  &  C.  78:14) 

Now,  the  Welfare  plan  points  the  way  to  that  independence.  At 
the  base  of  that  way  lie  some  fundamental  principles  for  the  Latter-day 
Saints — and  for  all  peoples  in  the  world,  for  that  matter — to  practice. 

First,  every  individual  should  value  his  or  her  independence  and 
labor  with  all  his  might  to  maintain  it  by  being  self-sustaining.  This 
the  Lord  enjoined  upon  us  when  from  the  Garden  of  Eden  He  sent  forth 
our  first  parents  under  the  stern  command,  "In  the  sweat  of  thy  face 
shalt  thou  eat  bread,  till  thou  return  unto  the  ground"  (Genesis  3 :19). 

Second,  next  to  himself,  the  responsibility  for  sustaining  an  individu- 
al rests  upon  his  family — parents  for  their  children,  children  for  their 
parents.  It  is  an  ungrateful  child  who,  having  the  ability,  is  unwilling  to 
assist  his  parents  to  remain  independent  of  relief. 

Finally,  the  individual  having  done  all  he  can  to  maintain  himself,  and 
the  members  of  his  family  having  done  what  they  can  to  assist  him,  then 
the  Church,  through  the  Welfare  plan,  stands  ready  to  see  that  its  mem- 
bers, who  will  accept  the  plan  and  work  in  it  to  the  extent  of  their  ability, 


28  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,   April   4  First  Day 

shall  each  be  cared  for  "according  to  his  family,  according  to  his  circum- 
stances and  his  wants  and  needs"  (D.  &  C.  51 :3) . 

An  Example  of  Self-Support 

Here  is  an  example  of  what  I  mean  by  accepting  the  plan  and  working 
in  it  to  the  extent  of  one's  ability. 

There  is  an  enterprising  bishop  in  the  Church  who  had  living  in  his 
ward  a  retired  cabinet  maker,  owning  enough  tools  and  power  machinery 
to  equip  a  small  shop.  In  the  Welfare  way  a  shop  was  built,  equipped, 
and  stocked  with  lumber  and  other  necessary  materials.  In  that  shop 
such  articles  as  tables,  benches,  chairs,  and  cabinets  are  made.  Many  of 
them  have  been  placed  in  our  meeting  houses  in  that  area.  The  day  I 
learned  of  this  project,  I  was  happy  to  see  there  an  elderly  brother  who 
had  many  years  ago  helped  teach  me  the  carpenter  trade.  He  has  passed 
the  most  active  years  of  his  life  and  cannot  now  hold  a  job  in  the  com- 
petitive world.  He  can,  however,  do  considerable  work  in  that  shop.  He 
responded  with  spirit  to  the  invitation  and  there  gives  his  full  services. 
From  the  bishops'  storehouse,  well-stocked  from  Fast  offerings  and 
Welfare-produced  commodities,  he  receives  a  comfortable  living.  He  is 
thus  sustaining  himself  and  his  wife.  This  accomplishment  has  been 
duplicated  many  times  in  our  Deseret  Industries  and  on  other  Welfare 
projects. 

The  Church  has  within  itself  the  power  to  make  every  one  of  its 
members,  who  can  do  anything,  self-sustaining  in  the  same  way,  if  the 
leaders  will  only  use  that  power  in  the  spirit  of  their  calling  and  our 
people  will  be  converted  and  work  and  be  cared  for  in  the  Welfare  way. 

The  Need  for  Permanent  Projects 

I  repeat  again,  my  brethren,  you  and  the  Church  members  in  general 
have  responded  magnificently  to  the  calls  made  upon  you  for  Church 
Welfare.  You  have  given  time,  money,  work,  and  property  unstintingly. 
There  is  one  more  thing  required.  To  succeed  wholly  we  must  give  our- 
selves to  the  solution  of  the  individual  problems  of  our  brothers  and  sis- 
ters. If  we  would  draw  them  closer  to  us,  win  them  to  the  Welfare  way, 
we  must  have  as  great  an  interest,  or  greater,  in  them  as  individuals  in  the 
solution  of  their  personal  problems  and  in  the  success  of  their  lives  as  we 
do  in  obtaining  the  material  things  which  sustain  their  lives.  We  must 
develop  projects  which  will  call  for  the  service  which  they  can  render  and 
demonstrate  to  them  that  the  plan  needs  them  as  much  as  they  need  it. 

Presently  we  are  acquiring  and  developing  permanent  projects.  This 
is  well.  We  need  permanent  projects  to  insure  the  production  of  the 
necessities  of  life.  We  need  them  so  that  we  shall  have  a  place  where  our 
members  can  work  in  producing  those  necessities  when  their  present 
employment  ends.  As  we  develop  these  projects,  let  us  keep  close  to 
the  people  who  should  be  sustained  by  the  products  thereof.  Let  us  bring 
them  in  and  give  them  a  hand  in  the  developing.  Unless  they  work  upon 
the  projects,  unless  there  are  projects  upon  which  they  can  work,  accord- 
ing to  their  capacities,  and  by  so  doing  sustain  themselves  and  thus  re- 


BISHOP  MARVIN  0.  ASHTON  29 

habilitate  their  lives,  the  Welfare  plan  shall  not  have  served  its  full 
purpose. 

True  Service  Called  For 

Oh!  I  know  that  such  an  approach  calls  for  patient,  intelligent, 
devoted,  and  Christ-like  service.  I  know  that  it  is  easier  just  to  give 
money  or  to  go  and  do  the  work  ourselves,  but  just  giving  money  and 
doing  the  work  ourselves  will  not  build  up  and  rehabilitate  our  brethren. 
We  often  do  for  our  children  that  which  they  should  do  for  themselves, 
rather  than  spend  the  time  and  effort,  and  exercise  the  patience  necessary 
to  teach  them  how,  and  induce  them  to  do  it.  But  to  what  end?  To 
the  ruin  of  our  children  in  many  cases. 

Through  the  Welfare  plan  we  shall  make  a  practical  application  of 
the  divine  command,  "Love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself"  (Leviticus  19:18). 
When  we  do,  "the  curse  of  idleness  will  be  done  away  with,  the  evils  of 
the  dole  abolished,  and  independence,  industry,  thrift,  and  self-respect 
be  once  more  established  amongst  our  people."  Then  the  Church  shall 
"stand  independent  above  all  other  creatures  beneath  the  celestial  world," 
in  very  deed  "a  light  .  .  .  for  the  gentiles  to  seek  to." 

God  help  us  to  speed  the  day,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.    Amen. 

BISHOP  MARVIN  O.  ASHTON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

If  ever  I  prayed  in  my  heart  that  I  would  have  the  Spirit  of  our 
Heavenly  Father,  it  is  today.  I  hope  that  whatever  I  say  will  be  perfectly 
understood.  If  what  I  am  going  to  say  is  not  understood,  I  certainly  will 
be  in  very  bad  shape. 

Confusion  of  War  Brings  Worries 

This  man  Sherman  who  marched  to  the  sea,  gave  a  real  definition 
of  war — it  starts  with  "h,"  the  second  letter  is  "e,"  and  the  last  two 
letters  are  alike.  I  do  not  suppose  there  was  ever  a  time  when  we  did 
more  real  tall  thinking,  than  today.  The  business  man  is  wondering  what 
is  going  to  happen  to  his  business,  what  is  going  to  happen  to  his  securities. 
He  is  worried.  The  educator  is  very  much  concerned.  He  is  wondering 
if  the  clock  is  being  turned  back,  going  to  be  turned  back,  and  if  things 
considered  fundamental  are  to  be  thrown  in  the  ash  can.  Probably  I  am 
not  putting  it  too  extreme. 

The  man  who  champions  religion  is  downcast.    Yes,  he  is  upset. 

However,  as  we  are  brought  close  with  death  there  are  two  philos- 
ophies facing  one  another — One  "eat  and  drink  and  be  merry,  for  tomor- 
row we  die"— 'the  other  "there  are  no  atheists  in  fox  holes."  With  men 
as  they  are  brought,  if  you  please,  face  to  face  with  God,  the  latter 
philosophy  is  predominating.  Men  though  sometimes  skeptical  other- 
wise, are  turning  to  God  as  they  never  were  before.    Whether  they  admit 


30  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,    April   4  First    Day 

it  or  not,  deep  down  in  their  soul,  there  is  religion.  Sometimes  a  man 
won't  admit  it — but  in  an  unguarded  moment — the  bottom  of  his  soul  re- 
veals itself  and  you  see  him  in  his  true  light.  He  lets  the  cat  out  of  the 
bag — like  the  boisterous  fellow  who'  blats  out,  "My  father  was  an  atheist, 
my  grandfather  was  an  atheist  and,  thank  God,  I  am  an  atheist." 

A  Pilot  Confessed  His  Belief 

I  had  the  pleasure  the  other  night  of  eating  dinner  with  this  man 
Whittaker,  one  of  the  co-pilots  with  Eddie  Rickenbacker.  He  is  one  of 
those  rough  and  ready  fellows  we  read  about,  with  no  pretensions.  He 
says  he  never  went  to  church  in  his  life.  After  the  meal  was  over,  I 
walked  out  in  the  hall  with  him,  and  I  asked :  "If  you  don't  mind,  I  would 
like  to  ask  you  a  question — very  pertinent,  or  impertinent,  whatever  you 
would  call  it." 

He  said,  "Go  to  it." 

I  said :  "During  those  three  weeks  trial  did  you  have  anything  of  a 
religious  nature  come  over  you  ?" 

He  came  back  strong.  "Decidedly  so.  I  have  two  new  words  in  my 
vocabulary — 'I  believe.'  "  He  said :  "We  didn't  pray  to  God,  we  talked 
to  Him.  If  you  were  going  down  a  lonely  street  and  were  waylaid  by 
ruffians  and  you  called  and  shouted,  and  the  police  came  to  your  assistance, 
you  would  believe  in  the  police,  wouldn't  you?"  He  concluded,  "I 
believe." 

Many  details  of  that  trip  that  man  told  us  that  were  decidedly 
inspiring.    As  men  get  up  against  real  trouble,  they  get  more  religious. 

Last  but  not  least,  we  are  worried  over  our  morals.  To  read  the 
statistics  of  the  liquor  control  in  the  State  of  Utah  knocks  you  cold.  In 
1941,  one  small  county  consumed  hard  liquor  to*  the  tune  of  $60,000 — ■ 
(you  believe  in  eternal  progression)- — -1942  it  was  $180,000.  Now  just 
a  few  things  like  that  remind  us  where  we  are  going. 

Frankness  From  a  Young  Speaker 

Now  we  are  at  the  point  where  we  are  getting  onto  a  dangerous  sub- 
ject. May  the  Lord  help  me  that  I  am  understood.  A  typical  young  Mormon 
boy  in  one  of  the  wards  the  other  night  made  a  talk.  I  had  a  copy  of  that 
talk  given  me  by  a  friend,  because  she  thought  that  maybe  I  might  be 
interested  in  it.    The  boy  started  out  something  like  this : 

"I  am  going  to  be  frank,  I  want  to  be.  I  hope  that  I  am  understood." 
(As  the  young  people  term  it,  he  wanted  to  let  his  hair  down.)  He 
continued:  "Generally  when  I  am  asked  to  give  a  talk  in  Church — a  few 
days  ahead  Pa  writes  it,  Ma  corrects  it  and  then  Bill  runs  it  off  on  the 
typewriter.  Then,  of  course,  I  learn  it  off  by  heart.  Now  tonight  I  am 
not  going  to  do  that.  I  am  going  to1  speak  just  the  way  I  feel."  And  by 
the  way,  I  think  we  ought  to  encourage  more  of  that  kind  of  talks  than 
we  do ;  we  ought  to  encourage  originality ;  we  ought  to  encourage  people 
to  have  the  courage  of  their  convictions  and  say  what  they  think.  You 
know,  if  more  talks  were  given  extemporaneously  we  would  get  closer  to 
the  hearts  of  the  people.    Even  Mark  Twain  said  he  believed  in  extern- 


BISHOP  MARVIN  0.  ASHTON  31 

poraneous  talks.  He  said  he  had  been  studying  on  one  for  fifteen  years. 
When  he  got  a  chance,  he  said  he  wanted  to  give  it.  (Laughter)  Now, 
I  believe  that. 

Let's  encourage  more  freedom  of  speech.  It  is  as  refreshing  as  a 
drink  from  a  cool  fountain.  Let's  have  more  expressions  that  are  spon- 
taneous— yes,  if  you  want,  call  it  spontaneous  combustion. 

The  boy  proceeded.  He  started  to  talk  about  his  friend  John.  "John 
was  raised  in  a  good  family,  good  parents,  good  home  atmosphere.  He 
goes  away  to  school,  gets  away  from  the  home  fireside,  and  the  first  thing 
you  know,  John  starts  to  smoke." 

John  is  like  some  other  good  men.  He  has  weakness.  You  bishops 
of  the  wards,  what  attitude  is  yours  with  John  ?  Are  you  kind  or  are  you 
rigid  ?  Do  you  take  an  attitude,  do  the  people  of  your  ward  take  an  at- 
titude that  means  John  is  not  wanted  any  more  ?  If  I  understand  Christ, 
that  was  not  His  attitude.    Do  you  want  to  drive  him  away  from  Church  ? 

That  boy  is  somebody's  good  son;  some  mother  loves  him;  some 
father  wants  him  to  keep  the  standards  of  the  Church.  Are  you  going 
to  drive  him  out,  or  are  you  going  to  put  your  arm  around  him  and  bring 
him  back.    "To  err  is  human,  to  forgive  divine." 

A  Plea  for  the  Boys  in  the  Armed  Service 

I  did  not  say  we  should  have  less  regard  for  the  standards  of  the 
Church ;  we  ought  to  have  more  regard  for  them.  We  ought  to  put  them 
up  higher ;  but  when  a  lad  makes  a  mistake,  let  us  be  kind.  Do  you  think 
I  am  getting  too  broadminded?  Bernard  Shaw  says :  "Be  open-minded, 
but  don't  get  in  the  draft."  Do  you  think  I  am  in  a  draft  ?  Oh  no,  I  don't 
think  so.  I  would  rather  die  of  pneumonia  through  getting  in  a  draft 
than  I  would  die  from  hardening  of  the  arteries.  A  lot  of  people  die  of 
that.    In  plain  American  English,  are  you  too  rigid  ? 

Now,  you  have  25,000  boys  in  the  service;  you  are  preaching  to 
them ;  you  are  corresponding  with  them.  They  are  in  a  new  world.  They 
have  been  taken  from  the  workshop  into  this  new  life ;  they  have  been 
taken  from  the  farms,  from  taking  care  of  beets,  into  this  new  life.  "An 
idle  brain  is  the  devil's  workshop."  I  am  not  saying  those  men  are  par- 
ticularly idle,  but  there  are  moments  when  they  don't  know  what  to  do 
with  themselves;  they  are  tempted  as  they  never  were  before.  What 
about  the  boy  that  stays  at  home  and  is  not  tempted  ?  What  about  that 
boy  that  is  tempted  ?  What  are  you  going  to  do  with  him  when  he  comes 
back.  Is  your  attitude  going  to  be  one  of  rigidness,  or  are  you  going  to 
be  kind  to  him  ? 

The  sun  and  wind  had  a  meeting  one  day,  and  the  wind  said :  "I 
can  take  that  fellow's  coat  off  quicker  than  you  can."  The  sun  replied : 
"Go  to  it."  The  wind  started  to  blow,  and  the  harder  it  blew  the  harder 
the  man  pulled  his  coat  around  himself.  The  coat  stayed  on.  The  Sun 
said :  "All  right,  give  me  a  trial."  He  beat  down  on  that  fellow's  back, 
and  soon  the  coat  came  off.    Kindness. 

A  Storekeeper  and  A  Pound  of  Butter 

My  mother  told  me  a  story  once  I  never  forgot.     It  was  about  a 


32  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.   April   4  First  Day 

fellow  who  had  sticky  fingers.  (I'll  trv  to  make  myself  clear.)  He  went 
to  a  shop  and  when  he  thought  the  merchant  was  not  looking  lifted  a 
pound  of  butter.  He  concealed  it  under  a  big  stiff  hat  that  he  wore.  It 
was  in  the  days  of  the  big  beaver  hats.  Some  merchants  are  like  some 
schoolteachers — -they  have  eyes  in  the  back  of  their  heads — the  store- 
keeper knew  where  the  pound  of  butter  was. 

Now,  he's  going  to  call  the  police — he's  got  him  hands  down.  That's 
what  you  think.  But  the  grocery  man  had  another  way  of  teaching  that 
fellow  a  good  lesson.  Yes,  he  was  going  to  turn  on  the  heat — but  with 
kindness.  It  was  winter.  He  led  his  friend  over  to  the  fire  and  with  all 
the  warmth  of  hospitality  beckoned  him  to  the  stove.  "Sit  close  up  to  the 
fire,  John ;  it's  a  cold  day."  Yes,  he  put  on  the  coal.  The  stove  was  a 
crimson  red. — So  was  John.  Now  John  began  to  sweat.  It  wasn't  a 
question  of  rendering  lard,  it  was  rendering  kindness. 

Well,  now,  the  shop  man  got  his  butter  back.  The  story  is  a  little 
far-fetched  I  agree,  but  John  will  never  again  "worlds  without  end"  make 
a  larder  of  his  hat. 

An  Appeal  for  Kindness  to  the  Erring 

Now,  in  closing :  let  us  be  kind ;  do  not  forget  that  the  man  who  has 
his  weakness  is  that  fellow  that  charges  up  San  Juan  hill  to  give  you  your 
liberty ;  that  fellow  that  leads  his  fellows  in  battle  with :  "We  lick  them 
today  or  Molly  Stark  is  a  widow" ;  yes,  the  daredevil  that  bares  his 
breast  to  Japanese  bullets  at  Guadalcanal.  He  may  have  his  weakness, 
but  when  you  put  on  your  slippers  at  night  and  huddle  yourself  to  the 
fire  of  liberty,  do  not  forget  there  is  somebody  out  there  who  has  faults, 
but  who  is  the  one  that  dares  to  face  death  to  give  you  your  liberty. 

Judge  not  the  working  of  his  brain, 

And  of  his  heart  thou  canst  not  see. 

What  looks  to  thy  dim  eyes  a  stain, 

In  God's  pure  light  may  only  be 

A  scar,  brought  from  some  well-won  field 

Where  thou  wouldst  only  faint  and  yield. 

— Proctor 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  be  kind.  Someone,  when  asked  the  definition 
of  heaven  replied :  "Heaven  is  the  place  where  everybody  is  kind."  And 
we  will  get  twice  as  far  if  we  will  be  less  rigid  and  more  kind. 

So  many  Gods  and  so  many  creeds, 
So  many  paths  that  wind  and  wind, 
While  just  the  art  of  being  kind 
Is  what  the  sad  world  needs. 

— Wilcox 

May  the  Lord  help  us  in  it. 


"Guide  Me  To  Thee"  was  sung  by  the  Men's  Chorus  of  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir. 


ELDER  A.  RICHARD  PETERSON  33 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Many  changes  have  occurred  in  Norway  since  A.  Richard  Peterson 
presided  over  that  mission.  Tragedy  has  hit  the  land,  but  we  should  like 
to  hear  a  few  words  from  Brother  Peterson,  as  he  has  not  reported  since 
he  was  honorably  released  as  president  of  the  Norwegian  Mission. 

ELDER  A.  RICHARD  PETERSON 

Former  President  of  the  Norwegian  Mission 

Ihave  had  a  great  many  surprises  in  my  life,  but  this  tops  them  all. 
I  do  not  remember  having  been  so  greatly  surprised  before  in  my  life. 

I  left  Norway  in  October,  in  1939,  and  this  is  the  first  time  I  have 
had  the  privilege  of  giving  a  report,  and  I  do  not  know  that  I  could  give 
very  much  of  an  honest  report  now.  Things  have  changed  so  much  since 
I  left  over  there,  and  yet  my  heart  goes  back  to  those  fine  people.  I  do 
not  know  where  we  will  find  better  people  in  all  the  world  than  we  have 
in  Norway,  and  I  am  wondering  now  how  those  people  are  getting  along. 

Missionaries  Leaving  Norway 

During  my  stay  there,  from  1936  to  1939,  it  seemed  as  though  the 
time  had  come  when  it  was  necessary  to  evacuate  the  missionaries,  and 
we  were  making  preparations.  We  were  informing  the  Saints  at  that 
time  that  they  must  be  prepared  to  take  over  the  work,  as  the  missionaries 
would  probably  be  called  away.  They  could  not  realize  such  a  thing, 
they  could  not  understand  it ;  it  seemed  foreign  to  them. 

When  the  day  came  that  the  missionaries  were  evacuated,  and  it 
seemed  as  though  the  Saints  were  left  alone,  their  hearts  were  sad.  I 
see,  as  I  saw  on  the  day  that  we  left  Nor/way,  those  poor  Saints,  several 
hundred  of  them  standing  on  the  pier.  Their  hearts  were  broken,  their 
faces  were  sad,  tears  were  running  down  their  faces,  and  they  said  :  "Now 
the  missionaries  are  leaving  us,  the  only  hope  and  the  only  strength  that 
we  had."  And  so  I  feel  sorry  for  those  people,  but  I  am  sure  that  our 
Heavenly  Father  will  be  mindful  of  them,  many  of  whom  gave  practically 
all  they  had  for  the  Gospel.  They  did  so  much  in  research  work,  finding 
their  ancestors  and  sending  their  names  over  to  have  the  work  done  for 
them,  and  many  times  they  went  without  food,  some  of  them,  in  order 
to  do  this  vicarious  work,  or  to  have  those  names  sent  over  so  this  work 
could  be  done. 

So  I  say,  I  am  grateful  that  I  labored  among  those  people.  I  am 
grateful  that  I  have  had  the  privilege  of  spending  ten  years  of  my  life 
preaching  the  everlasting  Gospel  in  that  land,  where  so  many  of  God's 
children  are  gathered.  They  are  of  Israel  who  are  living  in  that  peace- 
loving  country,  and  I  hope  the  day  will  come  when  they  will  again  be 
liberated  and  have  the  privilege  of  worshiping  the  God  whom  they  love, 
and  according  to  the  dictates  of  their  own  conscience. 


34  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,    April    4  .  First   Day 

Interested  in  Youth  of  the  Church 

I  love  the  Gospel.  I  am  interested  in  the  young  people  of  this  Church, 
and  I  hope  that  those  who  are  presiding  in  the  wards  are  mindful  of  the 
great  responsibilities  resting  upon  them  as  fathers  in  the  Church.  I 
was  sorry  when  I  visited  one  little  ward  in  one  of  the  stakes  of  Zion 
shortly  after  I  came  home.  I  went  there  and  saw  a  great  number  of 
children  playing  outside.  I  was  intending  to  visit  their  Sunday  School 
that  morning,  and  a  little  girl  came  up  and  said :  "There  will  be  no  Sun- 
day School  this  morning."  The  bishop  had  left  word  that  there  would 
be  no  Sunday  School  because  he  and  his  counselors  had  gone  out  to  bring 
in  the  flocks.  They  had  gone  pheasant  hunting.  So  those  children  were 
left  alone  without  the  necessary  guidance  of  those  appointed  to  give  them 
spiritual  food.  So  I  say,  you  who  are  called  to  labor  as  fathers  in  Israel, 
see  to  it  that  you  do  not  neglect  the  people  of  this  Church.  I  am  greatly 
interested  in  them. 

While  I  was  in  Norway  about  one  hundred  young  men,  the  finest 
people  in  the  Church,  were  sent  to  labor  under  my  direction,  and  most 
of  them  now  are  in  the  armed  forces  of  the  United  States.  God  bless 
them.  God  bless  the  parents  of  those  good  boys,  for  they  have  sacrificed 
for  them.  My  testimony  is  that  there  is  not  anything  in  the  world  that 
will  equal  this  Church,  or  that  will  give  you  greater  satisfaction  in  all 
the  world  than  to  live  the  Gospel  of  jesus  Christ,  giving  your  time,  your 
talents  and  all  that  you  have  for  the  Church. 

May  God  bless  us  and  help  us  that  we  may  realize  our  position  in 
this  Church,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  believe  I  can  state  the  substance  of  the  message  I  have  in  mind  in 
one  sentence.  I  say  it  particularly  for  the  young  people  of  the  Church, 
because  I  know  that  so  many  of  them  are  confused  at  this  time.  What  I 
wish  to  say  is  this  :    War  does  not  change  fundamentals. 

Changes  Brought  By  War 

War  changes  many  things,  of  necessity.  It  may  change  the  clothes 
we  wear,  the  quality  and  quantity  of  the  food  we  eat,  and  many  of' our 
other  habits  of  life ;  but  it  does  not,  it  must  not,  it  can  not  change  the  basic 
fundamentals. 

These  young  men  of  ours  who  have  broken  up  the  pattern  of  their 
lives  to  go  into  the  service  of  their  country  are  going  to  want  to'  come 
back  to  those  places  they  have  left,  and  to  take  up  life,  insofar  as  circum- 
stances permit,  where  they  left  it.  I  think  their  conduct  must  always  be 
modified  by  this  thought. 

Our  young  women  must  keep  this  in  mind,  too,  I  am  sure.  The}' 
have  many  vital  decisions  to  make ;  the  pattern  of  their  lives  is  broken 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS  35 

up  likewise.  But  all  of  the  decisions  they  make  must  be  based  on  the 
bedrock  fundamentals  of  life  which  have  been  taught  them  in  their  homes 
and  in  this  Church.  Decisions  prompted  by  expediency  must  not  be 
allowed  to  become  a  habit ;  the  attitude  of  living  in  a  state  of  emergency 
must  not  be  allowed  to  become  chronic ;  and  our  thinking  must  not  be 
allowed  to  go  off  on  unsafe  tangents  because  of  the  urgency  of  the  moment. 

Fundamentals  Unchanged 

War  does  not  change  the  fundamental  that  it  is  still  a  wise  thing  to 
spend  a  little  less  than  we  make ;  to  raise  a  little  more  than  we  think  we'll 
need ;  to  keep  our  birthright,  in  a  physical  sense — our  roots'  in  the  soil. 

It  does  not  change  the  fundamental  that  upon  this  Church  has  been 
placed  the  obligation  to  preach  the  gospel.  The  pattern  of  our  preaching 
may  change ;  the  composition  of  the  manpower  that  preaches  the  word 
may  change ;  our  methods  may  of  necessity  change  a  good  deal ;  our  work 
may  be  done  largely  at  home  in  the  stakes  instead  of  abroad  in  foreign 
fields,  but  still  the  obligation  is  upon  us. 

War  must  not  lower  any  of  our  standards  of  personal  conduct.  A  uni- 
form does  not  give  a  young  man  any  special  privilege,  so  far  as  a  young 
woman  is  concerned ;  nor  does  it  justify  any  young  woman  in  lowering  any 
of  her  standards  or  principles  or  ideals,  under  any  conditions  whatsoever, 
so  far  as  any  young  man  is  concerned,  a  uniform  to  the  contrary  notwith- 
standing. 

I  believe  I  shall  leave  the  statement  there. 

Our  young  men  are  making  great  sacrifices  ;  a  full  share  of  them  are 
in  the  armed  forces,  in  comparison  with  other  groups  of  like  numbers. 
We  are  all  willing  to  do  all  that  has  to  be  done,  and  more,  to  meet  the 
needs  of  the  hour;  but  beneath  it  all,  our  feet  must  be  squarely  fixed 
upon  bedrock  fundamentals  which  no  emergency  or  expediency  or  state 
of  war  should  or  can  be  permitted  to  change. 

The  Blessing  of  the  Lord  Invoked 

May  the  Lord  God  be  with  these  young  people  of  ours  in  all  of  the 
confusion  that  faces  them,  in  all  of  the  decisions  that  they  have  to  make, 
and  help  them  to  make  all  of  those  decisions  on  that  same  basis  of  funda- 
mental truth  which  would  and  must  determine  the  vital  decisions  of  their 
lives  at  any  time. 

I  know,  as  you  do,  that  God  lives,  that  this  is  His  work.  I  ask  the 
blessings  of  our  Father  in  heaven  upon  each  of  you  and  all  of  us,  and  upon 
those  who  are  not  with  us,  those  of  our  members  who  are  living  in  a  state 
of  war,  in  occupied  countries  and  elsewhere,  that  their  faith  may  be  strong, 
that  their  lives  may  be  preserved,  and  that  they  may  endure  to  the  end 
and  receive  all  of  those  promised  blessings  for  those  who  do  endure. 

God  be  with  you.    Amen. 


36  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,    April   4  First  Day 

ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

To  most  of  us  a  General  Conference  of  the  Church  is  an  important 
event.  From  it  we  receive  strength  and  courage.  It  occurred  to  me  as  I 
sat  here  this  morning  and  this  afternoon  that  the  Church  is  a  great 
educational  institution,  supplying  the  training  and  the  education  so  much 
needed  in  this  world,  torn  asunder  at  the  present  time  by  war  and  destruc- 
tion.   Its  purpose  is  to  enlighten  and  exalt  humanity. 

Conferences  an  Inspiration 

Today,  in  conference  assembled,  we  rejoice  in  the  efficiency  of  this 
Church,  in  its  vitality,  its  power,  its  growth,  its  leadership,  in  its  com- 
prehensive program,  and  in  the  wide  scope  of  its  activities.  The  con- 
ferences of  the  Church  have  always  been  a  great  inspiration  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  We  come  here  to  be  renewed  in  our  faith,  to  be  encouraged  in 
our  labors  and  to  be  strengthened  in  our  responsibility,  and  we  never  go 
away  disappointed. 

Religion  A  Present  Day  Need 

The  challenge  to  you  and  me  today,  as  workers  in  this  Church,  has 
never  been  greater.  "There  was  never  a  time  more  cut  off  from  Christ," 
says  a  modern  writer,  "than  the  present,  and  there  was  never  a  time  that 
needed  Him  more." 

We  have  witnessed  in  recent  years  a  departure  from  fundamentals 
long  established,  a  breaking  away  from  standards  and  doctrines  that  are 
as  old  as  the  Decalog.  The  paramount  need  of  the  hour,  it  seems  to  me, 
is  a  return  to  the  old-fashioned  virtues  that  formed  the  very  bedrock 
of  our  social  and  economic  life.  We  should  have  learned  long  ago  that 
paganism  and  true  Christianity  can  never  be  welded  together.  You  cannot 
serve  God  and  Mammon,  said  Jesus.  That  doctrine  was  true  centuries 
ago  when  it  was  uttered  ;  it  is  true  today.  A  compromising,  distorted  and 
vacillating  Christianity  was  never  taught  by  Jesus  and  His  apostles,  or 
by  Joseph  Smith  and  his  followers.  They  were  firm  and  unyielding  in 
their  requirements  for  Church  membership 

Rejoices  in  Church 

I  rejoice  in  the  testimonies  which  have  come  to  me  concerning  the 
divinity  of  God's  work.  It  is  a  great  work,  as  I  said  in  the  beginning. 
The  Church  is  great  in  purpose  and  plan,  in  its  program.  It  is  great  in 
its  achievements,  and  in  its  missionary  endeavor.  In  these  days  of  crisis 
and  turmoil  we  must  not  fail,  for  much  depends  upon  our  faith,  our 
integrity,  and  our  activity  in  the  Church. 

May  God  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints,  that  they  may  be  true  to  their 
responsibilities  and  true  to  their  convictions,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.    Amen. 


ELDER  JOHN  A.   WIDTSOE  37 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Tzvelve  Apostles 

Dear  brethren,  fellow-workers  in  the  cause  of  Christ,  I  pray  that  I 
may  be  guided  by  the  good  spirit  that  has  been  with  us  throughout  this 
day  in  the  few  words  I  may  say. 

I  should  like  to  comment  on  the  theme  which  was  placed  before  us 
by  President  Clawson.  This  conference  coincides,  so  it  happens,  with 
the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  dedication  of  the  great  Salt  Lake  Temple. 
That  beautiful  edifice,  made  of  granite  and  lifting  its  spires  heavenward, 
is  an  evidence  of  the  willingness  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  yield  obedi- 
ence to  the  will  of  God,  and  to  sacrifice  in  behalf  of  His  cause. 

The  Importance  of  Temple  Work 

The  work  done  in  the  temples  of  the  Lord  represents  the  culmination 
of  the  obligations,  privileges  and  blessings  of  the  Priesthood.  No  man 
has  completed — nor  a  woman  with  him — the  Priesthood  cycle  until  he 
has  received  the  blessings  that  the  temple  has  to  offer. 

It  is  sometimes  thought  that  the  work  done  in  the  temples  is  for  the 
aged,  and  decrepit.  Temple  work  is,  primarily  I  was  about  to  say,  for 
those  engaged  in  the  active  affairs  of  life,  for  those  who  are  in  the  midst 
of  life's  battle,  the  young  and  the  middle-aged.  Perhaps  they  need  it 
most.  Certainly,  it  is  quite  as  much  for  these  as  for  those  who  seek  refuge 
in  their  old  age  in  the  blessings  of  the  temple. 

Work  in  the  temples  is  also  for  the  dead.  That  we  all  know.  Im- 
bedded in  the  temple  ceremonies  and  endowment  is  one  of  the  most 
glorious  of  all  the  principles  of  truth  given  in  this  day — the  principle  of 
universal  salvation.  We  are  all  the  children  of  God,  His  very  children ; 
and  He  desires  to  bring  all  of  us  back  into  His  presence,  into  His  kingdom. 
He  has  provided  means  by  which  this  may  be  done.  He  has  no  favorites, 
except  as  we  ourselves  by  our  imperfect  living  may  defeat  His  desire. 
That  is  one  of  the  great  doctrines  of  the  Church ;  unique  and  peculiar 
to  this  people.  It  is  a  challenging  doctrine,  that  though  a  man  may  fail 
to  hear  the  gospel  upon  earth,  though  he  may  fail,  when  he  hears  it,  to 
comprehend  it,  he  may  yet  have  the  opportunity  after  the  grave,  after 
this  life  is  over,  to  participate  in  the  blessings  of  the  gospel,  and  to  win  his 
place  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

It  is  a  marvelous  and  comforting  thought  that  there  is  hope  beyond 
the  grave.  Millions  have  died  in  sorrow,  and  those  who  have  been  left 
behind  have  sorrowed  and  suffered,  because  they  have  failed  to  understand 
this  law,  one  of  the  fundamental,  basic  principles  of  the  gospel. 

Temple  work  is  very  important.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  is  re- 
ported to  have  said — it  is  so  recorded  and  printed — that  there  is  no  more 
important  duty  resting  upon  the  Latter-day  Saints  than  to  do  the  work 
for  which  we  have  erected  temples.  It  is  interesting  to  remember  that  in 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the  collection  of  some  of  the  revelations 
given  by  the  Lord  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  the  oldest  revelation, 
therefore  really  the  first,  deals  almost  wholly  with  the  subject  of  salvation 


38  GENERAL  CONEERE'NCE 

Sunday,    April    4  First   Day 

for  the  dead.  It  is  a  significant  fact  of  history,  also,  that  Brigham  Young 
had  been  in  this  valley  only  four  days  when  he  came  to  a  spot  a  few  feet 
from  where  we  are  meeting  today,  in  the  midst  of  the  sagebrush,  and 
placed  his  cane  in  the  ground,  saying:  "Here  we  shall  build  a  temple  to 
the  Most  High."  The  pioneers  were  hungry  and  weary ;  they  needed 
food  and  rest ;  a  hostile  desert  looked  them  in  the  face ;  yet  in  the  midst 
of  such  physical  requirements  they  turned  first  to  the  building  of  temples 
and  to  the  spiritual  food  and  strength  that  the  temples  provide. 

Sometimes  we  forget  the  greatness  of  this  work.  It  is  a  glorious 
thought  that  you  and  I,  ordinary  men,  may  do  work  upon  earth  that  will 
be,  is,  recognized  in  heaven ;  that  we  may  be  as  saviors  to  those  who  have 
gone  before  us  into  the  unseen  world.  The  Lord  came  upon  earth  and, 
in  our  behalf,  in  behalf  of  the  whole  race  of  God's  children,  did  work 
which  will  bring  us  eternal  life  and  joy  and  blessings.  So,  in  a  humbler 
manner  may  we,  each  one  of  us,  do  work  for  the  dead  that  will  bless 
them  eternally,  if  they  accept  our  service.  We,  also,  may  become  saviors 
— "saviors  on  Mount  Zion."  That  is  a  glorious  thought  that  should  remain 
in  the  minds  of  Latter-day  Saints.  It  certifies  to  the  claim  that  mankind 
are  equally  the  children  of  God.  It  extends  the  doctrine  of  brotherhood  to 
the  whole  human  race. 

Love  Is  Shown  By  Sacrifice 

The  Savior  gave  of  Himself,  gave  His  very  life  that  we  might  live. 
To  sacrifice  that  others  might  be  blessed  was  His  word,  His  work,  His 
life.  Sacrifice  is  the  evidence  of  true  love.  Without  sacrifice  love  is  not 
manifest.  Without  sacrifice  there  is  no  real  love,  or  kindness,  the  kindness 
suggested  in  the  splendid  theme  discussed  by  Bishop  Ashton.  We  love 
no  one  unless  we  sacrifice  for  him.  We  can  measure  the  degree  of  love 
that  we  possess  for  any  man  or  cause,  by  the  sacrifice  we  make  for  him 
or  it. 

As  the  Lord  gave  His  life  to  prove  His  love  for  His  brethren  and 
sisters,  the  human  race,  we  may  show  the  spirit  of  love  more  vigorously 
than  we  have  done  if  we  will  make  the  small  sacrifices  necessary  to  seek 
out  our  genealogies,  to  spend  time  and  money  for  the  work,  to  take  time 
to  go  to  the  temple  ourselves  for  the  dead.  All  such  service  may  entail 
sacrifice,  but  sacrifice  lifts  us  toward  the  likeness  of  God,  the  likeness 
of  our  Elder  Brother  Jesus  Christ.  If  we  Latter-day  Saints  have  any 
great  ideal,  it  is  that  of  our  Elder  Brother.  All  that  we  strive  for,  and 
all  that  we  have  fought  for,  and  all  that  we  pray  for,  is  to  become  more 
and  more  like  Him  as  our  days  and  years  increase.  As  He  gave  His  life, 
unselfishly  for  us,  so  each  of  us,  extending  the  open  door  of  salvation  to 
the  dead,  most  of  whom  are  but  names  to  us,  may  then  by  our  unselfish- 
ness claim  in  very  deed  to  be  followers  of  Christ. 

Power  and  Strength  Can  Come  from  Unseen  World 

Temple  work,  in  form  and  substance,  reflects  the  fundamental  prin- 
ciples and  thoughts  belonging  to  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  We 
must  dig  deeply  to  taste  the  sweetness  of  the  gospel.  We  cannot  merely 


ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH  39 

move  about  on  the  surface  to  secure  the  full  gift  of  the  Lord's  plan  of 
salvation.  Deep  down  in  the  eternal  realities,  of  which  temple  work 
is  one,  lies  the  real  meaning,  message,  and  blessing  of  the  gospel. 

These  are  trying  days,  in  which  Satan  rages,  at  home  and  abroad, 
hard  days,  evil  and  ugly  days.  We  stand  helpless  as  it  seems  before  them. 
We  need  help.  We  need  strength.  We  need  guidance.  Perhaps  if  we 
would  do  our  work  in  behalf  of  those  of  the  unseen  world  who  hunger 
and  pray  for  the  work  we  can  do  for  them,  the  unseen  world  would  in 
return  give  us  help  in  this  day  of  our  urgent  need.  There  are  more  in 
that  other  world  than  there  are  here.  There  is  more  power  and  strength 
there  than  we  have  here  upon  this  earth.  We  have  but  a  trifle,  and  that 
trifle  is  taken  from  the  immeasurable  power  of  God.  We  shall  make  no 
mistake  in  becoming  collaborators  in  the  Lord's  mighty  work  for  human 
redemption. 

So  my  message  to  you,  my  brethren,  the  leaders  of  Israel,  is  that  in 
performing  our  many  duties,  we  remember  to  give  a  good  share  of  our 
time  and  thought  and  energy  to  the  work  for  which  this  great  Salt  Lake 
Temple,  and  the  other  temples,  were  erected. 

The  story  of  the  rising  of  the  Salt  Lake  Temple,  round  by  round, 
in  the  midst  of  poverty  and  hardship,  and  under  the  unspeakable  perse- 
cution of  our  people,  is  one  that  will  never  be  forgotten  by  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  It  will  rise  to  become  an  epic  of  man's  devotion  to  truth.  It 
should  be  a  great  inspiration  for  us  in  our  day.  We  do  not  want  easy 
days ;  we  want  days,  no  matter  how  hard  they  may  be,  that  lead  us  into 
the  likeness  of  our  Brother,  Jesus  Christ,  and  into  His  presence,  and  His 
Father's. 

God  bless  us  and  prosper  us  in  our  work,  and  make  us  capable  to  do 
the  work  which  has  been  placed  upon  us,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren,  we  have  had  two  glorious  sessions.  Kindness  seems  to 
be  the  theme.  I  thought  as  Bishop  Ashton  was  pleading  for  more  kind- 
ness, how  fitting ;  and  that  I  would  like  to  tell  something  that  happened  to 
me  just  three  weeks  ago  today.  I  was  in  Los  Angeles  without  an  appoint- 
ment, and  consequently  wended  my  way  over  to  the  Hollywood  Ward. 
As  I  came  up  to  the  door,  a  kind,  affable  man  extended  his  hand  in  greet- 
ing, and  said : 

A  Warm  Welcome 

"You  are  welcome  here.  Come  in."  It  was  not  a  hard  thing  to  go 
into  that  chapel.  After  the  opening  exercises,  I  went  with  one  of  the 
classes,  and  the  teacher  had  sort  of  a  "free  for  all"  discussion.  It  seemed 
that  he  was  drawing  out  the  class  members  as  to  their  attitude  and 
feelings.  He  asked  them  of  their  difficulties,  the  trials  they  were  having, 
and  how  they  overcame  them. 


40  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,    April   4  First  Day 

Experiences  of  a  Convert 

Many  class  members  told  of  sweet  things  that  had  happened  to  them, 
difficulties  that  they  had  overcome.  Finally  one  man  stood  up  and  said : 
"Years  ago  I  joined  the  Church  in  Denmark.  I  never  felt  such  love,  such 
sympathy,  and  such  kindness  in  my  life  as  I  felt  amongst  those  people  that 
were  in  that  branch.  I  was  thrilled  to  be  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ.  I  did  my  duty  in  the  Church.  I  worked  up  to  be  an  assistant 
to  the  superintendent  of  the  Sunday  School,  thrilled  in  the  knowledge  that 
I  was  actually  growing  in  the  gospel.  Then  about  twenty  years  ago  the 
way  opened  up  for  me  to  come  to  Zion.  I  came,  bringing  my  certificate 
of  identification  with  me.  As  Sunday  rolled  around,  I  went  over  to  the 
ward  in  which  I  was  living,  thinking  that  the  bishop  would  be  delighted 
to  know  he  was  getting  a  new  member,  and  I  had  him  pointed  out  to  me. 
I  couldn't  say  very  much  in  English ;  I  walked  up  to  him  and  handed  him 
my  certificate  of  identification,  and  he  said :  'O.K.'  And  that  was  the 
end  of  the  conversation. 

"I  had  a  difficult  time  because  the  warmth  that  I  had  known  with 
the  missionaries  in  Denmark  was  not  here.  I  sat  through  the  meeting.  I 
went  for  several  Sundays ;  no  one  paid  any  attention  to  me  whatsoever, 
and  finally  I  gave  up.  For  twenty  years  now  I  have  wandered  all  over 
America,  unhappy  and  miserable,  trying  to  find  some  peace,  and  knowing 
all  the  time  that  the  gospel  was  true,  but  it  was  not  lived  the  way  that 
the  missionaries  had  taught  us  it  was  to  be  lived,  and  as  it  should  be 
lived.  I  happened  along  this  street  four  weeks  ago.  I  came  to  the  door 
of  this  beautiful  chapel  and  a  man  held  out  his  hand,  and  spoke  to  me, 
and  said :   'Welcome.' 

"The  next  Sunday  I  was  here,  and  last  Sunday  I  was  here,  and  today 
I  am  here.  I  am  beginning  to  feel  that  thrill  come  back  that  I  had  in 
Denmark.    Someone  was  kind  to  me." 

As  he  sat  down,  thrilled  to  think  he  had  come  back  into  the  Church, 
he  promised  before  that  Sunday  School  that  he  would  continue  to  be  a 
Latter-day  Saint.  I  was  touched.  I  stood  up  and  said :  "I  wonder  if 
anyone  else  is  here  today  for  the  first  time?  It  happens  to  be  my  first 
day  here,  and  as  I  came  up  to  the  door,  someone  shook  hands  with  me. 
Has  anyone  else  had  an  experience  who  has  come  today  for  the  first  time 
that  makes  him  feel  he  would  not  want  to  come  again  for  twenty  years?" 

One  sister  held  up  her  hand  and  said :  "I  came  today  for  the  first 
time,  and  someone  shook  hands  with  me  at  the  door,  and  I  am  coming 
back  next  Sunday." 

Story  of  a  Bishop's  Kindness 

Brethren,  you  men  who  are  responsible  for  taking  care  of  the  sheep, 
you  who  are  in  constant  touch  with  them,  be  kind.  I  had  a  fine  young 
missionary  come  out  to  me  in  the  California  Mission.  He  was  telling 
me  that  he  had  been  a  little  bit  careless  as  a  boy,  but  he  said  on  one 
occasion,  about  six  years  previous,  when  he  was  about  sixteen  years  of 
age,  he  walked  into  the  office  of  the  bishop,  just  a  little  bit  ashamed.  For 
his  mother  had  forced  him  to  pay  tithing  on  a  dollar  he  had  earned,  but 


PRESIDENT  DAVID   O.  McKAY  41 

the  payment  was  so  small  he  was  almost  afraid  to  do  it.    Finally  he  laid 
the  ten  cent  piece  down  on  the  table  and  said :   "This  is  my  tithing." 

He  said  the  bishop,  who  was  writing  out  receipts,  dropped  his  pencil 
on  the  receipt  book,  stood  up  and  put  his  arms  around  him  and  gave  him 
a  hug  and  said:  "My  lad,  if  you  will  always  do  this,  the  Lord  will  bless 
you  and  you  will  be  happy."  He  said:  "From  that  day  on  I  was  blessed, 
because  every  week  my  earnings  increased  until  I  had  enough  to  come 
into  the  mission  field.  I  will  always  be  grateful  to  that  bishop  because 
he  was  kind." 

Plea  for  Kindness 

Brethren,  we  all  have  our  responsibilities  and  our  difficulties  to  face, 
but  bishops,  presidents  of  branches,  you  who  come  in  such  close  contact 
with  the  members,  never  fail  to  put  your  arms  around  them  and  encourage 
them.    Kindness  above  all  else  will  keep  them  close  to  you  and  the  Church. 

God  bless  us  and  help  us  that  our  love  and  our  kindness  may  have 
such  an  effect  upon  our  membership  that  all  will  want  to  turn  to  the  Lord 
and  keep  His  commandments,  is  my  prayer,  in  Jesus'  name.    Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

This  evening  all  visiting  brethren  are  invited  to  attend  services  to 
be  held  in  the  wards  throughout  this  city.  There  will  be  no  general 
evening  meeting. 

Questions  that  have  come  to  the  First  Presidency  and  to  the  Gen- 
eral Authorities  of  the  Church  indicate  that  there  are  some  who  do  not 
yet  clearly  understand  who  shall  attend  and  who  shall  take  charge  of 
regional  meetings  to  be  held  one  week  from  today  and  two  weeks  from 
today.  It  has  already  been  announced  that  the  following  are  invited  to 
those  meetings : 

The  Stake  Presidencies  and  Stake  Clerks 

Former  Stake  Presidents 

Patriarchs 

Bishoprics 

Ward  Clerks 

Three  members  of  each  Priests'  group  or  quorum  to  be  chosen  or 
appointed  by  the  bishopric  of  the  ward 

Some  think  this  means  that  the  Priests  quorum  has  been  given  a 
presidency.  That  is  not  the  case,  because  the  bishop  of  course  constitutes 
the  President  of  the  Priests  quorum.  Eeach  bishop  should  choose  three 
young  priests  to  attend  the  regional  conferences  with  instructions  that 
these  young  men  return  and  report  to  their  respective  groups  or  quorums. 

Presidencies  of  Teachers  quorums  (ordained  Teachers,  of  course) 

Presidencies  of  Deacons  quorums 

Now  we  add  to  that  announcement  that  Aaronic  Priesthood  Com- 
mittees, Stake  and  Ward,  including  those  who  have  direct  charge  of 
the  adult  Aaronic  Priesthood,  are  also  invited. 


42  GENERAL  CONEERENCE 

Sunday,    April    4  First   Day 

Some  seem  to  be  at  a  loss  to  know  in  which  regions  certain  stakes 
belong.  Will  you  please  refer  to  your  Church  Directory  and  you  will 
find  there  that  the  division  into  groups  is  the  same  as  that  given  in  the 
Church  Welfare  department.  You  will  also  find  the  stakes  listed  in 
groups  in  the  Deseret  News  of  last  evening. 

All  ward  teachers  from  every  ward  are  invited  to  be  present  and 
instructions  to  ward  teachers  will  form  a  dominant  theme  of  these  regional 
conferences.  Other  topics  will  be  "Personal  Responsibility  of  Men  Who 
Hold  the  Priesthood,  and  Quorum  Responsibility."  These  meetings 
will  be  inspirational  as  well  as  educational ;  they  are  not  divided  into  con- 
vention work.  The  General  Authorities  will  give  instructions  which  I 
am  sure  will  prove  timely  and  applicable,  particularly  to  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood.  The  direct  responsibility  of  making  preparations  for  these 
regional  meetings  will  rest  upon  the  presidency  of  the  stake  in  which 
the  meeting  is  being  held.  In  those  stakes  in  which  the  chapel  or  tabernacle 
is  used  by  more  than  one  stake  the  First  Presidency  will  designate  the 
stake  presidency  to  have  charge. 

Meetings  will  be  held  as  follows :  At  10  o'clock  in  the  morning  and 
at  2  o'clock  in  the  afternoon.  These  will  be  general  sessions  attended  by 
all  those  whom  I  have  named.  Between  meetings,  at  about  12:15  p.m.. 
there  will  be  held  another  special  meeting.  Those  who  are  to  attend  this 
meeting  will  be  designated  by  the  visiting  General  Authority.  The  regu- 
lar ward  meetings  will  be  held  as  usual.  In  those  wards  so  far  removed 
from  the  central  place  of  meeting  that  it  will  be  difficult  for  the  bishoprics 
to  return  to  take  charge  of  the  evening  meeting,  some  High  Priest  should 
be  given  the  special  appointment  to  take  charge  of  the  sacrament  meet- 
ing. As  April  11th  has  been  designated  as  a  special  night  in  which  to 
take  up  genealogical  work,  commemorating  the  dedication  of  the  Salt 
Lake  Temple,  it  would  be  fitting  if  the  bishopric  were  to  throw  the  re- 
sponsibility of  conducting  the  meeting  upon  the  Genealogical  Committee. 

I  believe  that  will  cover  most  of  the  items  which  you  should  know  to- 
night in  order  to  give  due  notice  in  your  ward  meetings.  These  instructions 
will  be  sent  to  Stake  Presidents  by  letter. 

I  omitted  the  High  Councilmen — The  Stake  Presidencies,  Stake 
Clerks,  former  Stake  Presidents,  High  Councilmen,  Patriarchs,  Bishop- 
rics of  Wards,  Ward  Clerks,  three  representing  each  quorum  of  Priests, 
the  presidencies  of  Teachers  quorums,  presidencies  of  Deacons  quorums, 
all  Ward  Teachers,  and  Aaronic  Priesthood  Committees  of  Stakes  and 
Wards. 


The  congregation  joined  in  singing,  "The  Spirit  of  God  Like  a  Fire 
is  Burning,"  (William  W.  Phelps). 

Elder  Charles  W.  Dunn,  President  of  the  Logan  Stake,  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Monday,  April  5,  at  10  o'clock  a.m. 


ELDER   JOHN   H.    TAYLOR  43 

SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  third  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  Monday  morning, 
April  5,  at  10  o'clock  a.m. 

President  David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, conducted  the  services. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

The  time  has  arrived  for  the  opening  of  this  the  third  session  of  the 
113th  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church.  President  Grant  is  with  us  and 
is  presiding  at  this  meeting. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand,  with  President  Grant,  his  two  Coun- 
selors, members  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  the  Patriarch  to  the  Church, 
the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve,  the  Presidents  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy,  and  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 

Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  will  direct  the  music,  and  Alexander 
Schreiner  is  at  the  organ. 

We  will  open  the  meeting  by  the  congregation  singing,  "Come  All 
Ye  Sons  of  Zion,"  Song  Folder  number  19.  You  who  have  hymn  books 
will  find  it  on  page  257. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Come  All  Ye  Sons  of  Zion, 
(Words  by  William  W.  Phelps). 

Elder  Levi  S.  Udall,  President  of  the  St.  Johns  Stake,  offered  the 
invocation. 

The  congregation  joined  in  singing,  "How  Firm  a  Foundation" 
(Kirkham). 

ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  am  very  happy,  my  brethren,  to  have  the  opportunity  of  being  in 
this  conference  to  hear  the  words  of  inspiration,  counsel,  and  instruction 
that  have  come  to  us.  I  trust  that  I  may  be  able  to  say  something  that 
will  be  helpful  and  that  I  may  be  humble  in  the  things  that  I  say. 

I  heard  of  a  speaker  who,  in  telling  of  his  experiences  in  delivering 
a  sermon,  said  that  as  he  stood  before  a  congregation  he  felt  he  was  a 
great  waterfall  pouring  out  the  word  of  the  Lord  into  the  hearts  of  the 
thirsty  people.     A  man  who  was  standing  by  him  said,  "Brother,  from 


44  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,    April   5  Second   Day 

where  I  was  sitting  in  the  audience  you  didn't  look  like  much  of  a  water- 
fall.   In  fact  what  I  saw  looked  more  like  just  a  trickle." 

Increase  in  Visitors  to  Temple  Square 

As  you  know,  I  am  connected  with  the  Temple  Square  Mission. 
We  have  many  thousands  of  people  coming  there.  We  thought  that  the 
war  would  interfere  with  this  mission,  that  we  would  not  have  very  much 
to  do.  We  were  mistaken.  During  the  months  of  January,  February, 
and  March  of  last  year,  when  the  grounds  and  tabernacle  were  open,  we 
had  something  like  forty-three  thousand  people.  This  year  during  the 
same  three  months  when  the  tabernacle  has  been  closed,  we  have  had 
something  like  fifty  thousand  people.  Three  times  as  many  people  are 
going  out  with  the  guides  this  year  as  did  last  year.  In  the  same  three 
months  of  last  year  we  sold  two  hundred  seventy-six  copies  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon.  The  three  months  of  this  year  we  have  sold  five  hundred 
thirty-six  copies  of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

I  am  giving  you  this  information  because  a  number  of  people,  prin- 
cipally members  of  the  Church,  thought  that  because  the  tabernacle  is 
closed  no  one  would  come  to  visit  with  us  and  that  we  would  not  be  able 
to  do  the  type  of  work  that  we  were  able  to  do  previously.  In  fact,  among 
our  own  membership  we  often  hear  it  said  that  the  closing  of  this  very 
historical  building  is  a  great  calamity  and  that  we  are  failing  to  reach  the 
people  whom  we  should  reach. 

I  grant  you  that  the  opportunity  of  coming  into  this  building  is  a 
choice  one.  Inside  this  building  there  are  a  sacredness,  a  spirit  of  worship, 
and  a  quietness  that  reach  into  the  hearts  of  men  and  women  and  in 
some  way  go  down  deep  into  their  souls.  It  makes  them  remember  the 
great  faith  and  courage  of  our  pioneers  who  made  it  possible  to  have 
this  building,  this  block,  and  this  city  of  ours.  However,  I  am  quite 
sure  that  many  of  us  forget  that  the  Block  is  also  a  sacred  spot  and  that 
in  it  there  is  the  spirit  of  worship,  that  God  is  here  with  us,  and  that  all 
men  and  women  who  come  within  our  gates  are  blessed  and  may  feel 
the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  as  they  come  among  us. 

Closing  of  the  Tabernacle 

I  surely  wish  our  people  could  realize  this  fact  and  not  feel  that  all 
has  been  lost  simply  because  the  tabernacle  has  been  closed.  Seemingly, 
we  have  no  objections  from  our  friends.  We  have  any  number  of  army 
men  and  civilians  who,  when  we  say  the  building  has  been  closed  because 
of  the  war  emergency,  say  that  that  is  the  right  thing  to  do.  The  only 
opposition  that  we  have,  seemingly,  comes  from  our  own  membership. 
The  work  that  we  are  doing  in  the  Block  is  of  immense  value  to  the  people 
who  come  here.  The  guides  are  having  the  same  opportunity  of  preach- 
ing the  gospel.  We  ask  our  guides  to  make  an  hour  the  maximum  and 
about  forty  or  fifty  minutes  the  minimum  of  time  to  hold  the  people  as 
they  take  them  through  the  Block.  So  our  guides  are  using  the  fifty 
and  sixty  minutes,  just  as  they  have  always  used  in  preaching  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.     When  men  and  women  go  away,  I  am  quite  certain 


ELDER  JOHN  H.    TAYLOR  45 

they  go  away  with  a  more  kindly  feeling  concerning  the  Church  of  the 
Lord  that  has  been  established  in  these  latter  days.  Without  any  doubt 
we  are  doing  a  work  that  is  valuable  in  spreading  a  knowledge  of  the 
gospel  among  the  people. 

Story  of  a  Conversion 

Because  of  the  nature  of  our  work  we  have  the  opportunity  of  seeing 
people  change  their  viewpoint,  changing  their  way  of  life,  rearranging 
their  thinking  in  regard  to  the  religious  problems  of  the  day.  We  have 
people  coming  into  the  Church  because  of  their  contact  here.  Recently, 
we  had  a  very  intelligent  and  outstanding  woman  visit  with  us.  Much  of 
her  life  had  been  spent  in  France.  She  came  on  the  Block  and  went 
around  with  one  of  our  guides  and  was  so  impressed  that  she  came  again. 
She  was  going  down  to  California  and  thought  she  had  better  stay  here 
long  enough  to  hear  more  about  the  Gospel.  So  we  taught  her  the  Gospel ; 
and  one  of  our  guides  was  so  considerate  that  she  took  her  to  some  of 
our  meetings  and  young  people's  gatherings.  The  woman  kept  coming 
back.  Then  we  talked  things  over  with  her,  and  one  day  we  said  to 
her,  "You  know  we  have  the  Word  of  Wisdom  in  the  Church ;  it  has  to 
do  with  smoking  and  drinking  and  the  use  of  tea  and  coffee."  It  was 
quite  a  surprise  to  her,  and  in  a  way  shocked  her  because  the  use  of 
some  of  these  things  had  been  a  part  of  her  life.  She  asked,  "Is  that  one 
of  the  teachings  of  Joseph  Smith?"  We  answered,  "Yes,  that  is  one 
of  the  revelations  which  were  given  to  him."  "Well,  if  Joseph  Smith 
said  that,  that  is  what  the  Lord  wanted  His  children  to  do;  I  am  going 
to  do  it."  So  since  then  she  has  left  all  these  things  alone.  She  continued 
her  investigation  and  is  now  a  humble,  faithful,  and  sincere  member  of 
the  Church. 

You  know  you  have  to  change,  turn  around,  think  differently  and 
do  things  differently  when  you  come  into  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 
I  wish  all  of  us  as  we  think  about  things  could  say  in  our  hearts,  'Well, 
if  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  said  that,  and  it  was  given  to  him  by  the 
Lord,  we  will  do  it  just  as  he  wants  us  to  do." 

A  Father  and  Mother  Change  Their  Viewpoint 

One  day  a  father  and  mother  came  onto  the  Block.  They  followed 
several  of  our  groups.  As  they  went  around  the  third  or  fourth  time, 
they  thought  that  perhaps  the  people  behind  the  counter  would  wonder 
why  they  were  going  so  often.  So  they  made  this  explanation :  "We 
have  a  son  who  is  over  in  England  in  the  military  work.  One  day  he 
wrote  to  us  and  said  that  he  had  met  the  Mormon  missionaries  who  are 
now  in  the  army  and  said,  'They  surely  are  a  splendid  lot  of  fellows.'  " 

Nothing  more  was  said  by  the  son  about  his  companions  until  some 
time  later  when  they  received  a  letter  saying  that  he  had  joined  the 
Mormon  Church.  "We  were  so  ashamed  and  embarrassed,"  said  the 
mother,  "that  we  just  could  not  go  out  and  meet  our  friends  or  talk  about 
things,  because  of  our  son's  joining  a  church  that  had  such  a  bad  name 


46  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,    April   5  Second   Day 

and  reputation  as  the  Mormon  Church."  I  could  not  blame  her  so  much 
because  of  the  many  lies  which  have  been  told  about  us. 

Several  days  later  they  decided  to  come  to  Salt  Lake  and  find  out  for 
themselves  just  what  kind  of  church  their  son  had  joined.  "We  have 
been  in  the  city  a  few  days  and  have  gone  around  with  the  guides-  several 
times  and  have  bought  some  Church  works.  Things  look  very  different 
to  us  now.  We  have  enjoyed  our  visit  and  admire  many  of  your  teach- 
ings." 

May  the  Lord  bless  us.  May  we  catch  the  spirit  of  missionary 
work.  May  we  be  helpful  to  the  men  and  women  who  are  around  us 
that  no  one  shall  go  into  the  presence  of  God  and  have  any  complaint  to 
make  because  we  Latter-day  Saints  were  untrue  to  the  testimony  and 
the  obligations  resting  upon  us  to  help  our  friends  to  see  and  understand 
the  beauties  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  I  humbly  ask  in  Jesus'  name. 
Amen. 

BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

Brethren :  You  are  the  shepherds  of  the  flock.  I  cannot  help  feeling 
that  in  the  marvelous  work  you  are  doing  in  feeding  the  sheep  and  the 
lambs,  you  are  demonstrating  your  love  of  Him,  as  the  Savior  expressed 
Himself  to  Peter ;  and  I  believe  we  might  read  between  the  lines,  His 
love  of  those  who  undertake  such  a  marvelous  work  as  you  do. 

Work  in  Church  Brings  Own  Reward 

Bishop  Nibley  once  said,  speaking  of  the  bishops,  that  he  thought 
Paul  made  a  mistake  when  he  said,  "Those  who  desire  the  work  of  a 
bishop  desire  a  good  work."    He  should  have  said,  "a  good  lot  of  work." 

We  hear  a  great  deal  about  how  the  bishops  are  overloaded,  have  too 
much  to  do,  how  many  of  them  are  wanting  to  be  released  because  of 
the  great  responsibility  they  are  carrying.  I  have  taken  occasion  during 
these  few  conference  days  to  inquire  of  many  of  them,  "Bishop,  how 
are  you  enjoying  your  work?"  and  each  has  replied  in  about  these  words, 
"Very  much — it  is  the  grandest  opportunity  I  have  ever  had."  And  I 
believe  that  is  the  way  the  bishops  feel  about  it. 

When  I  was  on  my  first  mission,  I  received  a  letter  from  my  father 
in  which  he  said  in  words  such  as  these,  "My  son,  I  would  like  to  say  to 
you  that  there  is  no  organization,  corporation,  or  society  in  the  world  that 
will  pay  as  great  dividends  on  your  time,  your  means  invested,  and  your 
talents  as  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God."  And  I  want  to  bear  testi- 
mony to  you  this  day,  brethren,  of  the  truth  of  this  statement.  I  feel 
that  the  Lord  owes  me  nothing  for  what  I  have  done  in  the  Church.  He 
is  the  best  Paymaster  I  know  anything  about. 

Gathering  Predicted 

I  would  like  to  read  a  few  words  from  the  thirty-first  chapter  of 


BISHOP  LEGRAND   RICHARDS  47 

Jeremiah.  Jeremiah  saw  the  gathering  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  our 
day  and  described  the  same  as  plainly  as  you  can  read  it  in  Church 
history,  even  to  the  long  trek  along  the  Platte  River  in  order  to  reach 
these  valleys  of  the  mountains.    And  so  I  read  from  that  chapter  : 

For  there  shall  be  a  day,  that  the  watchmen  upon  the  mount  Ephraim 
shall  cry,  Arise  ye,  and  let  us  go  up  to  Zion  unto  the  Lord  our  God.  .  .  . 

Therefore  they  shall  come  and  sing  in  the  height  of  Zion,  and  shall 
flow  together  to  the  goodness  of  the  Lord,  for  wheat,  and  for  wine,  and  for 
oil,  and  for  the  young  of  the  flock  and  of  the  herd :  and  their  soul  shall  be 
as  a  watered  garden ;  and  they  shall  not  sorrow  any  more  at  all.  .  .  . 

And  I  will  satiate  the  soul  of  the  priests  with  fatness,  and  my  people 
shall  be  satisfied  with  my  goodness,  saith  the  Lord.    (Jeremiah  31 :6,  12,  14) 

I  do  not  believe  you  could  go  anywhere  in  the  world  and  find  men 
engaged  in  the  ministry,  I  care  not  how  great  their  salaries  are,  who 
would  testify  that  the  Lord  has  satiated  their  souls  with  fatness  and  they 
are  satisfied  with  the  Lord's  goodness  to  them,  as  are  you  brethren  who 
bear  the  Priesthood  of  God  and  are  privileged  to  feed  the  flock  under 
His  divine  leadership  and  inspiration. 

The  Worth  of  Souls 

You  are  dealing  with  the  most  precious  things  in  all  the  world ;  you 
are  dealing  with  the  souls  of  men,  and  I  want  to  remind  you  of  the  words 
of  the  Lord  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  given  in  the  eighteenth  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  where  He  says  : 

Remember  the  worth  of  souls  is  great  in  the  sight  of  God ; 

For,  behold,  the  Lord  your  Redeemer  suffered  death  in  the  flesh ;  where- 
fore he  suffered  the  pain  of  all  men,  that  all  men  might  repent  and  come 
unto  him. 

And  he  hath  risen  again  from  the  dead,  that  he  might  bring  all  men  unto 
him,  on  conditions  of  repentance. 

And  how  great  is  his  joy  in  the  soul  that  repenteth  ! 

Wherefore,  you  are  called  to  cry  repentance  unto  this  people. 

Then  He  adds : 

And  if  it  is  so  be  that  you  should  labor  all  your  days  in  crying  repentance 
unto  this  people,  and  bring,  save  it  be  one  soul  unto  me,  how  great  shall  be 
your  'joy  with  him  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father.    (D.  &  C.  18:10-15) 

I  would  like  to  say,  brethren,  that  these  souls  who  are  so  precious 
in  the  sight  of  God  are  not  only  those  who  live  out  among  the  gentiles, 
but  many  of  them  are  the  sons  and  daughters  of  Israel.  In  the  veins 
of  some  of  them  flows  the  very  best  blood  of  this  generation,  and  many  of 
them  are  inactive  and  they  are  waiting  for  you  to  call  them  into  service. 

When  I  was  laboring  as  president  of  the.  Southern  States  Mission  and 
we  mission  presidents  met  in  the  temple  with  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve, 
following  the  reports  of  the  mission  presidents,  President  Clawson  told 
us  the  Lord  had  created  the  earth  and  the  fulness  thereof,  and  then  he 
described  at  some  length  the  marvelous  creations  of  the  Lord.  Then  he 
said,  "But,  brethren,  I  say  unto  you  that  the  soul  of  one  of  His  children 
is  more  precious  in  His  sight  than  all  the  earth  and  the  things  He  has 
created." 


48  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,    April   5  Second   Day 

How  precious  are  the  souls  of  the  sheep  of  the  flock  among  whom 
you  brethren  are  called  to  labor!  Now  those  of  you  who  have  had  the 
privilege  of  laboring  in  the  mission  field  have  seen  men  arrive,  some  of 
whom  had  never  prayed  in  public  in  their  lives,  never  done  anything  in 
the  Church  in  a  public  way,  and  yet  you  have  seen  what  they  have  become 
in  a  year  or  two  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord.  I  have  come  to  feel 
that  there  is  no  man  in  Israel  who  is  without  potential  power  for  good 
in  the  midst  of  the  people,  if  he  is  only  given  opportunity  to  render  some 
service. 

Gifts  of  the  Spirit 

I  want  to  read  a  few  words  from  the  twelfth  chapter  of  First 
Corinthians,  what  Paul  says  about  the  gifts  of  the  Spirit : 

Now  there  are  diversities  of  gifts,  but  the  same  Spirit. 
And  there  are  differences  of  administrations,  but  the  same  Lord. 
And  there  are  diversities  of  operations,  but  it  is  the  same  God  which 
worketh  all  in  all. 

Then  I  skip  some  for  brevity : 

But  the  manifestation  of  the  spirit  is  given  to  every  man  to  profit 
withal. 

For  to  one  is  given  by  the  Spirit  the  word  of  wisdom ;  to  another  the 
word  of  knowledge,  by  the  same  Spirit.    (I  Corinthians  12:4-8) 

The  Lord  has  not  left  any  without  some  gift  and  as  you  look  about 
you,  you  will  find  that  where  one  is  strong  in  one  way  he  may  be  weak 
in  another.  The  Lord  never  did  give  all  His  gifts  to  any  one  individual. 
Even  in  the  great  work  the  Prophet  Joseph  accomplished,  the  Lord  told 
him  that  his  gifts  were  limited  in  some  respects.  You  remember  how 
Alma  of  old  said  he  would  that  he  had  the  voice  of  an  angel,  that  he 
might  cry  repentance  to  all  the  world,  but  the  Lord  did  not  grant  his 
desire,  even  though  he  was  a  prophet.  Paul  carried  a  thorn  in  his  flesh 
all  his  days,  but  the  Lord  did  not  see  fit  to  remove  it ;  and  the  Book  of 
Mormon  says  thereto  are  we  given  weaknesses  that  we  might  remain 
humble.  Is  there  one  among  you  who  does  not  feel  his  weakness  and 
would  that  he  had  greater  power  than  he  possesses  for  achievement  in 
this  great  and  mighty  latter-day  work?  And  yet  you  have  to  satisfy 
yourselves  to  do  the  things  that  are  within  your  own  reach  and  with  the 
gifts  that  the  Lord  has  seen  fit  to  bestow  upon  you.  But  remember, 
"The  manifestation  of  the  spirit  is  given  to  every  man  to  profit  withal" — 
that  is  why  the  Lord  gave  the  parable  of  the  talents.  To  one  He  gave 
five  talents ;  to  another,  two ;  and  to  another,  one.  And  remember  the 
Lord  will  return  and  expect  an  accounting  according  to  the  talents  given. 

Activity  in  Church  Work  Brings  Joy 

I  am  grateful  for  the  great  Welfare  program  of  the  Church.  I  see  in 
it  a  marvelous  opportunity  to  use  some  of  the  men  who  have  not  applied 
themselves  in  more  spiritual  activities.  A  man  sat  in  my  office  not  long 
ago  who  had  only  recently  become  active  in  the  Church.     He  had  been 


BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS  49 

very  successful  in  his  own  business  affairs,  but  apparently  the  bishop  had 
never  asked  him  to  do  anything.  Then  they  had  to  build  a  church  and 
the  bishop ,  selected  him  to  head  the  finance  committee,  and  he  did  a 
marvelous  job. 

This  man  said,  "Why  couldn't  my  bishop  have  given  me  something 
to  do  twenty-five  years  ago  so  I  could  have  known  the  joy  of  service  all 
these  years  ?"  Then  he  told  me  about  having  a  son  who  had  married  in 
the  temple  and  was  not  doing  anything  in  the  Church.  He  said,  "Why 
cannot  the  bishop  give  him  something  to  do  so  he  will  not  remain  inactive 
as  I  have  been  ?" 

Brethren,  I  am  pleading  for  every  man  whom  the  Lord  has  endowed 
with  His  gifts  through  the  power  of  His  Spirit,  that  we  find  a  way  whereby 
they  can  fit  in  and  do  something  for  the  building  up  of  the  kingdom. 
We  have  the  opportunity  of  ward  teaching,  missionary  work,  and  of  stake, 
ward,  and  auxiliary  officers  and  teachers.  We  can  go  even  further,  for 
there  is  so  much  to  be  done  in  a  temporal  way,  in  beautification,  in  the 
Welfare  program,  in  the  building  of  storehouses,  in  the  acquiring  of 
land,  and  in  the  production  of  the  things  not  yet  being  produced  which 
are  needed  for  the  storehouses ;  and  some  of  the  finest  leadership  in  the 
Church  is  available,  but  as  yet  inactive.  I  scarcely  ever  return  from  a 
conference  without  thinking  of  some  of  the  outstanding  men  I  have  met, 
successful  in  a  particular  field,  almost  beyond  words  to  describe ;  and  I 
wonder  how  we  can  reach  into  the  lives  of  those  less  fortunate  and  lift 
them  to  the  same  level.  Then  I  think  of  the  marvelous  possibilities  within 
the  Priesthood  quorums,  of  lifting  men,  of  rehabilitating  them,  and 
causing  Zion  to  put  on  her  beautiful  garments,  as  the  Lord  declared 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  two  years  after  this  Church  was  organized  that 
she  should  do,  because,  He  said : 

Zion  must  increase  in  beauty  and  in  holiness ;  her  stakes  must  be 
strengthened ;  her  borders  must  be  extended ;  yea,  verily  I  say  unto  you 
Zion  must  arise  and  put  on  her  beautiful  garments. 

Priesthood  Arbitration  Committees 

I  would  like  to  discuss  another  thought  here  today.  I  do  not  know 
how  right  I  am  in  this,  but  I  am  going  to  give  Paul  the  responsibility  for 
the  thought.  I  do  not  know  just  what  the  mechanics  ought  to  be,  but  I 
have  had  an  idea  for  a  long  time  that  if  we  could  go  out  into  the  stakes 
and  establish  arbitration  committees  among  the  Priesthood  there  would 
be  many  fine  men  who  could  be  brought  into  service. 

I  spent  a  good  many  years  in  the  real  estate  business.  We  had  what 
we  called  a  multiple  listing  system,  where  we  all  worked  on  the  sale  of 
the  same  homes.  That  naturally  brought  us  into  troubles  because  often 
two  or  three  men  would  sell  the  same  home,  sometimes  the  same  day ;  and 
we  settled  all  our  differences  through  an  arbitration  committee.  I  know 
the  Lord  set  up  the  bishop's  court ;  I  know  He  set  up  the  high  council 
court,  where  men  can  be  tried  for  misconduct.  But  why  couldn't  we  have 
an  arbitration  committee  where  men  could  go  when  they  have  differences  ? 
I  do  not  know  a  great  deal  about  the  law,  but  my  experience  in  the  execu- 


50  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,    April    5  Second    Day 

tion  of  the  law  among  the  ordinary  laymen  is  that  it  is  not  so  much  the 
righteousness  of  the  law  which  governs  the  decisions  of  the  courts  as  it 
is  the  ability  of  the  attorneys  who  represent  those  who  go  to  law.  And 
so  the  decisions  are  not  always  righteous.  If  the  brethren  of  the  Church 
were  making  decisions,  I  think  the  decisions  would  be  righteous.  To  my 
friends  who  come  to  me  inquiring  whether  they  should  sue  their  brethren 
for  this  or  that,  I  say,  "Brother,  if  you  win,  you  lose,"  and  that  is  almost 
invariably  true  when  you  go  into  the  courts. 

I  would  like  to  read  a  few  words  by  Paul  in  First  Corinthians,  sixth 
chapter,  commencing  with  the  first  verse : 

Dare  any  of  you,  having  a  matter  against  another,  go  to  law  before  the 
unjust,  and  not  before  the  saints? 

Do  you  not  know  that  the  saints  shall  judge  the  world?  and  if  the 
world  shall  be  judged  by  you,  are  ye  unworthy  to  judge  the  smallest 
matters  ? 

Know  ye  not  that  we  shall  judge  angels?  how  much  more  things  that 
pertain  to  this  life?  .  .  . 

Now  therefore  there  is  utterly  a  fault  among  you,  because  ye  go  to  law 
one  with  another.  Why  do  ye  not  rather  take  wrong  ?  Why  do  ye  not  rather 
suffer  yourselves  to  be  defrauded? 

Nay,  ye  do  wrong,  and  defraud,  and  that  your  brethren.  (I  Corinthians 
6:1-3,  7-8) 

Now  I  want  to  read  what  the  Lord  said  to  the  Prophet  Joseph,  as 
it  appears  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.    This  is  to  Joseph  and  Oliver : 

And  whosoever  shall  go  to  law  with  thee  shall  be  cursed  by  the  law. 
(D.  &  C.  24:17) 

Now,  brethren,  it  is  my  feeling  that  when  we  can  be,  as  Brother 
Romney  pointed  out  yesterday  from  the  revelations  of  the  Lord,  free 
and  independent  from  every  power  beneath  the  celestial  kingdom  and 
become  so  united  that  we  as  members  of  the  Priesthood  of  the  living  God 
can  settle  all  our  troubles  within  our  own  ranks,  then  we  will  literally 
become  a  light  upon  a  hill,  an  ensign  unto  the  nations. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren.  God  help  us  that  we  may  all  be  worthy 
shepherds  of  the  flock,  and  that  we  may  bring  into  activity  in  our  wards 
and  stakes  of  Zion  every  man  who  is  a  member  of  this  Church,  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  sincerely  trust,  my  brethren,  that  what  I  say  shall  not  in  any  way 
detract  from  the  lovely  spirit  of  this  conference.  We  have  all  been  built 
up  in  our  faith,  and  may  we  go  home  from  here  strengthened  in  our  desires 
to  serve  more  faithfully  than  we  have  in  the  past.  It  is  a  great  thing  for 
men  to  come  together  such  as  we  do  on  these  occasions,  and  as  we  yesterday 
observed  this  vast  body  of  Priesthood  we  could  not  help  but  feel  the 
power  and  the  strength  that  is  here. 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG  51 

Standards  for  the  Priesthood 

In  the  very  beginning  of  this  work  the  Lord  said  to  the  father  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  through  His  prophet : 

Now  behold,  a  marvelous  work  is  about  to  come  forth  among  the  chil- 
dren of  men. 

Therefore,  O  ye  that  embark  in  the  service  of  God,  see  that  ye  serve 
him  with  all  your  heart,  might,  mind,  and  strength,  that  ye  may  stand  blame- 
less before  God  at  the  last  day.    (D.  &  C.  4:1,  2) 

Then  He  goes  on  to  point  out  that  the  field  is  white,  ready  for  the 
harvest,  that  he  that  thrusts  in  his  sickle  may  reap.    Then  He  adds  : 

Remember  faith,  virtue,  knowledge,  temperance,  patience,  brotherly 
kindness,  godliness,  charity,  humility,  diligence.     (D.  &  C.  4:6) 

It  seems  to  me  the  Lord  has  here  set  forth  the  standards  by  which 
we  should  operate  in  this  great  Priesthood  work,  and  thinking  of  the 
fields  as  referred  to  in  the  revelation  and  trying  to  apply  them  to  our  own 
everyday  work,  I  have  thought  that  they  might  be  classified  in  five 
divisions. 

Importance  of  Aaronic  Priesthood  Work 

First,  we  have  our  duty  to  our  boys — the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  Our 
boys  today  are  standing  at  a  crossroad.  You  will  recall,  you  brethren  who 
are  working  in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  that  bit  of  verse  that  appears  in 
your  Handbook  (page  55),  pointing  out  to  us  the  boy  who  stands  at  the 
crossroads  knowing  not  which  way  to  go.  The  road  stretches  east  and  the 
road  stretches  west,  and  the  boy  not  knowing  which  road  is  best,  strolls 
on  the  road  that  leads  him  down,  and  he  loses  the  race  and  the  victor's 
crown.  And  then,  we  are  told,  at  the  selfsame  road  another  boy  stands 
with  high  hopes  and  ambitions,  but  someone  is  there  to  show  him  the 
road  and  he  wins  the  race  and  the  victor's  crown. 

We  have  here,  my  brethren,  suggested  to  us  our  responsibilities  in 
this  great  work  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  There  is  a  great  inspiration 
that  is  going  out  from  the  Presiding  Bishop's  office  to  all  who  are  in- 
terested in  the  boys'  work  of  the  Church,  and  this  work  is  being  followed 
up.  I  join  with  Bishop  Richards  in  commending  the  bishops  and  their 
committees  for  the  fine  work  they  are  doing.  But  there  is  so  much  to 
be  done.  Our  boys  need  every  ounce  of  energy  that  we  can  give,  all  the 
interest  and  direction,  and  if  we  but  can  stand  at  the  crossroads  with  our 
boys,  in  ten  years  from  now  we  shall  have  solved  the  problem  of  the 
adult  Aaronic  Priesthood.    And  so  we  have  that  field. 

Then  we  come  into  the  field  of  the  adult  Aaronic  Priesthood,  another 
field  that  is  white,  ready  for  the  sickle,  ready  for  harvest,  thousands  and 
thousands  of  our  brethren  in  this  Church,  our  own  flesh  and  blood  whom 
we  have  somewhere  neglected.  We  are  not  altogether  responsible,  of 
course,  for  their  misdeeds,  for  their  shortcomings.  Every  man  must 
assume  his  own  responsibility,  there  is  no  question  about  that ;  but  there 
has  been  failure  somewhere  along  the  line ;  someone  has  failed  in  his 


52  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,    April   5  Second  Day 

responsibility  in  this  great  work  or  we  would  not  have  the  high  percentage 
of  men  we  do  have  who  are  for  all  intents  and  purposes  outside  the  pale 
of  the  Church.  In  most  of  the  stakes  of  Zion  you  will  find  that  half  of 
the  men  who  hold  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  are  in  that  adult  class ;  young 
men  who  were  ordained  deacons,  perhaps  teachers,  then  were  lost  as  far 
as  the  influence  of  the  Church  is  concerned.  Today  many  of  them  find 
themselves  out  of  the  Church  and  its  activities.  That  is  another  field  that 
demands  our  attention,  our  earnest  effort.  I  am  only  suggesting  it  here 
today.  You  brethren  in  the  stakes  and  wards  are  conscious  of  this,  I  am 
sure. 

Elders  and  Seventies 

Another  field  that  we  are  concerned  about  is  the  field  of  the  elders, 
and  that  might  apply  also  to  the  seventies,  not  so  much  to  the  high 
priests.  But  in  our  elders'  quorums  we  find  that  seventy-five  percent 
and  over  of  the  membership  is  inactive — just  think  of  it,  seventy-five 
out  of  every  hundred  of  the  men  in  this  Church  that  should  be  active  are 
indifferent  to  the  opportunities  and  blessings  that  come  through  service 
in  the  Church.  This  is  another  field  that  is  ripe,  ready  for  the  sickle,  and 
it  is  a  challenge  to  us  and  commands  the  attention  of  every  thinking  man 
who  is  interested  and  feels  the  responsibility  of  this  work. 

Our  Duty  to  Strangers 

Then  we  come  to  another  field  that  we  have  not  been  made  conscious 
of  until  recently.  We  are  having  thousands  of  strangers  come  into  our 
midst,  men  and  women  who  come  with  prejudices,  men  and  women  of  the 
type  of  which  President  Taylor  spoke  a  few  minutes  ago.  Many  of  them 
are  cultured  and  refined,  who  have  not  heard  of  the  virtues  of  Mormonism, 
only  the  negative  things.  They  are  coming  here  to  make  their  homes. 
We  have  been  sending  our  elders  out  in  the  world  to  preach  the  gospel. 
Now  men  and  women  are  coming  here  where  we  may  preach  to  them, 
and  I  commend  to  you,  my  brethren  in  the  stakes  and  wards,  this  field.  I 
know  that  a  lot  of  interest  is  being  taken,  and,  as  was  suggested  here 
yesterday,  what  an  opportunity  for  our  missionaries,  our  stake  mission- 
aries, the  greatest  opportunity  that  they  have  ever  had  to  bring  to  our 
friends  who  come  here  the  message  of  peace,  that  they  may  know  that 
the  Latter-day  Saints  are  in  very  deed  saints  of  the  living  God,  because 
of  their  standards  of  living,  because  of  their  devotion,  their  friendliness 
and  their  kindliness. 

Coming  back  to  the  statement  recorded  by  the  Prophet  Joseph :  "Re- 
member faith,  virtue,  knowledge,  temperance,  patience,  brotherly  kind- 
ness, godliness,  charity,  humility  and  diligence."  In  that  spirit,  my 
brethren,  must  we  attack  this  problem  as  we  go  into  this  field,  that  we 
may  be  in  very  deed  ambassadors  of  the  truth.  We  want  to  be  friendly, 
we  do  not  want  to  make  the  people  who  come  here  feel  that  we  are  con 
tacting  them  in  the  spirit  of  warning,  in  the  spirit  of  criticizing  their 
failings  and  their  shortcomings,  but  we  do  want  in  a  positive  way  to 
point  out  the  great  virtues  that  lie  in  the  Church  of  Christ,  and  in  that 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.   YOUNG  S3 

way  we  will  build  up  the  kingdom.  It  is  not  a  good  policy  and  never  has 
been  to  say  unkind  things  about  other  faiths ;  we  are  not  concerned  about 
that.  We  are  concerned  about  the  faith  of  our  own  Church;  we  are 
concerned  about  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  with  all  of  its  virtues, 
with  all  of  its  strength,  and  in  going  forth  in  kindliness,  and  in  charity, 
and  with  faith,  we  may  preach  the  gospel  in  that  spirit,  and  it  seems  to 
me  that  is  the  only  way  we  shall  be  able  to  attack  this  problem,  so  I 
commend  this  field  for  your  consideration. 

And  then  another  activity,  and  I  can  only  just  suggest  it,  and  that  is 
the  field  of  the  boys  who  are  in  the  armed  service.  A  great  deal  of  good 
is  being  done,  we  have  had  evidence  of  that,  testimonies  of  what  it  means 
to  the  boys  to  be  contacted  by  the  people  back  home  through  letters  and 
otherwise.  As  I  have  gone  out  into  the  stakes,  some  of  the  outlying 
stakes,  I  have  found  a  vast  amount  of  good  that  has  come  through  the 
services  of  President  Brown  and  others  and  through  letters  that  have 
come  from  the  stakes.  In  one  of  the  stakes  every  boy  who  has  gone  into 
the  service  has  received  a  letter  every  month  without  fail,  and  many  of 
the  responses  to  these  letters  have  been  encouraging  and  have  demon- 
strated the  fact  that  here  is  a  field  that  must  not  be  neglected. 

So,  brethren,  I  am  just  suggesting  these  fields  as  they  occur  to  me ; 
they  are  very  vital  in  this  great  work. 

Illustration  from  Life  of  Helen  Keller 

And  may  I,  in  conclusion,  point  out  another  thing  that  seems  to  give 
us  strength,  that  has  given  me  strength.  Sometime  ago  I  had  the  pleasure 
of  reading  a^book  by  Doctor  William  Dana  Thompson  who  for  many 
years  was  head  of  the  Roosevelt  Hospital  in  New  York.  He  is  now  dead. 
His  book  is  entitled  Brain  and  Personality,  and  in  it  he  describes  two 
fields  of  the  scientists,  the  field  of  the  physical,  which  he  calls  the  field  of 
the  brain,  and  the  field  of  the  spiritual,  which  he  calls  the  field  of  the 
personality.  In  one  of  his  chapters  he  refers  to  the  life  of  Helen  Keller. 
You  who  have  read  her  life  will  recall  that  as  a  child  at  nineteen  months 
she  was  stricken  with  a  very  serious  malady  which  resulted  in  her  losing 
her  hearing,  her  sight  and,  of  course,  she  was  not  able  to  speak.  The 
whole  world  with  all  its  loveliness  was  shut  out  of  her  life.  When  she 
was  seven  years  old,  her  father  was  persuaded  by  Alexander  Bell,  the 
great  telephone  magnate,  to  take  the  child  to  an  institute  in  Boston, 
which  institute  had  adopted  the  method  of  lip  reading  for  the  deaf.  It 
was  here  that  Helen  came  in  contact  with  that  splendid  woman,  Miss 
Anne  Sullivan,  who  was  from  then  on  to  be  Helen's  tutor  and  companion. 
Doctor  Thompson  tells  how  difficult  it  was  to  penetrate  the  darkness  in 
which  this  child  lived.  He  tells  how  one  day  Miss  Sullivan,  taking  the 
girl  out  to  the  pump,  and  placing  a  glass  in  the  palm  of  her  hand,  she 
pumped  water  in  it  until  it  overflowed,  and  as  the  water  trickled  down  the 
child's  arm,  and  as  the  child  felt  the  sensation  of  the  water,  Miss  Sullivan 
had  her  place  her  hand  on  Miss  Sullivan's  lips  as  she  repeated  the  word 
"water,"  and  thus  the  child  learned  her  first  word.  That  was  the  begin- 
ning of  light  coming  into  her  soul,  and  Doctor  Thompson  tells  of  the 


54  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,    April   5  Second   Day 

little  girl's  having  a  little  pet  pup  and  how  in  her  ecstasy  she  takes  it  to 
the  well  and  pumping  on  its  little  paw,  tries  to  teach  it  the  word  "water," 
but  the  pup  only  wags  its  tail.  Doctor  Thompson  then  goes  on  to  point 
out  that  the  pup  was  an  animal  who  could  see  and  hear  and  after  a  fashion 
speak,  and  on  the  other  hand,  here  was  another  of  the  animal  kingdom 
who  could  neither  see  nor  hear  and  up  till  this  time  could  not  speak, 
yet,  one  remained  only  a  pup  while  the  other  was  destined  to  become  a 
great  soul.  The  reason,  says  he,  lies  in  the  fact  that  the  pup  was  just  a 
dog  while  in  this  child  there  was  an  immortal  spirit — personality  he  calls 
it — the  offspring  of  God,  the  Creator. 

As  I  read  that  interesting  part  of  Helen  Keller's  life,  I  thought  what 
great  potential  powers  do  we  have  as  men  holding  the  Priesthood  of  the 
living  God.  We  are  not  only  the  physical  creation  of  Him,  but  we  have 
within  us  that  immortal  spirit  that  has  come  from-  God,  and  with  that 
consciousness  that  all  of  our  brethren  are  the  immortal  offspring  of  our 
Heavenly  Father,  and  furthermore  being  endowed  with  a  power  that 
enables  us  "to  grow  up  unto  Him  who  is  the  Head,  even  Christ,"  how 
great  is  our  responsibility  in  that  great  field  that  is  already  white  and  ready 
for  the  harvest ! 

God  help  us  to  appreciate  our  opportunities  and  our  responsibilities. 
I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 


Elder  Albert  Eccles  sang  a  solo,  "I  Know  That  My  Redeemer  Lives" 
(Edwards).    The  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  chorus. 

ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  am  impressed,  my  brethren,  today  with  the  great  gathering  which 
is  here  and  which  was  here  yesterday,  and  Lam  thinking  that  perhaps 
there  will  never  come  into  the  lives  of  men  that  they  may  build  a  thing 
so  perfect  even  as  we  now  see  it  constructed  before  us — -I  speak  of  the 
organization  of  the  Church.  Here,  according  to  President  McKay  this 
morning,  is  every  officer  of  the  two  Priesthoods,  the  Aaronic  and  the 
Melchizedek,  represented  in  this  building. 

Priesthood  a  Choice  Gift 

This  Priesthood  is  referred  to  as  "being  without  father,  without 
mother,  and  without  descent,  and  has  neither  beginning  of  days  or  end 
of  life."  Each  of  us  is  called  with  a  peculiar  calling,  each  in  his  respective 
calling  to  do  vastly  different  things.  Every  appointment  and  calling  in 
the  Priesthood  is  of  such  importance  that  all  of  the  time  devoted  by  each 
man  to  his  designated  sphere,  in  close  application  to  his  work,  will  not 
begin  to  encompass  the  greatness  and  eternal  decrees  of  God. 

One  thing,  however,  of  which  we  must  ever  be  wary  is  the  warning 
which  God  has  given.     That  warning  is  that  "all  other  authorities  or 


ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY  55 

offices  in  the  church  are  appendages  to  this  priesthood"  (D.  &  C.  107  :5), 
and  then  again,  God  gave  a  revelation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  told 
him  this:  "For  I  have  conferred  upon  you  the  keys  and  power  of  the 
priesthood,  wherein  I  restore  all  things,  and  make  known  unto  you  all 
things  in  due  time"  (D.  &  C.  132 :45).  And,  yet,  I  am  sure,  my  brethren, 
that  we  zealous  and  energetic  laborers  in  the  work  of  God  are  tempted 
at  times  to  exaggerate  our  own  importance,  to  accomplish  personal  ambi- 
tions, but  we  should  adopt  the  humble  attitude  of  standing  still  "to  see 
the  glory  of  the  Lord  pass  by" ;  this  would  accomplish  a  great  deal  more. 
We  grow  despondent  with  what  we  think  is  delay,  forgetting  momentarily 
that  since  the  very  beginning  of  time  God  has  planned  and  wrought 
with  patience,  and  has  seen  afar  the  very  time  in  which  we  now  find 
ourselves. 

Let  us  remember  that  we  are  blessed  with  the  choicest  of  God's 
gifts,  the  inestimable  calling  in  the  Priesthood  which  we  ourselves  hold ; 
"that  the  rights  of  the  priesthood  are  inseparably  connected  with  the 
powers  of  heaven,  and  that  the  powers  of  heaven  cannot  be  controlled 
nor  handled  only  upon  the  principles  of  righteousness"  (D.  &  C.  121 :36) . 

It  is  a  revealing  and  marvelous  thing  that  God  has  brought  about 
the  many  miracles  that  we  see  performed  in  our  midst  this  day. 

A  Land  Blessed  of  the  Lord 

When  we  consider  the  early  sending  forth  of  the  Priesthood  bearers 
and  the  scattering  of  the  membership  of  this  Church  and  Priesthood, 
which  then  we  looked  upon  as  a  calamity,  to  the  various  parts  of  the 
earth,  and  the  gathering  of  it  all  here  and  concentrating  its  executive 
power  in  this  locality,  and  then  to  look  at  the  beauty  of  our  land  compared 
with  what  it  was,  to  realize  that  it  has  become  an  inviting,  charming 
place,  and  behold  these  buildings,  now  in  our  midst,  we  must  give  fervent 
thanks  to  God.  This  surely  is  the  land  of  Joseph,  the  land  which  God 
gave  and  blessed  in  the  beginning  that  all  men  who  came  here  might  enjoy 
it  who  would  lend  ear  to  that  which  God  has  given  us,  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  It  is  the  only  land,  my  brethren,  which  is  surrounded  on  all  sides 
by  friends  and  not  enemies,  God's  blessed  land. 

Present  Need  for  Missionaries 

Now,  in  this  turmoil  through  which  we  are  passing,  we  have  a  need, 
a  great  calling,  to  put  to  work  that  thing  which  God  has  given  us,  the 
Priesthood.  We  need  missionaries  to  teach  these  hungry,  eager  people, 
strangers  within  our  midst,  something  of  the  Gospel,  to  let  them  know 
how  it  came  about  and  was  restored,  and  why  God's  children  are  here 
doing  what  they  are. 

I  am  very  sure  that  in  our  council,  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy, 
every  man  is  keenly  alert  to  this  situation.  Notwithstanding  the  two 
thousand-odd  who  were  baptized  last  year  by  our  stake  missionaries, 
we  have  not  touched  the  surface. 

God  will  bless  us  in  this  work  if  we  will  put  our  mind  and  attention 
to  it,  and  I  sincerely  trust  and  hope  and  pray  that  this  may  be  the  case, 


56  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,    April   5  Second   Day 

and  that  we  may  recognize  in  this  strained  and  trying  condition  that 
besets  us  the  privileges  which  are  ours  now,  and  that  will  be,  for  they 
were  given  by  the  Lord,  even  as  He  says:  "Wherefore,  now  let  every 
man  learn  his  duty,  and  to  act  in  the  office  in  which  he  is  appointed,  in 
all  diligence"  (D.  &  C.  107:99). 

I  pray  that  God  will  give  a  keen  desire  to  each  man  to  serve  in  his 
own  sphere  to  the  best  of  his  ability,  that  His  work  may  roll  on  and  that 
these  blessings  which  are  ours  may  be  given  to  others,  which  I  do  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

It  is  a  wonderful  opportunity  that  we  brethren  have  of  meeting  to- 
gether twice  a  year  in  these  great  gatherings.  Personally,  I  am  very 
thankful  for  the  privilege.  It  is  a  great  strength  to  me  to  associate  with 
you  brethren.  I  love  to  meet  with  people  and  shake  hands  with  them.  I 
have  enjoyed  meeting  you  leaders  in  the  stakes  of  Zion  that  I  have  had 
the  privilege  to  visit,  getting  better  acquainted  with  you  and  your  good 
people.  I  appreciate  the  welcome  I  have  received,  and  also  commend 
you  for  the  welcome  that  has  been  given  as  a  rule  by  you  or  by  a  com- 
mittee representing  you  to  the  people,  especially  the  newcomers  and  the 
backward  members,  as  they  come  into  your  chapels  or  your  tabernacles 
at  these  stake  conferences. 

Strength  Comes  from  Prayer 

In  visiting  your  conferences  I  have  taken  the  occasion,  usually  in  the 
Priesthood  session,  to  call  attention  to  the  responsibility  resting  upon 
each  one  for  the  success  of  the  conference.  I  have  felt  the  need  of  the 
support,  as  I  do  this  morning,  of  you  brethren,  of  an  interest  in  your 
faith  and  prayers  ;  and  I  have  suggested,  and  I  hope  I  will  not  be  presump- 
tuous in  suggesting  now,  that  it  is  a  good  thing  for  every  person  present 
to  offer  up  a  silent  prayer  for  those  who  are  called  upon  to  speak,  I  know 
each  one  will  be  strengthened  by  so  doing ;  it  will  help  you  to  concentrate 
and  keep  your  mind  upon  the  things  that  are  being  said,  and  I  am  sure 
the  speakers  will  be  benefited.  I  am  a  firm  believer  in  the  power  of 
prayer.    I  love  to  think  of  and  repeat  the  first  verse  of  the  song : 

Ere  you  left  your  room  this  morning, 

Did  you  think  to  pray? 

In  the  name  of  Christ,  our  Savior, 

Did  you  sue  for  loving  favor, 

As  a  shield  today? 

Oh  how  praying  rests  the  weary ! 
Prayer  will  change  the  night  to  day : 
So  when  life  gets  dark  and  dreary, 
Don't  forget  to  pray. 

Life  is  dark  and  dreary  already  for  many  families  whose  sons  have 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY  57 

been  reported  "killed  or  missing  in  action"  and  I  fear  it  will  be  "dark 
and  dreary"  for  many,  many  more  before  this  terrible  war  is  over,  so, 
please,  "don't  forget  to  pray." 

Speaking  of  prayer,  I  should  like  to  recommend  to  all  here  that  they 
get  the  sermonette  that  was  given  by  Brother  Richard  L.  Evans  at  his 
broadcast  a  week  ago  Sunday,  March  28th,  and  also  I  am  sure  you  will 
want  a  copy  of  the  timely  remarks  that  were  given  by  him  yesterday  on 
the  increasing  use  of  profanity.  In  fact  all  of  his  sermons  are  worth 
listening  to  and  reading. 

Yes,  I  believe  in  prayer,  and  I  have  always  been  grateful  when 
those  who  are  called  upon  to  pray  remember  our  members  in  war-torn 
countries.  Our  brothers  and  sisters  appreciate  these  prayers ;  they  ap- 
preciate what  the  presidency  of  the  Church  is  doing  for  them  in  financial 
ways  as  well  as  being  remembered  in  their  prayers.  There  is  seldom 
a  letter  that  I  receive  from  the  presiding  brethren  in  those  missions  that 
does  not  express  appreciation  for  the  prayers  of  the  Saints  here  in 
Zion.  These  letters  are  getting  fewer  and  farther  between ;  it  is  getting 
increasingly  more  difficult  to  receive  letters  ;  in  fact  from  the  Netherlands, 
the  German,  and  the  Czechoslovakian  missions  we  have  not  heard  any- 
thing since  the  United  States  entered  the  war.  Up  until  a  month  or  so 
ago  we  did  hear  occasionally  from  Belguim  and  France  by  way  of 
Switzerland.  The  past  few  weeks,  however,  even  the  letters  from 
Switzerland  have  stopped  coming  and  our  letters  returned,  marked : 
"Service  suspended;  return  to  sender."  We  still  hear  regularly  from 
Sweden  and  once  in  a  while  from  Denmark  and  Norway  via  Sweden. 
The  last  word  that  we  received  from  France  came  from  Paris,  not  to 
me  directly,  but  through  a  member  who  received  a  letter  by  way  of 
Geneva  and  then  reported  to  me. 

Healing  Through  Faith 

I  should  like  to  take  time  to  make  reference  to  my  meeting  of  this 
member.  From  1909  to  1912,  I  was  presiding  over  the  Swiss-German 
Mission.  France  at  that  time  belonged  to  this  mission ;  in  fact,  we  have 
five  missions  now  where  we  had  only  one  then.  We  had  just  held  a 
splendid  conference  in  Lausanne  for  the  French  district.  After  the  con- 
cluding session,  we  were  invited  to  a  home  where  one  of  the  family  was 
very  ill,  a  beautiful  girl,  just  in  her  teens,  always  cheerful  and  full  of 
faith;  we  most  earnestly  and  fervently  desired  to  help  her.  We  had 
prayer  with  the  family  and  then  administered  to  her,  and  in  that  admin- 
istration we  promised  her  that  she  would  get  well.  She  had  tuberculosis 
and  had  been  confined  to  her  bed  for  years.  Returning  that  night  from 
Lausanne  to  Zurich,  our  headquarters,  I  must  confess  that  I  was  worried 
because  of  the  promise  that  we  had  made.  She  had  so  much  faith,  as  did 
also  her  family,  and  I  was  afraid  if  that  promise  was  not  fulfilled  it 
might  shatter  that  faith.  I  prayed  humbly  that  the  Lord  would  make 
that  promise  good,  and  again  before  retiring  that  night  I  prayed  and  I 
continued  to  pray.  A  few  months  following  that  conference  in  Lausanne 
I  was  released  to  come  home.    About  two  years  later  I  was  in  the  annex 


58  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday.    April   5  Second   Day 

of  the  temple  preparing  to  go  through,  when  a  lady  came  up  to  me  and 
grasped  my  hand  in  both  of  hers  and  said:  "Oh  Frere  McKay,  Frere 
McKay"  (Brother  McKay,  Brother  McKay).  It  was  the  same  young 
sister  completely  restored  to  her  health ;  and  now  to  show  her  apprecia- 
tion to  our  Heavenly  Father  for  the  restoration  of  her  health  she  is 
devoting  as  much  time  as  she  possibly  can  in  doing  temple  work.  She 
was  the  one  who  delivered  to  me  the  good  news  from  Paris  that  our  mem- 
bers there  are  still  holding  their  meetings.  Her  sister  is  living  in  Paris, 
and  the  letter  stated  that  our  few  members  there  gather  in  her  home  and 
hold  their  meetings. 

Reports  from  Missions  in  Europe 

We  also  had  a  very  interesting  letter  from  Switzerland,  not  to  me 
directly,  but  to  some  of  my  friends  from  Zurich.  A  very  splendid  Relief 
Society  conference  was  held.  About  one  hundred  women  were  present. 
We  have  a  photograph  of  them,  and  are  having  it  printed  in  the  Relief 
Society  Magazine.  They  all  look  happy,  but  in  that  letter  it  was  stated 
that  thousands  of  people  in  some  of  the  neighboring  countries  to  Switzer- 
land are  dying. 

We  also  received  a  very  interesting  letter,  from  Aleppo,  Syria,  I 
think  a  lot  of  it,  and  I  know  it  took  the  brother  hours  to  write  it  in 
English;  it  was  mailed  November  13,  1942,  and  was  received  March  17, 
1943.    I  quote  it  as  written : 

I  and  all  the  Saints  much  happy  that  we  hear  from  you  and  able  to 
answer  to  our  President  our  condition  in  this  war  time  that  is  Heavenly 
Father's  grace  thank  to  the  Lord,  that  He  is  keeping  us  true  to  His  earthly 
guides. 

I  send  three  months'  report  of  the  branch,  and  we  making  ready  to 
send  our  yearly  reports.  You  can  know  our  conditions  from  reports.  Relief 
Society  and  Mutual  meetings  start  Oct.  1st.  Nearly  two  months  was 
vacations. 

We  are  much  thirsty  to  hear  from  you  all  the  time  if  possible.  That 
helps  us  to  much.  All  members  are  fine  and  praying  to  our  dear  prophet 
to  bless  and  improve  his  health  to  guide  his  people  in  this  dark  days.  Give 
our  best  wishes  to  missionaries  who  are  in  this  continent.  We  pray  to  the 
Lord  to  strengthen  our  Church  guides,  our  presidents,  members,  and  all 
honest  in  heart. 

May  I  read  just  a  brief  statement  from  the  last  letter  received  from 
the  Swedish  Mission? 

The  work  in  the  mission  started  with  renewed  vigor  by  all  the  organ- 
izations with  the  commencement  of  this  month.  The  unity  was  especially 
good  and  the  offer  willingness  great.  The  living  cost  was  in  constant  rising. 
If  one  compares  the  prices  of  the  summer  of  1942  with  those  of  1935,  it  is 
found  that  fish  has  increased  at  an  average  of  125%,  meat  95%,  root  stuffs 
and  fruit  109%,  groceries  54%,  bread  41%,  dairy  products,  eggs  and 
margarine  38%  and  flour  25%.  Altogether  this  makes  an  increase  in  pro- 
visions of  63%.  With  respect  to  heat  and  light,  clothes,  etc.,  it  will  be 
found  that  the  cost  of  living  since  immediately  before  the  war  broke  out 
in  September,  1939,  has  risen  about  40%. 

They  have  received  very  favorable  reports  in  two  of  the  leading 
papers  published  in   Stockholm.     These   are  the  headlines,   "Training 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY  59 

Fields  and  the  Barracks  at  Salt  Lake,"  ''Christian  Cooperation,"  "Seventy 
Welfare  Centers."  Then  the  president  says  the  article  was  well  written 
throughout.  Also  the  Svenska  Dagbladet,  another  leading  Stockholm 
daily  paper,  had  these  headings — "The  Mormons  in  Utah,  a  Religious 
Sect  but  also  a  Cooperative  Organization,"  .  .  .  "The  Pupils  of  Brigham 
Young,  Pioneers  in  the  Domain  of  School  Affairs  and  Welfare  Work." 
This  article  was  also  very  good  and  closed  : 

The  Mormons,  their  Church,  and  their  activities,  all  of  which  are  some- 
times called  humbug,  but  it  is  a  fact  that  there  is  much  to  study  in  Utah 
on  the  domain  of  education,  the  social  activities,  the  industry,  and  co- 
operation. 

Of  course  we  receive,  letters  regularly  from  the  British  Mission. 
Their  annual  report  for  1942  shows : 

Membership,  6491,  number  of  branches  increased  from  71  to  75,  number 
of  branch  Relief  Societies  from  46  to  51,  Sunday  Schools  from  53  to  62. 
The  M.I. A.,  Beehive  and  Primary  organizations  made  progress  during  the 
year  ...  51  baptisms,  slight  decrease;  52  deaths,  increase  of  20.  Other 
statistics  remain  about  the  same  as  the  year  1941.  Harvest  Festivals,  Union 
Meetings,  Priesthood  activities,  Branch  Reunions,  cottage  meetings,  and 
other  district  and  branch  activities  have  been  greater  than  previous  year. 

The  Lord  has  been  merciful  and  kind  to  us  in  the  British  Mission. 
There  is  no  hardship  among  our  members  as  far  as  we  know.  Our  homes 
have  been  blessed,  although  two  families  have  suffered  from  enemy  action 
in  losing  some  of  their  belongings.  Their  lives  have  been  miraculously 
preserved. 

In  the  British  Mission  they  are  doing  a  very  splendid  missionary 
work.  They  have  had  ninety-two  full-time  missionaries  since  the  begin- 
ning of  the  war  and  nearly  four  hundred  part-time  missionaries  (many 
of  them  sisters),  most  of  them  working  in  the  seventy-five  branches. 

Definite  Need  for  Welfare  Work 

I  think  sometimes,  brethren,  when  listening  to  the  reports  of  Welfare 
workers  in  our  Welfare  meetings  at  the  quarterly  conferences — not  so 
very  often,  but  occasionally  we  hear  a  discouraging  note  sounded — 
everybody  is  working  now,  busy  earning  money,  and  we  do  not  see  the 
necessity  for  following  the  advice  of  the  brethren  and  planting  crops, 
the  Priesthood  taking  the  lead.  We  will  give  the  money,  they  say.  I 
hope  you  brethren  who  have  this  attitude  will  remember  that  we  have 
thirty-two  thousand  members  of  our  Church,  our  brothers  and  sisters, 
in  these  war-torn  countries,  just  in  the  European  missions  alone.  I  hope 
to  see  the  day,  and  that  soon,  when  we  can  use  the  bombers  to  carry 
wheat  over  there,  and  other  foods  and  clothing,  instead  of  bombs.  That 
time  will  come,  and  when  it  does  it  is  not  the  donations  of  money  that 
will  feed  the  needy,  brethren ;  they  cannot  eat  the  money  nor  can  they 
buy  food,  because  it  will  not  be  there,  even  if  they  had  the  money.  So 
remember  it  is  food  that  they  will  need.  This  remark  comes  to  me  and 
I  will  give  it  in  closing ;  my  father  often  had  occasion  to  use  it  with  us 
boys.  One  of  the  boys  is  conducting  the  exercises  today,  and  I  think 
my  father  used  it  on  him  just  as  often  as  he  did  on  the  other  three 


60  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,    April   5  Second  Day 

brothers,  if  not  oftener.  When  we  would  complain  a  little  because  we 
could  not  play  baseball  or  perhaps  go  fishing  on  Sunday,  he  would  talk 
with  us,  and  would  generally  end  up  with :  "Remember  this  boys,  'The 
path  of  counsel  is  the  path  of  safety.'  " 

May  God  help  us  all  to  remember  that,  and  keep  all  the  command- 
ments of  God,  that  we  may  have  joy  in  this  life  and  exaltation  in  the 
life  to  come,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Softly  beams  the  sacred  dawning 

Of  the  great  Millennial  morn, 
And  to  Saints  gives  welcome  warning 

That  the  day  is  hasting  on. 

Splendid,  rising  o'er  the  mountains, 

Glowing  with  celestial  cheer, 
Streaming  from  eternal  fountains, 
Rays  of  living  light  appear. 

(John  Jacques,  "Softly  Beams 
the  Sacred  Dawning") 

Christ's  Coming  the  Hope  of  the  World 

I  do  not  believe  that  hope  has  bade  the  world  farewell.  I  think,  I 
firmly  believe  that  in  this  huge,  ugly  mass  of  evil  that  is  rolling  and 
swelling  there  is  some  good,  imprisoned  temporarily;  that  this  good  is 
working  towards  deliverance  and  triumph. 

This  earth,  according  to  the  scriptures,  is  moving  towards  a  glorious 
ideal.  We  believe  that  Christ  will  reign  personally  upon  the  earth  and 
that  the  earth  will  be  renewed  and  receive  its  paradisiacal  glory.  By 
prophets  this  glorious  condition  has  long  been  foretold.  Christ's  reign 
on  earth,  when  He  will  establish  the  millennium — and  it  will  not  be  estab- 
lished before  He  comes — has  been  the  consolation  of  martyrs  and  the 
hope  of  suffering  saints.  It  is  the  hope  of  the  world.  The  mission  of 
this  Church,  I  understand,  is  to  preach  the  gospel,  to  prepare  a  people 
for  the  great  millennial  reign.  This  Church  has  been  established  and 
dedicated  for  that  very  purpose,  and  in  his  first  visit  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  the  angel  Moroni  told  him  that  the  preparatory  work  was  about 
to  commence,  to  prepare  a  people  for  that  glorious  event.  We  do  not 
hope  to  convert  all  the  world  before  the  second  coming  of  the  Son  of 
God,  but  through  this  gospel  and  the  government  that  God  has  set  up  in 
the  Church,  it  is  our  destiny,  our  bounden  duty,  to  prepare  a  people  to  meet 
the  Savior. 

Preparation  for  the  Millennium 

We  talk,  and  justly  so,  of  the  greatness  of  our  Priesthood  quorums 
and  all  of  our  auxiliary  organizations,  and  I  would  not  for  the  world 
underestimate  their  strength  and  power  and  the  great  work  they  are 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS  61 

doing,  but  what  about  the  home,  what  about  the  evident  lack  of  parental 
control  ?  Solomon  said :  "Train  up  a  child  in  the  way  he  should  go  :  and 
when  he  is  old,  he  will  not  depart  from  it"  (Proverbs  22:6).  If  our 
people  will  obey  the  injunction  of  the  Almighty  and  teach  their  children 
the  principles  of  the  gospel,  not  only  by  precept  but  by  example,  you 
are  going  to  see  a  people  such  as  the  world  has  never  before  beheld,  for 
the  children  brought  up  in  righteousness  will  be  fit  to  meet  the  Lord  when 
He  comes  in  power  and  great  glory.  This  blessed  millennium,  the  account 
of  which  shines  upon  the  pages  of  holy  writ — the  Bible,  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price — 
sounds  as  you  read  these  pages  regarding  the  millennium,  like  a  trumpet 
calling  us  to  preparation.  If  we  are  earnest  and  devoted  in  our  duty  to 
preparing  a  people  for  the  millennium,  you  will  not  see  liquor  stores 
disfiguring  our  mountain  valleys.  The  tremendous  price  paid  for  liquor 
in  the  valleys  of  Ephraim,  it  seems  to  me,  is  a  warning,  at  least  an  in- 
dication, that  the  vision  of  our  destiny  has  been  somewhat  blurred.  I 
plead  for  stronger,  more  persuasive,  more  loving  teaching  in  the  homes 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

Conditions  during  the  millennium  are  going  to  satisfy  the  soul. 
Holiness  will  be  triumphant,  Satan  will  be  bound,  and  men  to  a  very 
large  extent  shall  be  relieved  from  temptation.  The  swords  are  going  to 
be  beaten  into  plowshares,  and  the  spears  into  pruning  hooks,  and  nations 
shall  not  learn  war  any  more — 

When  the  common  sense  of  most  shall  hold  a  fretful  realm  in  awe, 
And  the  kindly  earth  shall  slumber,  lapt  in  universal  law. 

Labors  During  the  Reign  of  Christ 

During  the  millennium  we  are  not  going  to  be  idle.  God  forbid. 
Jesus  Christ  said  in  the  Book  of  Mormon :  "...  for  my  work  is  not  yet 
finished ;  neither  shall  it  be  until  the  end  of  man,  neither  from  that  time 
henceforth  and  forever"  (II  Nephi  29:9). 

As  we  are  co-laborers  with  the  Almighty,  how  can  we  indulge  in  the 
vain  hope  that  we  shall  be  idle  during  the  millennium.  No,  we  shall  be 
co-laborers  with  Jesus  Christ  throughout  all  eternity.  I  am  so  grateful 
that  the  hopes  and  the  fond  desires  of  the  saints  concerning  immortality 
and  eternal  life  are  voiced  in  the  doctrines  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  The  Apostle  Paul  tells  us  that  when  the  Savior 
comes  to  reign  in  power  and  in  great  glory,  from  the  very  headwaters  of 
immortality  there  is  going  to  flow  a  stream  of  immortality,  for  he  says : 

For  the  Lord  himself  shall  descend  from  heaven  with  a  shout,  with  the 
voice  of  the  archangel,  and  with  the  trump  of  God :  and  the  dead  in  Christ 
shall  rise  first : 

Then  we  which  are  alive  and  remain  shall  be  caught  up  together  with 
them  in  the  clouds,  to  meet  the  Lord  in  the  air :  and  so  shall  we  ever  be 
with  the  Lord. 

Wherefore  comfort  one  another  with  these  words.  (I  Thessalonians 
4:16-18) 

The  Prophet  Joseph,  the  solver  of  problems,  the  comforter  of 


62  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday.    April   5  Second  Day 

humanity,  told  a  mother  who  had  lost  a  baby  in  death  that  in  the  resur- 
rection when  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  appears,  her  baby  would  be  resur- 
rected and  that  she  would  have  the  joy,  more  joy  than  she  could  have 
had  in  mortality,  in  the  resurrection,  of  rearing  that  baby,  or  the  young 
child,  young  children,  who  have  died,  to  manhood  and  womanhood. 

Horace  Greeley,  one  of  the  greatest  editors  that  ever  lived,  lost  a 
boy  who  was  five  years  of  age.  He  said :  "Now,  all  that  deeply  concerns 
me  is  the  evidence  that  we  shall  live  hereafter  ...  If  I  felt  sure  on  the 
point  of  identifying  and  being  with  our  loved  ones  in  the  world  to  come, 
I  would  prefer  not  to  live  long."  Well,  all  that  doubt  is  removed  by 
obedience  to  the  doctrines  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

Present  Adversities  for  Our  Good 

We  are  told  that  when  the  Jaredites  in  their  barges  set  forth  for 
this  land  of  promise,  fierce  and  terrible  tempests  prevailed.  The  winds 
blew  and  they  were  in  imminent  danger  all  the  while  on  that  perilous 
journey.  God  sustained  them.  And  we  read  that  although  these  gales 
and  tempests  raged,  holding  destruction  in  their  wake,  that  the  wind  was 
continually  blowing  toward  the  Promised  Land.  And  these  adversities 
through  which  we  are  passing,  these  terrible  wars  and  all  the  horrible 
things  that  are  prevailing,  are  in  the  power  of  God.  He  can  stop  them 
when  He  chooses,  when  His  divine  purposes  are  fulfilled.  But  let  us  not 
forget  that  through  this  sea  of  trouble,  our  adversities,  the  experiences 
through  which  we  pass  and  which  God  will  make  work  together  for  our 
good,  if  we  will  obey  Him — all  these  are  blowing  us  forward  to  the 
haven  of  rest,  to  a  glorious  future,  to  eternal  life,  and  unitedly  we  join 
in  John's  loving  response  ".  .  .  even  so,  come  Lord  Jesus."    Amen. 


The  hymn,  "Now  Let  Us  Rejoice"  (William  W.  Phelps),  was  sung 
by  the  congregation,  after  which  the  benediction  was  pronounced  by 
Elder  Z.  Reed  Millar,  President  of  the  Boise  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.m. 

SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  at  2  o'clock  p.m.,  Monday,  April  5. 
President  David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, conducted  the  meeting. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  afternoon  President  Grant  and  his 
two  Counselors,  members  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  the  Patriarch  to 


ELDER   GEORGE  F.   RICHARDS  63 

the  Church,  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve,  members  of  the  First  Council 
of  Seventy  and  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 

Elder  Richard  P.  Condie  will  direct  the  music  this  afternoon,  and 
Elder  Wade  N.  Stephens  is  at  the  organ. 

The  opening  song,  "Come,  O  Thou  King  of  Kings,"  wTill  be  sung 
by  the  congregation.    Song  Folder,  number  12,  hymn  book,  number  209. 


The  congregation  sang  "Come  O  Thou  King  of  Kings,"  (Words 
by  Parley  P.  Pratt) . 

Elder  H.  Roland  Tietjen,  President  of  the  South  Sevier  Stake, 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

The  congregation  sang  "Come  Let  Us  Anew,"  (Wesley's  collection) . 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Ttvelve  Apostles 

I  have  enjoyed  with  you,  my  brethren,  the  spirit  and  instructions  of 
this  conference,  and  while  I  have  been  sitting  upon  the  stand  and  realizing 
that  I  would  be  called  at  some  session  of  the  conference  to  speak,  my  mind 
has  entertained  a  variety  of  thoughts  and  I  wonder  if  I  can  bring  to  your 
mind  some  of  these  reflections  in  a  way  that  will  be  appreciated  and  worth- 
while. 

I  see  in  this  large  body  of  men  a  representation  of  the  Priesthood  and 
ministry  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  realize, 
to  some  extent  at  least,  what  the  responsibility  of  holding  the  Priesthood 
and  being  a  minister  of  the  Lord  means. 

Sacred  Covenants 

When  we  embraced  the  gospel  by  baptism,  by  that  act  we  covenanted 
that  we  would  keep  the  commandments  of  God.  When  we  received  the 
Priesthood,  by  that  act  we  covenanted  to  magnify  that  Priesthood,  and 
when  we  received  these  various  positions  which  grow  out  of  the  Priest- 
hood, and  which  we  as  a  part  of  the  ministry  have  received,  it  has  been 
usually  with  a  promise  on  our  part  that  we  will  magnify  that  calling  to 
the  best  of  our  ability.  That  comes  in  the  nature  of  a  solemn  covenant 
made  before  the  Lord  and  His  servants  and  should  not  be  regarded 
lightly  on  our  part. 

The  Council  in  Heaven 

I  congratulate  you  and  myself,  brethren,  on  being  engaged  in  the 
work  of  the  Lord — the  greatest  and  grandest  and  most  glorious  work  in 
which  man,  angels,  or  Gods  can  be  engaged.  All  that  we  know,  all  that 
we  have  heard  that  has  come  from  our  Father  in  heaven  and  from  His 
Son  Jesus  Christ,  pertains  to  the  salvation  of  the  souls  of  men.    As  the 


64  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,    April   5  Second  Day 

Father  walked  and  talked  with  His  servant  Moses,  He  explained  to 
Moses,  ".  .  .  behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my  glory — to  bring  to  pass  the 
immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man"  (Moses  1 :39) .  Accordingly  a  coun- 
cil was  called  in  heaven  where  the  plan  of  man's  salvation  was  considered, 
and  Jesus,  the  First-born  of  the  Father  in  the  spirit,  came  forward  with 
a  proposal  to  do  the  will  of  the  Father.  Said  He:  ".  .  .  Father,  thy  will 
be  done,  and  the  glory  be  thine  forever"  (Moses  4:2).  He  was  chosen 
as  the  Savior  of  the  world  and  by  Him,  under  the  Father,  the  world  was 
created  and  made  and  all  things  therein.  We  sanctioned  the  plan  of 
salvation  and  our  resolves  without  a  doubt  were  that  we  would  abide 
by  that  plan  in  all  particulars,  that  in  the  end  we  might  be  like  our  Father 
and  dwell  with  Him  in  His  kingdom ;  and  the  morning  stars  sang,  and 
we,  the  sons  of  God,  shouted  for  joy  in  this  great  plan,  all  looking  toward 
the  saving  of  the  souls  of  our  Father's  children — all  of  us,  for  the  Prophet 
Joseph  tells  us  that  we  were  all  there  in  the  Council  of  Heaven,  that  we 
saw  the  Savior  chosen  and  appointed  and  the  plan  of  salvation  made,  and 
we  sanctioned  it.  Then  it  is  not  going  too  far,  I  think,  to  say  that  this  is 
the  noblest  work  in  which  even  the  Gods  can  be  engaged.  And  what  an 
honor  it  is,  and  we  should  so  regard  it,  to  be  privileged  to  work  with  the 
Father  and  for  the  Father  in  the  accomplishing  of  His  purposes,  looking 
to  the  saving  of  souls.    I  wonder  if  we  fully  appreciate  this  honor. 

Effects  of  War  Upon  the  Church 

We  are  living  in  perilous  times.  Many  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
are  troubled  in  their  minds,  have  great  anxiety  because  of  the  war  and 
because  their  loved  ones — husbands,  brothers,  and  sons — must  of  neces- 
sity engage  in  the  war,  many  of  whose  lives  have  been  lost  and  others 
are  in  jeopardy  and  in  danger.  We  regard  the  cause  as  a  just  one.  This 
country  was  given  to  us  of  the  Lord.  The  constitution  and  laws  of  the 
country  were  given  to  us  of  the  Lord.  Our  liberty  and  our  freedom 
came  from  the  Lord,  and,  where  it  is  necessary,  we  must  fight  to  maintain 
that  freedom,  and  liberty,  and  peace.  It  is  only  reasonable  to  believe  that 
the  Lord  intends  that  these  things  be  preserved  unto  us,  if  only  we  will 
be  worthy  and  keep  His  commandments.  But  there  is  trouble  just  the 
same,  troubled  hearts  and  minds,  and  the  war  has  not  only  affected  the 
individual  members  of  the  Church  along  with  other  people  of  the  world 
to  their  sorrow,  but  also  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
feels  its  effects.  We  can  see  its  baneful  effects  in  all  the  organizations 
of  the  Church.  As  we  move  among  you  brethren  in  the  stakes  of  Zion 
attending  the  conferences,  we  note  how  the  quorums  of  the  Priesthood 
are  disrupted,  officers  and  members  alike  called  into  the  service  of  their 
government,  and  the  work  is  greatly  hampered.  Because  of  the  rationing 
of  rubber  and  of  gas  for  our  motor  cars,  the  auxiliary  associations  of  the 
young  men  and  the  young  women  do  not  have  the  attention  which  they 
heretofore  had.  The  leading  officers  are  not  able  to  visit  and  associate 
with  them  and  encourage  and  help  them  along  as  formerly. 

I  receive  each  month  a  report  from  the  various  temples  of  the  work 
being  done.    Since  the  beginning  of  the  war  there  has  been  a  tremendous 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS  65 

falling  off  in  the  amount  of  temple  work  done  in  all  the  temples  of  the 
Church — a  lamentable  condition. 

We  receive  a  monthly  report  through  the  First  Council  of  the 
Seventy  of  the  missionary  work  in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  and  we  observe 
that  there  has  been  a  great  falling  off  of  accomplishment  in  that  work. 

Our  elders  are  returning  from  the  mission  field  in  large  numbers, 
but  very  few  going  into  the  field  to  replace  them,  and  we  wonder  what 
the  results  are  going  to  be.  I  wonder,  brethren,  if  we  are  doing  all  we 
can  to  improve  this  condition  in  the  Church. 

Suggestion  for  Carrying  on  Missionary  Work 

I  had  the  pleasure  this  last  week  of  interviewing  a  returned  missionary 
whom  I  set  apart  six  months  ago  to  go  into  the  mission  field  for  a  short- 
term  mission.  He  is  seventy-three  years  of  age,  and  this  was  the  eighth 
mission  for  him.  Everytwinter  for  eight  years  he  has  spent  about  six 
months  in  the  mission  field.  He  is  not  a  wealthy  man,  he  has  no  farm  to 
return  to,  he  has  no  business,  but  he  informed  me  that  he  has  an  invitation 
from  the  mission  president  to  return  next  winter ;  and  he  intends  so  to 
do  if  in  the  meantime  he  can  earn  enough  money  for  his  keep  in  the 
mission. 

I  am  wondering,  brethren,  if  in  your  quorums  of  the  Priesthood,  if 
in  the  stakes  and  wards  of  Zion,  and  possibly  in  the  mission  fields,  there 
are  not  a  number  of  men  who  are  not  needed  in  the  service  of  their  country, 
and  women  also,  who  could  go  upon  missions  for  short  terms.  These  will 
usually  be  men  and  women  of  experience,  and  I  think  we  could  get  a 
number  of  them  if  we  would  like,  and  I  feel  we  would  have  a  forceful 
corps  of  missionaries  in  the  missions  of  the  United  States  if  we  were  to 
adopt  more  fully  this  plan.  I  remember  a  number  of  years  ago  when  the 
President  of  the  Church  called  upon  the  people  for  volunteers  for  this 
kind  of  work.  One  of  my  sons  who  had  ten  or  fifteen  men  working  for 
him  in  his  business,  volunteered  his  services  and  turned  his  business  over 
to  one  of  his  employees  and  went  out  into  the  mission  field  for  six  months 
and  performed  yeoman  service,  and  at  that  time  I  think  there  were  quite 
a  number  who  responded  to  the  call.  I  have  not  heard  that  the  President 
of  the  Church  has  withdrawn  the  invitation  to  members  of  the  Church 
to  engage  in  that  kind  of  service. 

Local  Missionary  Labors  During  World  War  I 

I  had  the  honor  during  the  World  War  of  presiding  over  the 
European  Mission.  During  that  period  missionaries  had  to  come  home. 
In  the  British  Mission  we  were  reduced  at  one  time  to  seven  mission- 
aries from  home.  We  found  there  women  doing  men's  work  as  they 
are  doing  today,  and  we  concluded  that  if  they  could  do  men's  work 
outside  of  religious  labor,  they  could  do  men's  work  as  missionaries,  and 
so  we  called  women  folk.  We  had  as  many  as  three  hundred  seventy- 
five  lady  missionaries  laboring  in  Great  Britain  at  one  time,  and  we  called 
young  men,  who  were  not  old  enough  to  bear  arms,  into  the  ministry  with 
the  promise  that  if  they  filled  two  years'  mission  faithfully  and  desired 


66  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,    April   5  Second   Day 

to  come  to  Zion,  their  fares  would  be  paid  the  same  as  missionaries  who 
came  from  Zion  into  the  mission  field.  When  I  left  that  mission  field, 
as  I  remember,  we  had  twenty-three  local  men  laboring,  men  of  families, 
giving  part-time  service  presiding  over  districts,  and  a  wonderful  work 
was  accomplished.  The  tithing  during  nearly  three  years  that  I  was  in 
Britain  nearly  doubled  itself,  and  the  baptisms  were  almost  as  many  as 
when  we  had  seventy  missionaries  from  Zion  laboring  in  that  country. 
While  this  was  going  on  in  Great  Britain,  a  similar  work  was  being  done 
in  Germany  under  the  presidency  of  Angus  J.  Cannon,  and  in  the  Scan- 
dinavian countries  under  the  presidency  of  Brother  Christiansen.  It  can 
be  done  today,  I  think.  I  think  Brother  Clawson  said  on  one  occasion, 
speaking  about  the  work  that  was  done  in  those  countries  during  the  war, 
it  was  only  because  there  was  a  war  on,  otherwise  it  could  not  have  been 
accomplished.  If  that  is  the  case,  we  have  a  war  on  now  and  the 
conditions  are  very  similar,  and  I  believe  it  can  be  worked  out. 

Conversions  in  Stakes 

Here  at  home  in  this  stake  missionary  work  I  do  not  know  whether 
these  brethren  are  all  aware  that  we  have  had  more  conversions  in  the 
stakes  of  Zion,  according  to  our  statistics,  during  the  past  few  years  than 
we  have  had  in  the  mission  field.  There  are  people  here  to  be  converted, 
and  it  shows  something  of  the  activity  of  these  stake  missionaries. 

I  want  to  say  that  here  in  the  Liberty  Stake  I  have  a  daughter  laboring 
as  a  stake  missionary.  She  is  58  years  of  age,  a  grandmother,  and  her 
associate  in  that  work  is  a  lady  almost  as  old.  President  Merz,  the 
president  of  that  mission,  informs  me  that  she  is  doing  a  good  work.  So 
why  not  have  some  of  our  elderly  sisters  called,  who  can  be  spared,  and 
engage  in  this  work?  I  think  this  is  one  way  in  which  we  can  offset, 
perhaps,  the  disadvantages  that  come  through  this  world  war. 

The  Purposes  of  the  Lord  to  be  Accomplished 

And  now  as  a  ministry  are  we  doing  our  full  duty — presidents  of 
stakes,  bishops  of  wards,  quorums  of  Priesthood — are  we  seeing  to  it, 
as  far  as  we  have  influence  and  authority,  that  those  over  whom  we  are 
presiding,  are  doing  their  duty  ?  Brethren,  I  know  that  this  work  in  which 
we  are  engaged  is  God's  work.  I  am  sure  it  will  endure  forever.  No 
power  can  prevent  its  accomplishing  its  purpose,  although  it  may  be 
hindered  temporarily.  It  is  bound  to  succeed  and  truth  is  bound  to 
triumph  over  error,  and  right  over  wrong.  I  know  that  God  is  at  the 
helm,  that  He  is  our  Eternal  Father,  that  He  loves  us,  that  He  desires 
our  salvation,  and  He  is  glad  to  use  us,  weak  though  we  are,  in  the  ac- 
complishment of  that  work. 

For  ye  see  your  calling,  brethren,  how  that  not  many  wise  men  after 
the  flesh,  not  many  mighty,  not  many  noble,  are  called : 

But  God  hath  chosen  the  foolish  things  of  the  world  to  confound  the 
.  wise;  and  God  hath  chosen  the  weak  things  of  the  world  to  confound  the 
things  which  are  mighty ; 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION  67 

And  base  things  of  the  world,  and  things  which  are  despised,  hath 
God  chosen,  yea,  and  things  which  are  not,  to  bring  to  nought  things  that 
are: 

That  no  flesh  should  glory  in  his  presence.    (I  Corinthians  1 :26-29) 

Weak  as  we  are,  with  the  help  of  the  Lord  we  can  accomplish  His 
purposes.  We  can  do  nothing  without  His  aid.  He  said  to  His  disciples, 
".  .  .  Without  me  ye  can  do  nothing"  (John  15  :5).  I  do  not  know  that 
we  are  any  stronger  as  a  ministry  than  were  the  disciples  of  Christ,  who 
could  do  nothing  without  His  help,  but  with  His  help  mighty  works  may 
be  accomplished.  It  is  a  great  honor  and  blessing  to  us,  I  say,  to  receive 
this  Priesthood  and  authority,  and  be  privileged  to  work  with  the  Lord 
for  the  blessing  and  salvation  of  mankind. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  that  we  may  be  untiring  in  our  work,  that 
we  may  not  lie  down  on  the  job,  but  that  we  may  be  valiant  in  the  cove- 
nants which  we  have  made  with  Him  in  faithfulness,  and  earn  for 
ourselves  eternal  life  in  His  kingdom,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  have  been  delighted,  my  brethren,  to  be  in  attendance  at  this  con- 
ference and  to-  have  been  able  to  partake  of  the  spirit  of  the  occasion. 
We  have  been  fed  with  the  bread  of  life.  I  can  see  great  strength  and 
power  growing  in  the  Church  with  every  conference  that  I  attend  and  I 
notice  also  in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  a  marked  improvement.  Everywhere 
there  seems  to  be  more  attention  paid  to  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

The  attendance  at  stake  conferences  is  not  so  large  as  I  would  like 
to  see,  but  undoubtedly  that  will  come  back  when  travel  restrictions  are 
removed  and  the  opportunity  presents  itself  again  for  the  people  as  a 
whole  to  attend  these  gatherings. 

President  Grant's  Sermon  Inspired 

Yesterday  there  was  added  to  the  words  and  books  of  the  prophets 
of  the  Lord  another  chapter  in  the  great  plan  of  God,  when  the  sermon 
of  President  Grant,  read  by  President  David  O.  McKay,  was  delivered 
to  this  conference.  That  was  one  of  the  most  outstanding  evidences  of 
spiritual  strength  that  I  have  witnessed  in  a  long  time.  I  thought  of 
President  Grant  who  has  worn  his  body  out  with  hard  work;  and  yet 
I  think  I  have  not  read  anything  in  the  prophets  that  was  more  penetrating 
and  more  fully  alive  as  to  the  obligations  of  the  human  family  and  the 
membership  of  the  Church  than  that  sermon.  I  am  so  glad  that  this 
and  other  inspired  addresses  are  to  be  printed  that  we  may  be  able  to 
read  them  and  pass  them  on  to  the  world.  There  will  come  a  time 
when  they  will  be  placed  in  books,  and  future  generations  will  have 
them  to  read  because  they  came  from  God.  That  sermon  came  from  our 
Eternal  Father,  that  is  my  witness  unto  you  this  afternoon. 


68  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,   April  5  Second  Day 

Importance  of  Missionary  Work 

There  never  was  a  time  in  my  experience,  I  think,  when  it  was  more 
opportune  for  us  to  do  missionary  work  than  at  the  present  time.  I  have 
remembered  all  my  life  that  little  children,  as  well  as  older  ones,  have 
been  taught  to  pray  for  the  missionaries,  that,  they  might  be  able  to  seek 
and  find  those  who  were  honest  in  their  hearts.  Today  we  have  them 
coming  into  our  midst  by  the  hundreds.  I  do  not  know,  and  feel  sure  they 
do  not  realize,  just  why  they  have  come  here,  but  among  them  will  be 
found  many  who  will  be  led  to  investigate  the  gospel,  and  perhaps  many 
of  them  will  be  baptized.  It  was  only  yesterday  that  I  had  the  pleasure 
of  riding  with  an  officer  at  a  nearby  camp  who  is  living  in  the  city  with 
a  family  of  Saints.  He  said  to  me,  "You  know,  when  this  war  is  over, 
and  I  am  permitted  to  come  back,  I  am  going  to  move  to  Salt  Lake  City. 
I  want  to  bring  my  wife  here;  I  want  to  finish  my  time  here  in  this 
country  among  this  people." 

I  am  sure  an  influence  for  good  is  being  felt.  The  strength  of  this 
Church,  brethren,  does  not  rest  upon  the  number  of  people  in  the  Church, 
nor  in  the  educational  stand  that  it  occupies,  nor  in  its  wealth ;  but  is  vested 
in  the  quality  of  its  membership  and  in  the  individual  testimony  of  its 
members.  The  desire  to  give  of  themselves  for  the  good  of  others,  to 
think  and  speak  without  fear,  under  the  direction  and  power  of  God, 
and  to  live  as  they  feel  they  should  live,  setting  the  right  kind  of  example 
— this  is  the  stfength  of  the  Church.  Its  members  are  proud  to  declare 
their  position  before  the  world.  There  is  the  power  of  God  in  this  earth 
among  His  sons  and  His  daughters,  and  its  influence  will  be  felt.  It 
will  be  the  thing  that  will  prepare  the  world  for  the  coming  of  our  Lord 
and  Savior  Jesus  Christ.  This  power  and  testimony  will  prepare  the 
people  to  meet  Him,  for  this  is  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God  on 
earth.    I  bear  this  testimony  to  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

First,  brethren,  may  I  make  a  brief  report  concerning  the  response 
to  a  request  sent  out  to  the  chairmen  of  our  No-Liquor-Tobacco  com- 
mittees in  all  the  stakes  of  the  Church  late  last  summer  and  early  in  the 
fall. 

Passage  of  Sheppard  Bill  Urged 

Many  thousands  of  letters  and  names  attached  to  petitions  went  to 
Washington  addressed  to  their  respective  senators  and  representatives, 
urging  the  passage  of  what  was  known  as  the  Sheppard  Bill,  which,  if  it 
had  been  passed,  would  have  brought  prohibition  to  the  military  reserva- 
tions and  camps  and  other  places  where  the  armed  men  of  this  country 
were  serving.  The  bill  failed.  The  opposition  was  too  strong,  but  a 
great  deal  of  good,  I  am  sure,  was  accomplished.  In  what  way  ?  In  the 
little  town  of  Hollingwood  in  New  Jersey,  there  was  an  army  encamp- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL  69 

ment  established.  It  was  a  dry  community  that  felt  outraged  at  what  was 
going  on ;  so  by  a  search  of  trie  records  they  found  that  in  1901  Congress 
had  passed  a  law  prohibiting  the  sale  or  bringing  onto  the  reservations  and 
military  establishments  of  this  country  alcoholic  beverages  in  any  form 
whatsoever.  But  in  1933  the  Congress  of  the  United  States  declared  that 
beverages  containing  not  more  than  three  and  two  tenths  percent  alcohol 
were  not  intoxicating.  This  law  that  was  found  to  be  already  in  existence 
did  not  mention  mild  beer,  but  it  touched  everything  else  of  an  alcoholic 
nature,  stronger  than  3.2%.  So  you  read  a  few  months  ago  that  the  War 
Department  had  by  proclamation  banned  liquor  in  all  its  forms  except 
mild  beer  from  military  reserves  and  camps,  etc.  In  other  words,  the 
agitation  to  try  to  get  the  passage  of  the  Sheppard  Bill  succeeded  in  un- 
earthing what  had  already  been  done.  So  we  have  in  effect  in  the  United 
States  the  very  thing  that  it  was  hoped  that  bill  would  accomplish,  except 
for  mild  beer. 

Appeal  for  Contact  with  Men  in  Service 

Another  thing :  I  am  reading  now  a  brief  quotation  from  an  article 
in  a  recent  number  of  Good  Health,  which  magazine,  in  my  opinion,  is 
standing  valiantly,  continually,  and  persistently  for  the  principles  of  our 
Word  of  Wisdom  to  an  extent  that  is  not  exceeded  by  any  other  publica- 
tion in  this  country.    This  magazine  said,  and  I  read : 

Army  life  tends  to  break  down  moral  principles,  unless  they  are  firmly 
established.  Removal  of  the  restraint  of  home  and  business  association,  evil 
companionship  which  would  be  avoided  in  civil  life,  abundant  temptation, 
and  the  recklessness  nearness  to  death  may  bring,  are  among  the  reasons 
for  this. 

I  read  this,  brethren,  so  that  you  will  be  reminded  that  we  have  time 
and  again  requested  our  Priesthood  quorums  that  have  members  in  the 
armed  forces  of  the  United  States  to  keep  in  touch  with  them,  to  write 
letters  to  them,  to  provide  a  set-up  in  the  quorum  that  shall  insure  a 
letter  going  forward  at  least  monthly  to  those  in  the  armed  services.  We 
heard  a  report  that  in  one  of  the  stakes  this  is  being  done  by  another 
agency;  but  I  want  to  say  to  the  Priesthood  authorities  in  that  stake, 
brethren,  that  does  not  release  you  of  your  responsibility.  That  work  is 
not  being  done  by  the  Priesthood  quorums,  by  you  brethren  who  have 
members  of  your  brotherhoods  away  from  home.  We  can  bless  them 
for  what  they  are  doing,  but  will  you,  too,  please  do  that. 

I  am  not  going  to  enter  into  a  discussion  of  the  good  that  these  letters 
can  accomplish  when  they  are  written,  but  I  am  making  this  appeal  again, 
that  they  shall  be  written  from  every  quorum  of  Priesthood  in  this  Church 
that  has  any  of  its  members  away  in  the  armed  forces  of  the  country.  We 
have  advised  also,  and  urged,  that  they  keep  in  touch,  quarterly  at  least, 
with  the  members  of  their  quorums  who  are  away  from  home  engaged 
in  defense  industries  of  the  country. 

Present  Day  Revelation 

Now,  brethren,  there  is  a  word  or  two  I  would  like  to  say  on  another 


70  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,    April  5  Second  Day 

topic,  and  I  will  introduce  it  by  relating  a  little  incident.  A  few  years 
ago  as  I  was  conducting  a  class  in  the  mission  home,  a  young  lady  mis- 
sionary arose  and  asked :  "Brother  Merrill,  why  do  we  no  longer  have 
revelation  in  this  Church?"  It  was  of  course  a  very  surprising  question, 
but  I  am  sure  it  was  sincerely  asked,  and  my  answer  was :  "Sister,  there 
is  no  time  to  discuss  this ;  the  hour  is  nearly  up,  but  I  say  to  you  if  you 
will  go  on  your  mission  and  give  yourself  sincerely,  wholeheartedly  to  it, 
obeying  the  mission  rules  and  regulations,  and  be  obedient  to  the  authority 
that  presides  over  you,  and  live  near  to  the  Lord,  you  yourself  before 
you  return  will  know  there  is  revelation  in  the  Church ;  besides,  you  will 
know  that  the  message  that  you  carry  is  divine,  and  you  will  get  that 
knowledge  not  because  you  hear  others  testify  to  it,  but  because  you  will 
get  it  as  all  others  get  it,  if  they  really  have  it,  through  the  channels  of 
revelation  direct  from  heaven." 

What  authority,  brethren,  have  we  for  that  statement?  May  I  say 
that  for  the  last  five  and  a  half  years,  since  the  present  policy  has  been  in 
operation,  it  has  been  my  great  privilege  and  my  delight  to  interview 
hundreds  of  returned  missionaries,  and  I  find  out  from  those  missionaries 
by  direct  questioning  that  they  have  a  testimony.  All  but  two  of  them 
have  said,  "Brother  Merrill,  when  I  bore  testimony,  particularly  toward 
the  end  of  my  mission,  to  the  divinity  of  this  work  I  was  not  expressing 
an  ardent  hope  or  earnest  wish  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  I  was 
saying  what  I  really  knew ;  yes,  I  know  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,"  or 
words  to  that  effect. 

And  you,  my  brethren,  who  are  here  this  afternoon,  if  given  the  op- 
portunity could,  I  presume,  stand  up  right  now  and  say  that  you  too  know 
that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

I  am  not  going  to  discuss  the  fact  that  there  is  revelation  guiding 
the  Church,  but  I  want  to  speak  of  your  responsibility  as  having  received 
a  personal  testimony  divinely  given  of  the  truthfulness  of  this  work.  I 
think,  brethren,  that  that  testimony  places  upon  us  a  very  heavy  respon- 
sibility. It  has  been  mentioned  here  by  other  speakers.  What  is  this 
responsibility  ?  We  have  been  urged  to  encourage  missionary  work ;  we 
do  it  all  the  time,  in  all  of  our  quarterly  conferences,  in  all  our  contacts ; 
we  do  it  wherever  we  go.  It  is  one  of  the  great  obligations  placed  upon 
the  Church — that  of  engaging  in  missionary  work.  But  there  are  two 
methods  by  which  we  may  do  it,  by  precept,  as  those  are  doing  who  are 
called  to  devote  their  time  to  using  that  method,  and  by  example.  But 
we  are  all  called  to  use  the  method  of  example.  And  so,  since  we  know 
this  is  the  Lord's  work  (we  bear  testimony  to  that),  I  feel  that  we  are 
obligated,  absolutely  obligated — if  reason  governs,  if  we  are  going  to  act 
rationally,  if  we  are  going  to  be  true  to  our  convictions — to  live  it ;  and 
if  we  do  live  it,  we  are  all  missionaries,  every  one  of  us,  all  the  time.  I 
think  our  boys  who  are  in  the  armed  services  to  the  extent  of  twenty 
thousand  or  more  from  this  Church,  particularly  those  who  have  returned 
from  foreign  missions  for  the  Church,  are  finding  every  day  of  their 
lives  an  opportunity  to  preach  this  gospel  in  a  way,  and  perhaps  a  more 
effective  way,  and  to  greater  numbers  than  they  have  ever  had  before. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL  71 

There  is  one  here  and  one  there  in  a  company  of  hundreds,  and  if  they 
live  as  they  have  been  taught,  if  they  will  be  true  to  their  testimonies,  their 
influence  for  good  will  certainly  be  very  great.  And  perhaps  their  in- 
fluence and  their  example  will  be  more  effective  in  inviting  inquiries  and 
in  leading  to  investigation  than  they  have  ever  been  in  the  mission  field. 

Satan's  Power  a  Reality 

But  now,  brethren,  may  I  say  that  while  we  are  obligated  to  live 
worthily  we  must  not  feel  that  it  is  an  easy  thing  to  do.  Why  is  it  not 
easy  ?  Because  we  inherit  weaknesses ;  we  are  living  in  a  sinful  world ; 
we  are  powerfully  influenced  by  our  environment ;  and  the  temptations 
of  the  evil  one  all  impose  handicaps.  And  the  evil  one — Satan — to  us  is 
not  a  mere  name,  as  it  is  to  a  very  great  majority  of  our  Father's  children 
here  in  mortality  to  whom  the  word  devil,  the  word  Satan,  is  a  term  that 
personifies  evil,  and  everybody  knows  there  is  evil  in  the  world.  But  to 
us  Satan,  or  the  devil,  is  the  name  of  a  real  person,  a  man  with  a  spirit 
body,  and  he  is  here  on  earth,  cast  out  from  heaven.  And  he  has  a  myriad 
of  helpers  who  are  other  spirit  beings  in  human  form  and  they  are  here 
to  bring  sin,  sorrow,  distress,  and  suffering,  and  destruction  into  the 
world ;  and  they  are  doing  it.  Wherever  the  Saints  are,  I  think  the  devil 
will  try  to  be  also.  If  he  can  overcome  the  Saints,  he  has  all  the  world. 
He  is  trying  in  every  way  with  the  aid  of  experienced  helpers  and  accord- 
ing to  the  intelligence  he  has  to  overcome  the  Saints.  Satanic  influences 
are  likely  to  tempt  us  more  or  less  every  day,  and  in  respects  where  we  are 
weak  making  it  hard  for  us  to  resist.  But,  my  brethren,  we  are  bound, 
I  feel,  by  our  testimony  to  resist,  to  overcome,  to  live  as  we  profess.  If 
we  do  that,  we  will  inspire  confidence,  we  will  inspire  respect  among  all 
of  those  whom  we  contact.  So  let  there  be  no  hesitation,  no  faltering, 
no  excuses  in  our  efforts  to  overcome  temptations. 

Our  Obligation  to  Live  Righteously 

I  spoke  of  weaknesses.  What  weaknesses  do  we  inherit?  Many 
of  them.  I  will  name  one  that  all  of  us  inherit  to  a  greater  or  less  amount 
— selfishness.  We  may  all  find  an  excuse  for  slipping  or  failure,  if  we 
try  hard  enough.  And  we  can  find  an  excuse  for  selfishness,  expressed 
in  these  words :  "Charity  begins  at  home."  Yes  of  course,  charity 
begins  at  home ;  we  take  that  for  granted.  Accordingly,  I  think  of  myself  ; 
I  take  care  of  myself  before  I  think  of  you  or  do  anything  about  helping 
you.  I  have  heard  time  and  time  again  from  representatives  of  the  general 
Welfare  committee  of  the  Church  attending  our  conferences  that  one 
of  the  objectives  of  that  great  plan  is  to  help  us  overcome  our  selfishness. 
But,  brethren,  I  repeat,  by  reason  of  our  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this 
work  we  are  obligated,  if  we  are  honest,  if  we  are  rational,  if  we  are 
reasonable,  if  we  are  true,  we  are  obligated  to  live  according  to  our 
professions,  to  our  teachings.  That  obligation  rests  heavily  upon  all  of 
us  because  we  are  leaders  in  the  Church,  leaders  in  the  stakes  and  wards 
and  quorums  and  branches  of  the  Church.  We  must  try  so  to  live  that 
in  the  sight  of  our  Heavenly  Father  at  any  rate  we  are  free  from  justifiable 


72  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday.   April  5  Second  Dag 

complaint  and  criticism  due  to  our  conduct.  We  must  not  yield  to 
temptations  for  wrongdoing.  Whatever  the  influence,  whatever  the 
temptation,  whatever  the  circumstances,  we  must  stand  true  so  that  our 
lives  will  be  as  lights  upon  a  hill.  Now  the  Lord  has  given  each  of  us, 
I  think,  a  will  power  great  enough,  if  used  with  His  help,  to  live  accept- 
ably. But  we  must  have  His  help.  We  can  get  His  help  if  we  seek  it 
worthily  and  persistently.  But  if  we  do  not  seek  it,  can  we  get  it  ?  There 
is  no  promise.  In  His  great  sermon  on  the  mount  Jesus  said :  "Ask,  and 
it  shall  be  given  you ;  seek,  and  ye  shall  find ;  knock,  and  it  shall  be  opened 
unto  you"  (Matt.  7:7).  But  suppose  we  do  none  of  those  things  ?  Then 
what  are  we  promised?  There  is  no  promise  at  all.  Seek  the  Lord  is 
what  we  are  commanded  to  do ;  seek  Him  worthily ;  seek  Him  in  every- 
thing we  have  to  do  to  get  the  strength,  the  courage,  and  the  will  to  live 
as  we  teach,  and  to  meet  our  responsibilities  as  they  have  been  placed  upon 
our  shoulders  in  the  positions  that  we  have  accepted  all  along  the  way 
in  the  organization  and  set-up  of  the  Church. 

Now,  brethren,  I  feel  that  any  man  who  accepts  a  position  of  re- 
sponsibility in  this  Church  has  not  only  himself  to  think  about  and  try 
to  live  as  the  Lord  would  have  him  live  as  a  private  in  the  Church,  but 
he  has  the  responsibility  upon  his  shoulders  of  looking  after  the  welfare 
of  others,  and  that  is  a  responsibility  that  everyone  before  me  this  after- 
noon has — the  responsibility  of  looking  after  the  welfare  of  those  who 
are  committed  to  his  charge.  You  officers  of  Priesthood  quorums  are 
responsible  for  the  activities  and  everything  that  you  can  do  to  help  them. 

Individual  Responsibility 

In  this  connection  I  want  to  say,  however,  that  while  no  officer  can 
be  relieved  of  his  responsibility  to  do  his  duty  to  those  committed  to  his 
care,  yet  failure  to  do  so  does  not  justify  the  members  of  his  charge  in 
their  failure  to  live  according  to  the  teaching  and  standards  of  the  Church. 
Each  individual  will  be  judged  according  to  his  works.  No  one  can 
justify  his  failures  by  accusing  another  of  dereliction  of  duty.  Each  man 
has  his  free  agency.  He  may  serve  the  Lord  or  otherwise  as  he  chooses. 
And  while  officers  are  duty-bound  by  their  official  responsibilities,  so 
also  are  individuals  obligated  by  their  opportunities.  The  misdeeds  of 
another  cannot  justify  me  in  wrongdoing.  Careless  adults  among  us 
should  look  within  rather  than  without  for  the  causes  of  their  indifference. 

Yet  I  want  to  make  this  point:  you  and  I  can  help  the  cause  of 
righteousness  very  materially,  every  one  of  us,  if  we  will  live  as  we  teach, 
as  we  profess.  Then  our  lives  will  be  as  lights  upon  a  hill,  and  others 
seeing  our  good  works  will  have  their  tongues  of  criticism  throttled,  if 
not  tied.  It  is  particularly  important  that  we  be  careful  of  our  personal 
conduct,  avoiding  insofar  as  possible  the  very  appearance  of  evil,  for 
Satan,  the  liar  and  deceiver,  is  ever  alert  to  use  every  excuse  to  inspire 
criticism  among  our  Father's  children. 

Brethren,  may  the  Lord  help  us  to  be  worthy  of  His  blessings,  and 
may  we  stand  true  and  faithful  to  our  testimonies,  to  our  teachings,  to 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS  73 

our  obligations,  that  the  Lord  may  use  us  to  the  extent  of  our  abilities  to 
promote  His  work  among  our  fellows,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


Elder  Richard  Condie  sang  a  solo,  "O  My  Father"  (Eliza  R.  Snow). 

ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

My  brethren :  I  crave  an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers  for  the 
short  time  that  I  may  stand  before  you  this  afternoon.  I  hope  that  some 
thought  that  I  drop  may  be  helpful  to  some  of  us,  otherwise  I  feel  I  would 
be  a  trespasser  in  occupying  your  time. 

Sacrifice  Brings  Compensations 

There  have  been  many  references  made  during  this  conference  to 
our  many  brothers  and  friends  and  relatives  who  are  wearing  the  uniform 
of  their  country,  we  think,  in  the  defense  of  a  very  righteous  principle. 
I  heard  a  talk  the  other  night  by  a  prominent  man,  the  theme  of  which 
was,  every  good  thing  comes  to  us  by  sacrifice.  I  have  been  thinking  of 
it  some  since  ;  for  a  long  while  I  have  been  thinking  of  these  young  men. 
We  already  know  that  some  of  them  are  not  coming  back  to  us,  and  we 
have  reasonable  assurance  that  others  of  them  will  not.  I  have  been 
trying  to  work  out  some  way  to  determine  what  makes  a  full  and  complete 
life  for  a  man,  and  I  find  it  a  difficult  thing  to  measure.  Some  of  us 
live  a  long,  long  while,  and  some  of  us  not  so  long.  Some  of  us  whose  life 
ends  early  may  perchance  render  a  greater  service  to  our  fellows  than 
those  who  live  longer. 

We  remember  if  we  will  read  back  through  our  history  that  there 
have  been  some  very  important  sacrifices  required  at  the  hands  of  people 
of  this  Church  in  this  dispensation.  I  remember  reading  that  when  the 
Lord  saw  fit  to  organize  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  and  the  Council  of 
the  Seventy  in  the  Church,  that  before  doing  so  He  had  organized  what 
was  known  as  Zion's  Camp,  a  service  which  asked  of  every  man  in  it 
that  he  should  place  upon  the  altar  of  sacrifice,  if  required,  his  life.  It 
is  true  that  most  of  the  men  who  went  out  on  that  trip  returned.  Some 
few  however  did  not.  They  died  of  sickness,  not  in  actual  combat.  You 
will  remember  that  the  Prophet  in  vision  saw  their  state  and  reported  it 
as  glorious.  Out  of  that  group  was  organized  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
and  the  first  quorum  of  Seventy,  and  the  second  quorum  of  Seventy  in 
the  Church,  tried,  true  men,  every  one,  men  who  had  offered  their  lives 
for  their  brethren.    Fortunately  this  sacrifice  was  not  required  of  them. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  likewise,  knowing  full  well  what  he  was 
walking  into,  gave  his  life  for  the  testimony  that  he  had  of  this  glorious 
work. 

Now  we  have  out  representing  us  thousands  of  young  men,  some 


74  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,    April   5  Second  Dag 

of  whom  have  a  strong  and  virile  testimony  of  the  truth,  and  have  been 
engaged  in  teaching  peace  to  the  world.  The  country  now  has  called 
for  their  service  and  they  go  gladly  and  willingly  in  the  spirit  of  sacrifice. 
Not  one  of  them  is  going  out  as  an  adventurer,  but  is  going  in  response 
to  a  call  from  properly  constituted  authority.  Many  of  them  may  have 
their  lives  cut  off  prematurely,  from  our  point  of  view,  without  having 
gained  the  blessings  which  come  through  marriage  and  fatherhood  and 
other  blessings  that  might  come  their  way.  I  feel,  brethren,  that  these 
young  men  who  make  this  sacrifice  will  gain  a  blessing  which  will  com- 
pensate them  in  every  respect  for  everything  that  they  may  lose.  I  feel 
too  that  if  some  of  them  gather  up  some  habits  which  we  do  not  approve, 
that  perchance  their  life's  blood  will  wipe  out  the  stain  of  it,  and  that 
God  will  take  into  account  their  wonderful  sacrifice.  No  man  can  do 
more  than  offer  his  life  for  his  fellows.  Life  is  the  most  precious  gift 
of  man,  and  it  is  the  greatest  gift  that  can  be  offered  in  sacrifice. 

If  I  had  a  son  in  this  service,  I  think  that  thought  would  be  a  great 
comfort  to  me,  that  he  was  making  the  greatest  sacrifice  within  his  power 
for  me  and  for  you,  for  his  brothers  and  sisters  and  for  the  generations 
of  men  unborn ;  for  we  believe,  brethren,  that  this  is  a  conflict  between 
two  ideals  of  government,  one  coming  from  God,  the  other  from  the 
devil,  and  it  will  be  a  fight  to  the  death  eventually  between  those  two 
ideals,  the  safety  of  future  generations  resting  only  with  the  successful 
termination  of  this  conflict  on  the  side  of  justice  and  honor. 

We  believe,  we  knOw,  that  the  principles  that  we  defend  are  those 
of  righteous  government  inspired  by  God,  and  I  hope  that  those  of  us 
who  suffer  in  this  great  conflict  may  gain  some  comfort  in  this  thought. 

Seventies  in  the  Armed  Service  to  Retain  Offices 

We  are  proud  that  we  have  in  the  seventies'  quorums  many  represen- 
tatives among  this  group.  We  are  so  proud  of  them  that  we  refuse  to 
allow  those  who  are  presidents  in  our  quorums  to  be  released  from  their 
responsibility  for  the  simple  reason  that  they  are  going  into  the  service. 
We  would  like  all  of  our  stake  presidents  to  take  notice  that  that  is  our 
sentiment,  and  unless  there  be  some  other  reason,  that  they  do  not 
recommend  to  us  the  release  of  the  president  of  a  seventy's  quorum 
because  he  puts  on  the  uniform  of  his  country.  We  feel  that  he  will 
be  a  better  representative  of  the  Church  and  that  he  will  have  a  stronger 
anchor  if  we  retain  him  in  his  position  of  trust  and  honor. 

I  pray  that  those  boys  may  have  the  safeguard  which  comes  from 
your  continual  prayers  in  their  behalf,  that  the  absolute  minimum  of 
sacrifice  may  be  required  at  their  hands.  When  God  sent  Abraham  into 
the  mount  to  sacrifice  his  son,  he  did  not  require  it,  and  Abraham  headed 
a  large  family  of  Israel,  and  from  these  men  of  whom  this  sacrifice  is  not 
required  may  come  our  rulers,  our  officers  of  the  future.  I  pray  that 
God  may  give  them  strength  that  in  all  they  are  called  to  do  there  may 
be  no  hate  in  their  hearts,  but  only  the  promptings  of  duty  and  the  spirit 
of  sacrifice.    God  bless  you.    Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH  75 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 

Brethren :  If  one  or  two  more  whose  names  are  Joseph  F.  are  added 
to  the  list  of  General  Authorities,  general  conference  will  make  of  me 
a  total  wreck.    (Laughter) 

As  a  boy  I  used  to  marvel  when  my  father  said  that  at  the  general 
conference  he  lost  his  appetite,  and  when  he  was  called  upon  to  speak, 
his  arms,  his  elbows,  and  his  hands  went  numb.  I  now  look  upon  my 
father  as  a  man  of  unusual  fortitude.  (Laughter)  I  have  felt  that  I 
was  in  danger  of  imminent  disintegration  south  of  my  Adam's  apple. 

I  trust  that  the  few  moments  that  are  mine  shall  not  be  spent  in 
vain  for  you  and  that  your  faith  will  assist  me  to  say  one  or  two  things 
which  are  of  value. 

Responsibility  a  Serious  Matter 

Six  months  ago  in  reporting  the  general  conference,  Time  magazine, 
in  its  characteristic  fashion,  spoke  of  the  Mormon  Church,  an  organization 
of  less  than  a  million  persons,  as  an  organization  which  took  itself  very 
seriously  as  an  international  influence.  The  Salt  Lake  correspondent 
for  Time,  who  I  suppose  wrote  that  article,  wrote  better  than  he  knew, 
and  I  think  that  Time  could  immortalize  itself  no  better  than  prophetically 
to  hang  upon  the  walls  of  its  editorial  offices  those  words  in  bronze. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  does  take  itself 
seriously  as  an  international  power.  The  difficulty  is  that  the  members 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  '.Saints  do  not  take  into 
sufficient  consideration,  the  international  importance  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  submit  to  you  that  concentrated 
under  this  famous  dome  there  is  greater  potentiality,  were  it  worthily 
used,  than  is  to  be  found  in  the  combined  military  commands  of  the 
warring  nations,  and,  as  we  have  heard  time  and  time  again  during  this 
conference,  that  is  a  great  responsibility. 

We  do  not  take  the  Church  seriously  enough.  Yesterday  as  Brother 
Peterson,  as  I  recall,  former  president  of  the  Norwegian  Mission,  was 
speaking — I  think  it  was  he  who  told  the  tale  of  finding  a  Sunday  School 
that  had  been  disbanded  because  the  bishopric  had  gone  pheasant-hunting 
— this  large  body  of  Priesthood  was  moved  to  mirth.  I  personally  can 
find  no  vestige  of  humor  in  the  fact  that  men  holding  the  Priesthood 
and  with  responsibility  to  a  congregation  should  disband  it  in  order  to 
break  the  Sabbath. 

We  do  not  take  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
seriously  enough.  Here  are  gathered  men  who  hold  the  Priesthood  of 
Almighty  God,  and  we  have  been  told  in  no  uncertain  terms  that  where 
much  is  given  much  is  expected  and  that  we  shall  be  held  accountable 
if  we  fail  to  magnify  the  calling  which  is  ours.  It  is  essential  that  if 
we  are  to  be  intelligently  obedient  to  the  gospel,  if  we  are  intelligently 
to  keep  the  covenants  which  every  one  of  us  has  made,  it  is  necessary 
for  us  to  know  what  the  gospel  is  and  what  those  covenants  entail,  which 


76  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,   April  5  Second  Day 

means  that  every  one  of  us  should  be  a  student  of  the  scriptures.  Not 
only  should  he  be  a  student  of  the  scripture  as  that  scripture  is  found 
recorded  in  Holy  Writ,  but  he  should  be  obedient  to  the  scripture  as  it 
shall  come  from  the  constituted  authority  of  the  Church.  Somehow  it 
seems  so  easy  to  believe  that  the  word  of  the  Lord  is  printed  in  a  book, 
but  to  some  people  it  seems  a  little  difficult  when  the  word  of  the  Lord 
comes  from  a  living  man. 

The  Word  of  the  Lord  Given  Through  the  Holy  Ghost 

May  I  read  just  a  word  or  two  from  a  revelation  that  was  given  to 
Orson  Hyde  and  some  other  missionaries  : 

And  whatsoever  they  shall  speak  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost 
shall  be  scripture,  shall  be  the  will  of  the  Lord,  shall  be  the  mind  of  the 
Lord,  shall  be  the  word  of  the  Lord,  shall  be  the  voice  of  the  Lord,  and  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation.    (D.  &  C.  68:4) 

When  Heber  J.  Grant,  whom  you  have  sustained,  and  I  expect  will 
again  sustain  before  this  conference  is  over,  issues  instruction  as 
Prophet,  Seer,  and  Revelator,  that  word  should  be  scripture  to  us.  It 
is  the  word  of  the  Lord  Himself  through  His  prophet,  and  it  may  be  that 
sometimes  that  advice  is  not  exactly  in  accordance  with  our  personal 
desires.  It  has  never  been  the  business  of  a  prophet  of  God  to  tell  people 
what  they  wanted  to  hear ;  it  is  the  business  of  a  prophet,  and  I  imagine 
it  is  a  very  unpleasant  business  sometimes,  to  tell  the  people  what  the 
Lord  wants  them  to  know  and  to  do,  and  we  who  hold  the  Priesthood 
should  take  the  Church  seriously  enough  to  be  obedient  to  the  scriptures. 

Suggestions  as  to  Kindness 

I  have  been  impressed  with  the  times  during  this  conference  that 
the  importance  of  kindness  has  been  stressed,  and  I  heartily  concur 
in  those  sentiments.  It  is  necessary,  however,  if  we  are  to  be  truly  kind, 
for  us  to  be  intelligent,  for  us  to  be  understanding.  We  hear  frequently 
that  we  must  not  drive  young  men  out  of  the  Church  because  they  take 
up  smoking,  which  is  quite  true.  You  will  remember  Bishop  Ashton's 
remarks  yesterday.  I  think  we  should  go  a  little  further,  however,  and 
in  being  kind  to  these  individuals,  make  it  clear  to  them  that  in  every 
case  at  least  fifty  percent  of  the  isolation  which  they  feel,  and  oftener 
than  that  a  larger  percent,  is  due  not  to  the  Church  but  to  the  individual 
who  is  not  conforming. 

I  had  an  interesting  conversation  with  a  man  from  Washington  not 
long  ago,  and  he  said  he  did  not  go  to  church  any  more  because  he  did  not 
feel  comfortable ;  they  did  not  make  him  feel  at  home ;  they  preached 
about  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and  he  felt  isolated ;  he  felt  that  he  was  not 
welcome,  so  he  stayed  away.  He  had  taken  up  smoking.  I  asked  him 
if  anyone  had  specifically  said  that  he  was  not  welcome.  "No,  no,  but 
they  preach  the  Word  of  Wisdom." 

I  said  "Well,  will  you  have  us  stop  preaching  the  Word  of  Wisdom 
because  you  have  taken  up  smoking?     Shall  we  not  be  faithful  to  the 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS  77 

revealed  word  of  the  Lord  because  you  have  seen  fit  not  to  follow  that 
advice  ?" 

Eventually  he  admitted  that  the  reason  he  did  not  feel  at  home  was 
not  a  cold  shoulder  had  been  turned  to  him,  but  because  he  knew  in  his 
own  heart  that  he  was  doing  what  he  ought  not  to  do. 

I  think  many  times  it  would  be  kindness  to  help  people  understand 
their  own  reactions.  It  is  so  easy  to  do  the  other  fellow's  thinking  for 
him ;  it  is  so  easy  for  me  to  think  because  I  am  not  doing  what  is  right, 
the  other  fellow  is  trying  to  pass  me  up.  The  greatest  kindness  that 
this  body  of  Priesthood,  and  the  Priesthood  wherever  it  may  be,  can 
give  to  the  world  is,  first  of  all,  courageously  to  set  an  unwavering 
example  of  righteousness ;  and  second,  to  bear  testimony  to  the  truth. 
There  is  no  greater  kindness  which  this  people  can  give  to  the  world. 

Brethren,  we  should  take  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  as  an  international  power  more  seriously.  I  promise  you  that 
there  shall  be  no  solution  to  our  various  problems ;  we  shall  continue  to 
see  the  wise  men  of  the  world  confounded  and  their  wisdom  become 
foolishness,  because  they  suppose  they  know  of  themselves;  we  shall 
see  no  solution  to  our  problems  until  the  world  starts  to  accept  the  Christ 
in  deed,  not  in  lip  service ;  and  it  is  your  responsibility  and  my  respon- 
sibility as  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
to  see  that  this  word  is  spread  by  example  as  well  as  by  precept. 

God  grant  that  we  shall  see  our  job,  that  we  will  not  take  our  re- 
sponsibility so  lightly  that  we  will  look  upon  negligence  as  humor,  but 
as  tragic  in  these  days,  that  this  work  may  be  the  ultimate  world  leaven 
which  it  is  destined  to  be,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

We  have  surely  been  blessed,  my  brethren,  with  excellent  counsel 
and  inspiring  messages  in  this  conference.  When  I  contemplate  the  fact 
that  within  this  historic  building  we  have  met  in  peace,  we  have  not  been 
disturbed,  we  have  been  able  to  concentrate  on  the  high  purposes  to  which 
our  lives  are  dedicated;  while  all  about  us  is  turmoil  and  confusion,  I 
feel  deeply  grateful  for  the  blessings  which  the  Lord  has  brought  to  us. 

Our  Duty  Towards  Those  Engaged  in  Present  Conflict 

I  believe  that  our  course  is  well  charted  for  us.  There  need  be  no 
confusion  about  the  direction  we  are  to  take,  and  the  destination  we  are 
to  achieve.  We  are  set  to  maintain  the  kingdom  of  God  in  this  world, 
and  all  of  our  energy  and  our  effort  is  directed  to  that  glorious  purpose. 

It  is  true  that  we  find  ourselves  at  this  particular  time  confronted 
with  a  necessity  which  deserves  and  demands  our  immediate  attention. 
Our  country  is  engaged  in  a  war.  We  are  citizens.  We  have  the  job 
of  winning  that  war.  It  has  heretofore  been  pointed  out  how  essential 
it  is  to  the  preservation  of  liberty  in  the  earth  that  we  accomplish  this 


78  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday.   April  5  Second   Day 

our  immediate  purpose  and  undertaking.     I  believe  that  we  can  make 
some  real  contributions  to  that  end,  and  that  we  ought  to  make  them. 

In  the  first  place,  this  war  has  to  be  financed.  However  much  we 
may  disagree  with  policies  in  vogue  we  must  recognize  that  fact,  and 
there  devolves  upon  each  one  of  us  an  obligation  to  do  all  that  he  can  to 
provide  the  funds  which  are  essential  to  supply  our  soldiers  with  the 
implements  of  war.  When  I  think  of  what  they  suffer,  the  hardships 
through  which  they  have  to'  pass,  as  revealed  by  such  arresting  accounts 
as  we  have  from  Eddie  Rickenbacker,'  for  one  I  would  not  fail  to  give  to 
each  of  these  men  the  implements  which  he  needs,  the  medicines  that 
he  requires,  if  it  were  possible  for  me  to  give  them  to  him,  and  I  think 
that  each  one  of  us  is  under  obligation  to  subscribe  to  bonds,  to  contribute 
to  various  causes  which  are  destined  to  help  those  in  distress,  and  to 
be  liberal,  as  liberal  as  our  circumstances  will  permit. 

Freedom  Essential  to  Growth  of  Church 

In  the  next  place,  we  are  sending  out  our  young  men  into  battle 
sometimes,  I  feel,  without  having  fully  interpreted  for  them  the  issues 
at  stake  and  the  purposes  for  which  they  are  expected  to  fight.  I  am  sure 
that  every  soldier  would  receive  encouragement  and  fortitude  to  enable 
him  to  bear  his  trials  if  he  had  a  perfect  understanding  of  why  freedom 
and  liberty  are  essential  to  the  consummation  of  the  great  purposes  of 
the  Almighty. 

We  never  could  have  begun  this  work  in  any  country  other  than 
America.  American  freedom  has  furnished  the  environment  in  which 
and  out  of  which  the  Church  of  Christ  has  grown  and  developed.  The 
preservation  of  that  freedom  is  not  only  essential  for  our  civic  rights, 
but  it  is  essential  also  for  the  growth  and  ultimate  consummation  of  the 
kingdom  of  God.  In  my  humble  judgment  every  soldier  who  consciously 
and  conscientiously  devotes  himself  to  the  preservation  of  that  freedom 
is  making  a  distinct  contribution  to  the  great  work  with  which  we  have  the 
honor  to  be  identified. 

I  would  like  each  one  of  our  soldier  boys  to  have  the  consolation  in 
his  hours  of  bitter  trial  that  whatever  he  gives  to  the  cause  of  freedom 
he  gives  to  the  cause  of  Christ,  and  I  would  like  each  one  to  know  that 
as  he  enters  into  this  great  undertaking  he  does  so  with  the  blessing  of 
the  Priesthood  of  the  living  God.  We  did  not  create  the  war ;  we  deplore 
it ;  but  it  is  here ;  and  it  is  essential  that  triumph  come  to  the  cause  of 
freedom  and  victory.  I,  for  one,  feel  a  deep  gratitude  in  my  heart  to 
every  soldier  for  fighting  my  battle  for  my  home,  my  country,  and  my 
religion. 

Belief  in  Ultimate  Spread  of  Church 

Then  we  recognize  that  while  we  are  helping  to  win  this  war  it  is 
essential  that  we  make  a  contribution  that  will  help  to  win  a  decent 
peace  for  this  earth.  Now,  of  course  I  do  not  know  and  I  cannot  state, 
and  I  do  not  know  that  anybody  can  state  at  this  juncture,  what  kind  of 
an  organization  may  be  set  up  for  the  establishment  and  the  preservation 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS  79 

of  peace  in  time  to  come,  but  I  do  know  this  one  thing,  that  no  peace  will 
ever  be  lasting  or  satisfactory  into  which  is  not  infused  the  spirit  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  whose  disciples  we  are.  I  recognize  the  fact  that 
it  seems  a  herculean  and  almost  impossible  undertaking  for  the  few 
of  us  who  constitute  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
to  be  an  important  factor  in  giving  the  spirit  of  our  Savior  to  the  peoples 
of  the  world  and  those  who  preside  over  nations.  I  cannot  understand 
myself  just  how  it  may  be  accomplished,  but  I  know  that  if  God  wills  it, 
it  can  be  accomplished,  and  I  believe  that  it  will,  and  in  the  end  when 
we  see  how  it  is  accomplished,  perhaps  we  will  conclude  that  it  was  not 
such  an  impossible  task  after  all. 

When  we  think  how,  with  the  development  of  modern  science  the 
voice  of  one  man  can  be  magnified  to  reach  all  over  this  earth,  and  how  a 
man's  picture  can  be  projected  so  that  thousands  can  see  it  at  one  time,  it 
does  not  seem  to  me  within  the  realm  of  the  impossible  that  a  way  may 
be  provided  by  which  about  one-half  of  one  percent  of  the  population  of 
this  nation  can  influence  the  will  and  the  judgment  and  the  action  of  all 
the  remainder.  I  believe  that  it  can  be  done.  I  am  sure  that  it  can  be 
done  only  with  the  aid  of  spiritual  power  and  spiritual  gifts,  and  that 
is  what  we  most  need  at  this  hour. 

Priesthood  Carries  Power  for  Righteousness 

The  power  of  the  Priesthood  is  a  spiritual  power.  We  know  that 
there  is  efficacy  in  it.  We  have  seen  its  power  manifest.  We  know, 
too,  that  these  spiritual  powers  are  not  developed  except  through  goodness 
and  righteousness.  We  need  today  the  great  gift  of  discernment  to  be 
able  to  proceed  with  an  intelligence  and  a  wisdom  that  transcends  our  finite 
powers  in  the  courses  which  we  are  to  pursue.  We  need,  too,  personal 
influence  which  shall  touch  the  lives  of  all  with  whom  we  come  in  contact 
and  impress  them  not  only  with  the  seriousness  of  our  undertaking, 
as  so  well  explained  by  Brother  Smith,  but  with  the  vitality  of  this  under- 
taking for  the  welfare  of  this  world.  I  believe  that  God  can  magnify 
the  personal  influence  of  a  man  so  that  it  reaches  out  and  touches  the  lives 
of  others,  and  I  have  been  constrained  for  many  years  to  believe  that  if 
all  the  people  of  our  Church  were  actually  to  keep  the  commandments, 
which  President  Grant  has  asked  them  repeatedly  to  do,  they  would 
develop  individual  personal  power  that  would  go  out  to  the  far  corners 
of  this  earth  and  substantiate  every  doctrine  that  we  teach  and  make  an 
impression  that  could  not  be  denied. 

That  is  why  individual  life  and  living  mean  so  much  in  the  work 
that  we  seek  to  carry  forward.  Whenever  our  lives  become  inconsistent 
with  our  doctrine  and  our  professions,  that  vitiates  our  influence,  and 
every  man  of  this  Priesthood  who  does  not  have  the  strength  of  character 
to  live  according  to  the  law  which  he  knows  to  be  right  retards  the  work 
of  God  and  the  establishment  of  His  kingdom. 

My  brethren,  this  is  a  day  of  consecration  to  the  greatest  and  highest 
things  that  we  have  ever  known  in  life.  It  is  a  day  when  our  soldier 
boys  give  themselves,  their  service  and  their  lives,  if  need  be,  to  the 


80  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday.    April   5  Second   Day 

preservation  of  the  heritage  that  we  have  received  from  the  founders 
of  our  country,  and  it  is  a  day  when  we  of  the  Church  must  needs  re- 
dedicate  ourselves  to  its  great  mission.  God  will  bring  victory  if  we 
will  lend  ourselves  to  the  great  cause.  I  pray  that  we  may  have  His  Spirit 
to  guide  us  always,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

The  closing  song  will  be,  "I'll  Go  Where  You  Want  Me  To  Go,  Dear 
Lord."  The  congregation  will  remain  seated,  and  note  particularly  the 
last  stanza,  "I'll  be  what  you  want  me  to  be." 

After  the  benediction  this  conference  will  be  adjourned  until  7  o'clock 
this  evening. 

All  who  hold  tickets  are  invited  to  the  session  tonight  under  the 
same  conditions  and  entering  at  the  same  designated  places. 


Singing  by  the  congregation,  "I'll  Go  Where  You  Want  Me  To 
Go"  (Rounsfell). 

Elder  EIRay  L.  Christiansen  offered  the  closing  prayer. 
Conference  adjourned  until  7.  p.m. 


SECOND  DAY 
EVENING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  at  7  o'clock  p.m.,  Monday,  April  5. 

President  Grant  was  present  at  this  session  and  presided.  President 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency,  conducted 
the  services. 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Director  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  led  the 
singing,  and  Wade  N.  Stephens  played  the  organ  accompaniments. 

There  were  present  on  the  stand:  President  Grant,  and  his  two 
Counselors,  members  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  the  Patriarch 
to  the  Church,  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve,  the  Presidents  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy,  and  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Praise  to  the  Man"  (William  W. 
Phelps). 

Elder  Willard  Ellis  Bay,  President  of  the  Garfield  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

Singing  by  the  congregation,  "Q  Say,  What  Is  Truth?"  (John 
Jaques). 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM  81 

ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  do  humbly  pray  that  I  may  enjoy  the  spirit  of  the  Lord.  I  bear  my 
testimony  to  you  in  all  the  sincerity  of  my  life  that  this  is  the  work  of  the 
Lord. 

Boy  Scout  Memories 

This  morning  I  had  an  assignment  at  the  South  gate  to  meet  many 
of  you  brethren.  While  I  was  there,  across  the  street  marched  a  double 
column  of  young  men  going  to  be  inducted  into  the  army.  While  I  have 
two  sons  that  marched  in  a  like  column  only  a  little  while  ago,  and  two 
more  that  may  go  in  the  months  now  coming,  I  must  confess  to  you  that 
the  spirit  of  this  occasion  caused  me  to  see  other  young  men.  I  saw  lads 
in  Vienna ;  in  Austria,  bearing  their  testimony  with  such  fervor  before 
a  group  of  Saints  there  that  I  was  thrilled.  I  saw  a  boy  from  Hungary 
in  a  tent  with  representatives  from  seventeen  nations  present — all  Latter- 
day  Saint  boys,  and  I  heard  him  say,  "When  I  go  back  and  tell  my  mother 
and  father  that  I  was  here  at  a  meeting  with  the  boys  of  seventeen  differ- 
ent nations  and  they  all  bore  testimony  to  the  truthfulness  of  the  divine 
mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  there'll  be  only  one  answer  from 
them— they  will  be  in  tears." 

And  I  saw  a  thousand  German  boys  that  I've  seen  in,  oh,  many, 
many  villages  throughout  the  land,  and  I  received  a  card  just  a  few  months 
ago  from  a  lad  in  France  that  said,  "Well,  I'll  be  going  up  to  the  front 
soon.  I  may  never  see  you  again,  but  we  shall  never  forget  each  other." 
Well,  out  of  this  tragedy  there  is  only  one  answer. 

Appeal  for  Faith  in  Youth 

Dr.  Kim,  a  great  minister  missionary  to  Tokyo,  was  there  in  1923 
when  the  great  earthquake  came.  The  people  were  anxious  about  his 
welfare  and  they  began  to  send  cablegrams  to  him  until  finally  the  word 
came  back  from  Dr.  Kim,  "All  gone  except  faith  in  God." 

These  are  great  days.  Nineteen  forty- three  will  never  come  again. 
Look  at  the  headlines  of  this  one  day  and  realize  what  has  happened. 
But  it  is  a  great  day,  and  I  want  to  look  at  it  with  faith  and  hope.  I 
want  to  join  my  spirit  in  sincerity  with  these  millions  of  young  men 
whose  inspiration  and  daring  and  power  are  perhaps  beyond  an  equal  in  all 
history.    These  are  the  hours  of  destiny — these  are  the  hours  of  greatness. 

I  was  in  an  M.I.A.  meeting  just  a  few  weeks  ago  where  a  young 
man  sang  an  international  hymn.  I  want  to  read  you  these  words — this 
was  the  last  stanza. 

As  sure  as  the  sun  meets  the  morning, 
And  rivers  go  down  to  the  sea, 
A  new  day  for  mankind  is  dawning, 
Our  children  shall  live  proud  and  free. 

I  want  to  join  with  that  spirit.  I  do  not  want  to  feel  that  this  is 
just  another  war  and  that  the  thing  will  be  repeated  over  and  over.    I 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,    April  5  Second   Day 

want  to  lend  my  faith  with  the  youth  of  this  day  that  this  job  shall  be 
faced  and  faced  right.  And  I  appeal  to  you  brethren  to  join  in  that 
faith.  Give  them  that  uplift.  Give  them  that  true  hope  as  I  sincerely 
feel  it  for  there  shall  be  a  new  day.  The  young  man  who  wrote  the  music 
to  this  song,  the  words  that  I  have  just  read,  wrote  that  famous  Seventh 
Symphony,  the  greatest  piece  of  realistic  music  that  has  ever  been 
written,  according  to  the  world's  critics,  and  it  had  its  birth  and  its 
writings  at  the  siege  of  Leningrad.  And  that  is  only  in  one  field.  If 
you  dare  to  step  over  into  science,  yes,  into  many  other  fields,  you  would 
see  a  great  world  in  the  making. 

God  help  us  to  give  that  faith  to  youth. 

Responsibility  to  Preach  the  Gospel 

Let  me  read  these  lines  from  Will  Durant,  one  of  our  vigorous 
American  philosophers. 

We  move  into  an  age  of  spiritual  exhaustion  and  despondency  like  that 
which  hungered  for  the  birth  of  Christ.  The  greatest  question  of  our  time 
is  not  Communism  vs.  Individualism---not  Europe  vs.  America — not  even 
the  East  vs.  the  West.    It  is  whether  man  can  bear  to  live  without  God. 

Now,  words  from  the  Prophet  Amos : 

Behold,  the  days  come,  sayeth  the  Lord  God,  that  I  will  send  a  famine 
in  the  land,  not  a  famine  of  bread,  nor  a  thirst  for  water,  but  of  hearing  the 
words  of  the  Lord.    (Amos  8:11) 

A  great  trust  is  placed  upon  this  body  of  Priesthood.  We  who  are 
here  this  night,  more  than  any  other  group  in  all  the  world,  must  answer 
that  hunger.    We  must  fulfill  that  word  of  the  Lord. 

God  help  us  from  this  hour  forth  that  we  shall  strengthen  every 
stake  mission ;  yes,  double  the  number.  The  work  is  here  to  be  done 
and  what  greater  work  is  there  to  be  done,  and  may  I  suggest  that  we 
begin  to'  pray  that  that  son  who  now  fights  may  live  to  carry  the  word  of 
peace  to  the  world.  Oh,  God,  help  him  that  while  he  uses  the  sword  he 
may  also  use  the  Word  of  God,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.    Amen. 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

i 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Long  years  ago  Abraham  Lincoln  said  that  ".  .  .  our  fathers  brought 
forth  on  this  continent,  a  new  nation,  conceived  in  liberty,  and  dedicated 
to  the  proposition  that  all  men  are  created  equal.  Now,"  said  he,  "we  are 
engaged  in  a  great  Civil  War,  testing  whether  that  nation  or  any  nation 
so  conceived  and  so  dedicated  can  long  endure.  .  .  ." 

To  Endure  Forever 

Today  we  are  engaged  in  a  greater  war,  a  war  that  covers  the  whole 
earth,    We  are  fighting  on  battlefields  around  the  world  for  the  sacred 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN  83 

purpose  of  demonstrating  that,  God  being  our  helper,  not  only  one  nation, 
our  nation,  but  that  any  and  all  nations  "...  conceived  in  liberty,  and 
dedicated  to  the  proposition  that  all  men  are  created  equal  .  .  ."  shall  not 
only  endure  long,  but  shall  endure  forever.  That  is  the  great  cause  and 
blessing  for  which  we  are  fighting  today.  And  using  again  the  language 
of  the  immortal  Lincoln,  we  have  resolved  that  those  heroes  of  the  other 
world  war  who  gave  their  lives  and  those  of  this  war  who  make  the 
supreme  sacrifice  ". .  .  shall  not  have  died  in  vain.  .  .  ."  We  have  resolved 
that  "under  God"  the  whole  world  ".  .  .  shall  have  a  new  birth  of  freedom, 
and  that  government  of  the  people,  by  the  people,  for  the  people,  shall 
not  perish  from  the  earth.  .  .  ." 

Better  Dead  Than  a  Slave 

Henry  Van  Dyke  says 

Oh,  better  to  be  dead 
With  a  face  turned  toward  the  sky, 
Than  live  beneath  a  slavish  dread 
And  serve  a  giant  lie. 

Stand  up,  stand  up,  my  heart,  and  strive 
For  the  things  most  dear  to  thee ! 
Why  should  we  care  to  be  alive 
Unless  the  world  is  free? 

Giant  Robber's  World-Wide  War 

What  he  wrote  then  concerning  the  other  world  war  and  our  flag 
applies  to  this  world  war  and  to  our  flag  with  even  greater  accuracy  and 
force : 

O  fiercer  than  all  wars  before 

That  raged  on  land  or  sea, 

The  Giant  Robber's  world-wide  war 

For  the  things  that  shall  not  be ! 

Thy  sister  banners  hold  the  line ; 

To  thee,  dear  flag,  they  call ; 

And  thou  hast  joined  them  with  the  sign — 

The  heavenly  sign,  the  victor  sign — 

Of  the  stars  that  never  fall. 

All  hail  to  thee,  New  Glory ! 

We  follow  thee  unfurled 

To  write  the  larger  story 

Of  the  Freedom  of  the  World. 

The  Whole  World  Free 

On  the  very  day  the  other  war  was  ended,  November  11,  1918,  he 
wrote : 

Oh,  welcome  home  in  Heaven's  peace,  dear  spirits  of  the  dead ! 
And  welcome  home  ye  living  sons  America  hath  bred ! 
The  lords  of  war  are  beaten  down,  your  glorious  task  is  done; 
You  fought  to  make  the  whole  world  free,  and  the  victory  is  won. 

How  unfortunate  that  that  thrilling  and  glorious  achievement,  thus 
so  clearly  and  so  dramatically  stated,  did  not  actually  become  a  reality. 


84  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,    April  5  Second   Day 

A  Temple  and  the  Center  of  Peace 

When  President  Grant  was  in  Europe  a  few  years  ago,  the  mayor  of 
Geneva,  Switzerland,  took  him  and  as  many  others  of  his  party  as  the 
mayor's  car  would  carry  (seven  as  I  remember  it)  and  showed  the 
members  of  that  party  the  flowers,  the  parks,  the  mountain  scenery,  the 
loveliness  of  Lake  Geneva,  and  many  other  of  the  attractions  in  and  about 
that  famous  city,  that  great  center  of  peace.  President  Grant  the  next 
day  expressed  the  thought  that  somewhere  among  the  hills  surrounding 
that  city,  in  that  land  of  freedom  and  democracy,  it  would  be  fitting 
indeed  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  to  build  a  temple. 

Our  All  Upon  the  Altar 

The  mayor  later  also  took  the  party  through  the  historic  municipal 
and  national  buildings  of  Geneva  and  showed  to  us,  the  members  of  the 
party,  the  many  and  impressive  historic  documents  and  other  .treasures 
which  the  people  of  Switzerland  hold  dear  as  we  hold  dear  the  original 
copies  of  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  and  our  Declaration  of 
Independence.  Some  twenty-one  or  twenty-two  nations  are  held  together 
in  Switzerland  by  their  love  of  independence  and  liberty  much  as  our 
forty-eight  states  are  held  together.  The  elimination  of  war,  that  is,  the 
preservation  and  maintenance  of  peace,  is  the  principal  aim  of  the  officials 
and  people  of  that  great  city  and  that  little  but  great  republic,  Switzer- 
land. They  are  endeavoring  to  secure  for  mankind  in  all  the  world  that 
great  blessing  of  peace  and  good  will  which  Christ  came  so  long  ago  to 
bring,  that  blessing  for  which  all  good  Christian  people  around  the 
whole  world  are  so  fervently  praying  during  these  terrible  and  trying 
times.  It  is  for  this  great  cause  that  the  United  Nations  including  our 
own  beloved  country  are  now  unselfishly  putting  their  all  upon  the  altar 
of  war.  By  force  we  have  had  thrust  upon  us  this  great  conflict  and, 
spurred  on  by  our  love  of  liberty,  we,  the  United  Nations,  are  making 
gigantic  efforts  to  win. 

Will  Win  Courageously 

The  motto  of  our  country  is  "In  God  we  trust,"  and  throughout  our 
land  we  sing — 

Long  may  our  land  be  bright  with  freedom's  holy  light ; 
Protect  us  by  Thy  might,  Great  God,  our  King. 

With  faith  in  God  the  Eternal  Father  to  whom  nothing  is  impossible, 
we  have  carried  into  this  mighty  and  unparalleled  struggle  "the  only  flag 
in  all  the  world  that  has  never  known  defeat."  God  helping  us  we 
shall  not  only  win,  but  however  great  the  cost  in  tears,  in  blood,  in  human 
life,  or  in  economic  treasure,  we  shall  win  courageously. 

And  when  peace  finally  comes  and  the  war  is  ended,  the  following 
words  of  Van  Dyke  found  in  his  poem  entitled  "Golden  Stars,"  will  apply 
as  appropriately  no  doubt  as  they  did  when  they  were  read  for  the  first 
time  at  the  Memorial  Service  held  at  Princeton  University,  December 
15, 1918,  just  four  days  after  the  Armistice  was  signed.    He  said : 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN  85 

But  many  a  lad  we  hold 

Dear  in  our  heart  of  hearts 

Is  missing  from  the  home-returning  host. 

Ah,  say  not  they  are  lost, 

For  they  have  found  and  given  their  life 

In  sacrificial  strife : 

Their  service  stars  have  changed  from  blue  to  gold! 

One  Tear,  One  Word  of  Grief 

Listen  to  his  expressions  concerning  the  courage,  the  determination, 
and  the  daring  of  the  mothers  of  these  whose  stars  have  changed  from 
blue  to  gold: 

O  happy  warriors,  forgive  the  tear 
Falling  from  eyes  that  miss  you; 
Forgive  the  word  of  grief  from  mother-lips 
That  ne'er  on  earth  shall  kiss  you ; 
'  Hear  only  what  our  hearts  would  have  you  hear — 

Glory  and  praise  and  gratitude  and  pride 
From  the  dear  country  in  whose  cause  you  died. 
Now  you  have  run  your  race  and  won  your  prize, 
Old  age  shall  never  burden  you,  the  fears 
And  conflicts  that  beset  our  lingering  years 
Shall  never  vex  your  souls  in  Paradise. 
Immortal,  young,  and  crowned  with  victory, 
From  life's  long  battle  you  have  found  release. 
And  He  who  died  for  all  on  Calvary 
Has  welcomed  you,  brave  soldiers  of  the  cross, 
Into  eternal  peace. 

Come,  let  us  gird  our  loins  and  lift  our  load, 

Companions  who  are  left  on  life's  rough  road,  l 

And  bravely  take  the  way  that  we  must  tread 

To  keep  true  faith  with  our  beloved  dead. 

To  conquer  war  they  dared  their  lives  to  give, 

To  safeguard  peace  our  hearts  must  learn  to  live. 

Help  us,  dear  God,  our  forward  faith  to  hold ! 

We  want  a  better  world  than  that  of  old. 

Lead  us  on  paths  of  high  endeavor, 

Toiling  upward,  climbing  ever, 

Ready  to  suffer  for  the  right, 

Until  at  last  we  gain  a  loftier  height, 

More  worthy  to  behold 

Our  guiding  stars,  our  hero-stars  of  gold. 

To  Thee  Nothing  Impossible 

This  struggle  is  like  that  great  war  of  long  ago  which  was  fought  in 
heaven.  And  the  cause  for  which  we  fight  is  the  same,  that  is,  liberty 
and  freedom,  the  right  of  choice,  for  all  the  sons  and  all  the  daughters 
of  God.  However  great  the  cost,  this  struggle  must  go  on  until  we  are 
victorious.  These  are  trying  days,  terrible  times.  The  agony  on  the 
part  of  the  mothers  and  of  the  young  wives  of  those  soldiers  who  may 
be  called  upon  to  give  their  lives  on  the  field  of  honor  is  not  unlike  the 
agony  of  the  Master  Himself  in  the  garden  of  Gethsemane.  It  was  under 
the  trying  conditions  then  surrounding  Him  that  He  exclaimed,  ".  .  . 


86  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,    April   5  Second  Day 

Father,  all  things  are  possible  unto  thee;  take  away  this  cup  from  me: 
..."  (Mark  14:36).  Three  times  He  repeated  this  the  most  earnest, 
prayerful  appeal  that  ever  fell  from  His  divine  lips.  The  situation  was 
so  serious  that  ".  .  .  his  sweat  was  as  it  were  great  drops  of  blood  falling 
down  to  the  ground."  The  load  He  had  to  bear  was  so  heavy  that  ".  .  . 
there  appeared  an  angel  unto  him  from  heaven,  strengthening  him"  (Luke 
22:43-44). 

Prayer  of  Jesus  Not  Answered 

And  was  this  His  most  earnest  prayer  answered  ?  It  was  not.  Then 
came  the  sublimest  moment  of  His  most  remarkable  life  when  He  added, 
".  .  .  nevertheless,  not  my  will,  but  thine,  be  done"  (Luke  22 :42) .  Thus, 
by  enduring  that  great  agony,  the  Savior  took  upon  Himself  the  sins  of 
all  men  that  all  men  on  condition  of  repentance  might  come  unto  Him. 

Father,  Thy  Will  Be  Done 

And  so  with  us.  We,  the  United  Nations,  have  put  our  hands  to  the 
plow,  and  this  contest,  on  a  world  of  battlefields,  unparalleled  as  it  is  in 
magnitude  and  extent,  we  will  win,  however  great  the  cost.  And  being 
followers  of  Jesus,  the  Son  of  God,  and  members  of  His  Church,  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  let  us  do  as  He  did  at  the 
time  of  His  great  agany,  that  is,  appeal  to  our  Heavenly  Father  in  great 
earnestness  and  humility  for  the  lives  of  our  loved  ones  to  be  spared  and 
for  their  bodies  to  be  unharmed.  But  back  of  these  earnest  and  humble 
prayerful  appeals,  let  us,  as  best  we  can,  be  courageous  and  Christ-like. 
Back  of  all  these  appeals  may  we  have,  in  some  degree,  that  spirit  Christ 
so  gloriously  exhibited  during  that  sublimest  moment  of  His  life  when 
to  His  most  earnest  prayerful  appeal  He  added,  ".  .  .  nevertheless,  not 
my  will,  but  thine,  be  done"  (Luke  22:42).  Thus  courageously  and 
Christ-like,  may  we  plunge  with  all  our  might  into  this  greatest  of  all 
world  wars,  and  by  the  power  of  God  may  we  deserve  to  win,  and  by  that 
same  power  may  victory  be  ours  with  the  least  possible  loss  of  blood,  and 
the  fewest  possible  number  of  tears,  and  of  heartaches,  I  humbly  pray. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

When  Elder  Joseph  E.  Evans,  president  of  the  French  Mission, 
with  his  wife,  was  released  to  come  home,  France  was  an  independent 
nation.  A  young  man  born  in  Switzerland  into  the  Church  was  given 
the  responsibility  of  closing  the  French  Mission.  He  asked  that  he  might 
marry  his  sweetheart  who  was  a  member  of  the  Church  in  Belgium. 
Brother  and  Sister  Chappuis  had  the  responsibility  of  closing  the  French 
Mission,  when  the  elders  in  Europe  were  brought  home.  Brother  Chap- 
puis is  here  tonight  and  we  now  invite  him  to  speak  a  few  minutes  by 
way  of  reporting  that  Mission  as  a  returned  missionary,  one  of  the  presi- 
dents of  the  mission.  Brother  Gaston  Chappuis,  whose  parents  are  still 
in  Switzerland. 


ELDER  GASTON  CHAPPUIS  87 

ELDER  GASTON  CHAPPUIS 

Former  President  of  the  French  Mission 

Who  am  I  to  add  to  or  retract  from  what  has  been  said?  Yet, 
brethren,  I  wish  to  add  my  humble  testimony  to  the  testimonies  which 
have  been  borne  thus  far.  I  assure  you  I  feel  most  humble.  I  never 
dreamed  that  I  would  occupy  this  stand.  I  felt  very  lucky  to  be  allowed 
to  be  admitted  to  the  Conference.  I  am  sure,  brethren,  that  the  Lord  will 
overrule  the  present  tribulations  for  the  good  of  the  Saints. 

A  Remarkable  Escape 

I  will  relate  one  or  two  instances  to  show  you  just  what  I  mean. 
After  the  occupation  of  France  and  Belgium  by  the  Germans  it  was  my 
privilege  to  return  to  Belgium,  there  to  visit  my  wife's  folks  and  the 
Saints  there.  You  know  they  are  organized.  There  is  a  Belgium  Dis- 
trict, and  there  I  had  the  privilege  to  talk  to  our  district  president,  Brother 
Devignez.  He  was  one  of  the  Saints  who  left  the  City  of  Liege  at  the 
onslaught,  to  seek  refuge  in  France,  and  while  upon  the  highway  in  Bel- 
gium they  were  stranded  and  witnessed  an  aerial  attack  by  Stuka  dive 
bombers.  Brother  Devignez  said  to  me:  "I  have  never  seen  anything 
like  it.  Blood  was  as  thick  on  the  streets  as  water  on  a  rainy  day,"  and 
he  testified  to  me  that  he  knew  that  the  Lord  blessed  him  as  well  as  his 
companions.  When  I  reached  Liege  I  heard  some  criticism  about  the 
good  shepherd  leaving  the  flock.  Some  of  the  brethren  and  sisters  who 
had  decided  to  remain  censured  the  decision  of  this  brother  to  leave  as 
a  refugee,  yet  he  had  spoken'  of  it  ofttimes  before  the  war  had  overtaken 
Belgium  and  had  invited  all  who  wanted  to,  to  join  the  party.  I  couldn't 
help  thinking  how  much  better  this  man  was  fitted  to  lead  the  Saints 
after  he  came  back  from  such  an  experience,  knowing,  as  he  did  that  the 
Lord  had  spared  his  life — that  the  whole  party  got  back  safely,  including 
a  ten-months-old  baby;  that  among  this  party  was  another  brother  who, 
in  the  face  of  death,  had  gone  into  a  field  to  milk  a  cow  so  that  the  ten- 
months-old  baby  would  be  fed. 

Refraining  from  Partaking  the  Sacrament 

Brethren,  I  testify  to  you  that  the  Saints  over  there  take  their  re- 
ligion very  seriously.  I  know  of  one  sister  in  Paris  who  earns  a  modest 
living  by  selling  second-hand  things  on  what  we  call  the  "flea  market," 
yet  I  don't  know  of  a  member  who  ever  paid  tithing  more  faithfully 
than  that  sister.  After  the  occupation  of  France  by  the  Germans,  she 
consistently  abstained  from  partaking  of  the  sacrament,  even  to  the  very 
end,  when  she  knew  that  she  might  not  have  the  opportunity  again  for 
many  years  to  come ;  she  got  up  and  bore  her  testimony  on  the  very  last 
day.  She  was  born  in  Lorainne,  by  the  way.  She  said,  "Brothers  and 
sisters,  I  can't  do  it.  My  heart  is  full  of  hate.  I  can't  stand  them,"  and 
she  refused  to  partake  of  the  sacrament.  Now,  I  would  that  we  could 
look  at  ourselves  with  the  same  attitude  that  this  sister  had  before  we 
partake  of  the  sacrament. 


88  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,   April  5  Second  Day 

Conditions  in  Europe 

Brethren,  let  me  plead  with  you  not  to  take  anything  for  granted, 
even  the  food  that  is  on  your  table.  If  I  could  only  write  to  my  parents 
in  Switzerland  or  to  my  wife's  parents  in  Belgium  and  tell  them  that 
we  are  rationed,  as  far  as  canned  goods  are  concerned  but  that  we  can 
have  plenty  of  fresh  fruits  and  fresh  vegetables  and  plenty  of  potatoes, 
they  would  think  it  was  a  joke.  They  would  say,  "What  kind  of  ration- 
ing is  that?"  I  can't  help  thinking  every  time  I  spread  a  little  butter  on 
my  bread  that  I  stood  hours  at  a  time  to  get  four  ounces  of  it  in  Paris. 

Brethren,  do  you  appreciate  what  America  means  to  you?  You 
have  heard  a  lot  about  men  offering  their  all  for  the  cause  of  Democracy 
and  Liberty;  and  yet,  last  Fall,  in  September,  only  fifteen  percent  of 
the  electorate  chose  to  cast  their  ballots  at  the  primaries  in  this  city. 
Sometimes  it  is  easier  to  die  for  a  good  cause  than  it  is  to  live  for  it. 

You  are  chosen  as  members  of  your  family  to  come  and  inhabit 
this  land  of  Zion.  I  often  say  to  myself,  "Why  was  it  I  instead  of  my 
brother  or  sister,  or  someone  else  in  my  family,  that  was  chosen  to  come 
to  Zion?  I  have  brothers  over  in  Europe  and  they  are  just  as  faithful  in 
the  Church,  possibly  more  so  than  I  am.  Why  was  it  I  ?  Why  is  it 
you  of  your  ancestors'  families  that  has  been  chosen  to  come  to  Zion  ? 

Promised  Blessings  Realized 

Also,  before  closing,  I  want  to  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I  know 
that  the  power  of  God  is  with  this  Church,  and  I  believe  in  revelation. 
Before  I  went  on  my  mission  I  was  set  apart  by  Brother  Joseph  F.  Mer- 
rill and  he  said,  "We  seal  him  against  the  power  of  the  destroyer,  he  and 
all  his  substance."  Having  heard  that  same  blessing  pronounced  upon 
other  missionaries  I  thought,  "Well  it's  just  like  a  cliche,  or  probably, 
a  routine  expression."  Yet  I  want  to  testify  to  you  that  I  have  seen  those 
very  words  fulfilled  to  the  very  letter  in  France  where  all  about  us  were 
suffering  from  the  loss  of  a  parent  or  some  property  or  personal  property, 
but  we  alone  stood  there  and  hadn't  suffered  either  in  body  or  mind  or  in 
our  possessions,  so  much  so  that  we  almost  felt  ashamed  to  stand  there 
comparatively  happy  while  we  witnessed  so  much  suffering  about  us. 

Church  Authorities  Inspired 

I  want  to  witness  to  you  also  that  revelation  is  in  this  Church.  Just 
as  a  matter  of  record  I  want  to  say  that  the  Authorities  of  the  Church 
were  inspired  when  they  took  the  missionaries  out  of  Europe  at  the 
time  they  did.  When  they  were  first  called  home  there  was  a  lot  of  con- 
tention and  discussion  as  to  the  wisdom  of  it.  When  I  came  home  my 
fare  cost  three  times  as  much  as  it  would  have  cost  when  the  elders  were 
taken  out, "..and  it  was  only  because  of  my  knowledge  of  the  language 
and  also  of  German  that  I  was  able  to  get  away  as  nicely  as  I  did.  It  is  my 
testimony  that  the  power  of  God  is  with  this  Church,  and  I  hope  that  we 
may  all  sense  our  responsibility  and  our  privilege,  and  render  thanks 
unto  the  Lord,  for  the  Lord  is  displeased  with  us  when  we  fail  to  show 
appreciation  for  his  blessings.    God  bless  you.  Amen. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  89 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  trust  that  I  may  have  the  benefit  of  your  faith  and  prayers,  that 
I  may  be  led  to  say  something  that  will  be  helpful,  for  I  realize  that  the 
time  is  very  precious  when  as  many  men  are  assembled  as  are  here  tonight. 

There  are  thousands  of  things  that  might  be  talked  about,  but  if  I 
am  blessed  by  our  Heavenly  Father  the  few  things  I  may  speak  about 
will  be  those  that  are  given  to  me  while  I  stand  upon  my  feet. 

The  Seriousness  of  War 

The  world  is  in  a  terrible  condition.  The  references  that  have  been 
made  tonight  and  during  this  conference  to  the  fact  that  many  of  our 
young  men  are  away,  some  of  whom  may  never  come  back,  and  some 
of  our  young  women,  too,  naturally  stirs  in  us  a  feeling  that  we  want  to 
do  our  best — not  only  that  we  determine  that  we  will,  but  that  we  have 
the  strength  to  do  it.  About  a  month  ago  we  checked  on  my  relatives  in 
the  Smith  family,  and  there  were  more  than  seventy  that  were  already 
enlisted,  and  since  that  time  there  are  quite  a  number  of  others  that 
have  gone.  We  have  been  told  here  that  we  have  approximately  twenty- 
five  thousand  members  of  the  Church  that  are  now  at  the  front  or  are 
preparing  to  go.  This  is  serious  for  us,  and  while  the  papers  are  full  of 
the  successes  of  the  allied  forces,  and  we  are  told  of  the  powerful  guns 
and  bombs  that  are  being  utilized  against  those  who  are  opposing  us, 
the  fact  remains  that  we  are  involved  in  a  terrible  struggle  and  that  the 
implements  of  war  on  the  other  side  may  be  equally  powerful  and 
equally  effective  against  us.  I  do  not  fee)  the  assurance  that  some  have 
due  to  our  physical  strength  when  I  realize  that  only  one-third  of  the 
people  of  the  world  are  likely  to  be  on  our  side  because  of  being  Christians 
or  believing  in  the  divine  mission  of  Jesus  Christ.  Two-thirds  of  the 
world  have  never  accepted  Christianity,  and  it  wouldn't  take  very  much 
to  swing  nations  that  are  now  quiescent,  if  I  may  use  that  word,  to  the 
side  of  those  who  are  seeking  to  destroy  the  liberty  that  mankind  is 
enjoying. 

Faith  of  Lamanite  Youths 

I  am  thinking  of  the  experience  of  the  Nephites,  when  they  were 
having  their  perilous  troubles,  and  how  just  two  thousand  and  sixty 
boys,  striplings  as  Helaman  called  them,  were  brought  face  to  face 
with  men  of  experience  and  training  in  warfare,  and  they  went  forward 
without  any  question,  and  when  they  were  gathered  from  the  battlefield, 
everyone  of  them  having  been  wounded,  after  a  series  of  battles,  two 
hundred  of  them  having  fainted  from  the  loss  of  blood,  not  one  had  lost 
his  life.  When  the  question  was  asked,  "How  could  you  do  it?  How 
could  you  have  the  faith?"  those  boys,  like  the  ones  that  are  going  out 
now,  no  doubt,  eighteen  years  and  a  little  older,  smilingly  remarked, 
"We  knew,  our  mothers  knew."    (See  Alma  57:19-22.) 

I  think  that  is  one  of  the  greatest  tributes  that  has  ever  been  paid  to 


90  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,    April  5  Second  Day 

motherhood — that  in  circumstances  such  as  they  were  experiencing, 
when  they  were  surrounded  by  enemies,  they  could  train  their  children 
to  have  that  faith  in  God  that  would  carry  them  through  and  would  bring 
them  home  without  losing  their  lives. 

I  have  been  asking  myself  the  question,  "Have  the  mothers  of  Israel 
been  preparing  their  sons?"  Have  they  been  teaching  these  boys  that 
must  represent  us  on  the  battlefield,  that  they  too,  can  be  preserved ;  that 
God  will  take  care  of  them  if  they  are  in  the  line  of  their  duty,  and  I  want 
to  say  that  if  our  mothers  have,  the  fathers  have  much  to  be  grateful 
for,  because  some  fathers  do  not  take  much  time  to  teach  these  children 
things  like  that  in  these  days. 

Duty  to  Mothers  and  Wives 

Tonight  as  I  look  at  this  great  audience  of  men,  more  than  5,000, 
I  realize  the  strength  of  the  holy  Priesthood;  knowing  that  we  are  the 
representatives  of  divinity  and  that  the  men  in  this  room  have  the  power 
that  comes  from  God  to  represent  Him  upon  the  earth.  I  know  that,  and 
at  the  same  time  I  realize  that  there  is  a  force  in  the  Latter-day  Saint 
homes  where  our  wives  and  mothers  and  daughters  are,  and  when  it 
comes  to  faith  in  God  and  prayer  it  is  equal  to  anything  that  the  men 
may  be  able  to  muster.  I  fear  that  sometimes  we  neglect  them.  I  wonder 
tonight  if  the  men  who  are  here,  who  have  come  to  this  great  conference 
to  worship  God,  who  are  here  to  be  instructed  under  the  influence  of  the 
spirit  of  the  Lord — have  left  homes,  left  households  in  which  there  is 
a  family  of  children  besides  the  wife.  I  am  asking  myself  the  question, 
"How  many  of  you  who  are  here  tonight,  before  you  came  here  to  wait 
upon  the  Lord,  put  your  arms  around  the  woman  who  stood  by  your 
side,  the  mother  of  your  children,  and  told  her  that  you  were  grateful 
that  she  would  keep  the  home-fires  burning  when  you  couldn't  be  there?" 
I  wonder  if  we  appreciate  the  daughters  of  God  as  He  appreciates  them. 
Do  we  treasure  their  virtues  and  their  faith  and  their  devotion  and  their 
motherhood  as  our  Heavenly  Father  does  ? 

Recorded  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  the  statement  that  He  took  a 
whole  race  of  men  to  task  because  the  hearts  of  their  wives  were  broken 
by  their  carelessness,  and  their  children  who  had  grown  up  in  their  homes 
had  lost  confidence  in  them.  These  were  the  men  of  the  Church  that  I 
am  talking  about,  and  the  Lord  reproved  them  and  gave  them  to  under- 
stand that  unless  they  repented  of  their  carelessness  they  need  not  hope 
for  His  blessings.  So  I  want  to  say  to  this  group  of  Priesthood  tonight, 
praying  is  one  thing  and  prayers  are  important,  but  living  is  the  thing 
that  will  bring  us  power  with  our  Heavenly  Father.  Living  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  will  give  us  influence  with  our  fellows  among  the  children 
of  men.  Keeping  the  commandments  of  God  will  give  us  strength  and 
assurance  that  not  anything  else  can  give  us. 

I  am  glad  that  so  many  of  the  brethren  can  come  to  this  conference, 
and  I  hope  that  when  we  go  home  from  the  meetings  that  are  being  held 
here,  that  each  of  us  returning  to  the  home  that  is  so  precious  to  us,  and 
is  all  that  many  of  us  possess,  that  we  will  do  so  determined  that  with 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  91 

the  help  of  the  Lord  we  will  honor  His  daughters.  We  will  treasure 
their  love ;  we  will  be  true  to  them  and  help  them  to  do  the  things  thai 
they  have  to  do  when  fathers  and  husbands  and  brothers  are  away. 

I  think  that  tonight  there  are  no  people  in  all  the  world  who  have 
such  reason  to  be  grateful  as  we.  Realizing  our  privileges  and  opportu- 
nities I  am  thankful  for  my  own  experience,  raised  in  a  Latter-day  Saint 
home ;  taught  to  pray  at  my  mother's  knee.  My  father  spent  years  in  the 
mission  field ;  my  mother  eleven  times  offered  her  life  to  bring  us  into 
the  world,  and  she  gave  her  life  day  by  day  to  train  us  that  we  might 
be  real  Latter-day  Saints.  And  that's  only  one  family.  I  am  thinking 
of  all  these  families  that  we  represent — thinking  of  your  parents  and 
grandparents  who  came  out  of  the  world  for  the  gospel's  sake,  who  were 
willing  to;  give  all  that  they  possessed  that  you  and  your  :  children  and 
your  children's  children  might  not  be  betrayed  by  the  cunning  craftiness 
of  the  adversary,  to  turn  away  from  righteousness  and  partake  of  the 
things  that  our  Heavenly  Father  has  forbidden  us  to  touch. 

Commendation-  for  Tabernacle  Broadcast 

These  are  some  of  the  thoughts  that  have  been  going  through  my 
mind  during  this  great  conference  as  I  sat  here  upon  the  stand  and  listened 
to  the  voices  of  these  servants  of  the  Lord  who  have  been  commissioned 
divinely  by  God  to  represent  Him  and  who  have  been  teaching  us  and 
feeding  us  the  bread  of  life  while  we  have  listened  to  their  words.  I  am 
grateful  for  the  great  Tabernacle  organ  and  choir  that  broadcast  from 
this  building  each  Sabbath  day.  For  years  they  have  been  delighting  the 
world  with  hymns  of  praise  that  our  Heavenly  Father  has  blessed  us  to 
enjoy,  and  along  with  it  have  gone  sermonettes  that  have  touched  many 
hearts.  I  have  had  many  people  ask  who  is  that  man  who  makes  the  an- 
nouncements at  the  Tabernacle  broadcast  ?  And  I  suppose  Brother  Evans 
has  received  hundreds  of  letters  of  commendation  for  his  contribution. 
What  he  says  is  brief,  but  it  is  what  he  thinks  the  Lord  would  have  His 
servant  speak  on  His  holy  day.     v 

Righteousness  Gives  Strength 

Now,  brethren,  we  will  soon  be  away  from  here.  You  will  go  to 
your  field  of  labor  and  I  to  mine.  We  will  mingle  with  the  Latter-day 
Saints  and  with  those  who  are  not  members  of  the  Church,  and  I  say 
to  you  that,  if  we  would  have  influence  with  those  that  we  are  going  to 
see  when  we  leave  here,  we  must  have  the  power  of  God  to  witness  unto 
them  that  we  are  what  we  pretend  to  be.  Being  a  member  of  the  Church 
and  holding  the  Priesthood  will  not  get  us  anywhere  unless  we  are 
worthy.  The  Lord  has  said  that  every  blessing  that  we  desire  is 
predicated  upon  obedience  to  His  commandments.  We  may  deceive  our 
neighbors,  and  we  may  deceive  ourselves  with  the  idea  that  we  are.  going 
through  all  right,  but  unless  we  keep  the  commandments  of  our  Heavenly 
Father,  unless  we  bear  worthily  this  holy  Priesthood  that  is  so  precious, 
we  will  not  find  our  place  in  the  celestial  kingdom — we  will  not  find  our 
association  and  companionship  with  the  wives  and  daughters  who  have 


92  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,   April  5  Second  Day 

not  had  the  Priesthood,  but  who  have  measured  up  and  have  kept  the 
commandments  of  God  and  lived  righteous  lives. 

There  are  many  men  in  this  Church  who  have  no  male  representa- 
tives. Our  beloved  president  who  sits  here  tonight  has  no  sons,  but 
God  has  blessed  him  with  wonderful  wives  and  daughters,  and  they  have 
honored  him  and  have  held  up  his  hands  and  supported  him  and  sustained 
him.  Other  men  on  this  stand  have  been  blessed  with  large  families  who 
have  joy  in  doing  the  things  that  the  Lord  wishes  them  to  do  and  bring 
honor  and  credit  to  the  Church  with  which  they  are  identified.  They 
are  your  brothers  and  sisters  and  mine.  How  grateful  we  ought  to  be 
that  our  lot  has  been  cast  under  such  favorable  conditions.  It  doesn't 
make  any  difference  how  strong  our  armies,  if  we  are  outnumbered  by  those 
who  do  not  believe  in  God.  It  doesn't  make  any  difference  how  powerful 
the  engines  of  destruction  we  prepare,  they  might  be  destroyed  by  that 
which  may  be  brought  against  us  by  the  enemy,  but  if  we  have  the  con- 
fidence of  our  Heavenly  Father,  if  we  have  His  love,  if  we  are  worthy 
of  His  blessings,  all  the  armies  of  the  world  cannot  destroy  us,  cannot 
break  down  our  faith,  and  cannot  overcome  the  Church  that  is  named 
for  the  Son  of  God. 

Read  in  the  nineteenth  chapter  of  II  Kings  how  Sennacherib  the 
Assyrian  king  sought  to  overthrow  Jerusalem.  Hezekiah,  the  king  who 
represented  Israel  pleaded  with  the  Lord  for  deliverance  while  Senna- 
cherib mocked  him,  saying,  "Don't  think  that  your  prayers  to  your  God 
can  help  you.  Every  place  that  I  have  been  and  taken  already,  they  have 
been  praying.  You  are  helpless,"  and  the  next  morning  a  large  part  of 
the  Assyrian  army  was  found  dead  upon  the  ground,  and  Jerusalem  had 
been  preserved  by  the  Lord.  He  is  our  strength,  brethren,  your  Father 
and  mine,  the  Father  of  all ;  if  we  will  only  be  worthy  He  will  preserve 
us  as  He  did  Helaman's  sons,  and  as  He  preserved  Daniel  from  the 
lions,  and  the  three  Hebrew  children  from  the  fiery  furnace,  and  six 
hundred  thousand  of  the  descendants  of  Abraham  when  he  brought  them 
out  from  Egypt  under  the  leadership  of  Moses  and  drowned  Pharaoh's 
army  in  the  Red  Sea.  He  is  the  God  of  this  universe.  He  is  the  Father 
of  us  all.  He  is  all-powerful  and  He  promises  us  protection  if  we  will 
live  worthy  of  it.  Let  me  read  you  a  paragraph  of  the  very  first  section 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  wherein  He  says : 

For  I  am  no  respecter  of  persons,  and  will  that  all  men  shall  know  that 
the  day  speedily  cometh ;  the  hour  is  not  yet,  but  is  nigh  at  hand,  when 
peace  shall  be  taken  from  the  earth,  and  the  devil  shall  have  power  over  his 
own  dominion. 

What  a  pitiable  thing  it  would  be  if  that  ended  there,  for  we  can 
see  the  power  of  the  adversary  in  the  world  and  the  destruction  that  is 
being  wrought  by  those  who  are  his  emissaries ;  but,  continuing,  the  Lord 
says  : 

And  also  the  Lord  shall  have  power  over  his  saints,  and  shall  reign  in 
their  midst,  and  shall  come  down  in  judgment  upon  .  .  .  the  world. 

What  a  promise,  but  it  is  all  conditioned  upon  our  righteousness, 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  93 

not  on  anything  else,  not  upon  our  wealth  nor  our  strength  in  numbers, 
not  upon  our  isolation  from  the  world,  but  upon  our  righteousness. 

A  Testimony  of  God's  Blessings 

In  conclusion,  I  want  to  bear  my  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren. 
First  I  thank  the  hundreds  of  you  who  have  made  it  possible  for  me  to 
carry  on  as  I  have,  while  standing  at  the  side  of  my  associates  in  the 
leadership  of  the  Church  to  encourage  our  people  and  their  neighbors 
to  keep  the  commandments  of  God,  and  tonight,  when  I  think  of  the 
condition  of  the  world  and  realize  that  the  only  place  where  there  is  any 
semblance  of  peace  is  the  land  that  we  live  in,  and  with  the  promise  of 
God  that  He  will  be  with — not  the  members  of  the  Church,  I  don't 
interpret  it  that  way ;  not  the  men  who  hold  the  Priesthood  necessarily, 
I  don't  interpret  it  that  way — He  will  be  with  His  Saints  who  are  worthy 
to  be  called  Saints,  and  His  power  and  protection  will  be  over  them  until 
their  life's  labors  are  completed.  I  know  that  God  lives.  I  know  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the 
living  God  as  I  know  that  I  live.  I  know  that  the  Priesthood  that  is  held 
by  you  brethren  is  divine ;  that  you  are  representatives  of  Deity  and  that 
if  your  lives  conform  to  the  desires  of  our  Heavenly  Father  concerning 
His  Priesthood,  all  power  in  heaven  and  earth  cannot  prevent  you  from 
gaining  the  blessings  that  God  has  said  He  would  bestow  upon  those  who 
keep  His  commandments.  Let  us  love  one  another.  Things  have  been 
said  here  about  kindness  during  this  conference.  If  there  ever  was  a  time 
when  we  needed  to  be  kind,  it  is  now.  If  there  ever  was  a  time  when  we 
needed  to  be  patient,  it  is  now,  and  if  we  would  keep  one  of  the  command- 
ments of  God  that  He  said  was  second  to  the  greatest,  we  will  love  our 
neighbors  as  ourselves.  When  we  do  that,  they  will  not  be  made  sorrowful 
because  of  any  conduct  of  ours.  I  am  thankful  to  you  for  your  companion- 
ship. I  thank  my  brethren  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  with 
whom  I  am  so  closely  associated,  for  their  kindness  to  me.  I  thank  our 
beloved  President,  who,  in  his  advancing  years,  continues  to  encourage 
us  to  be  faithful  and  bear  witness  of  his  knowledge  that  God  lives,  that 
Jesus  is  our  Savior  and  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  raised  up  by  the 
Lord.  You  have  heard  these  testimonies  many  times  and  the  testimonies 
of  others  who  are  here.  You  have  heard  the  testimonies  of  those  that 
have  already  gone  to  their  reward.  These  are  true  my  brethren.  These 
testimonies  are  not  idly  spoken  or  carelessly  given.    They  are  the  truth. 

Knowing  that  in  the  not-far-distant  future  the  man  who  is  talking 
to  you  now  will  have  to  stand  before  God  and  answer  for  the  deeds  done 
in  the  body  and  the  words  spoken  here,  knowing  that,  and  realizing  the 
seriousness  of  misinterpreting  or  misrepresentation,  with  joy  and  gladness 
and  with  love  I  bear  you  my  testimony,  that  the  Gospel  as  taught  by  the 
Latter-day  Saints  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  This  is  my 
witness  and  I  bear  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord.    Amen. 


The  Men's  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  "Jesus,  Lover  of 
My  Soul." 


94  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,    April  5  Second   Day 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

When  we  listen  to  such  harmony  as  that  to  which  you  have  just 
been  listening  we  can  understand  why  the  Lord  sent  with  the  angel  the 
heavenly  host,  "praising  God  and  saying,  Glory  to  God  in  the  Highest, 
and  on  earth  peace,  good-will  towards  men." 

May  I  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  these  brethren  not  only  for 
their  presence  and  inspirational  singing  tonight,  but  for  their  former 
service  during  this  conference. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brethren :  I  believe  perhaps  I  have  never  had  a  more  trying  time 
than  that  which  confronts  me  now.  We  have  been  hearing  about  the 
war,  its  purposes,  and  our  part  therein.  I  have  the  misfortune  of  re- 
membering a  little  history;  the  most  of  my  mature  life  has  been  spent 
dealing  with  the  relationships  of  nations.  I  wish  the  picture  were  as  clear 
and  certain  to  me  as  it  has  been  drawn,  either  as  to  its  issues  or  its  outcome. 

I  am  not  going  to  preach  a  sermon  tonight,  brethren.  There  are 
some  things  that  I  thought  it  might  be  well  to  run  over  with  you.  They 
deal  largely  with  our  temporal  affairs,  though  not  wholly  so.  I  come  to 
you  in  deep  humility.    I  do  not  think  I  ever  felt  weaker. 

Helps  for  Men  in  the  Service 

We  have  over  on  State  Street,  as  all  you  presidents  of  stakes  and  you 
bishops  know,  a  missionary  home,  or  a  home  for  the  L.D.S.  service  men. 
We  have  housed  therein  a  committee  which  is  trying  to  act  as  a  liaison 
group  between  the  soldiers  and  you  brethren.  I  want  to  speak  briefly 
about  the  work  of  that  committee  and  ask  your  further  help. 

Before  doing  that,  I  should  like  to  get  a  few  facts.  Will  all  those 
who  saw  service  in  the  uniform  of  their  country  during  World  War  No. 
I  stand  on  their  feet.    (Several  hundred  arose.) 

Thank  you,  brethren.  If  I  might  say  so,  I  also  was  then  in  the 
service. 

I  would  like  all  those  who  have  sons  now  in  the  army  to  stand  on 
their  feet.  (As  many  as  a  third  of  the  audience  arose.)  Please  remain 
standing.  I  should  like  to  add  to  that  number  all  those  who  have  grand- 
sons in  the  service,  and  add  to  that  all  those  who  have  sons  or  grandsons 
who  are  subject  to  be  called  into  service.  Will  you  all  stand,  please. 
(About  two-thirds  or  three-fourths  of  the  audience  came  to  their  feet.) 

Thank  you,  brethren. 

President  Grant  has  now  in  the  service,  or  due  for  induction  into  the 
service,  including  his  grandsons-in-law,  eighteen  men. 

This  war  business  is  going  to  be  felt  very  keenly  by  us. 

Away  back  in  October  we  sent  out  word  to  the  presidents  of  stakes 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  95 

telling  them  that  we  were  going  to  print  some  literature  to  be  distributed 
to  the  boys.  We  have  had  printed  the  Book  of  Mormon,  this  is  one  of 
them  (holding  it  up  to  view),  which  they  can  carry  here  in  their  breast 
pockets.  We  have  also  had  printed  a  little  book  we  call  Principles  of  the 
Gospel,  that  is  founded  on  the  Compendium.  It  will  not  be  quite  so  large 
as  this  Book  of  Mormon.  We  have  printed  enough  so  that  they  can  be 
distributed  to  every  one  of  our  boys  who  is  in  the  service. 

We  asked  each  of  you  presidents  of  stakes  to  send  in  the  names 
and  addresses  of  the  men  in  the  service  from  your  stakes,  securing  the 
same  from  the  parents,  through  the  bishops.  That  was  in  October.  Ten 
stakes  have  not  even  acknowledged  the  receipt  of  the  instructions.  We 
have  no  word  from  them.  All  told,  239  wards  and  42  branches  have  made 
no  return  whatever.  The  returns  that  have  been  made  have  been,  fre- 
quently, so  imperfectly  made  out  that  it  is  almost  impossible  to  work  out 
just  what  the  names  are,  but  more  particularly  just  what  the  addresses 
are.  Now,  we  are  going  to  send  to  you  brethren,  you  presidents  of  stakes, 
as  many  copies  of  this  Book  of  Mormon  and  of  the  Principles  of  the 
Gospel  as  you  have  indicated  you  have  boys  in  the  service  from  your 
stakes. 

We  are  going  to  ask  you  to  see  that  they  are  mailed  out  to  those  boys 
to  those  addresses.  We  shall  probably  send  along  a  form  and  ask  you  to 
write  out  a  new  statement  regarding  the  boys,  showing  their  addresses, 
their  names,  and  so  on.  It  is  very  difficult  for  those  who  are  compiling 
these  names  to  be  sure  that  you  have  correctly  stated  the  facts  about 
them ;  the  difference  between  "sen,"  and  "son,"  is  not  always  observed, 
and  other  like  inaccuracies  are  there. 

Now  we  have  also  prepared  a  directory,  giving  the  locations  of  all 
of  our  chapels  and  churches  throughout  the  United  States,  in  England, 
and  in  Australia.  We  would  like  you  presidents  of  stakes  to  call  at  the 
L.D.S.  Home  for  Service  Men,  41  North  State  Street,  just  above  Eagle 
Gate,  before  you  go  home,  and  get  enough  copies  of  those  directories  so 
that  you  can  give  one  to  each  of  your  boys  in  the  service,  and  we  ask  you 
to  distribute  them  through  the  bishops,  so  that  the  bishops  can  give  one 
to  each  parent  who  has  a  son  in  the  service. 

When  you  send  us  these  names,  we  send  them  out  to  the  mission 
fields,  and  out  in  the  mission  fields  where  the  camps  are  located,  the  mission 
presidents  have  districted  the  areas,  to  aid  them  in  getting  in  touch  with 
your  boys.  The  directory  will  help  the  boys  to  get  in  touch  with  their 
Church. 

Brethren,  I  do  not  believe  it  is  necessary,  after  what  has  been  said 
tonight,  to  urge  upon  you  the  importance  of  sending  us  these  names,  to 
urge  upon  you  the  importance  of  seeing  that  every  boy — your  boy  and 
everybody's  else — has  a  copy  of  these  books.  They  will  need  all  they 
can  get  from  these  books,  to  help  them  live  righteously. 

We  have  all  sorts  of  letters  from  the  boys  in  the  fields  telling  us  of 
the  work  which  they  are  doing.  We  have  asked  them  to  organize  them- 
selves into  Mutual  Improvement  groups,  and  carry  on  their  religious 
activities.    We  have  had  two  or  three  letters  from  a  boy  in  North  Africa 


96  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,   April   5  Second  Day 

— that  is  all  we  know  about  him  as  to  his  location — but  he  tells  us  that  they 
hold  sacrament  meetings,  administer  the  sacrament,  that  they  preach, 
that  they  try  to  sustain  one  another,  build  up  the  faith  the  one  of  the  other. 

Now,  brethren,  please  pay  attention  to  this.  Get  your  directories 
before  you  go  home.  We  will  send  you  copies  of  the  books  with  in- 
structions. Then  will  you  please  send  back  to  us  the  new  lists  corrected, 
so  that  we  can  forward  them  to  the  missions. 

Send  out  your  books  to  your  boys ;  give  them  all  the  help  that  you 
can,  and  that  act  plus  your  letters  and  your  prayers,  will  be  about  all  you 
can  do. 

Tithing 

Now  I  want  to  thank  the  brethren  of  the  Church,  for  their  response 
in  the  matter  of  tithing.  Brother  Grant  thanked  you  in  his  opening  mes- 
sage. I  would  like  to  tell  you  two  or  three  facts  about  tithing.  One  is 
that  95^  percent  of  all  the  tithepayers  in  the  Church  pay  less  than  $200 
per  person,  which  is  67  percent  of  the  total  tithing.  Thus  the  tithing  is 
paid  by  the  moderately  circumstanced  and  poor  of  the  Church.  And 
while  unnecessary,  I  can  add  to  the  assurance  given  you  by  President 
Grant,  that  he  regards  these  funds  as  trust  funds  of  the  highest  character, 
that  he  is  authorizing  their  expenditure  for  nothing  but  Church  purposes, 
and  while  at  the  moment  we  seem  to  have  plenty  of  money,  we  are  trying 
to  guard  it  as  carefully  as  we  know  how,  because  it  is  expected  that  the 
time  will  come  when  we  shall  have  use  for  it,  if  it  shall  then  be  worth 
anything. 

Brother  Marion  G.  Romney  read  to  us  yesterday  from  some  of  the 
early  instructions  sent  out  by  the  First  Presidency  covering  the  question 
of  so-called  pensions,  doles,  or  gratuities.  You  remember  on  one  occasion 
the  Savior  talked  about  the  duty  running  between  parents  and  children, 
and  based  it  upon  that  statement  in  the  Decalogue,  "Honor  thy  father  and 
thy  mother."  It  would  be  a  grievous  thing,  brethren,  if  any  of  you,  or 
if  any  of  us,  were  to  cast  off  our  parents  on  the  State. 

The  Church  is  prepared,  with  your  help  and  assistance,  to  take  care 
of  those  who  need  such  assistance,  and  if  any  of  the  Saints  have  cast  their 
parents  off,  see  if  you  can  not  get  them  to  take  them  back  and  administer 
to  their  wants  themselves,  and  if  they  need  help  in  this,  let  them  go  to  the 
bishop  and  get  it  in  the  right  way. 

Think  of  it,  brethren,  casting  off  the  mother  that  bore  and  nursed  you, 
the  father  that  begot  you,  letting  the  State  care  for  them — and  there  are 
such  cases. 

If  we  shall  hold  ourselves  together,  if  we  shall  work  shoulder  to 
shoulder,  if  we  shall  rise  to  the  dignity  of  our  Priesthood,  and  assume  the 
obligations  which  God  has  given  to  us,  we  will  care  for  our  own ;  and  we 
can  do  it.  Do  not  be  lulled  to  sleep  by  any  such  false  religious,  or  govern- 
mental, or  social  slogan  as  that  the  State  owes  to  every  man  a  subsistence. 
■  "In  the  sweat  of  thy  face  shalt  thou  eat  bread"  (Gen.  3 :19). 

Welfare  Fundamentals 
Now  about  the  Welfare.    We  have  always  regarded  the  Welfare 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  97 

as  being  set  up  for  the  needy ;  and  when  we  have  spoken  of  the  needy  we 
have  thought  of  those  who  did  not  have  enough  to  eat  or  to  wear ;  but 
there  is  a  new  group  of  needy  coming  now — those  who  will  need  help  to 
carry  on  their  work — whether  they  be  farmers  or  merchants,  or  indus- 
trialists. In  the  good  old  days  when  I  was  a  boy  we  used  to  change  work. 
You  men  out  in  the  country  know  all  about  that,  and  those  who  are  as 
gray  as  I  am  have  been  through  it.  , 

Brethren,  the  man  who  has  a  crop  that  needs  harvesting  is  just  as 
much  in  need  as  anyone  else.  See  to  it  that  your  Priesthood  quorums 
are  so  organized  that  that  need  may  be  cared  for,  and  do  not  push  off 
this  work  upon  the  Chamber  of  Commerce.    It  is  your  responsibility. 

For  several  years  we  have  been  talking  about  Welfare  gardens. 
Remember,  we  began  that  some  time  ago,  long  before  Victory  gardens 
were  thought  of,  and  we  urged  you  that  if  you  could  not  get  a  garden  spot 
for  yourself,  that  you  get  together  in  groups,  that  you  raise  what  you 
needed,  and  having  raised  it,  that  you  then  "process"  it,  as  it  is  now 
called.  Now,  with  all  the  earnestness  that  I  possess,  I  urge  this  course 
upon  you  again.  I  do  not  know  how  serious  this  food  shortage  is,  but 
I  do  know  this :  We  cannot  feed  the  world,  feed  ourselves,  fight  the 
world,  and  furnish  arms  and  ammunition  for  the  world,  and  still  live. 
I  know  what  the  situation  is  around  here,  because  I  am  in  a  position  where 
I  have  to  know. 

I  want  to  say  something  more :  Up  to  this  time  your  home-processed 
foods  have  not  been  touched.  You  have  not  had  to  count  them.  Of 
course  in  principle  it  is  a  little  difficult  to  see  the  difference,  on  the  one , 
hand,  between  the  man  who,  foreseeing  and  trying  to  forestall  a  future 
shortage,  went  out  into  the  market  a  year  or  two  or  three  years  ago  and 
bought  and  stored  foodstuffs,  and,  on  the  other  hand,  the  man  who  for  the 
same  purposes  went  out  and  raised  his  food  and  then  did  his  own  pro- 
cessing. If  they  can  ration  what  is  yours  that  you  bought,  by  the  same 
token  they  can  ration  what  is  yours  that  you  raise.  Now,  you  might  have 
that  in  mind,  too.  Your  own  processed  foods  will  probably  be  the  last 
thing  that  will  be  touched,  but  you  had  better  have  it  in  mind  that  it  may 
be  rationed  if  not  actually  taken. 

However,  I  can  see  no  other  wise  course  but  to  raise  all  that  you  can. 
Waste  nothing.  Try  to  help  others  who  cannot  raise  their  own.  Process 
enough  to  keep  your  family,  and  then  if  you  have  to  surrender  it,  you 
have  done  your  part,  and  the  judgment  and  responsibility  for  the  result 
will  rest  upon  somebody  else. 

I  would  like  to  say  something  about  another  point.  Ever  since  the 
Welfare  Plan  began,  we  have  been  urged  to  try  to  do  a  great  number  of 
things.  Times  such  as  these  make  men  prolific  in  theories ;  they  are  filled 
with  wild  ideas.  One  of  the  most  difficult  things  that  we  have  had  to  do 
is  to  stick  to  our  knitting,  to  see  that  we  did  not  get  off  into  lines  of  activity 
which  we  could  not  successfully  carry  on,  be:ause  the  Church — do  not 
forget  this,  brethren — the  Church  must  not  f nil ! 

Some  of  the  brethren  are  anxious  to  bqrin  cooperatives.  We  are 
quite  willing  that  they  shall  go  forward  in  any  plan  of  that  kind  that  they 


98  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

Monday,    April   5  Second  Day 

themselves  determine,  but  we  ask  you  to  remember  that  it  takes  a  merchant 
to  run  a  cooperative ;  just  anybody  cannot  do  it.  It  involves  great  and 
difficult  problems  in  credit — credit  to  friends  and  credit  to  neighbors,  who 
may  be  good  or  bad  risks.  But  go  ahead  with  your  cooperatives  if  you 
wish,  if  you  feel  you  are  set  up  for  it.  But  please  remember  cooperatives 
are  not  part  of  the  Welfare  Plan.  That  plan  has  to  do  with  the  caring 
for  the  wants  of  those  who  are  in  need  and  distress,  not  in  saving  money 
or  making  money  for  groups. 

I  would  like  you  to  give  most  careful  consideration  to  these  things 
which  I  have  named.  There  are  one,  or  two  other  points  that  I  want  to 
mention. 

Social  Problems 

From  the  foundation  of  this  Church,  almost,  we  have-regarded  mar- 
riage as  one  of  the  holiest  relationships  into  which  we  enter,  marriage  for 
time  and  eternity,  a  home  here  and  a  home  hereafter.  Now,  you  can 
only  be  married  that  way  in  the  temple,  and  only  those  who  are  worthy 
members  of  the  Church  may  go  into  the  temple.  No  one  else  enters  there. 
The  rite  is  performed  for  no  one  else  but  worthy  members. 

Long  experience  has  shown  that  marriages  between  our  young  people 
and  young  people  not  members  of  the  Church  do  not,  as  a  rule,  work  out 
happily.  In  the  great  bulk  of  cases,  the  opposite  is  the  result.  These 
mixed  marriages  cannot  be  performed  in  the  temple. 

Furthermore,  we  stand  for  a  single  standard  of  chastity  for  boys 
and  the  girls.    We  look  upon  unchastity  as  a  sin  next  to  murder. 

For  these  reasons  we  have  from  the  very  beginning  discouraged  in- 
discriminate social  minglings  between  our  young  people  and  young  people 
who,  as  we  have  coined  the  phrase,  "are  not  of  us." 

We  are  now  called  to  sacrifice  our  sons.  I  did  not  ask  you  to  rise, 
but  I  am  sure  there  are  many  men  here  who  have  lost  sons.  I  lost  a  son- 
in-law,  as  dear  to  me  as  my  own  son.  Almost  the  first  explosion  at 
Pearl  Harbor  took  him.  But  the  point  I  wish  to  make  is  that  because 
we  have  to  sacrifice  our  sons  is  no  reason  why  we  should  sacrifice  our 
daughters. 

Every  consideration  of  faith,  principles  of  right  living,  Church 
doctrine,' and  Church  standards,  require  that  we  should  guard,  as  we 
would  guard  our  lives,  the  chastity  of  our  girls.  There  are  all  kinds  of 
influences  at  work  to  break  down  these  standards.  I  was  told  the  other 
day  that  we  have  a  new  phrase,  that  young  girls  who  smoke  and  drink 
and  may  be  doing  other  things,  talk  about  "new  Mormons"  as  dis- 
tinguished from  the  "old  Mormons."  I  wish  to  say  to  them  that  those 
who  abandon  the  standards  and  principles  of  the  Church  are  not  Mormons 
at  all. 

But  we  must  all  be  "old  Mormons."  We  are  all  a  little  bit  too  sensi- 
tive to  the  praise  of  others.  We  are  too  eager  that  people  shall  say  sweet 
things  about  us.  We  must  go  forward,  whether  people  praise  us  or  censure 
us.  We  must  guard  the  chastity  of  our  girls  no  matter  what  anyone  says 
about  it. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  99 

To  the  Young  Women  of  the  Church 

I  want  to  say  something  to  the  young  girls  ©f  the  Church,  and  as  it  is  a 
difficult  subject,  I  have  written  down  what  I  wish  to  say. 

Your  brothers,  your  sweethearts,  your  young  husbands  are  in  the 
armed  service  of  their  country.  They  went  away  with  pledges  of  devo- 
tion and  loyalty  to  you,  pledges  that  they  would  keep  themselves  sexually 
clean.  You  are  hoping,  praying,  and  expecting  that  they  will  keep  their 
pledges  to  the  letter.  You  made  counter  pledges  orally  or  in  your  hearts. 
You  expect  them  to  keep  their  pledges:  they  expect  you  to  keep  yours. 
Either  violating  the  pledge,  has  no  right  to  expect  its  observance  by  the 
other. 

Furthermore,  you  young  women  and  girls,  whose  loved  ones  are  in 
the  service,  expect  them  to  keep  themselves  pure  in  mind  and  heart  as 
well  as  in  body.  You  expect  them  to  remember  that  the  Lord  said : 
"Whosoever  looketh  on  a  woman  to  lust  after  her  hath  committed 
adultery  with  her  already  in  his  heart"  (Matt.  5  :28)  ;  and  that  in  our  day 
He  has  added :  "If  any  shall  commit  adultery  in  their  hearts,  they  shall 
not  have  the  Spirit,  but  shall  deny  the  faith  and  shall  fear"  (D.  &  C.  63 : 
16).  That  they  may  be  free  from  this  sin  of  the  heart,  you  expect  them 
to  keep  wholly  clear  from  social  associations  with  bad  companions,  men 
or  women.  You  expect  them  to  forego  those  light  or  frivolous  amuse- 
ments or  recreations  that  might  lead  to  this  sin, — you  expect  this  not- 
withstanding they  are  subject  over  repeated  periods  of  time  to  the  hazard 
of  immediate  death  itself,  periods  which  give  rise  to  the  imperative  need 
for  intervals  of  relaxation  and  diversion  so  that  reason  may  retain  her 
throne  and  insanity  be  kept  off. 

All  this  you  expect  of  them. 

May  they  not  rightfully  expect  as  much  of  you?  May  they  not 
justly  expect  that  you  too  will  remain  free  from  bodily  sin  not  only,  but 
from  this  sin  of  the  heart  as  well  ?  May  they  not  expect  that  if  they  who 
are  subject  to  the  horrors  and  misery  of  war,  subject  to  the  stress  and 
strain  of  mortal  combat,  often  hand  to  hand,  that  if  they,  to  remain  pure 
and  clean,  shall  stay  in  camp  away  from  the  social  diversions  that  bring 
temptation,  that  then  you  who  are  living  in  the  peace  and  quiet  and  security 
of  home  and  parents  and  friends  will  give  up  the  frivolities  of  social  re- 
laxation in  order  that  you  may  surely  keep  yourselves  clean  and  pure  for 
them?  Surely  your  sacrifice  is  as  the  molehill  against  theirs  as  the  moun- 
tain. Putting  it  at  the  lowest  price,  just  good  sportsmanship  would  require 
this  much  of  you.    Memory  of  the  plighted  faith  would  demand  it. 

I  urge  you  young  women  and  girls  to  remember  that  in  the  schedule 
of  crimes,  unchastity  comes  next  to  murder.  Do  not  subject  yourselves 
to  its  penalty.  The  Lord  has  said :  "Blessed  are  the  pure  in  heart :  for 
they  shall  see  God"  (Matt.  5:8). 

The  Great  Paradox 

What  a  tragic  spectacle  man  is  showing  to  his  God  today.  We  have 
rightly  boasted  for  nearly  a  hundred  years  that  in  this,  the  Last  Dispensa- 
tion of  the  Fulness  of  Times,  the  Lord  was  pouring  out  His  inspiration  and 


100  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday,    April   6  Third  Day 

His  blessings  upon  all  the  world,  unlocking  to  His  children  secrets  that 
never  were  dreamed  of  by  the  ancients,  giving  them  powers  and  dominions 
over  the  forces  of  nature,  bringing  under  subjection  almost  the  universe. 
Look  at  what  the  last  century  has  given  us  in  art,  literature,  science, 
discoveries,  for  our  blessing  and  advancement.  God  gave  all  this  to  us  to 
bless  us.  And  then  consider  that  now,  in  this  terrible  hour,  every  device, 
every  invention,  every  discovery  God  gave  us  to  bless  us  is  being  used  to 
destroy  one  another  in  one  of  the  most  barbarous  wars  of  all  time.  God 
will  not  hold  guiltless  those  responsible  for  this  holocaust. 

God  give  us  strength  and  power  to  resist  evil.  You  brethren  here, 
the  governing  authority  of  the  Church,  have  almost  infinite  power  in 
your  hands,  if  you  will  but  reach  out  and  magnify  your  calling  and  live 
righteously.  The  brethren  today  have  time  and  again  told  you  of  your 
responsibilities.  Personally  I  always  think  of  the  responsibility  I  have ; 
it  helps  to  keep  me  at  least  reasonably  humble.  But  think  also  of  the 
power  that  you  have,  the  power  to  bless,  the  power  to  heal,  the  power  to 
do  all  the  things  that  the  Lord  wants  done.  The  Lord  will  hold  us  responsi- 
ble for  the  exercise  of  that  power.  May  He  help  you,  I  repeat,  to  magnify 
your  calling.  May  you  be  able  to  bring  to  the  people  in  the  times  that 
are  to  come,  comfort,  and  consolation.  May  He  help  you  to  build  up 
their  faith,  increase  their  testimonies,  develop  their  knowledge,  so  that 
you  may  really  honor  His  Priesthood,  exercising  the  full  functions 
thereof. 

May  God  bless  us  always,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Do  What  Is  Right." 
Elder  Joseph  E.  Beard,  President  of  the  Summit  Stake,  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  Tuesday  morning,  April  6. 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  sixth  and  concluding  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  Tuesday 
morning,  April  6,  at  10  o'clock. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

This  is  the  sixth  session  of  the  113th  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  President  Grant  who  is 
present  and  presiding  at  this  meeting  has  requested  that  I  conduct  the 
exercises. 

Others  of  the  General  Authorities  present  are  the  two  Counselors 


ANNUAL  REPORT  101 

in  the  First  Presidency,  members  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  the 
Patriarch  to  the  Church,  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve,  the  Presidents  of 
the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  and  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 

The  congregation  is  made  up  of  the  officers  in  the  stakes,  wards, 
and  quorums,  and  others  invited  as  heretofore  announced  in  the  public 
press. 

Through  the  courtesy  of  Radio  Station  KSL  the  proceedings  of  this 
meeting  are  being  broadcast.  It  will  be  necessary,  therefore,  for  the  in- 
formation of  the  radio  audience,  to  make  some  announcements  which  to 
you  here  assembled  might  seem  unnecessary. 

Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  will  direct  the  music,  and  Elder  Frank 
Asper  is  at  the  organ. 

Before  the  song  I  desire  to  suggest  that  all  Stake  Presidencies  who 
have  not  yet  made  arrangements  with  the  General  Authorities  regarding 
your  regional  conferences  to  be  held  April  1 1th  and  April  18th  will  please 
come  forward  after  the  close  of  this  meeting  and  meet  your  respective 
appointees  to  the  conferences. 


The  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "God  Moves  in  a 
Mysterious  Way,"  (Words  by  William  Cowper,  Music  by  Evan 
Stephens). 

Elder  Bryan  L.  Bunker,  President  of  the  Moapa  Stake,  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Did  You  Think  to  Pray?" 
(Words  by  Montgomery,  music  by  George  Careless). 

ANNUAL  REPORT 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference,  read  the  Financial 
and  Statistical  Report,  also  Report  of  Changes,  as  follows : 

THE  EXPENDITURES  BY  THE  CHURCH  FOR  THE 
YEAR  1942 

Stake  and  Ward  Purposes: 

For  the  erection  of  meetinghouses  and  for  ward  and  stake 

maintenance  expenses  $1,841,671 

Missionary  Work : 

For  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  missions,  and  for  the 
erection  and  purchase  of  places  of  worship  and  other  build- 
ings in  the  missions 916,771 

Education : 

Expended  for  the  maintenance  of  the  Church  school  system 819,173 

Temples : 

Expended  for  the  maintenance,  operation,  and  construction  of 

temples    292,774 


102  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday,   April   6  Third  Day 

Hospitals : 

Expended  for  the  erection  and  maintenance  of  hospital  build- 
ings (Included  in  Church  Welfare  program) 9,446 

Relief  Assistance : 

For  direct  aid  in  the  care  of  the  needy  and  other  charitable  pur- 
poses, including  hospital  treatment  (From  tithing  funds 
only.    Included  in  Church  Welfare  program) 307,483 

TOTAL   $4,187,318 

Which  has  been  taken  from  the  tithes  and  other  Church 
funds  and  returned  by  the  Trustee-in-Trust  to  the  Saints 
for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  stakes  and  wards, 
mission  activities,  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of 
Church  schools  and  temples,  for  hospital  buildings  and 
relief  assistance. 

CHURCH  WELFARE  PROGAM 

Church  membership,  stakes  and  missions 917,715 

Amount  of  voluntary  fast  offerings  and  welfare  contributions : 

In  wards : 

Fast  offerings  $    568,547 

Welfare  contributions  receipted  for  by  bishops 87,564 

In  missions : 

Fast  offerings  $      32,923 

Total  (all  expended  for  relief)  $    689,034 

Disbursed  to  the  needy  by  the  Relief  Society  for  direct  assis- 
tance in  their  homes  and  for  general  welfare  purposes, 
such  as  surgical  appliances  and  preventive  and  corrective 
health  work 94, 128 

For  carrying  on  the  general,  welfare,  and  educational  program 

of  the  Relief  Society 371,442 

Expended  from  the  tithes  for  general  and  local  relief 202,771 

Expended  directly  by  the  Church  Welfare  Committee 104,712 

Expended  for  the  hospital  care  of  the  sick  in  addition  to  the 

amount  reported  disbursed  from  the  tithes 84,916 

Total  $1,547,003 

30,822  persons  received  assistance  during  the  year — which 

is  an  average  per  month  of 2,568 

Merchandise  produced  by  the  Welfare  program  disbursed  by 

stake  and  regional  storehouses $    334,529 


ANNUAL  REPORT  103 

The  extent  to  which  the  welfare  program  is  meeting  the  re- 
quirements of  the  bishops  in  caring  for  the  needy  is  indi- 
cated by  the  following  percentages  : 

Food 

Program-produced  - - 67.8% 

Cash  purchases  -. 32.2% 

Clothing 

Program-produced  54.3% 

Cash  purchases 45.7% 

Fuel 

Program-produced  - 77.7% 

Cash  purchases - - 22.3% 

Bushels  of  wheat  stored  in  Church-owned  elevators  329,596 

Average  fast  offerings  and  welfare  contributions  per  capita 

inwards : $1.08 

Summary  of  Church  Building  Program 

Expended  for  the  erection,  improvement,  and  furnishing  of : 

Ward  and  stake  buildings $  875,193 

Mission  buildings 134,741 

Temple  buildings  141,655 

Institutes  and  seminaries 19,578 

Hospital  buildings 5,499 

Other  buildings 28,166 

Amount  raised  locally  for  building  improvements  853,474 

Total  $2,058,306 

In  addition  to  the  foregoing,  the  Church  hospitals  expended  from 
hospital  funds  the  following  amounts  for  the  erection  and  enlargement 
of  buildings  and  the  purchase  of  equipment:  Thomas  D.  Dee  Memorial 
Hospital,  $58,517;  Dr.  W.  H.  Groves  L.  D.  S.  Hospital,  $12,773;  Idaho 
Falls  L.  D.  S.  Hospital,  $42,583.    Total,  $113,873. 

Statistics 

Number  of  stakes  December  31,  1942 — 143  (at  present  time  the 
same)  ;  1,128  wards  and  114  independent  branches,  or  a  total  of  1,242 
wards  and  branches  in  the  stakes  of  Zion.  There  are  38  missions  in  the 
Church. 

Church  Membership 

Stakes 754,826 

Missions 162,889 

Total  917,715 


104  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday,    April   6  Third  Day 

Church  Growth 

Children  blessed  in  the  stakes  and  missions 23,808 

Children  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions 14,475 

Converts  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions 11,547 

Missionaries 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  in  the  Mission- 
ary Home  643 

Social  Statistics 

Birth  rate  per  thousand 34.3 

Marriage  rate  per  thousand  19.4 

Death  rate  per  thousand  6.0 

CHANGES   IN   CHURCH   OFFICERS,    STAKE,  WARD   AND 

BRANCH  ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE  LAST 

OCTOBER  CONFERENCE— 1942 

Special  Appointments : 

Mrs.  Belle  Smith  Spafford,  editor  of  The  Relief  Society  Magazine 
was  appointed  as  second  counselor  in  the  General  Presidency  of  the 
National  Woman's  Relief  Society,  succeeding  Mrs.  Donna  D.  Sorensen. 

Milton  Bennion  appointed  general  superintendent  of  the  Deseret 
Sunday  School  Union  with  Dr.  George  R.  Hill  as  1st  counselor  and  A. 
Hamer  Reiser  as  2nd  counselor. 

General  Music  Committee  reorganized  with  Tracy  Y.  Cannon, 
Chairman,  LeRoy  J.  Robertson  advanced  to  1st  assistant  to  succeed  the 
late  George  D.  Pyper,  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  named  new  2nd  assistant  and 
treasurer. 

New  Mission  Presidents: 

John  Q.  Adams  appointed  to  succeed  Wilford  W.  Emery  as  presi- 
dent of  the  Samoan  Mission. 

Lorin  F.  Jones  appointed  to  succeed  David  F.  Haymore  as  president 
of  the  Spanish  American  Mission. 

Edward  L.  Clissold  appointed  president  of  the  Japanese  Mission, 
succeeding  Jay  C.  Jensen,  deceased. 

New  Mission  Organized : 

Navajo-Zuni  Mission  organized  February  27,  with  Ralph  William 
Evans,  Shiprock,  New  Mexico,  appointed  as  president. 

New  Temple  President  Appointed: 

Edward  L.  Clissold  appointed  to  succeed  Albert  H.  Belliston  as 
president  of  the  Hawaiian  Temple. 

Stake  Presidents  Chosen: 

Elmer  A.  Graff  chosen  president  of  the  Zion  Park  Stake,  to  succeed 
Claudius  Hirschi. 


ANNUAL  REPORT  105 

George  Christensen  chosen  president  of  the  Rigby  Stake,  to  succeed 
Hyrum  T.  Moss. 

j.  Doyle  Jensen  chosen  president  of  the  Lost  River  Stake,  to  suc- 
ceed Victor  D.  Nelson. 

New  Wards  Organized: 

South  Seattle  Ward,  Seattle  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  the 
Queen  Anne  Ward. 

Mission  Park  Ward,  Pasadena  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  the 
Rosemead  Ward. 

Independent  Branch  Made  Ward  : 

Terreton  Ward,  North  Idaho  Falls  Stake,  formerly  Mud  Lake 
Branch. 

New  Independent  Branches : 
Basis  Branch,  Moapa  Stake 
Topaz  Branch,  Deseret  Stake 
Port  Orchard  Branch,  Seattle  Stake 

Dependent  Branches  Made  Independent  Branches : 
Bloomfield  Branch,  Young  Stake 
Reseda  Branch,  San  Fernando  Stake 

Ward  Name  Changed: 

Pocatello  7th  Ward,  Pocatello  Stake,  formerly  known  as  the  North 
Pocatello  Ward. 

Ward  Made  Dependent  Branch : 

Garcia  Ward,  Juarez  Stake — dependent  on  Pacheco  Ward. 

Ward  Discontinued : 

Diamondville  Ward,  Woodruff  Stake,  membership  annexed  to  Kem- 
merer  Ward. 

Independent  Branches  Discontinued : 

Gannett  Branch,  Blaine  Stake,  records  transferred  to  Hailey  Branch. 
Sun  Valley  Branch,  Blaine  Stake. 

Independent  Branches  Transferred  to  Mission : 

Part  of  the  Burdett  Branch,  Lethbridge  Stake  transferred  to  West- 
ern Canadian  Mission. 

Edmonton  Branch,  Lethbridge  Stake  transferred  to  Western  Can- 
adian Mission. 

Those  Who  Have  Passed  Away  While  in  the  Service : 

President  Jay  C.  Jensen  of  the  Japanese  Mission,  died  January  31, 

1943  after  having  served  about  3  years. 

Bishop  Phillip  Harrison  Hurst,  LaCienega  Ward,  Inglewood  Stake, 

died  December  22,  1942  after  having  served  about  two  years. 

George  D.  Pyper,  General  Superintendent  of  the  Deseret  Sunday 


106  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday,    April    6  Third   Day 

School  Union,  died  January  16,  1943  after  having  served  as  superintend- 
ent 9  years  and  counselor  26  years. 

Bishop  Oleen  Alder  Jensen,  Glendale  Ward,  Oneida  Stake,  died 
December  26,  1942  after  having  served  about  14  years. 

Bishop  Roscoe  W.  Evans,  Eugene  Ward,  Portland  Stake,  died 
March  17,  1943  after  having  served  about  4  years. 

James  Peter  Christensen,  Patriarch  of  the  Bear  River  Stake,  died 
March  23,  1943. 

Obituaries: 

Elder  Nephi  L.  Morris,  former  President  of  Salt  Lake  Stake. 

J.  Frank  Ward,  former  bishop  of  the  Emigration  Ward,  Liberty 
Stake  and  a  member  of  the  general  committee  of  the  Church  Welfare 
Program,  died  October  22,  1942. 

Serge  F.  Ballif ,  Sr.,  former  president  of  the  Swiss-German  Mission, 
died  November  17,  1942. 

James  W.  Paxman,  former  Patriarch  of  the  Granite  and  Highland 
Stakes,  died  January  10,  1943. 

Lars  Peter  Oveson,  former  bishop  of  the  Cleveland  Ward  and 
former  President  of  the  Emery  Stake,  died  January  5,  1943. 

Thomas  L.  Woodbury,  former  president  of  the  Tahitian  Mission, 
died  December  31,  1942. 

REPORT  OF  THE  CHURCH  AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Elder  Orval  W.  Adams  read  the  following  report  of  the  Church 
Auditing  Committee : 

March  30,  1943 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  and  Counselors 
47  East  South  Temple  Street 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Dear  Brethren  : 

Your  Committee  has  reviewed  the  1942  annual  financial  report  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  happy  to  report 
that  the  Church  is  in  a  stronger  position  financially  than  at  any  other 
period  of  its  history,  a  condition  made  possible  only  through  the  voluntary 
contributions  of  the  tens  of  thousands  of  its  devoted  members — most  of 
them  of  small  means. 

The  Church  has  held  to  its  policy  of  not  running  in  debt ;  it  has  ample 
funds  for  its  normal  activities ;  it  has  given  no  mortgages  on  any  of  its 
properties  and  no  mortgages  are  outstanding.  Its  position  would  seem 
safe  short  of  a  drastic  inflationary  unsettlement,  which  could  carry  every- 
thing down.  This  we  believe  can  be,  and  we  devoutly  hope  will  be 
averted. 

It  is  readily  apparent  to  the  Committee  that  Church  funds  are  re- 
garded as  a  sacred  trust  and  are  being,  as  they  have  always  been,  ad- 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED  107 

ministered  prudently  by  the  sustained  authorities  for  the  carrying  on  of 
the  work  to  which  the  Church  is  dedicated. 

Respectfully  submitted, 

Oeval  W.  Adams 
A.  E.  Bowen 
George  S.  Spencer 
H.  H.  Bennett 

Church  Auditing  Committee 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  SUSTAINED 

President  David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, presented  for  the  vote  of  the  Conference  the  General  Authorities. 
General  Officers,  and  General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church,  and  they 
were  unanimously  sustained  by  those  present,  as  follows : 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

First  Presidency 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
Rudger  Clawson 

Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Rudger  Clawson  John  A.  Widtsoe 

George  Albert  Smith  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

George  F.  Richards  Charles  A.  Callis 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Albert  E.  Bowen 

Stephen  L  Richards  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon 

Richard  R.  Lyman  Harold  B.  Lee 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Joseph  F.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and 
the  Patriarch  to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Marion  G.  Romney  Alma  Sonne 

Thomas  E.  McKay  Clifford  E.  Young 

Nicholas  G.  Smith 


108  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday,    April   6  Third   Day 

Trustee-in-Trust 

Heber  J.  Grant 
As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  John  H.  Taylor 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Rufus  K.  Hardy 

Samuel  O.  Bennion  Richard  L.  Evans 

Oscar  A.  Kirkham 

Presiding  Bishopric 

LeGrand  Richards,  Presiding  Bishop 
Marvin  O.  Ashton,  First  Counselor 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Second  Counselor 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  as  Assistant. 

Church  Board  of  Education 

Heber  J.  Grant  Richard  R.  Lyman 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  John  A.  Widtsoe 

David  O.  McKay  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Rudger  Clawson  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Charles  A,  Callis 

Stephen  L  Richards  Franklin  L.  West 
Albert  E.  Bowen 

Frank  Evans,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

Commissioner  of  Education 
Franklin  L.  West 

Seminary  Supervisors 

M.  Lynn  Bennion 
J.  Karl  Wood 

Auditing  and- Finance  Commitim- 

Orval  W.  Adams  George  S.  Spencer 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Harold  H.  Bennett 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED  109 

Tabernacle  Choir 

Lester  F.   Hewlett,  President ;  J.   Spencer  Cornwall,   Conductor ; 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor. 

Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Wade  N.  Stephens,  Assistant 

CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 

Advisers 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Nicholas  G.  Smith 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Marion  G.  Romney  John  H.  Taylor 

Thomas  E.  McKay  LeGrand  Richards 

Clifford  E.  Young  Marvin  O.  Ashton 

Alma  Sonne  Joseph  L.  Wirthlif 
General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 

General  Committee 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 

Robert  L.  Judd,  Vice-Chairman 

Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 

Marion  G  Romney,  Assistant  Managing  Director 

Mark  Austin  William  E.  Ryberg 

Clyde  C.  Edmunds  Stringam  A.  Stevens 

Sterling  H.  Nelson  Howard  Barker 


GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

National  Woman's  Relief  Society 

Amy  Brown  Lyman,  President 
Marcia  K.  Howells,  First  Counselor 
Belle  S.  Spafford,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 

Milton  Bennion,  General  Superintendent 
George  R.  Hill,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
A.  Hamer  Reiser,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


110  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday,   April   6  Third  Day 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

.•'■■■George  Q.  Morris,  General  Superintendent 
Joseph  J.  Cannon,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Burton  K.  Farnsworth,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  President 
Helen  Spencer  Williams,  First  Counselor 
Verna  W.  Goddard,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Primary  Association 

May  Green  Hinckley,  President 
Adele  Cannon  Howells,  First  Counselor 
LaVern  W.  Parmley,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Recently  I  picked  up  a  national  magazine  in  which  a  contributor, 
after  noting  the  muddled  state  of  thought  about  the  needs  of  the  near 
future  of  the  world,  asserts : 

Our  need,  of  course,  if  we  are  to  have  peace  after  the  war,  is  a  passion 
for  humanity  and  for  the  interests  of  humanity  as  predominant  over  all 
lesser  interests  whatsoever. 

Very  naturally  he  proceeds  from  that  premise  to  this  conclusion : 

Religion  a  Potent  Factor  in  World  Peace 

It  should  be  obvious,  after  what  we  saw  in  the  last  war  and  what  we 
are  already  seeing  in  this  war,  that  peace  can  never  come  out  of  war  itself. 
If  it  comes  at  all,  it  must  be  in  spite  of  the  war  and  not  because  of  it,  and 
from  a  source  altogether  remote  from  its  influence.  I  find  no  such  source 
except  in  religion  itself.    For  religion  has  this  passion  of  which  I  speak. 

That  statement  might  not  be  so  arresting  if  it  stood  alone.  But  it 
does  not.  It  is  merely  typical  of  assertions  coming  to  be  of  almost  daily 
occurrence.  Scarcely  do  we  pick  up  a  reputable  magazine  nowadays 
that  we  do  not  find  in  it  somewhere  declaration  of  the  view  that  in  the 
precepts  of  religion  are  to  be  found  the  principles  and  in  religion  itself 
is  to  be  found  the  spirit  upon  the  adoption  and  practice  and  influence  of 
which  alone  the  hope  of  the  world  for  peace  and  order  must  depend. 

This  poses  for  religion  a  tremendous  task  and  the  question  at  once 
arises  how  this  task  is  to  be  accomplished.  It  means  that  somehow  re- 
ligion must  come  to  have  a  dominating  influence  in  shaping  the  policies 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOW  EN  111 

and  practices  of  governments,  for,  of  course,  it  is  the  civil  governments 
which  control  in  the  waging  of  war  and  the  fashioning  of  peace.  How 
is  religion  to  get  in  ? 

There  is  another  manifest  implication  in  the  premise,  namely,  that 
religion  has  not  been  performing  its  rightful  office,  or  the  conditions 
which  call  for  its  intervention  would  not  obtain.  Does  it  have  the  power 
to  do  what  is  suggested  and,  if  so,  why  has  that  power  not  been  exercised  ? 

I  shall  have  in  mind  the  Christian  religion  as  I  proceed  to  consider 
these  questions. 

In  the  first  place,  if  religion  is  to  be  a  potent  factor  in  shaping  the 
conditions  of  peace,  it  must  have  a  medium  through  which  it  expresses 
itself — a  mechanism  of  implementation.  Of  itself  it  is  a  spiritual  ideal. 
But  as  a  passive  ideal,  religion  is  of  little  value.  It  must  carry  its  message ; 
it  must  get  itself  accepted,  for  it  comes  to  fruition  only  as  its  precepts 
come  to  dominate  the  lives  and  actions  of  men  individually  and  in  their 
collective  relationships.  To  be  effective  it  must  incorporate  itself  into 
an  organized  body.  That  body  is  the  Church.  That  is  the  medium 
through  which  religion  has  implemented  itself  in  any  civilization.  And 
may  I  add  in  passing  that  so  far  as  I  know,  no  civilization  has  ever 
developed  that  did  not  rear  itself  upon  the  religion  of  the  people. 

If  then,  the  influence  of  religion  is,  as  postulated,  the  only  source 
of  hope  for  a  world  of  peace,  and  if  religion  is  made  effective  through  the 
organized  body  called  the  Church,  then  it  would  seem  that  there  is 
indicated  for  the  Church  a  place  of  transcendent  importance  in  the  shaping 
of  the  future  of  the  nations.  This  would  seem  to  demonstrate  the  folly 
of  saying  that  the  Church  has  no  concern  with  the  civil  institutions  of 
the  day.  If  it  is  not  concerned  with  them,  then  it  cannot  carry  into  them 
the  influence  which  it  is  its  business  to  foster.  Furthermore,  the  Church 
lives  and  operates  within  the  domain  of  civil  governments  and  to  a  degree 
under  their  control.  Its  members  are  so  controlled.  People  and  institu- 
tions, too,  are  always  influenced  and  modified  and  more  or  less  molded 
by  the  thought  and  feeling  which  dominate  the  society  in  which  they 
live,  particularly  the  prescriptions  of  governments.  We  are  caught  up 
and  held  in  the  web  of  their  practices  and  habits.  With  such  powerful 
agencies  in  the  shaping  of  our  lives  and  affecting  its  own  destiny,  the 
Church  must  be  concerned.  I  am  not  unmindful  of  the  fact  that  many 
people  profess  the  conviction  that  no  Church  is  necessary ;  that  religion 
is  a  thing  of  the  spirit  affecting  the  inner  life  of  the  individual ;  and  that 
it  has  nothing  to  do  with  the  affairs  of  the  political  society  commonly 
spoken  of  as  the  state. 

Democracy  a  Thing  of  the  Spirit 

That  objection  is  not  so  formidable  as  it  sounds.  ■  So  is  democracy  a 
thing  of  the  spirit.  It  does  not  consist  in  frameworks  such  as  constitu- 
tions and  presidents  and  legislatures  and  statutes  and  judical  bodies  and 
enforcement  officers.  You  may  have  all  these  completely  democratic 
in  form  and  not  have  a  democracy  at  all.  But  no  one  would  argue  from 
this  that  you  could  have  a  living  democracy  without  them.   The  essence 


112  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday,    April   6  Third   Day 

of  democracy — its  spirit — is  by  itself  an  intangible  ideal,  inert  and  un- 
fruitful, even  though  it  burn  in  the  hearts  of  individual  men.  Put  that 
flaming  spirit,  that  throbbing,  pulsating  ideal  into  a  mechanical  organiza- 
tion comprising  a  constitution  which  defines  the  limitations  on  the  powers 
of  government ;  write  into  it  a  bill  of  rights  which  protects  the  individual 
against  invasion  of  his  guaranteed  privileges  by  governmental  authority ; 
let  it  provide  for  the  making  of  laws  tO'  which  all  agree  to  render  obedi- 
ence ;  give  it  an  executive  authority  to  carry  those  laws  into  effect ;  set 
up  a  tribunal  to  interpret  the  laws  and  resolve  disputes  between  man  and 
man  and  between  citizen  and  government,  and  it  will  carry  a  nation 
triumphant  from  a  narrow  fringe  on  the  seashore  across  .six  thousand 
miles  of  continent,  plant  towns  and  cities  by  the  way,  set  up  in  them  local 
governments  by  consent,  establish  schools,  rear  industries,  subdue  the 
earth  and  give  to  one  hundred  million  people  more  of  creature  comfort, 
more  of  individual  self-respect,  more  of  the  recognition  of  human  dignity, 
more  independence  of  action  and  consequent  self-reliance,  more  liberty 
of  thought  and  freedom  of  action  than  were  ever  before  known  to  any 
people  during  the  period  of  recorded  history. 

As  the  political  framework  is  to  the  spirit  which  is  democracy,  so  the 
Church  is  to  religion. 

So  much  for  the  means  by  which  religion  is  to  get  itself  into  gov- 
ernments. Please  notice  that  I  have  not  said,  nor  do  I  believe,  that  the 
Church  should  try  to  manage  the  government. 

Power  of  Church  Wielded  in  World  History 

I  am  now  prepared,  purely  for  convenience,  to  use  the  word  church 
interchangeably  with  the  term  religion  as  I  proceed  to  ask :  Does  religion 
have  in  it  the  power  to  do  what  it  is  suggested  that  it  alone  must  do  ? 

The  best  answer  I  know  to  that  question  is  that  in  times  past  it  has 
already  done  it.  Given  the  same  conditions  there  is  no  reason  to  assume 
that  it  cannot  do  it  again.  It  must,  of  course,  be  at  once  admitted  that 
the  Church,  as  the  agency  through  which  religion  makes  itself  effective, 
is  greatly  weakened  for  its  task  by  lack  of  unity  within  itself. 

Jesus,  the  fountain  source  of  the  religion  of  which  we  speak,  selected 
some  disciples  and  taught  them  His  message.  Then  He  told  them  to  go 
out  and  spread  it  everywhere.  Shortly  after  He  left  them,  on  one  day, 
through  the  zeal  and  fervor  of  their  conviction,  they  added  to  their  body 
by  baptism  three  thousand  souls.  Ignoring  the  commands  of  the  chief 
rulers,  they  continued  their  teaching,  filling  Jerusalem,  so  it  was  charged, 
with  their  doctrine.  To  all  interdictions  Peter  answered,  'We  ought  to 
obey  God  rather  than  men." 

In  defiance  of  the  proscriptions  of  the  emperors,  the  Church  projected 
itself  into  the  very  heart  of  the  empire,  and  by  the  third  century  had  raised 
itself  from  a  position  of  despised  ignominy  to  the  position  where  its 
worship  had  been  accepted  by  the  majority  of  the  people  of  the  empire, 
and  it  had  won  for  its  members  religious  toleration,  the  right  to  hold 
public  office,  and  for  itself  the  restoration  of  its  previously  confiscated 
property.    It  was  ever  in  the  forefront  of  the  struggle  against  tyranny 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN  113 

and  oppression.  Through  the  long  black  night  of  the  Dark  Ages,  the 
Christian  Church  kept  the  flickering  torch  lighted  and  fought  the  long, 
hard  battle  for  the  rights  of  man.  The  Christian  religion,  embodied  in  a 
physical  organization,  led  certain  dissenters  to  Holland;  it  took  them 
across  the  Atlantic  and  gave  strong  leadership  in  fashioning  the  institu- 
tions that  here  grew  up.  What  we  have  lately  heard  so  much  talked  of 
as  the  American  system  could  not  possibly  have  been  conceived  in 
materialism.  It  was  the  solution  of  the  problem  of  the  age  and  was  born 
of  the  travail  of  the  spirit  fostered  and  kept  animate  by  the  Christian 
Church. 

Causes  for  Waning  of  Religious  Influence 

We  are  now  prepared  to  ask  why  the  Church  has  lost  its  former 
position  of  influence  and  leadership.  It  would  require  a  volume  to  answer 
that  question.  I  have  neither  the  time  nor  the  sweep  of  learning  needed 
for  the  task.  I  can  venture  only  a  conclusion  which,  to  my  comfort,  I 
find  to  be  fortified  by  the  opinions  of  others,  more  capable  than  I,  who 
have  given  consideration  to  the  subject.  The  limits  of  time  compel  me 
to  an  over-simplification. 

The  conclusion  is  that  the  teachers  of  religion,  the  Church  itself, 
have  weakened  in  their  own  conviction  of  the  ultimate  truth  of  the 
doctrines  their  creeds  professed.  Being  without  conviction,  they  have 
not  taught  with  the  voice  of  authority,  and  their  following  has  floundered 
in  uncertainty.  The  causes  are  many  and  complex,  among  them,  no 
doubt,  being  the  profound  changes  that  have  resulted  from  the  extending 
of  the  frontiers  of  learning  and  consequent  changes  in  habits  of  living 
and  measures  of  value.  In  external  settings  there  has  probably  been  a 
greater  transformation  in  one  generation  than  in  a  thousand  or  two  years 
preceding.  It  was  brought  about  largely  by  the  tremendous  strides  in 
the  physical  sciences  giving  man  such  undreamed-of  mastery  over  nature. 
It  paved  the  way  for  the  glamorous  industrial  age,  the  age  of  invention 
and  mechanization  and  production,  which  has  literally  revolutionized  the 
conditions  of  physical  existence.  Tools  and  gadgets  and  mechanisms 
assumed  a  dominant  place  in  the  life  of  the  nation,  and  we  came  to  regard 
them  as  of  first  consequence  to  our  welfare.  We  came  to  be  so  obsessed 
with  the  importance  of  material  acquisitions  that  our  vision  of  spiritual 
values  was  almost  completely  obscured.  Man  himself  become  inflated 
out  of  all  proportion  in  his  assumptions  of  self-sufficiency.  He  looked 
at  the  work  of  his  own  hands,  and  he  called  it  good.  He  believed  that 
he  held  the  key  to  the  mastery  of  the  world,  and  that  by  his  own  power 
he  could  create  a  state  of  being  according  to  his  own  heart's  desire.  Bigger 
and  better  and  greater  and  more  were  the  goals  of  his  ambition.  Through 
the  discoveries  of  science  and  its  methods  of  investigation,  many  ancient 
notions  were  found  to  be  untenable ;  old  errors  were  revealed,  theories 
exploded ;  and  it  was  believed  that  anything  which  laid  claim  to  intellectual 
respectability  must  be  able  to  meet  the  test  of  the  scientific  method. 
Science  and  industry  deal  with  objects  and  materials.  Their  fruits  are 
materialistic,  and  the  idealistic,  intangible  things  of  the  spirit  fell  to 


114  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday,    April   6  Third   Day 

low  esteem.  Religious  teachers  forgetting  the  teaching  of  the  Master 
that  life  is  ". . .  more  than  meat,  and  the  body  than  raiment"  (Matt.  6 :25)  ; 
forgetting  that  their  mission  was  to  discern  and  preserve  spiritual  values  ; 
tried  to  accommodate  their  teachings  to  the  mood  of  the  time  and  to  give 
them  validity  by  submitting  them  not  only  to  the  scientific  test,  but, 
more  basely,  to  the  test  of  the  habits  and  practices  and  likes  of  their 
adherents.  They  developed  or  tried  to  develop  what  might  be  called  a 
theology  of  the  flesh  instead  of  the  spirit.  Thus  science  and  the  practice 
of  the  market  place  prescribed  the  conditions  of  religious  teachings  and 
the  teachers  themselves  instead  of  being  inspired  interpreters  of  spiritual 
values  became  the  mere  echoes  of  the  men  of  science  and  of  their  industrial 
contemporaries.    As  an  editorial  writer  has  phrased  it : 

The  Christian  leadership  has  passed  from  the  hands  of  the  Church  to  the 
hands  of  the  active  and  practical  laity — the  statesmen  and  educators,  the 
columnists  and  pundits,  the  scientists  and  great  men  of  action.  And  this 
is  only  another  way  of  saying  that  there  is  no  true  Christian  leadership  at  all. 

And  as  a  parting  warning  he  declares : 

So  far  as  the  record  goes,  the  American  people  would  do  as  well  by  their 
souls  to  follow  the  advice  of  the  industrial  leaders  as  to  follow  the  advice  of 
the  spiritual  leaders. 

Thus  the  flock  is  leading  the  Shepherd.  *  *  *  So  long  as  the  Church 
pretends,  or  assumes  to  preach  absolute  values,  but  actually  preaches  relative 
and  secondary  values,  it  will  merely  hasten  the  process  of  disintegration. 
We  are  asked  to  turn  to  the  Church  for  our  enlightenment,  but  when  we 
do  so  we  find  that  the  voice  of  the  Church  is  not  inspired.  The  voice  of  the 
Church  today,  we  find,  is  the  echo  of  our  own  voices.  And  the  result  of  this 
experience  is  disillusionment.  .  .  .  This  is  a  profound  and  absolute  spiritual 
disillusionment,  arising  from  the  fact  that  when  we  consult  the  Church  we 
hear  only  what  we  ourselves  have  said.  The  effect  of  this  experience  upon 
the  present  generation  has  been  profound.  It  is  the  effect  of  a  vicious  spiral, 
like  that  the  economists  talk  about  that  leads  into  depressions.  But  in  this 
spiral  there  is  at  stake,  not  merely  prosperity  but  civilization. 

There  is  only  one  way  out  of  the  spiral.  The  way  out  is  the  sound  of 
a  voice,  not  our  voice,  but  a  voice  coming  from  something  not  ourselves,  in 
the  existence  of  which  we  cannot  disbelieve.  It  is  the  earthly  task  of  the 
pastors  to  hear  his  voice,  to  cause  us  to  hear  it,  and  to  tell  us  what  it  says. 
If  they  cannot  hear  it,  or  if  they  fail  to  tell  us,  we  as  laymen,  are  utterly 
lost.  Without  it  we  are  no  more  capable  of  saving  the  world  than  we  were 
capable  of  creating  it  in  the  first  place. 

This  is  a  scorching  indictment.  But  the  words  are  not  mine.  They 
are  the  words  of  one  profoundly  moved  by  the  confusion  and  bewilder- 
ment of  the  times,  and  crying  aloud  for  help,  one  who  recognizes  that  the 
Church  must  not  follow  and  relay  what  others  say,  be  they  high  or  low, 
but  must  lead  by  declaring  the  voice  of  God.  I  have  not  used  these  words 
for  the  purpose  of  bringing  under  rebuke  any  church  or  any  teacher 
of  religion.  Neither  has  anything  that  I  have  said  been  with  that  intent. 
It  will  be  clear  to  you  that  I  have  used  the  term  Church  in  its  all-inclusive 
sense  and  not  in  reference  to  any  particular  church.  Nor  has  my  purpose 
been  to  raise  any  quarrel  with  or  to  depreciate  the  value  of  the  glorious 
discoveries  of  science,  or  the  industrial  benefits  that  have  been  born  of 
them. 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOW  EN  115 

Indeed  science  itself  has  become  rather  humble,  if  it  has  not  always 
been  so.  Its  great  exponents  seem  rather  generally  to  recognize,  as  Mr. 
Longmuir's  recent  broadcast  to  the  American  Academy  for  the  Advance- 
ment of  Science  shows,  that  in  the  field  of  human  behavior,  which  is, 
after  all,  the  chief  factor  in  government,  science  has  very  narrow  limita- 
tions.   For  guidance  in  that  we  must  look  elsewhere. 

I  do  not  say  that  the  Church  could  have  prevented  the  wave  of  self- 
sufficiency  and  arrogant  pride  and  gross  materialism  that  has  swept  over 
the  land.  I  think  that  probably  arose  from  forces  beyond  its  control. 
But  the  mistake  of  the  church  lay  in  its  abandonment  of  its  own  convic- 
tions and  its  docile  acquiescence  in  the  flouting  of  spiritual  realities  and 
in  its  failure  to  hold  fast  to  its  faith  in  the  reality  of  a  living  God,  the 
well-spring  of  all  religion,  and  without  whom  there  can  be  no  religion. 

We  have  tried  getting  along  without  God  and  religion,  and  we  see 
where  it  has  brought  us  to.  We  have  tried  following  more  or  less  blindly 
the  scholars,  the  writers,  the  men  of  affairs,  and  the  political  leaders,  and 
we  view  with  consternation  the  sorry  plight  to  which  they  have  brought 
us.  The  universal  cry  for  spiritual  regeneration  gives  the  Church  another 
chance  to  save  the  world  and  humanity,  and  offers  a  basis  for  hope. 

True  Faith  the  Way  of  Peace 

The  early  Church  made  its  phenomenal  advancement  and  attained 
its  great  influence  because  those  who  bore  its  message  believed  devoutly 
in  it.  My  purpose  in  speaking  of  these  matters  is  to  urge  upon  you  who 
are  gathered  here — the  members  of  our  own  faith — the  leaders  in  your 
respective  stations,  to  teach  without  wavering  implicit  faith  in  the  living 
God  who  shapes  the  course  and  destinies  of  nations  and  who  has  revealed 
and  does  reveal  the  way  of  life  which  alone  can  lead  to  peace  on  earth 
and  good  will  among  men.  There  will  be  no  enduring  peace  unless  and 
until  men  accept  the  way  of  the  Lawgiver  of  the  universe.  It  is  for  us 
to  try  by  every  power  of  persuasion  we  possess  to  get  men  and  nations 
to  adopt  that  way  and  to  stand  resolutely  against  every  influence  and 
power  which  tends  to  lead  away  from  it.  I  yield  to  no  man  in  love  of 
country  and  devotion  to  it.  I  have  spent  much  of  my  life  studying  its 
history  and  its  institutions.  And  I  say  that  the  demands  of  patriotism 
never  require  us  to  endorse  what  is  not  morally  right. 

It  is  for  us  not  to  be  deceived  by  slogans  and  smart  sayings  but  to  put 
the  teachings  of  the  Savior  of  the  world  above  all  other  teachings  and 
make  them  the  standard  by  which  we  measure  all  acts  and  plans  for 
action,  that  His  righteousness  might  be  made  fruitful  in  the  earth. 

May  God  grant  us  the  power  and  the  wisdom  to  do  it,  I  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.    Amen. 


A  vocal  solo,  "Teach  Me  to  Pray,"  was  sung  by  Harper  Stoneman. 


116  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday,   April   6  Third  Day 

ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

The  weak  things  of  the  world  shall  come  forth  and  break  down  the 
mighty  and  strong  ones.    (D.  &  C.  1 :19) 

The  Development  of  the  Church 

One  hundred  and  thirteen  years  ago  on  this  day,  April  6,  Joseph 
Smith,  a  young  man  twenty-five  years  of  age,  met  five  other  young 
men  in  the  humble  home  of  Peter  Whitmer  in  Fayette,  New  York, 
and  according  to  divine  instruction  organized  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.    Its  membership  now  numbers  917,715. 

It  has  missions,  stakes,  wards,  and  branches  in  practically  every 
city  of  any  size  or  consequence  in  the  world.  It  has  developed  from 
a  local  organization  to  one  of  international  proportions.  Its  mission- 
aries have  carried  glad  tidings  of  great  joy  to  the  races  of  men  for 
over  a  century.  Its  officers  and  teachers  number  a  quarter  of  a 
million,  serving  willingly,  without  thought  of,  or  desire  for,  com- 
pensation. A  great  missionary  system  has  been  developed  which 
affords  the  opportunity  of  missionary  service  to  some  two  thousand 
two  hundred  young  men  and  women  each  year.  A  religious  educa- 
tional project  has  been  set  in  motion  which  involves  one  university, 
three  colleges,  thirteen  institutes,  and  one  hundred  and  eight  semina- 
ries, manned  by  three  hundred  sixty  full-time  teachers,  and  provides 
religious  education  for  thirty-five  thousand  young  men  and  women. 
Seven  temples  are  now  in  use  for  the  performing  of  ordinances  for 
the  dead  and  the  living,  and  an  eighth  is  soon  to  be  dedicated  and 
opened.  A  Welfare  plan  has  been  worked  out  designed  to  assist 
those  in  distress,  anticipating,  however,  that  those  receiving  assist- 
ance shall  contribute  of  their  energy  and  time  on  a  production  proj- 
ect. This  program  has  in  operation  agricultural,  manufacturing,  and 
processing  projects,  to  provide  food,  fuel,  clothing,  and  shelter.  A 
wheat  storage  program  is  sponsored  by  the  General  Authorities 
and  the  Relief  Society  of  the  Church  wherein  three  elevators  are  now 
used  to  store  approximately  four  hundred  thousand  bushels  of  wheat 
against  a  day  of  need.  Hospitals,  a  boys'  home,  in  addition  to  a 
great  religious,  cultural,  and  recreational  program  sponsored  by  the 
auxiliary  organizations  of  the  Church  are  all  developments  that  have 
taken  place  in  the  last  one  hundred  thirteen  years.  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  an  organization  that  is  not  in 
financial  bondage  to  any  man  or  set  of  creditors. 

The  Appearance  of  Heavenly  Beings  to  Joseph  Smith 

Joseph  Smith  declared  to  the  world  that  the  Father  and  the  Son 
appeared  to  him  in  answer  to  the  prayerful  inquiry,  which  of  all  these 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN  117 

religious  organizations  was  the  one  designated  as  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ.  He  was  forbidden  to  join  any  of  them  and  three  years 
later  a  divine  personage  calling  himself  Moroni  appeared  to  him, 
telling  Joseph  that  the  Lord  had  assigned  to  him  a  great  and  marvel- 
ous work  and  that  his  name  would  be  had  for  good  and  evil  among 
the  nations.  A  record  of  the  ancient  inhabitants  who  formerly  lived 
upon  the  American  continent,  inscribed  on  plates  of  gold,  was 
entrusted  to  Joseph  Smith  for  translation  and  publication  to  the 
world,  for  within  its  covers  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  its  pure  and 
complete  form  would  be  found. 

John  the  Baptist,  the  forerunner  of  the  Christ  nineteen  centuries 
ago,  again  appeared,  bestowing  upon  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver 
Cowdery  the  Priesthood  of  Aaron,  which  gave  to  these  men  the 
authority  to  preach  the  gospel  of  repentance  and  to  administer  the 
ordinances  of  baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remittance  of  sins.  Peter, 
James,  and  John  appeared  later  to  Joseph,  conferring  upon  him  the 
Melchizedek  Priesthood  or  the  Priesthood  after  the  order  of  the 
Son  of  God,  authorizing  the  conferring  of  spiritual  blessings  and 
privileges  upon  the  faithful.  Other  divine  personages  appeared,  those 
who  had  lived  in  former  dispensations.  Moses  returned,  bestowing 
the  keys  of  the  gathering  of  Israel  upon  Joseph;  Elias  gave  him  the 
dispensation  of  the  gospel  of  Abraham  ;  Elijah  the  prophet  appeared, 
bestowing  upon  Joseph  the  authority  to  inaugurate  the  work  for  the 
dead.  Joseph  Smith  received  direct  revelations,  from  on  high,  in- 
structing and  directing  him  in  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  in  its 
fulness  and  in  organizing  the  Church  exactly  as  it  existed  in  the  days 
of  the  apostles,  with  Jesus  Christ  as  the  chief  cornerstone,  with 
apostles,  prophets,  evangelists,  high  priests,  seventies,  elders,  bish- 
ops, priests,  teachers,  and  deacons.  All  of  these  offices  in  the  Priest- 
hood of  God  existed  according  to  Biblical  authorities  in  the  days  of 
the  apostles  and  were  restored  through  Joseph  Smith  which  effected 
a  complete  restitution  of  the  Church  organization,  which  is  recog- 
nized by  the  world's  foremost  authorities  on  organization  as  being 
the  most  perfect  of  its  kind  on  earth  today. 

Who  was  Joseph  Smith?  Whence  came  this  man ?  He  was  the 
son  of  a  farmer,  born  in  the  backwoods  of  Vermont,  with  no  opportu- 
nities for  scholastic  attainments  or  personal  development  from  an 
academic  viewpoint,  persecuted  and  prosecuted  by  foes  and  even 
by  officials  of  the  law  who  should  have  protected  him.  He  lacked  the 
riches  of  the  world,  without  friends  or  prestige  of  those  in  high 
places.  Will  his  declarations  and  claims  stand  the  X-ray  of  a  minute 
analysis?  This  analysis  can  be  made  from  four  viewpoints:  first, 
comparison  of  Joseph  Smith's  claims  and  achievements  with  other 
great  religious  leaders ;  second,  the  fulfilment  of  prophecy  and  revela- 
tion ;  third,  the  authenticity  of  the  Book  of  Mormon ;  and  fourth,  his 
leaving  all  of  his  works,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, Pearl  of  Great  Price,  revised  Bible,  for  future  critical  study, 
and  in  this  he  stands  alone. 


118  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday,   April   6  Third   Day 

Martin  Luther's  Contribution  to  the  World 

First  permit  me  to  compare  him  with  Martin  Luther,  a  great, 
courageous  and  sincere  man  who  was  born  under  very  humble  cir- 
cumstances— the  son  of  a  miner — one  of  the  steppingstones  to  the 
restoration  of  the  Gospel.  His  father  and  mother  were  devout  and 
religious  people.  Martin  Luther's  mental  ability  won  for  him  recog- 
nition of  an  individual  wealthy  enough  to  finance  his  scholastic 
training.  He  soon  received  the  degree  of  Master.  Influential  church 
authorities  became  interested  in  him  and  the  office  of  priest  was 
bestowed  upon  him.  He  held  the  chair  of  philosophy  in  the  Uni- 
versity of  Wittenberg.  Later  he  received  the  degree  of  Doctor  of 
Theology.  Shortly  thereafter  he  became  involved  in  a  bitter  con- 
troversy with  the  authorities  of  the  church  over  the  proposed  sale, 
of  indulgences  and  courageously  affixed  his  ninety-five  theses  on  the 
door  of  the  Cathedral  known  as  Schloss  Kirche  (Castle  Church).. 
He  was  excommunicated,  his  life  was  endangered,  but  there  came 
to  his  rescue  German  princes  and  noblemen.  Hence  during  a  period 
of  forced  exile,  he  translated  the  Bible  into  the  German  language, 
declaring  the  Scriptures  should  be  free  and  open  to  all  men.  He 
demanded  general  reformations  of  the  dominant  church,  stating,  "I 
am  deeply  interested  in  so  purifying  every  church  that  all  men  may 
worship  God  as  they  see  fit.  As  to  organizing  a  new  church,  I  have 
neither  the  desire  nor  the  authority  to  do  so."  But  nevertheless 
there  came  into  being  a  church  bearing  his  name  and  in  whose  dec- 
larations of  faith  are  found  many  of  the  doctrines  of  the  church  he 
bitterly  opposed.  His  greatest' contribution  to  his  people  and  to 
the  world  was  the  doctrine  of  religious  freedom  and  the  translation 
of  the  Scriptures  into  the  tongue  of  his  people.  It  is  interesting  to 
observe  that  although  he  read,  studied,  and  translated  the  Bible 
word  by  word  from  cover  to  cover,  he  failed  to  see,  understand,  or 
advocate  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  it  is  therein  recorded.  In 
the  process  of  his  translations  I  have  often  wondered  what  his  re- 
action was  concerning  such  Scripture  as  the  following :  Malachi, 
Chapter  4,  verses  5  and  6: 

Behold,  I  will  send  you  Elijah  the  prophet  before  the  coming  of  the 
great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord :  And  he  shall  turn  the  heart  of  the  fa- 
thers to  the  children,  and  the  heart  of  the  children  to  their  fathers,  lest  I 
come  and  smite  the  earth  with  a  curse. 

Light  Upon  the  Scriptures  Given  Through  Joseph  Smith 

Joseph  Smith,  unlearned  of  men,  chosen  by  God,  had  the  inter- 
pretation, for  Elijah  appeared  to  him  and  gave  him  the  keys  that  had 
turned  the  heart  of  the  children  to  their  fathers,  inaugurating  the 
Gospel  of  salvation  for  the  dead. 

I  wonder  what  the  thoughts  of  Martin  Luther  were  as  he  paused 
over  the  statement  of  Ezekiel,  Chapter  37,  verses  16  and  17 : 

Moreover,  thou  son  of  man,  take  thee  one  stick,  and  write  upon  it,  For 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN  119 

Judah,  and  for  the  children  of  Israel  his  companions :  then  take  another 
stick,  and  write  upon  it,  For  Joseph,  the  stick  of  Ephraim,  and  for  all  the 
house  of  Israel  his  companions:  And  join  them  one  to  another  into  one 
stick ;  and  they  shall  become  one  in  thine  hand. 

And  again  the  meek  of  the  earth  received  the  interpretation  of 
this  Scripture  when  Moroni  appeared  to  the  boy  Joseph  Smith  and 
four  years  later  entrusted  to  his  care  a  record  inscribed  upon  the 
plates  of  gold,  giving  the  record  of  Joseph  and  Ephraim  and  all  the 
house  of  Israel,  combining  the  stick  of  Judah,  or  the  Bible,  and  the 
stick  of  Joseph,  or  the  Book  of  Mormon,  as  one  witness  for  the  Lord 
and  His  Son  Jesus  Christ. 

I  wonder  what  the  emotions  of  Martin  Luther  were  as  he  read 
that  scripture  of  Amos  which  indicated  that  a  great  apostasy  was  to 
take  place  as  predicted  in  the  book  of  Amos,  Chapter  8,  verse  11 : 

Behold,  the  days  come,  saith  the  Lord  God,  that  I  will  send  a  famine 
in  the  land,  not  a  famine  of  bread,  nor  a  thirst  for  water,  but  of  hearing 
the  words  of  the  Lord :  .  .  . 

And  again  there  is  a'  prediction  in  the  first  chapter  of  Paul's 
epistle  to  the  Galatians,  verse  6 : 

I  marvel  that  ye  are  so  soon  removed  from  him  that  called  you  into 
the  grace  of  Christ  unto  another  gospel. 

The  answer  was  given  to  the  fourteen-year-old  boy  in  the  woods 
of  western  New  York  when  the  Lord  declared,  "They  draw  near  to 
me  with  their  lips,  but  their  hearts  are  far  from  me;  they  teach  for 
doctrines  the  commandments  of  men,  having  a  form  of  godliness, 
but  they  deny  the  power  thereof."  (See  Isaiah  29 :13,  and  Matthew  IS  :8.) 

Martin  Luther  no  doubt  carefully  perused  the  scriptures  which 
had  to  do  with  the  restitution  of  all  things  as  recorded  in  chapter  3, 
verses  19  to  21,  of  the  book  of  Acts  : 

Repent  ye  therefore,  and  be  converted,  that  your  sins  may  be  blotted 
out,  when  the  times  of  refreshing  shall  come  from  the  presence  of  the  Lord  ; 
And  he  shall  send  Jesus  Christ,  which  before  was  preached  unto  you : 
Whom  the  heaven  must  receive  until  the  times  of  restitution  of  all  things, 
which  God  hath  spoken  by  the  mouth  of  all  his  holy  prophets  since  the  world 
began. 

In  Revelation,  chapter  14,  verse  6,  we  read : 

And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the  midst  or  heaven,  having  the  ever- 
lasting gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth,  and  to  every 
nation,  and  kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people. 

And  again  the  humble  prophet  of  the  Lord  received  the  actual 
interpretation  in  the  reality  of  the  visits  of  Moroni  and  other  divine 
personages  whereby  the  everlasting  Gospel  was  restored  for  the 
benefit  of  all  nations,  kindreds,  tongues  and  peoples. 

Martin  Luther  declared,  "As  to  organizing  a  new  church,  I  have 
neither  the  desire  nor  the  authority  to  do  so."  Joseph  Smith  had  no 
personal  desire,  but  under  mandate  of  God  proceeded  to  organize 


120  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday.   April   6  Third   Day 

the  Church  of  Christ.  Martin  Luther  recognized  the  fact  that  he 
did  not  possess  the  authority  to  do  so.  Through  the  restoration  of 
the  Priesthood,  Joseph  Smith  had  the  authority  from  on  high  to  again 
inaugurate  among  the  children  of  men  the  plan  of  salvation  as  given 
to  the  world  by  the  Savior,  and  again  to  authorize  men  to  act  as  His 
servants  to  bestow  upon  the  Lord's  children  all  of  the  blessings  in- 
volved in  the  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  plan  as  was  done  in  former 
dispensations.  Luther's  translation  of  the  Bible  sustains  wholly 
the  doctrines  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  as  restored  to  the  earth 
by  the  Lord  through  Joseph  Smith. 

The  Test  of  Prophecy 

The  second  viewpoint  is  the  test  of  prophecy  and  revelation. 
Time  but  permits  pointing  out  to  you  a  few  of  the  many  prophecies 
made  by  the  Prophet  Joseph.  I  draw  your  attention  to  section  87 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  verses  2  and  3,  a  revelation  given 
to  the  Prophet  December  25,  1832,  wherein  the  Lord  revealed  to  His 
servant : 

The  time  will  come  that  war  will  be  poured  out  upon  all  nations,  begin- 
ning at  this  place.  For  behold,  the  Southern  States  shall  be  divided  against 
the  Northern  States,  and  the  Southern  States  will  call  on  other  nations, 
even  the  nation  of  Great  Britain,  as  it  is  called,  and  they  shall  also  call  upon 
other  nations,  in  order  to  defend  themselves  against  other  nations ;  and 
then  war  shall  be  poured  out  upon  all  nations. 

Is  it  not  singular  that  this  man,  with  few  opportunities  in  life 
from  a  scholastic  and  statesman's  point  of  view,  would  declare  twelve 
years  before  his  death  that  such  an  event  would  take  place,  which 
event  actually  occurred  twenty-nine  years  after  the  prophecy  was 
given  to  the  world,  when  the  Confederacy  fired  upon  Fort  Sumter 
and  Great  Britain  became  involved?  Thus  prophecy  was  fulfilled, 
which  statement  is  borne  out  by  the  facts  of  history.  There  is  only 
one  answer  to  the  question,  whence  came  this  advance  information 
to  Joseph  Smith?    It  came  to  him  from  the  Lord,  as  a  revelation. 

Section  97,  verses  22  and  23,  affords  provocative  thinking : 

For  behold,  and  lo,  vengeance  cometh  speedily  upon  the  ungodly  as 
the  whirlwind;  and  who  shall  escape  it?  The  Lord's  scourge  shall  pass 
over  by  night  and  by  day,  and  the  report  thereof  shall  vex  all  people ;  yea, 
it  shall  not  be  stayed  until  the  Lord  come. 

The  question  arises,  what  is  meant  by  the  Lord's  scourge,  a 
"scourge  to  pass  over  by  night  and  by  day,  and  the  report  thereof 
shall  vex  all  people"?  As  we  observe  the  events  that  are  occurring 
in  the  greatest  war  of  all  time,  the  scourge  spoken  of  by  the  Lord  might 
well  be  squadrons  of  flying  fortresses  raining  death  and  destruction 
upon  people,  cities,  armies,  battleship  fleets,  the  merchant  marine- — - 
by  day  and  by  night.  Think,  if  you  will,  of  London,  Coventry,  Rot- 
terdam, Stalingrad,  and  now  Berlin.  Surely  the  inhabitants  of  war- 
ring nations  are  sorely  vexed  by  the  passing  of  this  scourge  over  them 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN  121 

by  day  and  by  night.    Again  I  submit  the  question,  from  whence  did 
Joseph  Smith  receive  the  information  that  such  an  event  would  take 
place  ?    There  is  but  one  answer — his  own — a  revelation  from  the  Lord. 
Consider  section  61,  verses  14,  15  and  16 : 

Behold,  I,  the  Lord,  in  the  beginning  blessed  the  waters ;  but  in  the  last 
days,  by  the  mouth  of  my  servant  John,  I  cursed  the  waters.  Wherefore,  the 
days  will  come  that  no  flesh  shall  be  safe  upon  the  waters.  And  it  shall  be 
said  in  days  to  come  that  none  is  able  to  go  up  to  the  land  of  Zion  upon  the 
waters,  but  he  that  is  upright  in  heart. 

An  examination  of  daily  events  upon  the  oceans  of  the  earth 
might  well  indicate  that  the  days  are  here  when  no  flesh  shall  be  safe 
upon  the  waters.  Hundreds  of  thousands  of  tons  of  shipping  have  been 
sent  to  the  bottom  of  the  sea,  involving  the  loss  of  thousands  of  lives. 
Again  the  question  comes  to  our  minds,  how  was  it  possible  for  Joseph 
Smith  in  1831  to  forecast  a  situation  in  the  future  wherein  the  waters 
would  be  unsafe  for  man?  His  answer  is  the  only  one — a  revelation 
from  God,  given  to  His  servant. 

Joseph  Smith  was  among  the  first  American  religionists  to  de- 
clare the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  came  into  being  because 
God  suffered  its  establishment.  Read  the  words  of  the  Lord  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  found  in  section  101,  verse  77 : 

According  to  the  laws  and  constitution  of  the  people,  which  I  have 
suffered  to  be  established,  and  should  be  maintained  for  the' rights  and 
protection  of  all  flesh,  according  to  just  and  holy  principles. 

May  I  be  permitted  to  digress  long  enough  to  say  that  any 
member  of  this  Church  or  any  citizen  of  this  great  republic  that 
advocates  the  idea  that  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  should 
be  relegated  to  the  past  is  on  dangerous  ground,  for  such  a  proposi- 
tion destroys  one  of  the  fundamentals  upon  which  true  religion  and 
democratic  government  are  founded,  namely  the  principle  of  free 
agency.  Free  agency,  so  far  as  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  is  con- 
cerned, is  the  foundation  upon  which  the  whole  Gospel  plan  was 
formulated  in  the  pre-existent  world. 

The  Word  of  Wisdom  also  stands  as  an  example  of  prophecy  and 
revelation,  God's  law  of  health,  sustained  by  modern-day  science, 
which  in  the  days  of  the  Prophet  had  done  but  little  work  from  a 
scientific  point  of  view  as  to  what  was  good  and  not  good  for  man 
physically. 

From  the  point  of  view  of  prophecy,  compare  Joseph  Smith's 
declarations  with  the  statement  of  Mosiah  found  in  chapter  8,  verses 
17andl8: 

But  a  seer  can  know  of  things  which  are  past,  and  also  things  which 
are  to  come,  and  by  them  shall  all  things  be  revealed,  or,  rather,  shall 
secret  things  be  made  manifest,  and  hidden  things  shall  come  to  light,  and 
things  which  are  not  known  shall  be  made  known  by  them,  and  also  things 
shall  be  made  known  by  them  which  otherwise  could  not  be  known.  Thus 
God  has  provided  a  means  that  man,  through  faith,  might  work  mighty 
miracles ;  therefore  he  becometh  a  great  benefit  to  his  fellow  beings. 


122  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday.    April   6  Third  Day 

A  Prophet's  Right  to  Speak  for  the  Lord 

Have  men  ever  stopped  to  consider  that  of  all  the  great  ecclesias- 
tics since  the  days  of  Christ  and  His  apostles,  there  has  been  but  one  who 
used  the  term,  "Thus  saith  the  Lord"  ?  Joseph  Smith,  speaking  directly 
for  the  Lord,  was  the  first  one  who  had  this  right.  He  spoke  for  the 
Lord  as  did  Moses,  Jeremiah,  and  Ezekiel. 

Third,  the  authenticity  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  should  be  given 
consideration.  Historians,  men  of  science,  and  doctors  of  religion 
over  a  period  of  one  .hundred  thirteen  years  have  made  a  most  critical 
analysis  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  failing  to  find  inconsistencies  or 
contradictions  in  the  doctrines  of  Jesus  Christ,  in  history  or  geogra- 
phy. In  fact,  research  work  in  Central  and  South  America  accumu- 
lated since  the  martyrdom  of  the  Prophet  sustains  the  Book  of 
Mormon  as  to  its  origin.  More  than  that,  men  can  know  for  them- 
selves through  study  and  humble  supplication  before  the  Lord,  that 
the  Book  of  Mormon  is  indeed  of  the  Lord.  Moroni,  the  last  writer 
in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  leaves  with  the  reader  this  promise : 

And  when  ye  shall  receive  these  things,  I  would  exhort  you  that  ye 
would  ask  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  in  the  name  of  Christ,  if  these  things 
are  not  true  ;  and  if  ye  shall  ask  with  a  sincere  heart,  with  real  intent,  having 
faith  in  Christ,  he  will  manifest  the  truth  of  it  unto  you,  by  the  power  of 
the  Holy  Ghost.    (Moroni  10:4) 

The  Works  of  Joseph  Smith  of  Enduring  Quality 

The  fourth  viewpoint — as  someone  has  declared — Joseph  Smith 
left  all  his  works,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
Pearl  of  Great  Price,  revised  Bible,  for  future  critical  study.  He 
stands  alone  in  this.  Joseph  Smith,  unlearned  in  the  ways  of  men, 
neither  disillusioned  nor  spoiled  by  the  theories  or  science  of  men, 
was  selected  and  foreordained  before  the  creation  of  the  world  to 
bring  forth  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  for  the  second  time, 
hence  his  works  will  stand  forever  and  ever.  This  is  the  only  answer 
to  Joseph  Smith  and  his  work.  Possessed  neither  of  friends  nor 
wealth,  without  the  protection  of  kings  and  noblemen,  with  no  op- 
portunities of  worldly  training,  yet  regarding  him  and  others  one  noted 
American,  Fred  W.  Shibley,  declared,  "What  the  country  and  the  world 
needs  today  is  a  resurgence  of  the  philosophy  taught  by  Confucius,  Jesus, 
and  Joseph  Smith.  Otherwise  we  will  have  an  appalling  period  of 
human  decadence."  Josiah  Quincy  declared,  "It  is  by  no  means 
improbable  that  some  future  textbook  for  the  use  of  generations 
yet  unborn  will  contain  a  question  like  this  :  'What  historical  Ameri- 
can of  the  19th  century  has  exerted  the  most  powerful  influence  upon 
the  destinies  of  his  countrymen?'  and  the  answer  may  be  Joseph 
Smith,  the  Mormon  prophet." 

It  is  intensely  interesting  that  Fred  Shibley  and  Josiah  Quincy, 
men  not  of  Joseph  Smith's  faith,  would  classify  him  with  the  greatest 
of  teachers,  Jesus  Christ  and  Confucius,  and  give  him  a  place  among 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN  123 

the  world's  and  America's  greatest.  As  Moroni  declared  to  Joseph 
Smith,  his  name  would  be  had  for  good  and  evil  among  the  nations. 
Today  it  is  had  for  more  good  than  evil. 

A  few  years  ago  I  stood  in  old  Carthage  Jail,  and  walking  up  the 
stairs  to  the  room  occupied  by  Joseph  and  his  friends  and  standing 
there  in  meditation,  the  thought  came  to  me,  suppose  Joseph,  in  the 
last  moments  of  anguish,  facing  certain  death,  had  confronted  the 
blood-thirsty  Carthage  Grays  with  this  statement :  "I  am  an  im- 
poster.  I  did  not  see  the  Father  and  the  Son.  The  Book  of  Mormon 
is  of  my  own  creation."  The  Carthage  Grays  would  have  responded 
with  one  voice,  "Joseph,  return  to  Nauvoo.  We  promise  to  permit 
you  to  live  in  peace." 

Authority  Rests  With  Successors  to  Joseph  Smith 

Joseph  Smith  could  not  make  any  such  statement  for,  said  he, 
"I  saw  the  Father  and  the  Son,  and  I  knew  that  God  knew  it,  and  I 
could  not  deny  it,  neither  dared  I  do  it;  at  least  I  knew  that  by  so 
doing  I  would  offend  God  and  come  under  condemnation,'"  and  rather 
than  deny  his  testimony  to  the  world,  he  sealed  it  with  his  blood, 
which  is  in  accordance  with  the  Scripture  found  in  Hebrews,  chapter 
9,  verse  16,  "For  where  a  testament  is,  there  must  also  of  necessity 
be  the  death  of  the  testator." 

With  the  death  of  Joseph  Smith,  what  happened  to  the  mantle 
of  authority  and  the  keys  that  he  held  ?  They  were  in  the  possession 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  as  the  revelation  of  the  Lord  to  the 
Prophet  indicates,  the  Twelve  are  equal  in  authority  to  the  First 
Presidency  (D.  &  C.  107  :23,  24).  The  Council  of  the  Twelve,  through 
revelation  and  inspiration  selected  Brigham  Young.  From  the  martyr- 
dom of  the  Prophet  Joseph  until  the  present  day,  all  of  his  successors 
have  been  so  selected  and  today  the  same  mantle  of  authority  rests 
upon  the  shoulders  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant  and  the  same  keys 
are  vested  in  him  for  the  furtherance  of  the  work  of  the  Lord  until 
the  second  coming  of  the  Redeemer. 

The  True  Explanation 

There  is  but  one  answer  to  Joseph  Smith,  and  the  answer  is 
found  in  his  story,  his  life,  and  his  achievements.  It  is  also  found 
in  the  lives  of  those  who  have  accepted  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  and  have  been  blessed  with  a  testimony  of  its  divine  origin. 
Joseph  Smith  should  not  be  a  man  of  mystery  to  the  world,  but  a 
true  servant  of  God,  for  as  the  Savior  declared,  ".  .  .  By  their  fruits 
ye  shall  know  them"  (Matt.  7:3). 

I  am  grateful  for  the  witness  with  which  the  Lord  has  blessed 
me,  convincing  me  beyond  all  doubt  that  Joseph  Smith  was  an 
apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  a  prophet,  seer,  and  revelator,  and 
through  him  God's  greatest  gift  to  man  has  been  made  available  to 
all  who  accept  His  teachings.  This  gift  is  known  as  the  gift  of  salva- 
tion, and  there  is  no  greater  gift. 


124  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday.   April   6  Third  Day 

Joseph  Smith,  a  humble,  unknown  farm  boy,  as  Peter  was  the 
lowly  fisherman — and  yet  in  the  hands  of  God  he  became  the 
mightiest  and  the  greatest  in  this,  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of 
times,  for  he  definitely  reaffirmed  the  actual  existence  of  the  Father 
and  His  beloved  Son  Jesus  Christ.  Yes,  "the  weak  things  of  the 
world  shall  come  forth  and  break  down  the  mighty  and  strong  ones." 
May  our  obedience  to  and  compliance  with  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  as  restored  through  His  instrument,  Joseph  Smith, 
increase  our  testimonies  of  Joseph  Smith's  divine  calling,  I  humbly 
ask,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

"I  said  to  the  man  who  stood  at  the  gate  of  the  year,  'Give  me  a  light 
that  I  may  tread  safely  into  the  unknown,'  and  he  replied,  'Go  out  into  the 
darkness,  and  put  your  hand  in  the  hand  of  God.  That  shall  be  to  you 
better  than  a  light,  and  safer  than  the  known  way.'  " 

Comments  on  Words  of  King  of  England 

Those  words  were  quoted  by  the  King  of  England  in  an  Empire 
Broadcast  shortly  after  Great  Britain  entered  the  present  world  conflict. 
I  presume  the  thought  that  he  intended  to  convey  to  his  subjects  was  that 
they  should  humble  themselves  and  in  supplication  and  in  faith  approach 
their  Heavenly  Father  for  divine  guidance  and  His  protection.  And  it 
was  well  that  they  be  so  counseled,  for  our  Heavenly  Father  is  concerned 
about  all  His  children  and  desires  that  they  ".  .  .  believe  that  he  is,  and 
that  he  is  a  rewarder  of  them  that  diligently  seek  him"  (Hebrews  11 :6). 

The  Voice  of  the  Shepherd 

To  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  this  troublous  day,  when  the  perils  of  the 
earth  are  round  about  us,  it  is  well  that  we  take  stock  as  to  how  we  may 
approach  Him  and  what  may  be  our  blessings.  The  Savior  Himself 
spoke  of  the  Comforter,  which  He  said  would  guide  into  all  truth,  would 
bring  all  things  to  our  remembrance,  would  show  us  things  to  come,  and 
would  teach  us  all  things  whatsoever  the  Lord  our  God  had  commanded. 
But  there  was  another  thing  that  has  been  spoken  of  by  the  scriptures, 
another  guiding  light  that  I  should  like  to  call  to  the  attention  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  at  this  time.  The  Savior  enunciated  this  principle  in 
the  beautiful  parable  in  which  He  spoke  of  Himself  as  the  shepherd, 
the  sheepf  old  as  His  kingdom,  and  the  sheep  as  His  people.  These  were 
His  words : 

.  .  .  and  the  sheep  hear  his  voice :  and  he  calleth  his  own  sheep  by  name, 
and  he  leadeth  them  out. 

And  when  he  putteth  forth  his  own  sheep,  he  goeth  before  them,  and 
the  sheep  follow  him :  for  they  know  his  voice.    (John  10:3,  4) 

The  Apostle  Paul  said: 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE  125 

There  are,  it  may  be,  so  many  kinds  of  voices  in  the  world,  .  .  . 

Therefore  if  I  know  not  the  meaning  of  the  voice,  I  shall  be  unto  him 
that  speaketh  a  barbarian,  and  he  that  speaketh  shall  be  a  barbarian  unto 
me.    (I  Corinthians  14:10,  11) 

So  we  may  in  this  day  distinguish  among  the  babble  of  voices  that 
are  to  be  heard  on  every  side,  the  voice  of  the  true  shepherd,  that  we 
be  not  found  to  be  barbarians  in  the  day  of  our  need  for  direction  and 
guidance.    The  Apostle  Peter  declared  that  way  when  he  said: 

Prophecy  Continues  in  Present  Generation 

We  have  also  a  more  sure  word  of  prophecy ;  whereunto  ye  do  well  that 
ye  take  heed,  as  unto  a  light  that  shineth  in  a  dark  place,  until  the  day 
dawn,  and  the  day  star  arise  in  your  hearts : 

Knowing  this  first,  that  no  prophecy  of  the  scripture  is  of  any  private 
interpretation. 

For  the  prophecy  came  not  in  old  time  by  the  will  of  man:  but  holy 
men  of  God  spake  as  they  were  moved  by  the  Holy  Ghost.  (II  Peter  1 : 
19-21) 

This  thought  agrees  in  substance  with  that  declared  by  the  Prophet 
Amos,  when  he  said : 

Surely  the  Lord  God  will  do  nothing,  but  he  revealeth  his  secret  unto 
his  servants  the  prophets.    (Amos  3 :7) 

Those  secrets  have  been  revealed  in  this  day,  when  in  our  generation 
the  Lord  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  said : 

Wherefore,  I  the  Lord,  knowing  the  calamity  which  should  come  upon 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  called  upon  my  servant  Joseph  Smith,  Jun., 
and  spake  unto  him  from  heaven,  and  gave  him  commandments  ...  (D. 
&  C.  1:17) 

Just  as  the  Prophet  Joseph  was  called,  so  have  been  called  Brigham 
Young,  and  every  one  who  has  presided  in  the  Presidency  of  this  Church, 
down  to  President  Grant,  President  Qark,  and  President  McKay,  who 
today  occupy  the  high  place  as  the  mouthpieces  of  God  in  directing  this 
people. 

We  as  a  people  seem  to  be  willing  to  accept  many  of  the  ancient 
prophecies  as  having  been  literally  fulfilled  but  when  we  see  prophecies 
fulfilled  in  our  own  day  we  are  prone  to  question  and  to  express  some 
doubts.  As  the  Master  said,  "...  A  prophet  is  not  without  honor,  but  in 
his  own  country, .  .  ."  (Mark  6:4)  and  he  might  have  added,  "Save  in  his 
own  time." 

Need  for  Church  Welfare  Plan 

I  should  like  to  bring  to  you  some  observations  for  just  a  few 
moments.  Today  I  am  in  a  reflective  mood  because  we  at  this  conference 
are  celebrating  the  seventh  anniversary  of  the  inauguration  of  what  has 
been  styled  the  Church  Welfare  program.  Coming  on  a  train  from  the 
east  last  fall,  I  read  from  an  editorial  in  the  Chicago  Tribune  wherein 
editors  were  commenting  upon  an  article  that  had  been  written  by  a 
prominent  educator  in  the  School  Review,  a  publication  of  the  Depart- 


126  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday,    April   6  Third  Day 

ment  of  Education  of  the  University  of  Chicago.  This  educator's  state- 
ment in  that  Review  was  a  very  doleful  picture  of  what  was  to  happen 
to  us  after  the  present  World  War  had  finished.  He  spoke  of  the  loss  of 
world  markets,  the  difficulties  in  finding  adjustments  for  the  millions 
who  had  been  thrown  out  into  war  industries,  and  for  the  returning 
millions  of  our  boys  from  the  armed  services.  He  spoke  of  the  despera- 
tion, the  frustration,  and  the  futility  of  many  of  those  thus  found  in  the 
toils  of  that  readjustment  period.  And  then  he  said,  "The  only  vocational 
group  which  will  not  immediately  suffer  are  the  farmers ;  they  can  raise 
what  they  need."  Then  he  suggested  that  we  need  prepare  for  what  was 
in  store  by  teaching  farming  as  a  compulsory  subject,  to  get  hold  of  a 
piece  of  land,  that  those  provided  with  farming  skill  should  be  able 
thereby  to  keep  the  "wolf"  from  the  door.    And  so  he  goes  on. 

That  set  me  thinking,  because  the  voice  of  the  Lord  was  declared 
back  in  1894,  in  October  of  that  year,  by  that  man  whom  we  sustained  then 
as  the  prophet,  seer,  and  revelator  unto  this  Church.    He  said : 

So  far  as  temporal  matters  are  concerned  we  must  go  to  work  to  provide 
for  ourselves.  The  day  will  come,  as  we  have  all  been  told,  that  we  shall 
see  the  necessity  of  making  our  own  shoes  and  our  own  clothing,  and 
providing  our  own  foodstuffs,  and  uniting  together  to  carry  out  the  purposes 
of  the  Lord.  We  will  be  preserved  in  the  mountains  of  Israel  in  the  days 
of  God's  judgments.  I  therefore  say.  unto  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
prepare  for  that  which  is  to  come.  (Wilford  Woodruff — Weber  Stake, 
October  8,  1894) 

The  voice  of  the  Lord  was  again  heard  in  1936,  when  again  we  were 
told  by  our  leaders  that  there  should  be  a  production  of  all  the  things 
needed  by  those  who  would  otherwise  be  unable  to  provide  for  themselves. 
For  seven  years  the  Church  has  been  schooled  in  the  methods  of  produc- 
tion and  distribution.  Storehouses  have  been  established — eighty-six 
of  them  today — grain  elevators  have  been  erected  and  yet  in  the  face  of 
all  that  anxious,  feverish  activity  that  has  been  directed  by  the  Presidency 
of  this  Church,  there  have  been  contrary  voices,  there  have  been  contrary 
philosophies  of  spending  ourselves  into  prosperity ;  we  have  had  a  sub- 
versive economic  program ;  we  have  had  subsidies  and  controls  of  every 
kind  that  seemed  to  work  at  cross  purposes  with  that  which  the  prophets 
of  the  Lord  were  guiding  us  to  do. 

The  spirit  of  all  this  Welfare  activity  throughout  the  Church  and 
the  meaning  of  all  this  preparation  seemed  to  have  found  expression  in  a 
dedicatory  prayer-  offered  by  one  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  in 
August  of  1940  when  the  elevator  down  on  Welfare  Square  was 
dedicated.  Here  was  a  statement  from  that  beautiful  and  inspired  dedica- 
tory prayer : 

May  this  be  an  edifice  of  service,  a  contribution  of  love,  and  as  such 
we  dedicate  it  to  thee  and  ask  thy  blessings  to  attend  all  who  may  have 
contributed  to  its  erection,  and  all  who  may  contribute  to  the  keeping  of 
these  bins  filled  with  the  wheat  which  is  considered  necessary  to  be  pre- 
served preparatory  for  the  judgments  that  await  the  nations  of  the  earth. 
(David  O.  McKay,  August,  1940) 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE  127 

The  Saints  Instructed  to  Produce  and  Store 

Then  came  1937.  The  voice  of  the  Lord  again  spoke  through  His 
mouthpiece  from  this  place  to  Israel.  Individuals  were  told  to  go  beyond 
Welfare  production,  putting  storage  in  their  own  places  sufficient  for  a 
needed  supply.  Oh,  there  were  some  who  sat  back  in  that  day,  just  like 
the  scorners  who  sat  in  the  house  of  Lehi's  dreams,  and  pointed  fingers 
of  scorn  at  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  heeded  that  call,  and  came  to  a 
point  after  the  declaration  of  war  when  all  such  were  dubbed  as  hoarders, 
and  were  accused  of  being  unpatriotic  to  the  great  urge  that  was  being 
made  of  this  great  American  nation.  But  shortly  after  that  finger  of 
scorn  was  pointed  and  those  epithets  were  thus  hurled,  we  had  a  letter 
from  a  state  consumer  officer  in  connection  with  the  O.P.A.  office  who 
asked  the  Church  to  stimulate  its  membership  to  produce  and  to  store, 
to  do  the  very  thing  that  for  five  and  six  years  the  Church  had  actually 
been  doing  under  the  direction  and  by  the  counsel  of  the  leadership  of 
this  Church. 

Again  there  came  counsel  in  1942,  a  change  was  made. 

We  renew  our  counsel,  said  the  leaders  of  the  Church,  and  repeat  our 
instructions :  Let  every  Latter-day  Saint  that  has  land,  produce  some 
valuable  essential  foodstuff  thereon  and  then  preserve  it;  or  if  he  cannot 
produce  an  essential  foodstuff,  let  him  produce  some  other  kind  and  ex- 
change it  for  an  essential  foodstuff;  let  them  who  have  no  land  of  their 
own,  and  who  have  knowledge  of  farming  and  gardening,  try  to  rent  some, 
either  by  themselves  or  with  others,  and  produce  foodstuff  thereon,  and 
preserve  it.  Let  those  who  have  land  produce  enough  extra  to  help  their 
less  fortunate  brethren.    (Message  of  First  Presidency,  April,  1942) 

It  was  as  though  they  knew  fully  a  year  before  the  present  rationing 
program  was  inaugurated  that  there  had  to  be  a  change  from  the  previous 
activity  if  we  would  be  sustained  in  this  time.  Let  me  ask  you  leaders 
who  are  here  today:  In  1937  did  you  store  in  your  own  basements  and 
in  your  own  private  storehouses  and  granaries  sufficient  for  a  year's 
supply?  You  city  dwellers,  did  you  in  1942  heed  what  was  said  from 
this  stand  ?  Did  you  go  out  and  procure  that  land  a  year  ago  in  prepara- 
tion for  that  which  came  last  fall  in  the  way  of  a  rationing  program?  If 
you  didn't,  you  find  yourselves  now  rather  anxious  about  the  present 
situation,  because  land  this  year  is  much  more  difficult  and  much  more 
costly  to  obtain. 

I  remember  something  else  that  was  said.  It  was  declared  also 
from  this  pulpit  that  the  interpretation  of  the  vision  of  Pharaoh  by  the 
boy  Joseph  when  he  saw  the  seven  lean  and  the  seven  fat  kine — or  the 
reverse,  the  seven  fat  and  the  seven  lean  kine — coming  up  out  of  the 
water,  was  not  without  parallel  in  our  own  day.  Of  this  parallel  our 
leaders  reminded  us  in  these  words  :  "We  have  had  seven  fat  years,"  (and 
this  marks  the  end  of  the  seventh  year  since  the  inauguration  of  the 
Welfare  plan).  "We  are  warned  that  scanty  days  lie  ahead."  As  I 
have  thought  of  that  statement  of  the  brethren,  I  have  wondered  if  we 
may  see  a  shadow  also  in  the  fact  that  the  eleven  brothers  who  were 
unguided  by  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  were  forced  to  come  to  the  one  pro- 


128  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday,    April   6  Third  Day 

vident  brother  who  listened  to  the  word  of  God.     I  wonder  if  we  are 
likewise  to  see  that  parallel  in  Israel  today. 

Wisdom  Shown  in  Instructions  as  to  Travel 

Yes,  there  were  some  other  things.  May  I  just  speak  of  one  more  ? 
On  January  17,  1942,  a  letter  i  was  sent  out  to  all  the  Church  urging 
and  instructing  that  they  discontinue  stake  meetings  ;  to  restrict  the  travel 
by  stake  board  members,  to  cut  down  on  other  activities  where  otherwise 
they  would  not  be  able  to  conserve.  And  when  you  remember  that  all 
this  happened  from  eight  months  to  nearly  a  year  before  the  tire  and 
gas  rationing  took  place,  you  may  well  understand  if  you  will  only  take 
thought  that  here  again  was  the  voice  of  the  Lord  to  this  people,  trying  to 
prepare  them  for  the  conservation  program  that  within  a  year  was  forced 
upon  them.  No  one  at  that  time  could  surely  foresee  that  the  countries 
that  had  been  producing  certain  essential  commodities  were  to  be  overrun 
and  we  thereby  be  forced  into  a  shortage. 

Calling  Out  of  Missionaries 

Yes,  you  remember  when  the  missionaries  were  taken  out  of  Europe 
a  few  years  ago,  there  were  many  who  sat  in  the  scorners'  seats  who 
said :  "Why,  that  is  silly.  During  the  last  World  War  we  did  not  have 
all  the  missionaries  taken  out."  But  those  who  thus  spoke  forgot  that 
Brigham  Young  had  voiced  the  word  of  the  Lord  some  years  ago  when 
he  said: 

Do  you  think  there  is  calamity  abroad  now  among  the  people?  .  .  . 
All  we  have  yet  heard,  and  all  we  have  experienced  is  scarcely  a  preface 
to  the  sermon  that  is  going  to  be  preached. 

Now,  mark  you  this : 

When  the  testimony  of  the  Elders  ceases  to  be  given  and  the  Lord 
says  to  them,  "Come  home;  I  will  now  preach  my  own  sermons  to  the 
nations  of  the  earth."  All  you  now  know  can  scarcely  be  called  a  preface 
to  the  sermon  that  will  be  preached  with  fire  and  sword,  tempests,  earth- 
quake, hail,  rain,  thunders  and  lightnings,  and  fearful  destruction. 

And  it  is  a  matter  of  record  that  hardly  had  the  last  missionary 
been  called  home  until  all  hell  seemed  to  break  loose  in  Europe,  in  veritable 
fulfillment  of  the  prophecy  that  had  been  given.  When  likewise  the 
missionaries  were  called  from  the  island  missions  of  the  sea,  we  heard  the 
same  clamor,  criticising  these  brethren  because  they  were  doing  things 
that  seemed  to  some  members  of  the  Church  to  be  not  necessary,  and 
yet  we  see  the  great  wisdom  displayed  in  what  already  has  been  done. 

Lesson  from  Life  of  Moses 

I  think  we  could  learn  a  lesson  from  the  story  that  we  read  in  the 
book  of  Exodus  (17:6-13),  in  the  life  of  Moses  the  prophet.  You  will 
recall  that  Amalek  had  come  upon  Israel,  and  Joshua  was  commanded  by 
Moses  to  go  out  with  his  army.    He  said  to  Joshua,  "I  will  stand  upon  the 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE  129 

mount  with  the  rod  of  the  Lord  in  my  hand,  and  you  go  fight  the  battles 
of  Israel."  And  as  long  as  he  stood  with  his  hands  upraised  Israel 
prevailed  against  the  enemy,  but  his  hands  became  heavy  and  he  could 
not  hold  them  up,  and  when  he  would  drop  his  hands,  the  enemy  prevailed 
over  Israel.  And  so  they  sat  him  upon  a  rock  upon  the  Mount,  and  Aaron 
and  Hur  stood  holding  his  hands  upraised,  that  Israel  would  prevail  in 
that  terrible  day. 

That  also  is  not  without  its  shadow  today  and  its  lesson  to  Israel. 
Here  sits  today  on  this  stand  the  man  as  President  of  this  Church  who 
holds  in  his  hand  the  rod  of  the  Lord ;  he  is  sitting  upon  the  mount,  and  as 
long  as  his  hands  are  upheld  by  obedience  to  his  direction  and  his  counsel, 
Israel  will  prevail  against  her  enemies.  But  whenever  we  come  to  a 
time  when  we  allow  his  hands  to  fall,  and  we  as  the  Priesthood  of  the 
living  God  fail  to  uphold  his  hands,  just  in  that  day  we  may  expect  our 
enemies  to  come  upon  us  and  to  destroy  us. 

Security  in  Following  Advice  of  Leaders 

I  was  down  in  Kelsey,  Texas,  last  November,  and  I  heard  a  group 
of  anxious  people  asking,  "Is  now  the  day  for  us  to  come  up  to  Zion, 
where  we  can  come  to  the  mountain  of  the  Lord,  where  we  can  be  protected 
from  our  enemies  ?"  I  pondered  that  question,  I  prayed  about  it.  What 
should  we  say  to  those  people  who  were  in  their  anxiety  ?  I  have  studied 
it  a  bit,  I  have  learned  something  of  what  the  Spirit  has  taught,  and  I 
know  now  that  the  place  of  safety  in  this  world  is  not  in  any  given  place  ; 
it  doesn't  make  so  much  difference  where  we  live ;  but  the  all-important 
thing  is  how  we  live,  and  I  have  found  that  security  can  come  to  Israel 
only  when  they  keep  the  commandments,  when  they  live  so  that  they  can 
enjoy  the  companionship,  the  direction,  the  comfort,  and  the  guidance 
of  the  Holy  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  when  they  are  willing  to  listen  to  these 
men  whom  God  has  set  here  to  preside  as  His  mouthpieces,  and  when  we 
obey  the  counsels  of  the  Church. 

When  a  decision  has  been  reached  by  the  presiding  councils  of 
the  Church  and  a  majority  in  these  councils  has  decided  on  a  certain  policy, 
and  then  there  comes  a  minority  voice  contrary  to  that  majority  decision 
one  may  know  with  a  surety  that  that  minority  voice  is  not  speaking  the 
will  of  the  Lord.  I  tremble  when  I  think  of  the  truth  of  that  statement. 
I  am  greatly  concerned  when  I  now  sit  in  one  of  the  presiding  councils 
of  the  Church,  and  remember  that  in  days  gone  by  there  have  been  those 
who  have  fallen  by  the  way  because  they  went  out  in  contradiction  of  the 
majority  decision  of  that  body.  And  so  that  places  before  you  a  safe 
guide.  Should  there  be  those,  even  though  in  high  places,  who  may  come 
among  you  not  speaking  the  policy  of  the  Church  as  declared  by  these 
men  whom  we  sustain  as  the  prophets  of  the  living  God,  the  Church  may 
know  that  those  who  thus  speak  are  not  speaking  the  mind  of  the  Lord  and 
the  voice  of  the  Lord  and  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation. 

God  help  us  to  follow  the  light.  May  we  be  guided  unerringly 
through  this  day  of  grave  uncertainty,  that  we  may  be  kept  upon  Zion's 
hill  and  be  not  strangers  and  barbarians  to  the  work  of  the  Lord,  but 


130  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Tuesday,    April   6  Third  Day 

may  be  ones  to  listen  to  him  who  is  our  shepherd,  whose  voice  we  know, 
I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Brethren:  The  113th  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  now  drawing  to  a  close. 

Teachings  of  the  Conference 

In  this  Conference  you  men  who  hold  responsible  positions  as 
Stake,  Ward,  and  Quorum  officers  have  represented  the  entire  member- 
ship of  the  Church.  During  these  six  sessions  the  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church  have  set  forth  impressively  and  clearly  the  paramount 
need  that  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  permeate  the  hearts  of  men,  and  that 
the  Spirit  thereof  direct  the  nations  of  the  world.  The  standards  and 
ideals  of  the  Church  have  been  set  forth  most  sincerely  and  impressively. 
Earnest  appeals  have  been  made  to  all  members,  and  particularly  to  the 
young  men  and  women,  that  they  subscribe  their  lives  in  conformity  with 
the  standards  and  ideals  of  righteousness.  Impressively  the  Authorities 
have  urged  you  men  to  be  real  guides,  leaders  and  exemplars  to  the  mem- 
bership of  the  Church  and  to  all  men. 

Now  in  conclusion,  brethren,  I  repeat  the  words  of  the  Lord  to  the 
Priesthood  of  His  Church :  "Wherefore  now  let  every  man  learn  his 
duty,  and  to  act  in  the  office  in  which  he  is  appointed  in  all  diligence. 
He  that  is  slothful  and  will  not  learn  his  duty  shall  not  be  worthy  to 
stand,  and  he  that  shows  himself  not  approved,  shall  not  be  counted 
worthy  to  stand." 

Blessings  Invoked 

God  bless  you,  brethren.  God  bless  the  membership  of  the  Church 
throughout  the  world.  May  His  peace  be  with  our  brethren  and  sisters 
over  in  the  war-torn  countries ;  be  with  them  in  the  islands  of  the  sea, 
and  our  brethren  who  are  there  presiding,  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Almighty 
might  be  with  them  under  all  conditions  to  comfort  them  and  guide  them. 

God  bless  our  boys  who  are  at  the  front,  fighting  for  freedom,  offer- 
ing their  lives  that  this  world  may  again  have  peace.  May  the  Lord's 
comforting  influence  be  with  the  parents  whose  boys  have  already  made 
the  supreme  sacrifice.  May  these  parents  and  loved  ones  know  that  no 
bomb  can  end  the  life  of  one  who  thus  offers  himself ;  it  may  silence  his 
heart  beats,  but  he  lives  because  man  is  immortal.  May  our  soldier  boys 
so  live  that  no  matter  what  comes  to  them,  they  may  have  in  their  hearts 
the  eternal  truth  that  "he  that  liveth  and  believeth  in  Christ  shall  never 
die." 

Sylvester  Q.  Cannon  Absent  Because  of  Illness 
You  have  noticed  that  one  of  the  Twelve  has  been  absent  from  this 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY  131 

Conference.  Elder  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon  has,  on  account  of  illness,  been 
unable  to  meet  with  us.  We  pray  that  the  comforting  influence  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  will  be  with  him,  with  Sister  Cannon,  and  with  other  loved 
ones  who  are  now  administering  to  Elder  Cannon's  needs. 

God  help  us  all  so  to  live  that  we  may  be  truly  worthy  of  the  trust 
that  God  has  placed  in  us,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 


The  closing  song  was  by  the  congregation,  "God  Be  With  You," 
(Words  by  J.  E.  Rankin,  music  by  W.  G.  Tomer) . 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Roy  B.  Burnham,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Young  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


The  musical  exercises  at  the  Sunday  morning  session  were  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Director. 

The  music  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast,  and  also 
of  the  Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast,  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall. 
Organ  presentations  and  organ  accompaniments  for  these  broadcasts 
were  by  Alexander  Schreiner,  the  spoken  word  by  Richard  L.  Evans. 

The  congregational  singing  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  and 
Richard  P.  Condie. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played  by 
Alexander  Schreiner,  Frank  W.  Asper,  and  Wade  N.  Stephens. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 

Annual  Report  - 101 

Ashton,  Elder  Marvin  O - 29 

Confusion  of  war  brings  worries,  29 — A  pilot  confessed  his  belief, 
30 — Frankness  from  a  young  speaker,  30 — A  plea  for  boys  in  the 
armed  service,  30 — A  storekeeper  and  a  pound  of  butter,  31 — An 
appeal  for  kindness  to  the  erring,  32. 

Auditing  Committee  Report 106 

Auxiliary  Officers  sustained 109 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  O 67 

.  President  Grant's  sermon  inspired,  67— Importance  of  missionary 
work,  68. 

Benson,  President  Ezra  T.  (telegram  from)  22 

Bowen,  Elder  Albert  E 110 

Religion  a  potent  factor  in  world  peace,  110 — Democracy  a  thing 
of  the  spirit,  111— Power  of  Church  wielded  in  world  history, 
112 — Causes  for  waning  of  religious  influence,  113 — True  faith  the 
way  of  peace,  115. 

Broadcast  of  Choir  and  Organ 8 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A 60 

Christ's  coming  the  hope  of  the  world,  60 — Preparation  for  the 
Millennium,  60— Labors  during  the  reign  of  Christ,  61 — Present 
adversities  for  our  good,  62. 

Changes  in  Church  officers  104 

Chappius,  Elder  Gaston 87 

A  remarkable  escape,  87 — Refraining  from  partaking  the  sacra- 
ment, 87 — Conditions  in  Europe,  88 — Promised  blessings  realized, 
88 — Church  Authorities  inspired,  88. 

Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast 10 

Church  Welfare  Committee  sustained  109 

Church  Welfare  Program 102 

Clark,  President  J,  Reuben  Jr 94 

Helps  for  men  in  the  service,  94 — Tithing,  96 — Welfare  funda- 
mentals, 96 — Social  problems,  98 — To  the  young  women  of  the 
Church,  99 — The  great  paradox,  99. 

Clawson,  President  Rudger  23 

A  vision  in  the  Kirtland  Temple,  23 — A  testimony,  24. 

Deaths  105,  106 

Dependent  Branches 105 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L.  (broadcast)  9 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L 34 

Changes  brought  by  war,  34 — Fundamentals  unchanged,  35 — The 
blessing  of  the  Lord  invoked,  35. 


134  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Expenditures  by  the  Church  for  the  year  1942  101 

First  Day — Afternoon  Meeting 22 

First  Day — Morning  Meeting  2 

General  Authorities  present  1 

General  Authorities  sustained  107 

General  Auxiliary  officers  sustained  109 

General  officers  present  2 

General  officers  sustained 108 

General  Welfare  Committee  109 

Grant,  President  Heber  J.  3 

Sympathy  for  those  who  have  sons  in  the  war,  3 — Expression 
of  gratitude  for  return  to  health,  4 — Architects  of  our  own  lives, 
4 — Days  full  of  joy,  5 — Gratitude  for  increase  in  tithing,  5 — Tem- 
ple building  to  continue,  6 — Prayers  for  youth  and  parents,  6 — 
Blessing  and  commendation  for  faithful  saints,  7 — A  testimony  of 
the  truth,  7. 

Hardy,  Elder  Rufus  K 54 

Priesthood  a  choice  gift,  54 — A  land  blessed  of  tht  Lord,  SS — -Pres- 
ent need  for  missionaries,  55. 

Independent  Branches 105 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R. 73 

Sacrifice  brings  compensations,  73 — Seventies  in  the  armed  service 
to  retain  offices,  74. 

Kirkham,  Elder  Oscar  A.  81 

Boy  Scout  memories,  81 — Appeal  for  faith  in  youth,  81 — Respon- 
sibility to  preach  the  Gospel,  82. 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B 124 

Comments  on  words  of  the  King  of  England,  124 — The  voice  of 
the  Shepherd,  124 — Prophecy  continued  in  present  generation,  125 
— Need  for  Church  Welfare  Plan,  125 — The  Saints  instructed  to 
produce  and  store,  127 — Wisdom  shown  in  instructions  as  to  tra- 
vel, 128 — Calling  out  missionaries,  128 — Lesson  from  life  of  Moses, 
128 — Security  in  following  advice  of  leaders,  129. 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R 82 

To  endure  forever,  82 — Better  dead  than  a  slave,  83 — Giant  rob- 
ber's world-wide  war,  83 — The  whole  world  free,  83 — A  temple  and 
center  of  peace,  84 — Our  all  upon  the  altar.  84 — Will  win  cour- 
ageously, 84 — One  tear,  one  word  of  grief,  85 — To  thee  nothing 
impossible,  85 — Prayer  of  Jesus  not  answered,  86 — Father,  thy 
will  be  done,  86. 

McKay,  President  David  0 16 

A  God-blessed  land,  16 — Integrity  fundamental,  18 — The  Ameri- 
can home,  19 — A  national  nuisance,  19 — Chastitv  an  important 
factor,  20. 

McKay,  President  David  0 130 

Teachings  of  Conference,  130 — Blessings  invoked,  130 — Sylvester 
Q.  Cannon  absent,  130. 


INDEX  135 

McKay  Prest.  David  0 2, 3, 21,  22,  33, 41, 43, 62,  80,  86 ;  94 ;  100 ;  130 

McKay,  Elder  Thomas  E 56 

Strength  comes  from  prayer,  56 — Healing  through  faith,  57 — 
Reports  from  missions  in  Europe,  58 — Definite  need  for  Welfare 
work,  59. 

Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F 68 

Passage  of  Sheppard  bill  urged,  68 — Appeal  for  contact  with  men 
in  service,  69 — Present  day  revelation,  69 — Satan's  power  a  reality, 
71 — Our  obligation  to  live  righteously,  71— Individual  responsi- 
bility, 72.  • 

Navajo-Zuni  Indian   Mission 104 

New    Mission  Presidents 104 

New  Stake  Presidents  104 

New  Temple  President  appointed  104 

Peterson,  Elder  A.  Richard 33 

Missionaries  leaving  Norway,  33 — Interested  in  youth  of  the 
Church,  34. 

Report  of  Auditing  Committee  106 

Richards,  Elder  George  F 63 

Sacred  covenants,  63 — The  Council  in  Heaven,  63 — Effects  of  war 
upon  the  Church,  64 — Suggestions  for  carrying  on  missionary 
work,  65 — Local  missionary  labors  during  World  War  I,  65 — 
Conversions  in  stakes,  66 — The  purposes  of  the  Lord  to  be  ac- 
complished, 66. 

Richards,  Bishop  LeGrand 46 

Work  in  the  Church  brings  own  reward,  46 — Gathering  pre- 
dicted, 46 — The  worth  of  souls,  47 — Gifts  of  the  Spirit,  48 — Activity 
in  Church  work  brings  joy,  48 — Priesthood  arbitration  commit- 
tee, 49. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L 77 

Our  duty  towards  those  engaged  in  present  conflict,  77 — Freedom 
essential  to  growth  of  Church,  78 — Belief  in  ultimate  spread  of 
Church,  78 — Priesthood  carries  power  for  righteousness,  79. 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G 26 

Purpose  of  Welfare  Plan,  26 — Duty  of  Church  members  to  be 
leaders,  27 — An  example  of  self-support,  28 — The  need  for  perma- 
nent projects,  28 — True  service  called  for,  29. 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting... 62 

Second  Day — Evening  Meeting 80 

Second  Day — Morning  Meeting 43 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert 89 

The  seriousness  of  war,  89 — Faith  of  Lamanite  youths,  89 — Duty 
to  mothers  and   wives,  90 — Commendation  for  tabernacle  broad- 
cast,   91 — Righteousness    gives    strength,    91 — A    testimony    of    God's 
blessing,  93. 


136  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding 11 

Our  country  under  divine  guidance,  11 — Danger  in  forsaking 
righteousness,  11 — Laws  of  God  to  be  obeyed,  13 — Suffering 
comes  through  loss  of  blessings,  14 — The  need  for  religion,  IS. 

Smith,  Patriarch  Joseph  F 75 

Responsibility  a  serious  matter,  75 — The  word  of  the  Lord  given 
through  the  Holy  Ghost,  76 — Suggestions  as  to  kindness,  76. 

Smith,  Elder  Nicholas  G 39 

A  warm  welcome,  39 — Experiences  of  a  convert,  40 — Story  of  a 
Bishop's  kindness,  40 — Plea  for  kindness,  41. 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma 36 

Conferences  an  inspiration,  36 — Religion  a  present  day  need,  36 — 
Rejoices  in  Church,  36. 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast 8 

Taylor,  Elder  John  H 43 

Increase  in  visitors  to  Temple  Square,  44 — Closing  of  the  taber- 
nacle, 44 — Story  of  a  conversion,  44 — A  father  and  mother  change 
their  viewpoint,  4S. 

Third  Day — Morning  Meeting 100 

Wards,  changes  in 105 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A 37 

The  importance  of  temple  work,  37 — Love  is  shown  by  sacrifice, 
38 — Power  and  strength  can  come  from  unseen  world,  38. 

Wirthlin,  Elder  Joseph  L 116 

The  development  of  the  Church,  116 — The  appearance  of  heavenly 
beings  to  Joseph  Smith,  116 — Martin  Luther's  contribution  to  the 
world,  118 — Light  upon  the  Scriptures  given  through  Joseph 
Smith,  118 — The  test  of  prophecy,  120 — The  works  of  Joseph 
Smith  of  enduring  quality,  122 — -Authority  rests  with  successors 
to  Joseph  Smith,  123 — The  true  explanation,  123. 

Young,  Elder  Clifford  E 50 

Standards  for  the  Priesthood,  51 — Importance  of  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood work,  51 — Elders  and  Seventies,  52— Our  duty  to  strangers, 
52 — Illustration  from  life  of  Helen  Keller,  53. 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar 24 

Importance  of  local  missionary  work,  24 — Advice  given  to  mis- 
sionaries, 25. 


DANIEL  HAMMER  WELLS 

AID  EVENTS  OF  HIS  TIME 

By  Bryant  $.  Hinckley 

As  the  polished  facets  of  a  diamond  flash  back  brilliantly 
the  rainbow  of  colors  from  the  light  which  plays  upon  them,  so 
do  certain  historic  characters  reflect  the  light  and  color  of  their 
times. 

Daniel  Hanmer  Wells  was  one  of  these. 

Bryant  S.  Hinckley,  always  illuminating  and  inspirational, 
turns  the  spot  light  of  appraisal  and  appreciation  upon  a  dis- 
tinctive character  in  the  great  drama  of  Mormon  history. 

This  book  is  in  fact  a  new  approach  to  the  study  of  Church 
History.  It  offers  the  events  of  the  history  of  Mormonism  as 
one  of  the  principal  actors  saw  them  happen  and  as  he  acted 
in,  and  was  acted  upon  by  them. 

The  book  is  a  biography  and  more,  a  tribute  of  apprecia- 
tion and  more — it  is  a  history  throbbing  with  the  pulse  beats 
of  great  personalities  as  they  struggle  through  one  crisis  after 
another. 

His  life  ran  the  long  span  which  included  actively  within 
it  labors  of  love  for  and  loyalty  to  every  man  who  has  been 
president  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Daniel  H.  Wells  saw  it  all  happen:  The  rise  of  the  Church 
in  the  Middle  West;  the  glory  of  Nauvoo;  the  catastrophe  of 
the  martyrdom;  the  pain,  travail,  and  power  of  pioneering;  the 
building  of  the  West;  the  crises  of  pre-statehood  days;  and 
the  long,  hard  pull  which  finally  established  the  Mormon  people 
on  the  heights  where  they  are  now  building. 

Published  privately  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  as  a 
tribute  to  the  loyal  friend  of  his  youth,  it  will  stand  as  a  welcome 
addition  to  the  faith-promoting  literature  of  the  Church. 

DANIEL  HANMER  WELLS 

AID  [VENTS  01  OIS  TIME 

$2.50 

DESERET  BDDK  COMPMY 

44  East  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Enjoy  the  Fellowship  of  Great  Minds 

by  Reading  GOOD  BOOKS 

,A  book  is  cm  invitation  to  share  the  thoughts  of  an  illum- 
inating mind.  Consider  the  enrichment  one  will  receive  from 
spending  quiet  hours  with  the  authors  of  these  books: 

Heber  J.  Grant  GOSPEL  STANDARDS ..$2.25 

David  O.  McKay  ANCIENT  APOSTLES 1.00 

James  E.  Talmage        JESUS  THE  CHRIST 2.00 

ARTICLES  OF  FAITH 1.25 

B.H.  Roberts  THE  GOSPEL  1.00 

Joseph  F.  Smith  GOSPEL  DOCTRINE 2.50 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith    ESSENTIALS  IN  CHURCH 

HISTORY  2.00 

TEACHINGS  OF  THE  PROPHET 

JOSEPH  SMITH  2.00 

LIFE  OF  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH 2.50 

WAY  TO  PERFECTION 1.25 

SIGNS  OF  THE  TRVIES 1.25 

John  A.  Widtsoe  IN  SEARCH  OF  TRUTH 50 

PRffiSTHOOD  AND  CHURCH 

GOVERNMENT    1.75 

DISCOURSES  OF  BRIGHAM 
YOUNG  2.50 

George  D.  Pyper  STORIES  OF  LATTER-DAY  SADJT 

HYMNS   1.50 

John  Henry  Evans  JOSEPH  SMITH,  AN  AMERICAN 

PROPHET    3.00 

Richard  L.  Evans  UNTO  THE  HILLS  1.50 

THIS  DAY  AND  ALWAYS 1.50 

These  and  many  other  sources  of  inspiration  are  available 
to  you  in  the  large  stock  of  the 

DESEHET  BDDK  CDMPMY 

Publishers  oi  Latter-day  Saint  Literature 

44  East  South  Temple  Street 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

The  Book  Center  oi  the  Intermountain  West 


