una.  dwndJuuL  Jouudamih. 
SEMI-ANNUAL 

crnicf 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

OdoAsJL  1,  2  and.  3,  1%i 

With  Report  of  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jaws  Christ  of  Latter-day  Safari 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


WINTW  IN  THE  HHrrSD  STATU  Of  UIHICA 


FOR  YOUR  CONSIDERATION 

WE  PRESENT 

JhsL  flock  ogL  WloinwtL 

The  latest  edition  comes  to  you  in  four  different  bindings.  Of  course  the  text 
remains  the  same. 

Missionary  Edition  50c — by  mail  60c 

Cloth  Binding.  Embossed  .$1.50 

Full  Morocco  $3.50 

3>Ju>jfL  filowJbosf.  io  (p/wpJwL 

AND 

TMdMwl  Si&iisLL  pwyn.  Uul  (Book  d(L  WUfimotL 

By  WILLIAM  A.  MORTON 

This  delightful  volume  republished  as  a  reiteration  of  the  stories  that  children 
love  to  hear  and  to  read. 

Price  in  Cloth  $1.25 

Jbty  io  JJwohqjf. 

By  PARLEY  P.  PRATT 
(Reprint  warranted  by  demand) 

"Aims  to  embody  in  a  concise  and  somewhat  original  manner  and  style, 
a  general  view  of  the  Science  of  Theology  as  gathered  from  revelation,  history, 
prophecy,  reason  and  analogy." 

Price   $1.00 

d(hi&af  og.  JhsL  (fhuhdv 

Presented  in  two  important  sets  and  recommended  to  you  as  a  vital  record. 

DOCUMENTARY  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH 
By  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
Presented  in  7  volumes 

COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH 
Presented  in  6  volumes 
For  prices  and  other  information  we  urge  you  to  write  to  us. 


DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

SALT  LAKE  CITY.  UTAH 


The  One  Hundred  Fourteenth  Semi-Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Fourteenth  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  held  in  the  great  Taber- 
nacle, Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  October  1, 
2,  and  3,  1943. 

Sessions  of  the  Conference  were  held  at  2  p.m.  Friday,  10  a.m., 
2  p.m.  and  7  p.m.  Saturday,  and  at  10  a.m.  and  2  p.m.  Sunday. 

Through  the  courtesy  of  Radio  Station  KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City,  the 
proceedings  of  the  Conference,  with  the  exception  of  the  Saturday  even- 
ing meeting,  were  broadcast  for  the  benefit  of  the  general  public. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  was  present  and.  presided  at  the  Friday 
afternoon  session,  also  the  Saturday  morning  and  Sunday  morning  ses- 
sions. President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, presided  at  the  other  sessions  in  President  Grant's  absence.  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency,  con- 
ducted the  services  at  all  of  the  sessions. 

Owing  to  conditions  incident  to  the  War  emergency,  the  general 
public  were  not  invited  to  attend  the  Conference.  Those  present  consisted 
of  the  following : 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  Present 

The  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  and 
David  O.  McKay. 

The  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles :  George  Albert  Smith,  George 

F.  Richards,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Stephen  L  Richards,  Richard  R. 
Lyman,  John  A.  Widtsoe,  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  Charles  A.  Callis,  A.  E. 
Bowen,  Harold  B.  Lee,  Spencer  W.  Kimball,  and  Ezra  T.  Benson.* 

Patriarch  to  the  Church :  Joseph  F.  Smith. 

Assistants  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles :  Marion  G.  Rom- 
ney,  Thomas  E.  McKay,  Clifford  E,  Young,  Alma  Sonne,  and  Nicholas 

G.  Smith. 


*  President  Rudger  Clawson  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  passed 
away  June  21,  1943.  Elder  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  passed  away  May  29,  1943.  Elders  Spencer  W.  Kimball  and 
Ezra  T.  Benson  were  sustained  at  this  Conference  to  fill  the  vacancies  in 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve  caused  by  these  deaths. 


2  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  1  First  Day 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy :  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R. 
Ivins,  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  John  H.  Taylor,  Rufus  K.  Hardy,  Richard  L. 
Evans,  and  Oscar  A.  Kirkham. 

The  Presiding  Bishopric :  LeGrand  Richards,  Marvin  O.  Ashton, 
and  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin. 

Other  Authorities  and  Officers  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  A. 
William  Lund,  assistant. 

Members'  of  the  General  Committee,  Church  Welfare  Program. 

Superintendency  and  male  members  of  the  General  Board  of  the 
Deseret  Sunday  School  Union. 

Superintendency  and  General  Board  of  the  Y. M.M.I. A. 

Genealogical  Society  General  Board. 

Commissioner,  Seminary  Supervisors,  and  members  of  the  Church 
Board  of  Education. 

Temple  Presidencies. 

Presidencies  of  Stakes,  former  Presidencies  of  Stakes,  former  Presi- 
dents of  Missions,  Patriarchs,  High  Councilmen,  Presidencies  of  High 
Priests  quorums,  Presidents  of  Seventies  quorums,  Presidencies  of  El- 
ders quorums,  Bishoprics  of  Wards,  Presidencies  of  Independent 
Branches  in  organized  Stakes,  Presidents  of  Dependent  Branches  in  or- 
ganized Stakes,  and  Presidents  of  Stake  missions. 

FIRST  DAY 
OPENING  SESSION 

The  first  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle  Fri- 
day afternoon,  October  1,  at  2  o'clock. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

We  are  all  happy,  at  the  opening  of  this  Semi-Annual  Conference 
to  greet  our  beloved  President  who  is  here  on  the  stand,  presiding  at  this 
session.  At  his  request  I  will  make  the  announcements  and  conduct  the 
exercises. 

This  is  the  fourth  General  Conference  of  the  Church  to  which,  be- 
cause of  war  conditions,  attendance  has  been  restricted  to  official  repre- 
sentatives of  the  Priesthood.  And  still  the  world-wide  struggle  con- 
tinues !  Let  us  pray  that  when  the  strength  of  the  enemies  of  true  gov- 
ernment is  exhausted,  and  victory  crowns  the  efforts  of  the  Allies,  that 
people  throughout  all  the  nations  will  turn  their  hearts  toward  righteous- 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED  3 


ness,  and  live  and  direct  legislation  more  nearly  than  heretofore  in  con- 
formity with  the  teachings  of  the  Prince  of  Peace. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  afternoon  the  members  of  the 
First  Presidency,  the  members  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  the  Patri- 
arch to  the  Church,  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve,  the  Presidents  of  the 
First  Council  of  the  Seventy,  and  the  Presiding  Bishopric ;  and  in  the  con- 
gregation: stake,  ward  and  quorum  officers  as  heretofore  announced 
in  the  public  press. 

Through  the  courtesy  of  radio  station  KSL  proceedings  of  this  meet- 
ing are  being  broadcast.  It  will  be  necessary,  therefore,  for  the  informa- 
tion of  the  radio  audience,  to  make  some  announcements  which  you  here 
assembled  might  deem  unnecessary. 

Elder  Richard  P.  Condie  will  direct  the  music,  and  Elder  Wade  N. 
Stephens  is  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  open  this  meeting  by  the  congregation  singing,  "Come  All 
Ye  Sons  Of  Zion." 

Following  the  opening  song,  President  Royal  J.  Murdock  of  the  Utah 
Stake,  will  offer  the  invocation. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Come  All  Ye  Sons  of  Zion." 

Elder  Royal  J.  Murdock,  President  of  the  Utah  Stake,  offered  the 
invocation. 

Singing  by  the  congregation,  "Zion  Stands  With  Hills  Surrounded." 


AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  SUSTAINED 

The  General  Authorities  and  General  Officers  of  the  Church  were 
sustained  at  the  opening  session  of  the  General  Conference  this  afternoon. 

The  names  were  presented  to  the  conference  by  President  David  O. 
McKay  and  received  the  unanimous  vote  of  the  assembled  priesthood 
leadership,  as  follows: 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

First  Presidency 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
George  Albert  Smith 


4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  1  First  Day 

Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


George  Albert  Smith 
George  F.  Richards 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
Stephen  L  Richards 
Richard  R.  Lyman 
John  A.  Widtsoe 


Joseph  F.  Merrill 
Charles  A.  Callis 
Albert  E.  Bowen 
Harold  B.  Lee 
Spencer  W.  Kimball 
Ezra  T.  Benson 


Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Joseph  F.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and 
the  Patriarch  to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Marion  G.  Romney  Alma  Sonne 

Thomas  E.  McKay  Clifford  E.  Young 

Nicholas  G.  Smith 

Trustee-in-Trust 
Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  John  H.  Taylor 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Rufus  K.  Hardy 

Samuel  O.  Bennion  Richard  L.  Evans 

Oscar  A.  Kirkham 


Presiding  Bishopric 

LeGrand  Richards,  Presiding  Bishop 
Marvin  O.  Ashton,  First  Counselor 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Second  Counselor 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  as  Assistant. 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED 


5 


Church  Board  of  Education 

Heber  J.  Grant  John  A.  Widtsoe 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Adam  S.  Bennion 

David  O.  McKay,  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Charles  A.  Callis 

Stephen  L  Richards  Franklin  L.  West 

Richard  R.  Lyman  Albert  E.  Bowen 
Frank  Evans,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

Commissioner  of  Education 
Franklin  L.  West 

Seminary  Supervisors 

M.  Lynn  Bennion 
J.  Karl  Wood 

Auditing  and  Finance  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams  George  S.  Spencer 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Harold  H.  Bennett 

Tabernacle  Choir 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President ;  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor . 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor. 

Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Wade  N.  Stephens,  Assistant 


CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 
Advisers 


John  A.  Widtsoe 
Albert  E.  Bowen 
Marion  G.  Romney 
Thomas  E.  McKay 
Clifford  E.  Young 
Alma  Sonne 

General  Presidency 


Nicholas  G.  Smith 
Antoine  R.  Ivins 
John  H.  Taylor 
LeGrand  Richards 
Marvin  O.  Ashton 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 
of  Relief  Society 


6  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  1  First  Dug 

General  Committee 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 

Robert  L.  Judd,  Vice-Chairman 

Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 

Marion  G.  Romney,  Assistant  Managing  Director 
Mark  Austin  Sterling  H.  Nelson 

William  E.  Ryberg  Stringham  A.  Stevens 

Clyde  C.  Edmunds  Howard  Barker 

Roscoe  W.  Eardley 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 
National  Woman's  Relief  Society 

Amy  Brown  Lyman,  President 
Marcia  K.  Howells,  First  Counselor 
Belle  S.  Spafford,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 

Milton  Bennion,  General  Superintendent 
George  R.  Hill,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
A.  Hamer  Reiser,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

George  Q.  Morris,  General  Superintendent 
Joseph  J.  Cannon,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Burton  K.  Farnsworth,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  President 
Helen  Spencer  Williams,  First  Counselor 
Verna  W.  Goddard,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

Primary  Association 

Adele  Cannon  Howells,  President 
LaVern  W.  Parmley,  First  Counselor 
Dessie  G.  Boyle,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 


CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 


7 


CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 

Changes  in  Church  officers,  in  Stake,  Ward,  Mission  and  Branch 
organizations  since  the  last  April  Conference  were  presented  by  Joseph 
Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference. 

New  Mission  Presidents : 

Joseph  Quinney,  Jr.,  appointed  to  succeed  David  A.  Smith  as  presi- 
dent of  the  Canadian  Mission. 

Thomas  C.  Romney,  appointed  to  succeed  John  F.  Bowman  as  presi- 
dent of  the  Central  States  Mission. 

David  I.  Stoddard  appointed  to  succeed  Leo  J.  Muir  as  president  of 
the  Northern  States  Mission. 

Heber  Meeks,  appointed  to  succeed  William  P.  Whitaker  as  presi- 
dent of  the  Southern  States  Mission. 

Graham  H.  Doxey,  appointed  to  succeed  James  P.  Jensen  as  presi- 
dent of  the  East  Central  States  Mission. 

David  A.  Smith,  appointed  to  succeed  John  H.  Taylor  as  president 
of  the  Temple  Block  Mission. 

New  Temple  Presidents : 

Lewis  R.  Anderson  appointed  to  succeed  Robert  D.  Young  as  presi- 
dent of  the  Manti  Temple. 

El  Ray  L.  Christiansen  appointed  to  succeed  Joseph  Quinney,  Jr.,  as 
president  of  the  Logan  Temple. 

David  Smith  appointed  president  of  the  Idaho  Falls  Temple. 

Stake  Presidents  Chosen : 

A.  Reed  Halverson  chosen  president  of  the  Smithfield  Stake,  to  suc- 
ceed Alfred  W.  Chambers. 

Thomas  M.  Wheeler  chosen  president  of  the  new  Sugar  House  Stake. 

Archie  Johnson  chosen  president  of  the  Uintah  Stake  to  succeed 
Hyrum  B.  Calder. 

Elton  L.  Taylor  chosen  president  of  the  Carbon  Stake,  to  succeed 
George  E.  Jorgensen. 

Abel  S.  Rich  chosen  president  of  the  Box  Elder  Stake,  to  succeed 
Hervin  Bunderson. 

George  Harold  Holt  chosen  president  of  the  North  Davis  Stake,  to 
succeed  Arnold  D.  Miller. 

C.  Lloyd  Walch  chosen  president  of  the  Union  Stake  to  succeed 
George  Ariel  Bean. 

Joseph  Harold  Mitchell  chosen  president  of  the  Mt.  Graham  Stake, 
to  succeed  Spencer  Kimball. 

New  Stake  Organized : 

Sugar  House  Stake,  organized  May  16,  by  a  division  of  the  High- 
land Stake,  and  consists  of  the  Bryan,  Edgehill,  Emerson,  Sugar  House, 
Wasatch  and  Mountain  View  wards. 


8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  1  First  Day 

New  Wards  Organised : 

Imperial  Ward,  Highland  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  the  Strat- 
ford and  Highland  Park  wards. 

Park  Avenue  Ward,  Highland  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  Strat- 
ford Ward. 

Granger  First  Ward,  Oquirrh  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  the 
Granger  Ward. 

Granger  Second  Ward,  Oquirrh  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  the 
Granger  Ward. 

Mountain  View  Ward,  Sugar  House  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
the  Parleys  Ward,  Highland  Stake,  and  a  portion  of  the  Edgehill  Ward, 
Sugar  House  Stake. 

Fairmont  Ward,  Granite  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  the  Forest 
Dale  and  Nibley  Park  wards. 

Marlborough  Ward,  Granite  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  the 
Richards  and  Hawthorne  wards. 

Ogden  Twenty-ninth  Ward,  Ogden  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
the  Ogden  Eighth  Ward. 

Wards  Disorganised : 

Shumway  Ward,  Snowflake  Stake — made  dependent  on  the  Taylor 
Ward. 

Abraham  Ward,  Deseret  Stake — membership  annexed  to  Sutherland 
Ward. 

Adamsville  Ward,  Beaver  Stake — records  stored  in  Stake  office. 

Independent  Branches  Organized : 

Avondale  Branch,  Phoenix  Stake. 
Carmichael  Branch,  Sacramento  Stake. 
Terrace  Branch,  Weber  Stake. 
Lone  Star  Branch,  Blaine  Stake. 
Owyhee  Branch,  Weiser  Stake. 
Cortez  Branch,  Young  Stake. 

Wards  Made  Independent  Branches : 
Kline  Ward,  Young  Stake. 
Rockport  Ward,  Summit  Stake. 

Independent  Branch  Discontinued : 
Ophir  Branch,  Tooele  Stake. 

Independent  Branch  Made  Dependent  Branch  : 
Carson  City  Branch,  Reno  Stake. 

Independent  Branches  Combined : 

Clifton-Morenci  Branch,  Mt.  Graham  Stake. 

Those  Who  Have  Passed  Away  While  in  the  Service : 

President  Rudger  Clawson  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  died  June 
21 ;  served  as  an  Apostle  since  October  10,  1898,  and  was  President  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  since  1918. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


9 


Elder  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
since  April  14,  1938,  and  former  Presiding  Bishop,  died  May  29,  1943. 

May  Green  Hinckley,  General  President  of  the  Primary  Associa- 
tion since  January  1,  1940,  died  May  2,  1943. 

President  Joseph  Quinney,  Jr.,  of  the  Canadian  Mission  and  former 
Logan  Temple  president,  died  September  13,  1943. 

Robert  S.  Hillier,  Second  Counselor  in  Presidency  of  the  Summit 
Stake  and  former  Bishop  of  the  Hoytsville  Ward,  died  July  7,  1943. 

Bishop  Vyvyan  B.  Clift,  Arlington  Ward,  Los  Angeles  Stake,  died 
September  4,  1943,  after  having  served  about  three  years. 

Bishop  B.  Franklin  Birtcher,  Globe  Ward,  St.  Joseph  Stake,  died 
September  4,  1943,  after  having  served  about  14  years. 


President  McKay :  Up  to  eleven  o'clock  this  morning  we  were  great- 
ly in  hopes  that  President  Grant  would  give  his  message  in  person,  but 
the  doctor  advises  that  he  refrain  from  addressing  you  on  this  occasion. 
At  President  Grant's  request,  therefore,  I  now  read  his  message. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

It  is  not  thought  safe  by  the  doctor  for  me  to  make  a  talk  of  any 
length  at  the  conference,  so  I  have  decided  merely  to  thank  the  Saints  for 
their  faith  and  prayers  in  my  behalf,  and  to  assure  them  I  am  gaining  a 
little  all  the  time.  I  hope  that  by  the  next  conference  I  may  be  able  to 
address  the  Saints  at  greater  length. 

Architects  of  Our  Own  Lives 

I  have  decided  to  have  read  to  you  what  I  desire  to  say,  and  also  to 
add  what  I  said  at  a  meeting  a  number  of  years  ago,  as  follows : 

"If  you  want  to  know  how  to  be  saved,  I  can  tell  you  :  It  is  by  keeping 
the  commandments  of  God.  No  power  on  earth,  no  power  beneath  the 
earth  will  ever  prevent  you,  or  me,  or  any  Latter-day  Saint  from  being 
saved,  except  ourselves.  We  are  the  architects  of  our  own  lives,  not  only 
of  the  lives  here,  but  the  lives  to  come  in  eternity.  We  ourselves  are  able 
to  perform  every  duty  and  obligation  that  God  has  required  of  men.  No 
commandment  was  ever  given  to  us  but  what  God  has  given  us  the  power 
to  keep  that  commandment.  If  we  fail,  we,  and  we  alone,  are  responsible 
for  the  failure,  because  God  endows  his  servants,  from  the  President  of 
the  Church  down  to  the  humblest  member,  with  all  the  ability,  all  the 
knowledge,  all  the  power  that  is  necessary,  faithfully,  diligently,  and 
properly  to  discharge  every  duty  and  every  obligation  that  rests  upon 
them,  and  we,  and  we  alone,  will  have  to  answer  if  we  fail  in  this  regard." 

The  Soldiers  Remembered  in  Prayer 

As  it  was  during  our  meeting  last  April  in  our  Annual  Conference,  so 
today  we  have  thousands  of  our  young  men  in  the  armed  forces  of  the 
warring  nations. 


10  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,   October  1  First  Day 

Constantly  I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  each  and  every  one,  and 
that  he  will  help  each  of  them  to  live  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of 
the  Gospel,  so  that  he  may  have  a  claim  to  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  to  the 
full  extent  that  accords  with  his  wisdom.  I  pray  that,  so  far  as  it  accords 
with  the  providences  of  the  Lord,  each  of  them  may  be  preserved  from 
accident,  sickness,  and  death,  to  return  in  due  course  to  his  loved  ones. 
I  pray  God  to  help  them  to  stand  up  under  the  terrible  strain  which  they 
must  meet.  I  appeal  to  the  Lord  to  bring  the  war  to  an  end  at  the  earliest 
possible  date. 

Sympathy  Expressed  for  Parents 

Constantly  my  heart  goes  out  in  the  deepest  sympathy  for  the  com- 
forting influence  of  the  Lord  to  be  given  to  the  fathers  and  mothers  of  the 
sons  who  are  in  the  war  at  the  present  time.  May  the  comforting  influence 
of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  be  given  to  them  in  carrying  their  burdens,  and 
to  bring  solace  to  their  yearning  hearts. 

I  am  praying  with  all  my  heart  and  soul  for  the  end  of  this  war  as 
soon  as  the  Lord  can  see  fit  to  have  it  stop,  and  am  earnestly  praying  for 
the  influence  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  be  with  all  who  have  loved  ones 
in  the  war. 

I  pray  that  the  spirit  of  peace  and  of  increased  faith  may  pervade 
all  the  homes  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  with  all  the  power  and  authority 
I  have  to  bless,  I  invoke  God's  blessing  upon  the  Church  as  a  whole  and 
upon  the  honest  in  heart  everywhere. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  Brethren :  With  you  my  heart  has  rejoiced  at  the  love  and  the 
blessings  which  have  just  come  to  us  from  our  respected,  honored,  loved, 
and  revered  president,  Heber  J.  Grant.  May  the  Lord  vouchsafe  to  him 
for  many  years  to  come  those  blessings  of  life,  strength,  vigor  of  mind  and 
body  which  he  shall  require  to  perform  the  duties  and  obligations  that 
rest  upon  him. 

We  thought  that  perhaps  at  the  beginning  of  the  conference  before 
we  return  to  the  more  highly  spiritual  levels  to  which  President  Grant 
has  raised  us,  that  it  might  be  well  for  me  to  make  a  few  observations  re- 
garding the  temporal  affairs  of  the  Church — what  one  might  call  its  semi- 
business  affairs. 

Church  Finances 

I  should  like  in  the  first  place  to  say  that  we  of  the  General  Authorities 
return  unto  the  Saints  our  deepest  gratitude  for  their  faithfulness  in  the 
payment  of  tithes.  The  largest  tithing  in  the  history  of  the  Church  up  to 
that  time  came  in  1941.  In  1942  our  tithes  increased  over  fifty  percent 
over  1941.  Thus  far  in  1943  our  tithes  have  increased  over  1942  by  more 
than  fifty  percent. 

The  Lord  has  blessed  the  people  in  their  crops,  and  he  is  continuing 
to  bless  them.   While  I  do  not  personally  advocate  the  payment  of  tithes 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  11 


on  the  theory  that  if  you  pay  your  tithes  the  Lord  will  give  you  more 
money,  I  do  earnestly  urge  upon  you  the  payment  of  tithes,  and  a  full 
tithing,  because  thereby  you  will  have  greater  joy  than  through  any  other 
temporal  activity  in  which  you  may  engage. 

We  thought  perhaps  you  would  like  to  know  something  about  the 
way  in  which  the  tithing  is  spent. 

You  will  recall  that  the  history  of  the  Church,  as  far  as  its  financial 
operations  are  concerned,  may  be  roughly  divided  into  four  periods :  That 
which  antedated  the  great  revelation  given  February  9,  1831 ;  that  which 
went  on  from  then  until  June  of  1834;  that  which  went  forward  from 
June,  1834,  until  July  8, 1838,  and  then  from  July  8,  1838,  until  the  present 
time. 

The  first  period  down  to  February  9,  1831,  was  not  marked  by  any 
systematic  plan  of  Church  financing.  The  Church  was  young  and  few 
in  numbers,  but  certain  great  principles  were  established  at  that  time  re- 
garding the  expenditure  of  the  funds,  all  of  them  looking  to  the  care  of 
the  poor  and  the  building  of  the  Church. 

The  United  Order 

On  February  9,  1831,  at  Kirtland,  the  Prophet  received  the  first  great 
revelation  on  the  United  Order.  We  find  other  revelations  bearing  upon 
that  subject,  the  more  important  concerning  it  (though  it  was  touched  up- 
on in  many  of  the  others)  are  sections  42,  51,  56,  70,  72,  78,  82,  85,  90, 
101,  and  105.  The  United  Order  has  not  been  generally  understood,  and 
I  think  that  I  may  repeat  here  again  what  I  said  on  another  occasion :  that 
the  United  Order  was  not  a  communal  system.  It  was  an  individualistic 
system.  Every  man  was  to  own  his  own  property.  He  was  required,  how- 
ever, to  give  the  surplus  thereof  for  the  benefit  of  the  poor  and  for  the 
building  up  of  the  Church.  The  United  Order  and  communism  are  not 
synonymous.  Communism  is  Satan's  counterfeit  for  the  United  Order. 
There  is  no  mistake  about  this  and  those  who  go  about  telling  us  otherwise 
either  do  not  know  or  have  failed  to  understand  or  are  wilfully  misrepre- 
senting. 

The  Lord  tried  us  for  three  years  to  see  if  we  could  not  set  up  the 
United  Order ;  we  could  not.  So  then  at  Fishing  River  on  June  22,  1834, 
following  the  dissolution  of  Zion's  Camp,  the  Lord  told  us  that  we  should 
give  up  the  United  Order  and  that  he  would  not  reestablish  it  until  Zion 
was  redeemed,  and  that  time  has  not  yet  come. 

Between  that  time,  June  22,  1934,  and  July  8,  1838,  we  again  had 
no  regular  financial  system. 

On  July  8,  1838,  the  Prophet  prayed:  "Oh  Lord!  show  unto  thy 
servant  how  much  thou  requirest  of  the  properties  of  thy  people  for  a 
tithing."  In  response  to  that  prayer  the  Lord  gave  the  revelations  now 
incorporated  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  as  sections  119  and  120.  In 
the  revelation  printed  as  section  120,  the  Lord  said : 

Verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord,  the  time  is  now  come,  that  it  [the  tithing] 
shall  be  disposed  of  by  a  council,  composed  of  the  First  Presidency  of  My 
Church  and  the  bishop  and  his  council,  and  by  my  high  council  [the 

Twelve]  ;  and  by  mine  own  voice  unto  them,  saith  the  Lord.  Even  so.  Amen. 


12  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.   October  1  First  Day 

Tithing  Administration 


Accordingly  the  tithing  is  now  administered  in  the  following  way : 
Under  the  direction  of  the  First  Presidency  a  budget  is  drawn  up,  as 
nearly  as  may  be  at  the  first  of  the  year,  which  includes  all  of  the  proposed 
expenditures  of  the  tithing.  This  budget  is  the  result  of  the  careful  con- 
sideration of  the  departments  which  are  responsible  for  the  expenditure 
of  the  funds. 

This  budget  is  then  taken  before  the  Council  on  the  Expenditure  of 
the  Tithing,  composed,  as  the  revelation  provides,  of  the  First  Presidency, 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  and  the  Presiding  Bishopric.  This  council  con- 
siders and  discusses  the  budget  so  submitted,  approving  or  disapproving, 
as  the  case  may  be,  individual  items,  but  finally  passing  the  budget. 

The  approved  budget  as  it  comes  from  that  meeting  is  then  turned 
over  for  its  expenditures  to  a  Committee  on  Expenditures,  composed  of 
the  First  Presidency,  three  members  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  repre- 
senting that  council,  and  the  Presiding  Bishopric.  This  committee  then 
passes  upon  and  authorizes  the  expenditures  of  the  tithing.  So  that  there 
is  a  complete  check  upon  all  of  the  tithing  which  is  paid  into  the  Church. 
None  of  it  is  expended  except  upon  the  approval  and  authorization  of 
this  committee. 

Welfare  Program 

I  would  like  to  say  a  little  something  now  about  the  Welfare  program. 
The  first  move  made  by  the  First  Presidency  in  the  Welfare  program  was 
made  in  August  of  1933,  a  little  over  ten  years  ago,  when  the  First  Presi- 
dency asked  you  presidents  of  stakes  and  bishops  to  make  a  survey.  This 
you  did  and  your  reports  came  in  to  the  First  Presidency.  Because  of  its 
great  importance  the  matter  was  then  taken  under  advisement  and  con- 
sideration for  three  years.   Then  in  1936,  the  plan  was  put  into  operation. 

At  the  time  it  was  put  into  operation,  we  called  attention  to  the  fact 
that  while  its  immediate  purpose  was  the  caring  for  the  poor,  and  only 
temporarily  caring  for  them  so  far  as  the  individuals  were  concerned,  yet 
that  back  of  and  behind  that  service  there  were  other  considerations, 
among  them  being  that  we  should  rehabilitate  temporally  and  spiritually 
those  who  received  the  assistance.  It  was  also  determined  that  the  princi- 
ple of  help  should  be  the  actual  need  of  the  individual  or  family ;  there  was 
not  to  be  a  fixed,  uniform  amount  for  each  person.  Also,  in  so  far  as 
it  was  practicable,  everyone  should  work  for  what  he  received,  if  he 
were  well. 

That  program  has  gone  forward  in  a  very  remarkable  way,  and  lit- 
erally thousands  have  been  helped  and  many  families  have  been  so  re- 
habilitated. 

But  there  was  another  element  involved  in  it,  and  that  was  based  upon 
the  Savior's  principle  announced  in  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  "It  is  more 
blessed  to  give  than  to  receive."  And  the  history  of  the  Welfare  move- 
ment shows  that  there  has  come  into  the  Church  an  ever-increasing  spirit- 
uality because  of  the  giving  which  has  been  incident  to  the  carrying  on 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


13 


of  the  Welfare  work.  That  giving  has  been  not  alone  a  giving  of  money 
or  provisions  or  clothing  or  fuel,  but  a  giving  of  manual  labor,  and  of  all 
the  contributions  the  latter  has  perhaps  brought  the  most  of  a  feeling  of 
common  brotherhood  as  men  of  all  training  and  occupation  have  worked 
side  by  side  in  a  Welfare  garden  or  other  project. 

Our  achievements  for  this  year  in  the  Welfare  program  and  in  the 
activities  connected  therewith,  have  been  greatly  beyond  our  dreams. 

We  have  now  under  cultivation  in  the  Church  in  connection  with 
Welfare  projects  some  14,578  acres  of  land.  I  think  all  of  this  is  farmed 
by  voluntary,  gratuitous  labor. 

We  have  established  in  connection  with  the  Welfare  work  90  bishop's 
storehouses. 

We  have  set  up  65  canneries. 

There  are  in  the  Church,  under  the  Welfare  program,  598  livestock 
projects,  and  there  are  under  the  direction  of  the  quorums  157  such  pro- 
jects. We  have  established  many  manufacturing  and  processing  plants, 
of  which  Priesthood  quorums  have  established  30  and  other  establish- 
ments 294. 

We  do  not  know  just  how  many  families  have  been  rehabilitated  in 
the  sense  that  they  have  been  established  in  business  of  some  sort  of 
farming,  but  it  runs  not  far  short  of  1200. 

Supplementary  Canning 

This  year,  as  you  know,  we  have  provided  that  the  canneries  should 
be  used  by  ward  groups  who  might  wish  to  put  up  fruit.  This  was  done 
in  accordance  with  the  expressed  approval  of  the  proper  governmental 
agencies.  The  figures  of  what  we  have  done  this  year  through  the  Wel- 
fare plan,  through  the  group  canning  activities,  and  through  the  home 
processing  of  fruits  and  vegetables,  are,  I  think,  remarkable. 

In  group  canning  we  shall  have  put  up  during  this  season  1,253,000 
cans.  In  Welfare  canning  we  shall  have  put  up  849,000  cans,  the  two  to- 
gether making  2,102,000  cans. 

But  that  is  only  the  beginning.  As  careful  an  estimate  as  we  can  make 
indicates  that  in  the  wards  and  stakes,  not  including  the  missions,  the 
Church  families  have  put  up  and  have  stored  in  their  cellars  42,625,000 
cans,  or  a  grand  total  for  the  wards  and  stakes  and  the  Welfare  of 
44,727,000  cans.  We  believe  that  if  we  included  the  canning  done  by 
Church  families  in  the  missions,  the  total  number  of  cans  of  fruits  and 
vegetables  which  we  shall  have  in  these  three  ways  brought  into  storage 
for  the  next  year,  will  approximate,  if  not  exceed,  50,000,000  cans.  This 
represents  over  1,000,000,000  points. 

For  this  tremendous  achievement,  the  greatest  that  has  come  from 
a  unified  Church  effort  in  a  generation,  the  most  credit  and  gratitude  is 
due  to  the  sisters  of  the  Church  who  have  done  all  the  home  canning  as 
well  as  the  bulk  of  the  canning  for  the  Welfare  program  and  the  ward 
groups.  We  ask  these  sisters  to  receive  the  heartfelt  thanks  and  con- 
gratulations of  the  whole  body  of  the  Church. 

Thus  we  have  shown  something  of  what  we  can  do  if  we  set  our 


14  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  1  First  Day 

minds  thereto.  Furthermore,  it  should  be  understood  that  the  home  can- 
ning has  processed  much,  if  not  in  greatest  part,  the  products  of  home  and 
group  gardens,  and  of  fruits  that  would  otherwise  have  been  wasted. 
The  public  supplies  of  green  vegetables  and  fruits  have  not  been  seriously 
drawn  upon. 

In  the  use  of  all  this  material  we  should  remember  that  it  should  be 
used  carefully  and  without  waste.  Furthermore,  in  so  far  as  we  may  be 
permitted  so  to  do  under  governmental  regulations,  we  should  be  prepared 
to  remember  during  the  coming  winter  our  neighbors  who  may  be  in 
need. 

I  am  sure  we  have  now  demonstrated  in  this  Welfare  program,  and 
in  the  more  or  less  ancillary  home  canning,  in  what  has  heretofore  been 
more  or  less  on  an  experiment,  what  we  can  do,  we  of  the  Church,  if  we 
set  our  minds  and  our  hearts  on  carrying  out  the  admonition  of  our 
prophet  in  becoming  self-sustaining. 

Spiritual  Dividends 

This  group  canning  has  brought  to  us  this  blessing  which  far  out- 
weighs any  other  that  is  incident  thereto.  From  all  over  the  Church  we 
hear  that  it  has  brought  into  the  wards,  where  it  has  been  carried  on,  a 
feeling  of  unity,  a  feeling  of  brotherhood,  or  respect  for  our  brothers 
and  our  sisters — a  desire  and  willingness  to  help  one  another,  that  we 
have  rarely,  if  ever,  equaled  in  the  history  of  the  Church  before. 

You  will  remember  that  the  Lord  told  his  disciples,  on  the  evening 
of  the  Passover  and  thereafter,  in  His  great  prayer,  that  they  must  be  one. 
and  that  He  expected  His  people  to  be  one.  They  must  be  unified.  In  our 
day  He  has  said :  "Except  ye  are  one  ye  are  not  mine."  Therefore,  this 
spirit  of  unity  which  this  work  has  brought  to  us  has  carried  us  far  along 
the  road  which  the  Lord  laid  down  for  us  to  follow. 

It  is  my  prayer  that  the  Lord  will  bless  us,  that  He  will  help  us  still 
further  to  unify  our  efforts — help  us  to  live  in  peace  and  quiet  and  con- 
tentment as  among  ourselves.  May  He  give  us  the  power  that  we  may  go 
with  Him,  as  He  said  we  might,  and  abide  with  the  Father  and  Him,  I 
humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  Amen. 


Vocal  solo  by  Albert  Eccles,  "Fear  Not  Ye,  O  Israel,"  (by  Dudley 
Buck). 

President  McKay :  We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Spencer  Kimball, 
one  of  the  two  men  whom  you  have  sustained  as  new  members  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve. 

We  pause  at  this  moment.  President  Grant  has  just  withdrawn 
from  the  meeting. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


15 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  The  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  beloved  brethren,  this  is  the  great  day  of  my  life.  I  have  seen 
hands  raised  many  times  in  my  life,  but  never  have  they  meant  quite  so 
much  as  they  meant  today  when  you  raised  your  hands  to  sustain  and 
support  me. 

r 

Experiences  Relating  to  Call  as  an  Apostle 

I  feel  extremely  humble  in  this  calling  that  has  come  to  me.  Many 
people  have  asked  me  if  I  was  surprised  when  it  came.  That,  of  course, 
is  a  very  weak  word  for  this  experience.  I  was  completely  bewildered 
and  shocked.  I  did  have  a  premonition  that  this  call  was  coming,  but 
very  brief,  however.  On  the  eighth  of  July,  when  President  Clark  called 
me  I  was  electrified  with  a  strong  presentiment  that  something  of  this 
kind  was  going  to  happen.  As  I  came  home  at  noon,  my  boy  was  answering 
the  telephone  and  he  said,  "Daddy,  Salt  Lake  City  is  calling." 

I  had  had  many  calls  from  Salt  Lake  City.  They  hadn't  ever  worried 
me  like  this  one.  I  knew  that  I  had  no  unfinished  business  in  Salt  Lake 
City,  and  the  thought  came  over  me  quickly,  "You're  going  to  be  called 
to  an  important  position."  Then  I  hurriedly  swept  it  from  my  mind, 
because  it  seemed  so  unworthy  and  so  presumptuous,  and  I  had  convinced 
myself  that  such  a  thing  was  impossible  by  the  time  that  I  heard  President 
Clark's  voice  a  thousand  miles  away  saying:  "Spencer,  this  is  Brother 
Clark  speaking.  The  brethren  have  just  called  you  to  fill  one  of  the 
vacancies  in  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles." 

Like  a  bolt  of  lightning  it  came.  I  did  a  great  deal  of  thinking  in  the 
brief  moments  that  I  was  on  the  wire.  There  were  quite  a  number  of 
things  said  about  disposing  of  my  business,  moving  to  headquarters,  and 
other  things  to  be  expected  of  me.  I  couldn't  repeat  them  all,  my  mind 
seemed  to  be  traveling  many  paths  all  at  once — I  was  dazed,  almost  numb 
with  the  shock ;  a  picture  of  my  life  spread  out  before  me.  It  seemed 
that  I  could  see  all  of  the  people  before  me  whom  I  had  injured,  or  who 
had  fancied  that  I  had  injured  them,  or  to  whom  I  had  given  offense,  and 
all  the  small  petty  things  of  my  life.  I  sensed  immediately  my  inability 
and  limitations  and  I  cried  back,  "Not  me,  Brother  Clark  !  You  can't  mean 
that!"   I  was  virtually  speechless.   My  heart  pounded  fiercely. 

I  recall  two  or  three  years  ago,  when  Brother  Lee  was  giving  his 
maiden  address  as  an  Apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  from  this  stand, 
he  told  us  of  his  experience  through  the  night  after  he  had  been  notified 
of  his  call.  I  think  I  now  know  something  about  the  experience  he  had. 
I  have  been  going  through  it  for  twelve  weeks.  I  believe  the  brethren  were 
very  kind  to  me  in  announcing  my  appointment  when  they  did  so  that 
I  might  make  the  necessary  adjustments  in  my  business  affairs,  but  perhaps 
they  were  more  inspired  to  give  me  the  time  that  I  needed  of  a  long 
period  of  purification,  for  in  those  long  days  and  weeks  I  did  a  great 
deal  of  thinking  and  praying,  and  fasting  and  praying.  There  were  con- 
flicting thoughts  that  surged  through  my  mind — seeming  voices  saying : 


16  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,   October  1  First  Day 

"You  can't  do  the  work.  You  are  not  worthy.  You  have  not  the  ability" 
— and  always  finally  came  the  triumphant  thought :  'You  must  do  the 
work  assigned — you  must  make  yourself  able,  worthy  and  qualified." 
And  the  battle  raged  on. 

I  remember  reading  that  Jacob  wrestled  all  night,  "until  the  breaking 
of  the  day,"  for  a  blessing;  and  I  want  to  tell  you  that  for  eighty-five 
nights  I  have  gone  through  that  experience,  wrestling  for  a  blessing. 
Eighty-five  times,  the  breaking  of  the  day  has  found  me  on  my  knees 
praying  to  the  Lord  to  help  me  and  strengthen  me  and  make  me  equal  to 
this  great  responsibility  that  has  come  to  me.  I  have  not  sought  positions 
nor  have  I  been  ambitious.  Promotions  have  continued  to  come  faster 
than  I  felt  I  was  prepared  for  them. 

Blessings  Received  from  Obeying  a  Former  Call 

I  remember  when  I  was  called  to  be  a  counselor  in  the  stake 
presidency.  I  was  in  my  twenties.  President  Grant  came  down  to  help 
to  bury  my  father,  who  was  the  former  stake  president,  and  reorganize 
the  stake.  I  was  the  stake  clerk.  I  recall  that  some  of  my  relatives 
came  to  President  Grant,  unknown  to  me,  after  I  had  been  chosen,  and 
said,  "President  Grant,  it's  a  mistake  to  call  a  young  man  like  that  to  a 
position  of  responsibility  and  make  an  old  man  of  him  and  tie  him  down." 
Finally,  after  some  discussion,  President  Grant  said  very  calmly,  but 
firmly,  "Well,  Spencer  has  been  called  to  this  work,  and  he  can  do  as  he 
pleases  about  it,"  and,  of  course,  when  the  call  came,  I  accepted  it  gladly, 
and  I  have  received  great  blessings  therefrom. 

A  few  days  ago  one  of  my  well-to-do  clients  came  to  me  and  said, 
"Spencer,  you're  going  away  from  us  ?" 

"Yes,"  I  said. 

"Well,  this  is  going  to  ruin  you  financially,"  he  continued.  "You  are 
just  getting  started  well ;  your  business  is  prospering.  You  are  making  a 
lot  of  money  now  and  the  future  looks  bright  yet.  I  don't  know  how  you 
can  do  this.  You  don't  have  to  accept  the  call,  do  you  ?" 

And  I  said,  "Brother,  we  do  not  have  to  accept  any  call,  but  if  you 
understand  the  Mormon  way  of  life,  those  of  us  who  have  been  reared 
in  the  Church  and  understand  the  discipline  of  the  Church,  we  just  always 
do  accept  such  calls."  And  I  further  said  to  him :  "Do  you  remember 
what  Luke  said,  .  .  .  for  a  man's  life  consisted!  not  in  the  abundance  of 
the  things  which  he  possesseth'  (Luke  12:15),  and  all  the  bonds,  lands, 
houses,  and  livestock  are  just  things  that  mean  so  little  in  a  person's 
abundant  life." 

Predictions  Made  in  Patriarchal  Blessings 

It  is  strange  how  many  things  can  go  through  one's  mind  in  such 
a  very  short  period  when  he  is  under  strain  and  stress.  I  have  heard  of 
how  people,  when  they  were  drowning,  could  see  everything  that  had 
ever  happened  to  them — especially  the  errors  of  their  lives — and  I  have 
gone  through  that  experience  many  times  during  these  eighty-five  endless 
days  of  emotional  stress,  Each  dawn  I  seemed  to  expect  this — which 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


17 


seemed  such  an  impossible  dream — to  dissipate  into  vague  nothingness, 
as  my  other  dreams  have,  but  reassurance  came  that  it  was  real. 

There  are  a  few  things  that  came  to  my  attention  recently  which 
strengthen  me  and  in  which  you  might  be  interested — particularly  with 
reference  to  two  patriarchal  blessings  and  one  prediction  or  prophecy 
made  by  my  father.  This  was  made  known  to  me  only  a  week  ago.  In 
preface  to  the  first  of  his  statements  I  will  read  a  line  or  two  from  his 
patriarchal  blessing  given  to  him  by  Patriarch  John  Smith  back  in  1 898. 
He  said  to  my  father :  "Andrew  Kimball,  .  .  .  thou  shalt  have  the  spirit 
of  discernment  to  foretell  future  events  and  thy  name  shall  be  handed 
down  with  thy  posterity  in  honorable  remembrance  from  generation  to 
generation."  And  then  Brother  Hatch,  another  patriarch  said :  "  .  .  .  for 
thou  art  a  prophet  and  came  upon  earth  in  this  dispensation  to  be  a  great 
leader." 

A  Father's  Prophecy 

Just  the  other  day  one  of  my  brethren  came  into  the  office  to  talk  to  me 
intimately  and  confidently.  After  closing  the  door,  he  said,  "Spencer, 
your  father  was  a  prophet.  He  made  a  prediction  that  has  literally  come 
to  pass,  and  I  want  to  tell  you  about  it."  He  continued,  "Your  father  talked 
with  me  at  the  corral,  one  evening.  I  had  brought  a  load  of  pumpkins  for 
his  pigs.  You  were  just  a  little  boy  and  you  were  sitting  there,  milking 
the  cows,  and  singing  to  them  as  you  milked.  Your  father  turned  to  me  and 
said,  'Brother,  that  boy,  Spencer,  is  an  exceptional  boy.  He  always  tries 
to  mind  me,  whatever  I  ask  him  to  do.  I  have  dedicated  him  to  be  one  of 
the  mouthpieces  of  the  Lord — the  Lord  willing.  You  will  see  him  some 
day  as  a  great  leader.  I  have  dedicated  him  to  the  service  of  God,  and 
he  will  become  a  mighty  man  in  the  Church,'  " 

I  say  this,  not  in  the  sense  of  boasting,  but  in  humility  and  appre- 
ciation. It  came  to  me  as  a  great  surprise  when  first  I  heard  of  it  the 
other  day.  I  knew  my  father  was  prophetic,  and  some  day  I  hope  to  be 
able  to  tell  you  some  of  his  many  prophecies  which  have  been  literally 
fulfilled. 

Promise  Made  to  Mother 

And  then  when  I  was  clearing  out  the  files,  getting  ready  to  move 
up  to  Salt  Lake,  I  came  across  my  mother's  patriarchal  blessing,  given 
to  her  by  Brother  James  M.  Works  when  she  was  a  young  woman  of 
twenty-four  years.  She  had  only  one  child — and  when  you  remember 
that  this  one  child  passed  away  and  none  of  her  other  ten  children 
were  born  at  this  time,  this  prophecy  will  seem  all  the  more  remarkable 
to  you.  The  patriarch  said,  among  other  things,  "Sister  Olive  Woolley, 
.  .  .  thou  shalt  be  numbered  among  the  mothers  in  Israel  and  shall  raise  up 
a  numerous  posterity  to  the  joy  of  thy  husband.  They  shall  grow  up  to 
become  mighty  men  and  women  in  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God. 
Thy  sons  shall  be  stars  of  the  first  magnitude  in  thy  crown  and  shall 
be  healthy,  strong,  and  vigorous  in  helping  to  direct  the  purposes  of  God 
in  this  last  dispensation." 


18  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  1  First  Day 

I  have  read  this  many  times  in  my  life,  but  I  had  never  noticed  before : 
"Thy  sons  shall  be  stars  of  the  first  magnitude."  And  again,  it  humbles 
me  exceedingly.  I  feel  that  the  Lord  in  calling  me  to  this  work  has  fulfilled 
the  promise  of  His  servant. 

Comfort  Found  in  Scriptures 

In  these  long  weeks  since  July  eighth,  I  can  tell  you  that  I  have  been 
overwhelmed  and  have  felt  that  I  was  unable  to  carry  on  this  great  work ; 
that  I  was  unworthy ;  that  I  was  incapable  because  of  my  weaknesses  and 
my  limitations.  I  have  felt  many  times  that  I  was  up  against  a  blank 
wall.  And  in  that  interim  I  have  been  out  in  the  desert  and  in  high  moun- 
tains alone,  apart,  and  have  poured  out  my  soul  to  God.  I  have  taken 
courage  from  one  or  two  scriptures  which  constantly  came  to  my  mind 
and  of  which  people  continued  to  remind  me.  One  was  from  Paul  and  as 
I  felt  so  foolish,  small,  and  weak,  I  remembered  that  he  said :  "Because 
the  foolishness  of  God  is  wiser  than  men;  and  the  weakness  of  God  is 
stronger  than  men.  For  ye  see  your  calling,  brethren,  how  that  not  many 
wise  men  after  the  flesh,  not  many  mighty,  not  many  noble,  are  called : 
But  God  hath  chosen  the  foolish  things  of  the  world  to  confound  the  wise : 
and  God  hath  chosen  the  weak  things  of  the  world  to  confound  the  things 
which  are  mighty ; . . .  that  no  flesh  should  glory  in  his  presence."  (I  Corin- 
thians 1  -.25-29.) 

When  my  feeling  of  incompetence  wholly  overwhelmed  me,  I 
remembered  the  words  of  Nephi  when  he  said  :  "...  I  will  go  and  do  the 
things  which  the  Lord  hath  commanded,  for  I  know  that  the  Lord  giveth 
no  commandments  unto  the  children  of  men,  save  he  shall  prepare  a  way 
for  them  that  they  may  accomplish  the  thing  which  he  commandeth  them." 
(I  Nephi  3:7.)  I  want  to  tell  you  that  I  lean  heavily  on  these  promises, 
that  the  Lord  will  strengthen  and  give  me  growth  and  fit  and  qualify 
me  for  this  great  work.  I  have  seen  the  Lord  qualify  men.  In  my  Church 
experience  I  have  helped  to  make  many  bishops.  I  have  seen  them  grow 
and  prosper  and  become  great  and  mighty  men  in  the  Church ;  men  who 
were  weak  and  men  who  were  foolish,  and  they  became  strong  and  con- 
founded the  wise,  and  so  I  rely  upon  that  promise  of  the  Lord  that  he 
will  strengthen  and  empower  me  that  I  may  be  able  to  do  this  work  to 
which  I  have  been  called. 

As  I  read  the  scriptures  about  the  Apostles  of  old,  I  found  them 
starting  out  in  their  ministry  with  much  less  strength  and  they  increased 
in  might  and  power.  I  found  Paul  saying  toward  the  end  of  his  career : 
"For  I  am  not  ashamed  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ :  for  it  is  the  power  of 
God  unto  salvation."  (Romans  1 :16.)  And  though  Peter  had  had  many 
experiences  with  perhaps  some  doubts,  and  misgivings,  and  he  had  not 
always  shown  the  strength  of  his  later  years,  but  after  the  resurrection 
of  Christ,  when  asked  by  Him  who  He  was,  Peter,  testified,  "Thou  art 
the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God."  (Matthew  16:16.) 

Appreciation  Expressed 


I  appreciate  deeply  the  unparalleled  honor  that  has  come  to  me.  I 


ELDER  EZRA  T.  BENSON 


19 


shall  do  my  utmost  to  show  my  appreciation  to  my  Lord  and  my  brethren 
by  being  a  faithful  servant.  I  am  grateful  for  the  opportunity  of  working 
with  these  honored  and  great  men  of  the  Authorities  toward  whom  I  have 
always  had  almost  a  worshipful  devotion.  I  glory  in  the  opportunity  to 
serve  the  people  of  this  Church,  to  share  their  disappointments  and 
sorrows,  and  their  joys  and  achievements. 

I  know  that  this  is  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God.  It  has  been 
a  part  of  me.  Whenever  it  has  prospered  I  have  gloried  in  it.  When  it 
was  criticized,  it  has  hurt  me,  for  it  seemed  a  part'  of  my  very  being. 
Every  fibre  in  my  body  bears  witness  that  this  is  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  in  its  fulness.  I  testify  to  you  that  this  is  the  work  of  God,  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  our  Redeemer,  our  Master,  our  Lord,  and  I  bear  testi- 
mony to  you  in  all  sincerity  and  in  deepest  humility,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  McKay :  Elder  Ezra  T.  Benson,  whom  you  have  sustained 
this  day  as  the  junior  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  will  now 
speak  to  you. 

ELDER  EZRA  T.  BENSON 

Of  The  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  beloved  brethren  of  the  Priesthood,  my  heart  is  filled  to  over- 
flowing with  gratitude  as  I  look  into  your  faces  this  day — a  day  which 
I  shall  never  forget. 

I  am  grateful  beyond  my  power  of  expression  for  the  blessings  which 
have  come  to  me,  and  particularly  for  this  great  honor  that  has  come  to 
one  of  the  weakest  of  your  number.  I  love  this  work.  All  my  life  I  have 
had  a  testimony  of  it  and  a  love  for  the  leaders  of  the  Church  and  for  the 
Priesthood  of  God.  I  know  that  it  is  true  and  no  sacrifice  is  too  great  for 
this  wonderful  work  in  which  we  are  engaged. 

Call  Came  as  Surprise 

My  brethren,  I  must  confess  I  had  no  premonition  of  this  call,  even 
of  the  shortest  duration.  When  passing  through  Salt  Lake  and  stopping 
over  here,  just  between  trains,  enroute  to  Colorado  on  the  26th  of  July, 
President  McKay  indicated  that  the  President  of  the  Church  wanted  to 
see  me  a  few  moments.  Even  then  such  a  thought  as  of  being  called  to 
this  high  and  holy  calling  never  entered  my  mind.  It  was  only  a  few 
minutes  later  that  President  Grant  took  my  right  hand  in  both  of  his  and 
looked  into  the  depths  of  my  very  soul  and  said :  "Brother  Benson,  with 
all  my  heart  I  congratulate  you  and  pray  God's  blessings  to  attend  you ; 
you  have  been  chosen  as  the  youngest  Apostle  of  the  Church." 

The  whole  world  seemed  to  sink.  I  could  hardly  believe  it  was  true, 
that  such  a  thing  could  happen,  and  it  has  been  difficult  since  for  me 
to  realize  that  it  is  a  reality. 


20  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  1  First  Day 

Appreciation  Expressed  for  Blessings 


Brethren,  I  appreciate  more  than  words  can  tell  my  membership  in 
this  Church,  the  Priesthood  which  I  bear,  and  the  blessings  which  have 
come  to  me  through  that  Priesthood.  I  thank  the  Lord  for  my  heritage, 
for  my  parents,  my  grandparents,  and  my  great-grandparents  who  have 
seen  fit  to  give  their  all  to  help  in  the  establishment  of  this  the  kingdom 
of  God  upon  the  earth. 

I  am  grateful  to  you,  my  brethren,  for  the  messages  of  love  and  confi- 
dence which  have  come  from  all  parts  of  the  Church,  and  I  am  grateful 
for  the  hundreds  of  messages  that  have  come  from  the  friends  of  the 
Church  outside  our  membership.  They  are  a  testimony  to  me  of  the  love 
which  the  people  of  the  world  have  for  the  leaders  of  this  Church.  I  have 
received  messages  even  by  long-distance  telephone,  clear  across  this  con- 
tinent, for  no  purpose  but  to  extend  congratulations  and  commendations 
for  this  high  and  holy  call  that  has  come  to  one  of  their  friends. 

Association  With  Priesthood 

•It  has  been  my  glorious  privilege  to  be  blessed  with  wonderful 
opportunities  in  my  life.  But  my  happiest  days  have  been  those  spent  with 
the  Priesthood  and  the  membership  of  this  Church. 

They  extend  back  to  my  boyhood  days  in  my  little  country  ward 
in  southern  Idaho,  mingling  with  the  Saints  there,  and  then  in  the  mission 
field,  back  to  the  Franklin  Stake,  and  then  on  into  the  Boise  Stake  in  Idaho, 
then  for  a  year  in  central  California,  and  then  to  Washington,  D.  C.  My 
greatest  joy  and  my  great  happiness  have  been  those  hours  mingling  with 
the  Saints  and  with  the  Priesthood  of  God.  Truly  I  have  had  precious 
privileges.  The  Lord  has  provided  wonderful  opportunities  for  me  to 
associate  with  people  not  of  our  faith.  I  have  sat  in  the  councils  of  the 
great  and  the  mighty  in  the  nation's  capitol.  I  have  watched  them  struggle 
with  the  problems  which  face  us  as  a  nation.  I  have  the  confidence  and  the 
love  of  many  men  in  high  places. 

I  know  something  of  the  honors  which  men  can  bestow,  but  I  know 
that  there  is  nothing  that  can  compare  with  the  honors  which  come  to  us 
as  servants  of  the  Lord  through  the  Priesthood  of  God. 

A  Happy  Association 

May  I  be  pardoned  if  I  refer  to  a  recent  trip  during  which  time  I 
passed  through  this  city  and  during  which  time  this  great  call  was  an- 
nounced. I  had  been  holding  a  series  of  meetings  with  cooperative  and 
agricultural  leaders  throughout  the  southwest,  in  California,  and  in  the 
intermountain  states.  While  in  California,  I  spent  Saturday  afternoon 
and  Saturday  night  at  the  home  of  the  president  of  the  organization  with 
which  I  am  associated,  the  National  Council  of  Farmer  Cooperatives.  This 
man  is  a  national  figure.  He  was  a  member  of  the  Federal  Farm  Board 
during  President  Hoover's  administration.  He  is  a  friend  of  our  people. 
When  my  fifteen-year-old  son  and  I  bade  him  and  his  good  wife  good-bye 
on  Sunday  morning,  with  one  of  his  men  who  was  driving  us  to  Bakers- 


ELDER  MARVIN  O.  ASHTON 


21 


field,  he  called  me  to  one  side  and  said  :  "We  know  you've  had  opportun- 
ities to  go  elsewhere,  but  we  want  you  to  stay  with  the  cooperative  move- 
ment. All  you  need  to  do  is  name  your  figure.  Don't  become  disinterested. 
We  want  you  to  continue."  I  said,  "Mr.  Teague,  I  have  no  desire  to  leave 
the  fine  group  of  men  with  whom  I  have  been  associated  during  the  past 
four  years.  I  love  the  cooperative  movement — I  believe  in  it.  It  squares 
with  my  philosophy  of  life,  my  religious  philosophy." 

Then  only  a  few  days  later  this  call  came.  I  called  this  man  on  the 
telephone  from  Grand  Junction,  Colorado,  and  said,  "Mr.  Teague,  the 
Church  has  called  me  to  a  more  important  work,"  and  then  I  indicated 
what  the  call  was,  and  this  good  man  said,  "With  all  my  heart  I  congrat- 
ulate you."  From  that  day  until  this,  there  have  been  nothing  but  words 
of  praise  and  congratulations  to  me  personally,  but  particularly  for  the 
Church  and  its  fine  ideals  and  standards  and  the  type  of  manhood  which 
it  turns  out  into  the  world. 

The  Greater  Call 

I  carried  in  my  pocket  as  I  went  through  Salt  Lake  a  note  to  call 
to  my  attention  a  matter  which  I  proposed  to  discuss  with  some  of  the 
Brethren.  I  had  had  an  opportunity  for  almost  a  year  to  go  elsewhere  at 
a  figure  that  shocked  me,  running  into  tens  of  thousands  of  dollars,  an 
offer  to  go  into  the  active  management  of  a  great  cooperative  corporation. 
It  would  mean  leaving  the  Washington  Stake,  and  I  had  hoped  to  have 
an  opportunity  to  confer  with  the  leaders  of  the  Church.  But  now  there 
was  no  need  of  conferring,  for  in  the  meantime  this  call  came,  a  call  greater 
than  any  call  that  can  come  from  men — that  can  be  offered  by  the  men  of 
the  world. 

My  brethren,  I  am  grateful  for  it.  I  know  my  own  limitations,  my 
own  weaknesses,  and  I  tremble  as  I  contemplate  the  great  responsibilities 
and  obligations  which  this  call  entails.  But  I  am  grateful  to  know  that 
I  will  be  associated  with  the  best  group  of  men  in  all  the  world.  More  than 
anything  else,  besides  my  desire  to  maintain  my  testimony,  I  desire  the 
love  and  confidence  of  the  Priesthood  of  this  Church,  and  I  pray  the  Lord 
to  give  me  strength  that  I  may  merit  that  love  and  confidence. 

I  leave  with  you  my  testimony.  I  know  that  God  lives.  This  is  His 
work.  He  has  again  spoken  from  the  heavens  with  a  message  for  the  entire 
world ;  not  for  a  handful  of  Latter-day  Saints  only,  but  for  all  our  brothers 
and  sisters,  both  in  and  out  of  the  Church.  May  God  give  us  strength  to 
carry  that  message  to  the  world,  to  live  the  Gospel,  to  maintain  the 
standards  of  the  Church,  that  we  may  be  entitled  to  the  promised  blessings, 
I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  MARVIN  O.  ASHTON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  once  heard  of  a  man  who  put  on  his  tombstone,  "I  expected  this, 
but  not  so  soon."  (Laughter.) 

I  hope  that  these  brethren  who  have  just  spoken  won't  think  for  a 


22  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  1  First  Day 

minute,  speaking  of  this  commodity  we  term  "humility,"  that  they  have 
a  monopoly  on  it.  After  about  eleven  or  twelve  such  occasions  as  today 
some  of  us  still  feel  as  weak  as  we  did  when  we  gave  our  maiden  con- 
ference speech. 

Appreciation  for  New  Apostles 

Seriously  speaking,  and  to  be  right  frank  with  you,  I  had  something 
I  was  going  to  try  to  say  provided  I  was  called  on.  We  generally  expect 
it.  That  seems  to  be  the  program.  After  the  impression  made  on  all  of  us 
by  our  two  new  Apostles,  I  cannot  resist  laying  aside  what  I  was  going  to 
say  and  express  appreciation  of  them.  They  are  splendid  men,  and  I  want 
to  sing  their  praises.  I  am  speaking  particularly  of  their  humility.  I  am 
sure  that  when  the  call  came  to  these  two  men  from  those  who  have  a 
right  to  call,  there  went  an  'Amen"  all  through  this  Church.  There  is  a 
combination  here  today  of  decided  ability  and  humility.  These  are  the 
characteristics  that  your  mother  and  my  mother  tried  to  instil  in  us  since 
we  were  old  enough  to  stand  bracing  ourselves  against  their  knees.  I 
glory  in  such  men,  men  of  initiative,  men  of  vision,  and  yet  humility.  I 
have  yet  to  see  a  man  who  excelled  at  all  in  leadership — real  leadership — ■ 
that  did  not  have  those  qualifications. 

May  the  Lord  bless  these  fine  men.  May  we  have  the  good  sense  to 
support  them  not  only  with  our  prayers  but  also  in  every  way  that  it  is  our 
responsibility  as  members  of  this  Church.  And  may  we  so  rededicate  our- 
selves always.  We  have  some  problems  ahead  of  us  and  they  are  going 
to  be  big  ones.  Let  us  get  back  of  our  leaders  and  say  "Amen"  to  the 
splendid  vision  of  their  leadership.  May  the  Lord  bless  us.  Amen. 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

Of  The  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

The  last  message  of  Jesus  the  Son  of  God  before  His  ascension  into 
heaven  was,  "Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the  gospel  to  every 
creature."  (Mark  16:15.)  Carrying  out  this  great  and  important  in- 
junction proclaimed  by  Him  who  is  the  Prince  of  Peace,  the  King  of  kings 
and  Lord  of  lords  is  the  prime  business  of  this,  His  Church,  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ. 

And  while,  because  the  whole  world  is  at  war,  we  cannot  at  present 
continue  to  carry  our  gospel  message  abroad,  I  am  glad  to  report  that  the 
work  at  home  in  our  stake  missions  is  going  forward  with  ever  increasing 
efficiency  and  success. 

These  missions,  now  a  little  more  than  six  years  old,  were  in  good 
operating  condition  before  our  foreign  missions  had  to  be  closed.  This 
work  is  done  under  the  direction  of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy  in 
accordance  with  the  instructions  of  that  modern  revelation  which  says: 

The  Seventy  are  to  act  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  under  the  direction  of 
the  Twelve  ...  in  building  up  the  church  and  regulating  all  the  affairs  of 
the  same. ...  (D.  &  C.  107:34.) 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


23 


Two  Tasks 

Two  tasks  have  been  assigned  to  our  stake  missionaries :  To  bring 
into  activity  those  Church  members  who  are  inactive,  and  to  carry  the 
gospel  message  to  those  who  are  not  members  of  the  Church.  You  Church 
officials  will  be  glad  to  know  that  this  stake  missionary  system,  in  these 
six  years,  has  brought  more  than  twenty-four  thousand  inactive  Church 
members  into  Church  activity.  This  means  an  average  of  four  thousand 
per  year,  more  than  three  hundred  per  month,  or  ten  persons  per  day.  And 
in  addition  it  has  brought  into  the  Church  by  conversion  and  baptism  more 
than  thirteen  thousand,  an  average  of  more  than  two  thousand  per  year 
or  nearly  two  hundred  per  month. 

And  these  happy  results  have  not  been  accomplished  without  genuine 
missionary  effort.  About  eight  thousand  missionaries  have  held  more  than 
fifty  thousand  cottage  meetings,  they  have  distributed  thirty-nine  thou- 
sand volumes  of  the  standard  works  of  the  Church,  and  they  have  spent 
one  and  one-half  million  hours  in  this  unselfish  missionary  labor.  Thus 
you  see  our  neighbors  in  the  stakes  and  wards  of  the  Church  are  opening 
their  doors  and  their  hearts  to  hear  the  gospel  message  we  have  to  present. 

To  Make  Friends 

Our  aim  is  to  make  friends.  Our  missionaries  are  told  that  whenever 
they  make  an  enemy  they  have  made  a  mistake.  Ours  is  a  gospel  of  gentle- 
ness and  love  and  peace.  These  workers  are  instructed  not  to  argue,  but 
with  a  humble  and  prayerful  heart  to  discuss,  with  those  only  who  are 
interested,  the  fundamentals  of  righteous  living.  By  their  efforts  to 
teach  others,  these  faithful  workers  strengthen  and  fortify  themselves 
in  their  own  high  ideals  and  standards.  The  constant  and  earnest  teaching 
of  Christian  virtues  impresses  upon  them  the  importance  and  the  value 
of  living  in  conformity  with  the  ideals  and  standards  of  the  Church.  The 
high  degree  of  spirituality  enjoyed  in  real  missionary  work  brings  into 
the  hearts  of  the  missionaries  a  reassuring  knowledge,  testimony,  and 
certainty  concerning  the  restored  gospel  message  which  only  the  light 
and  inspiration  of  heaven  can  bestow. 

Our  missionaries  are  humble  men  and  women.  Except  in  rare  in- 
stances they  are  not  trained  theological  scholars.  Their  conduct,  their 
ideals,  and  their  standards  of  living  may  in  many  instances  be  as  effective 
as  factors  of  conversion  as  are  the  words  which  they  speak. 

Must  Endure  Forever 

The  simple,  straightforward  manner  in  which  they  live,  teach  and 
preach,  you  must  admit,  is  the  method  of  Christ  Himself.  And  the  gospel 
we  teach  today  is  also  the  same  gospel  that  Christ  Himself  taught.  The 
message  has  not  changed.  Being  the  truth,  it  cannot  change ;  it  will,  it 
must,  endure  forever. 

However  great  the  joy  and  the  satisfaction  which  come  into  the  souls 
of  those  who  are  converted,  and  into  the  souls  of  those  who  are  brought 
into  Church  activity,  these  are  not  greater  than  is  the  joy  that  fills  the 


24  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  1  First  Day 

hearts  of  the  missionaries  themselves,  for,  as  the  good  book,  the  Bible, 
says,  they  have  burning  within  themselves  that  "peace  of  God  which 
passeth  all  understanding."  (Philippians  4 :7.) 

The  aim  of  the  missionaries  is  to  teach  their  neighbors  the  great  plan 
of  salvation  and  the  restored  gospel,  the  sacredness  of  human  personality, 
and  the  brotherhood  of  man. 

Appeal  to  Officials 

I  appeal  to  you  stake  presidents  and  bishops  and  to  your  counselors 
also  to  select  as  stake  missionaries  men  and  women  who  have  strong  per- 
sonalities, pleasant  persistence,  a  thorough  knowledge  of  the  gospel,  and 
the  fire  of  a  testimony  burning  in  their  souls.  And  I  appeal  to  you  not  to 
take  these  strong  characters  out  of  the  Seventies  quorums  or  out  of  your 
stake  missionary  force  without  giving  most  careful  consideration  to  the 
effect  such  changes  will  have  on  this  the  most  important  activity  of  the 
Church. 

Two  examples  will  illustrate  what  I  mean  by  selecting  as  missionaries 
those  who  are  able,  who  are  filled  with  faith,  and  who  are  intensely  devoted 
to  the  work. 

A  Great  Missionary 

An  extremely  active  and  greatly  loved  patriarch  told  me  that  when 
as  a  young  man  he  thought  his  time  was  too  valuable  and  himself  too  busy 
to  go  into  the  mission  field,  at  a  time  in  his  life  when  he  did  not  have  enough 
of  the  unselfish  gospel  spirit  to  make  the  necessary  contribution  of  his  time 
and  his  money  in  order  to  carry  the  gospel  message  to  others,  there  came 
into  his  life  a  great  missionary. 

While  thus  living  a  more  or  less  selfish  life,  he  said  he  was  sitting 
on  the  porch  of  his  mother's  home  in  southern  Utah  when  out  of  the  dusk 
and  the  dust  of  those  early  pioneer  days  came  a  team  and  one-seated  buggy 
and  stopped  in  front  of  that  home.  Out  of  the  buggy  stepped  a  member 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  After  instructing  the  driver  to  find  feed 
for  the  horses  and  to  be  back  at  five  a.m.  to  continue  the  journey,  this 
member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  took  a  seat  on  that  porch  by  the  side 
of  the  young  man  and  began  to  name  reason  after  reason  why  this  able 
young  fellow  should  make  the  necessary  sacrifices  in  time  and  in  money  in 
order  to  make  it  possible  for  him  to  go  into  the  mission  field.  Reason  after 
reason  was  given,  appeal  after  appeal  was  made  to  the  young  man  as  the 
hours  of  the  night  sped  on.  Ten  o'clock  came  and  eleven,  and  the  deter- 
mined preacher  of  the  gospel  continued  his  labor.  One  o'clock  came  and 
two  and  three,  and  four,  and  finally  five,  and  this  mighty  converter  of 
men,  without  having  removed  his  hat  or  his  shoes,  told  the  young  man 
good-hye,  walked  out  to  his  buggy,  and  drove  away.  The  persistence,  the 
faith,  the  testimony,  and  the  pleading  of  this  great  missionary,  in  whose 
soul  was  a  throbbing  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  message  he  was  pre- 
senting, and  the  "good-bye  and  God  bless  you"  that  accompanied  his  final 
handshake  started  the  young  man  to  thinking  so  seriously  that  soon  the 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


25 


real  gospel  spirit  entered  into  his  heart  and  soul,  and  he  went  into  the  mis- 
sion field. 

A  Most  Valuable  Experience 

That  missionary  work,  done  in  the  days  of  his  youth,  said  this  gray- 
haired  patriarch,  was  the  greatest  and  most  marvelous  and  valuable 
experience  that  ever  came  into  his  life.  This  patriarch,  whose  labors  on 
earth  were  completed  some  years  ago,  has  left  a  large  family  of  devoted 
unselfish  workers  for  righteousness,  all  of  whom  might  have  been  indif- 
ferent and  selfish  but  for  the  efforts,  continuing  all  night  long,  of  this 
intensely  interested  missionary.  The  fine  and  faithful  family  of  this 
deceased  patriarch  is  a  rich  reward  for  the  sacrifice  he  made  in  time  and 
money  to  preach  the  gospel,  and  to  do  his  utmost  to  live  in  accordance  with 
its  high  ideals. 

Poverty  and  Crime 

The  other  case :  In  a  stake  conference  recently  I  quoted  the  words 
of  the  late  President  Charles  W.  Eliot  of  Harvard  University  to  the  effect 
that  alcohol  is  the  chief  cause  of  poverty,  the  crime,  and  the  misery  of 
mankind.  And  at  the  close  of  the  conference  in  which  I  had  appealed  to 
the  people  to  come  forward  and  render  missionary  service,  especially  to 
help  those  who  unfortunately  have  the  liquor  habit,  a  man  came  forward 
and  enthusiastically  extended  his  hand  exclaiming :  "Give  me  the  name  of 
a  man  who  has  the  liquor  habit !"  This  good  brother  then  explained  that 
the  gospel  had  come  into  his  life  only  a  few  years  before  when  he  himself 
was  a  helpless  drunkard.  It  was  the  gospel  of  the  Master,  he  said,  which 
so  transformed  him  that  he  succeeded  in  overcoming  the  drinking  habit. 
And  with  an  outburst  of  enthusiasm  he  said,  "Give  me  the  name  of  a  man 
who  drinks.  I'll  meet  him  in  the  morning  before  he  begins  his  day's  work. 
I'll  go  to  him  at  noon  and  with  him  I'll  eat  my  lunch.  And  when  his  day's 
work  is  done,  I'll  take  him  by  the  hand,  I'll  lead  him  by  the  liquor  store, 
and  I  will  take  him  to  his  own  home  a  sober  man.  Gladly  will  I  do 
this,"  said  he,  "with  the  hope  that  I  can  be  helpful  in  teaching  the  gospel 
to  him,  which  gospel  will  enable  him  to  overcome  this  habit.  I  stand  ready 
to  do  my  utmost  to  help  to  bring  into  his  life  the  same  joy  that  giving  up 
the  liquor  habit  has  brought  into  mine." 

The  Greatest  Message 

You  who  are  here  assembled,  officers  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ, 
know  that  nothing  the  Church  has  to  do  can  transcend  in  importance  the 
preaching  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Its  great  message  is  to  be  carried 
to  all  of  the  people  of  the  world ;  it  is  to  be  preached  to  the  rich  as  well 
as  the  poor,  to  the  educated  as  well  as  to  those  who  have  had  little  oppor- 
tunity to  go  to  school,  to  all  mankind  everywhere  in  preparation  for  the 
coming  again  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ ;  and  this  great  work 
can  be  accomplished  successfully  only  by  a  generation  of  unusual  men 
and  unusual  women.  I  appeal  to  you,  therefore,  to  call  into  this  stake 
missionary  service  those  who  are  best  qualified  to  present  the  joyful 


26  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  1  First  Dag 

message,  those  who  can  work  effectively,  those  who  are  themselves  gen- 
uinely converted  and  who  have  burning  in  their  souls  an  unceasing  testi- 
mony of  this  great  work. 

You  Are  Called 

And  as  a  servant  of  the  Lord,  one  whose  duty  it  is  to  assist  in  this 
great  major  work,  this  mighty  missionary  undertaking,  I  say  to  you  in 
the  language  of  the  revelation  that  came  to  us  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  "You  are  called  to  cry  repentance  unto  this  people,"  and  do  not 
forget  that  "if  it  so  be  that  you  should  labor  all  your  days  in  crying  re- 
pentance unto  this  people,  and  bring,  save  it  be  one  soul  unto  me,"  says 
Jesus,  the  Son  of  God,  "how  great  shall  be  your  joy  with  him  in  the  king- 
dom of  My  Father !  And  now,  if  your  joy  will  be  great  with  one  soul  that 
you  have  brought  unto  me  into  the  kingdom  of  my  Father,  how  great  will 
be  your  joy  if  you  should  bring  many  souls  unto  me  !"  (D.&C.  18:14-16.) 

For  these  many  reasons  I  appeal  to  you  officials  of  the  Church,  there- 
fore, to  do  your  utmost  to  get  into  the  stake  missionary  service  and  to  re- 
tain in  this  missionary  service  those  who  are  the  most  able  and  who  are 
the  most  genuinely  converted,  that  the  preaching  of  the  gospel  of  charity, 
of  love,  of  forgiveness,  of  peace,  and  of  the  brotherhood  of  man  may  go 
forward  effectively.  May  you  and  may  we  all  aim  to  do  this.  I  pray  humbly 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

We  wish  the  radio1  audience  might  see  this  large  congregation  of 
members  of  the  Priesthood  of  the  Church  assembled  here  as  representa- 
tives of  the  entire  membership. 

We  commend  you  brethren  for  your  response  to  the  call  to  attend  this 
great  Conference. 

All  will  join  in  singing,  "Creation  Speaks  With  Awful  Voice,"  Song 
Folder  No.  26.  At  the  request  of  Brother  Condie  we  should  like  you  to 
sing  the  two  stanzas  just  as  he  will  lead  us  and  then  repeat  the  last  two  lines 
of  the  second,  the  fourth  and  the  sixth  stanza.  This  is  because  we  have 
adopted  a  tune  that  will  be  familiar  to  you  all.  Everybody  please  join  in 
singing,  "Creation  Speaks  With  Awful  Voice,"  to  the  tune  "Sweet  Hour 
of  Prayer,"  Hymn  Book,  page  354. 

At  7  o'clock  this  evening  there  will  be  a  Welfare  meeting  held  in  the 
upper  room,  second  floor  of  the  Young  Building,  just  opposite  the  Tem- 
ple East.  Those  who  are  invited  to  this  meeting  are  all  Regional  Chair- 
men, all  Presidents  of  Stakes  and  all  affiliated  with  any  Regional  groups. 
Of  course  all  members  of  the  General  Committee  and  the  advisors  to  the 
Committee  and  the  General  Authorities  who  can,  should  arrange  to  attend 
that  meeting.   That  is  at  7  o'clock. 

At  7 :30  there  will  be  a  meeting  of  the  Bishops  in  the  Assembly  Hall, 
Bishops'  Counselors,  Chairman  of  Stake  Committees  for  Aaronic  Priest- 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


27 


hood  over  twenty-one,  Stake  Presidencies  and  High  Councilmen  are  in- 
vited to  attend.   You  will  be  admitted  by  ticket. 

After  singing,  the  benediction  will  be  pronounced  by  President  Lo- 
renzo Wright  of  the  Maricopa  Stake. 


Singing  by  the  congregation,  "Creation  Speaks  With  Awful  Voice." 
Elder  Lorenzo  Wright,  President  of  the  Maricopa  Stake,  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Saturday,  October  2,  at  10  a.m. 

SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  Saturday  morning,  October  2nd,  at  10 
o'clock  a.m. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

This  is  the  second  session  of  the  114th  Semi-Annual  Conference  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  President  Grant  who 
is  present  and  presiding  at  this  meeting  has  requested  that  I  conduct  the 
exercises.  Others  of  the  General  Authorities  who  are  present  are  the 
two  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  members  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  the  Patriarch  to  the  Church,  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve,  the 
Presidents  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  the  Presiding  Bishopric  and 
representatives  of  the  Stakes,  Wards  and  quorums  as  heretofore  an- 
nounced in  the  public  press.  Nearly  every  Stake  in  the  Church  is  repre^ 
sented. 

Through  the  courtesy  of  radio  station  KSL,  the  proceedings  of  this 
meeting  are  being  broadcast.  Some  of  the  announcements,  therefore, 
which  will  be  made  from  the  pulpit  will  seem  unnecessary  to  you  present 
but  will  be  a  guide  to  those  who  are  listening  in. 

We  are  pleased  to  announce  to  you  here  this  morning  that  through 
the  courtesy  of  the  City  Commission  those  who  are  in  attendance  at  this 
Conference  may  park  their  cars  today  and  tomorrow  all  around  this  block. 
There  are  meters  on  the  south  side  of  the  Tabernacle  square,  but  you  need 
not  pay  attention  to  them  today  and  tomorrow ;  in  other  words,  the  north 
side  of  South  Temple  Street  may  be  used  for  parking  just  the  same  as 
the  other  sides  of  the  Tabernacle. 

Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  will  conduct  the  music  for  this  session, 
Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  is  at  the  organ. 

All  will  please  join  in  singing,  'We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For  a 
Prophet,"  Song  Folder,  page  No.  13. 


28  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Day 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For  A 
Prophet." 

Elder  Charles  E.  Rowan,  Jr.,  President  of  the  Provo  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

The  congregation  joined  in  singing  "Sweet  Is  The  Work." 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

And  they  shall  also  teach  their  children  to  pray,  and  to  walk  uprightly 
before  the  Lord  (D.  &  C.  68:28.) 

This  command  leaves  no  question  as  to  the  responsibility  of  parents 
to  teach  their  children — a  responsibility  too  frequently  shifted  to  the 
shoulders  of  the  Church,  public  schools,  and  officers  of  the  law. 

Four  Essential  Bulwarks 

In  the  present  worldwide  struggle  to  defeat  cruel,  ambitious  war 
lords  in  Europe  and  in  the  Far  East  there  are  four  essential  bulwarks,  viz. : 

1.  The  Battle  Front  where  men  in  uniform  are  facing  the  enemy  in 
death-dealing  conflict. 

2.  The  Essential  Industries  Front  where  men  and  women  are  furnish- 
ing tanks,  airplanes,  bombs,  bullets,  and  all  necessary  war  equipment  and 
weapons  for  their  sons,  brothers,  and  sweethearts  fighting  on  land,  on 
sea,  and  in  the  air. 

3.  The  Agricultural  Front  upon  the  success  of  which  depends  not 
only  the  morale,  but  the  very  life  of  our  armed  forces,  and  the  subsistence 
of  millions  of  non-combatants. 

4.  The  Home  Front — stabilizing  force  of  the  world  in  war  and  peace. 

The  Battle  Front 

This  morning,  as  during  several  months  past,  the  battle  fronts  seem 
to  be  progressing  favorably  for  the  Allies.  Many  lives  are  being  sacrificed 
it  is  true.  The  very  flower  of  young  manhood  is  being  crushed  under  the 
wheels  of  the  juggernaut  of  war,  but  there  is  now  no  alternative  but  to 
push  relentlessly  forward  until  the  murderous  dictators  are  apprehended, 
and  their  ruthless  power  and  subversive  doctrines  forever  overcome. 

War  Industries 

The  stupendous  accomplishments  of  the  United  States  industries  in 
the  short  space  of  two  years  in  building  ships  and  airplanes,  manufactur- 
ing munitions,  and  in  shipping  supplies  to  allied  countries,  are  little  short 
of  miraculous — a  record  unparalleled  in  the  history  of  the  world ! 

Agriculturists 

Farmers,  horticulturists,  and  dairymen  are  putting  forth  herculean 
efforts  to  hold  their  line.    However,  man-power  has  been  so  depleted  on 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


29 


this  front  that  farmers  by  the  thousands  have  had  to  work  twelve,  fifteen, 
and  even  eighteen  hours  a  day  to  mature  and  garner  the  much-needed 
crops.  They  have  been  greatly  handicapped,  too,  by  depreciating  and 
non-replaceable  machinery.  Reinforcements  should  be  sent  to  this  pro- 
duction line.  Young  men  of  draft  age  now  in  uniform  and  who  know 
something  about  farming  should  be  assigned  to  raise  more  food.  Increased 
acreage,  more  products,  and  better  distribution  are  crying  needs  of  the 
hour.  Yet  notwithstanding  handicaps,  the  United  States  farmer  and 
stockmen  are  carrying  ably  and  heroically  their  responsibility  in  this 
great  struggle. 

The  Family 

Not  so  confidently  nor  so  praiseworthily  can  we  speak  of  the  fourth 
essential  bulwark.  The  Home  Front  seems  to  be  cracking !  It  is  of  this 
I  am  going  to  speak  this  morning. 

Out  of  the  homes  of  America  go  the  future  citizens  of  the  republic. 
Upon  properly  ordered  households  and  the  uplifting  moral  atmosphere 
of  home  life  depends  more  than  upon  any  other  phase  of  the  social  life 
the  happiness  of  the  human  family.  Home,  not  the  state,  is  the  natural 
protector  of  childhood.  Parents  more  than  teachers,  more  than  officers 
of  the  law,  are  the  molders  of  children's  moral  natures. 

One  of  the  foreboding  indications  of  the  weakening  of  the  Home 
Line  is  the  waning  influence  of  parenthood  as  shown  in  the  increasing 
delinquency  among  the  young.  Too  many  parents  seem  to  be  neglecting 
to  teach  their  children  "to  walk  uprightly  before  the  Lord."  A  few  weeks 
ago  Inspector  Rolf  T.  Harbo  of  the  Federal  Bureau  of  Investigation,  told 
national  officers,  chairmen,  and  state  presidents  of  the  National  Congress 
of  Parents  and  Teachers  that  "Delinquency  among  girls  under  21  has 
risen  64%  in  the  first  half  of  1943" ;  and  "this  increase  comes  on  top  of 
an  increase  of  95%  for  the  year  1942,  and  in  contrast  to  a  general  decrease 
in  juvenile  delinquency  for  boys  under  21.  They  blame  the  rise  of  youth- 
ful crimes  on  the  breakdown  of  family  ties,  the  irregular  working  hours 
of  adults  because  of  the  war,  with  the  resultant  lack  of  supervision,  the 
gangs  of  juveniles  formed  for  unwholesome  acts,  and  a  general  laxity  on 
the  part  of  adults." 

In  Utah,  as  well  as  throughout  the  United  States,  delinquency,  par- 
ticularly among  young  girls,  is  increasing.  The  report  of  the  juvenile 
court  of  this  city  for  1942  shows  an  increase  of  38.5%  over  1941. 
Among  young  girls  sex  offenses  total  up  53.5%  in  1942  over  1941,  up 
95%  over  last  year,  and  up  200%  since  Pearl  Harbor.  Fifty-two  per- 
cent of  the  delinquents  are  from  broken  homes ! 

For  much  of  this  delinquency,  we  must  hold  parents  responsible. 
True,  the  wisest  parents  sometimes  lose  control  of  one  or  more  of  their 
children.  Secret  indulgences  in  sinful  practices,  false  teachings,  and  ideals 
inculcated  by  pseudo-philosophers,  sometimes  counteract  wholesome  home 
influences.  Even  the  Lord  Himself  had  one-third  of  His  family  on  one 
occasion  reject  the  divine  Plan  of  Salvation.  But  after  recognizing  all 
this,  the  fact  remains  that  "Homes  are  the  nursery  of  all  domestic  virtues, 


30  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,   October  2  Second  Day 

and  without  a  becoming  home  the  exercise  of  those  virtues  is  impossible." 
McCulloch  in  Home,  the  Savior  of  Civilization,  says : 

During  the  first  twelve  years  of  a  child's  life  he  is  in  school  3,240  hours ;  in 
Church  and  Sunday  School  416  hours ;  in  the  home,  not  counting  12  hours  for  sleep 
daily,  52,560  hours.  In  other  words,  the  child,  during  the  first  twelve  years  of  his 
life,  spends  sixteen  times  as  many  waking  hours  in  the  home  as  in  school,  and  puts 
one  hundred  twenty-six  times  as  many  hours  in  the  home  as  in  the  Church. 

Since  it  is  during  those  early  years  in  one's  life  that  character  is  largely  made, 
it  is  not  difficult  to  see  the  relative  value  of  the  educative  process  in  school,  Church, 
and  home.  If  the  child's  home  life  is  neglected  or  impoverished  during  this  period, 
it  is  absolutely  impossible  for  the  school  or  Church,  or  any  other  institution  to  com- 
pensate for  this  fatal  loss  .... 

Of  all  the  factors  that  enter  into  the  environment  of  the  child,  or  of  anyone  else 
for  that  matter,  the  home  is  by  far  the  most  powerful,  so  much  so  that  one  may  say 
that  home  either  makes  or  mars  character.  The  child  from  the  day  of  his  birth,  for 
at  least  twelve  years,  is  so  dominated  by  the  influences  of  home,  whether  good  or 
evil,  that  he  is  absolutely  helpless  to  resist  them.  What  a  heart-moving  responsibil- 
ity, then,  rests  upon  parents  to  see  to  it  that  the  home  influences- are  all  that  they 
should  be. 

How  apt,  then,  the  divine  admonition,  "And  they  shall  teach  their 
children  to  pray,  and  to  walk  uprightly  before  the  Lord." 

Restricted  Families 

Another  and  very  ominous  indication  of  the  cracking  up  of  Ameri- 
can homes  is  the  decreasing  birth  rate.  In  the  Reader's  Digest  for  Oc- 
tober there  is  an  article  which  states  that  "in  the  United  States  at  large 
42%  of  the  married  women  have  no  children  whatever  or  only  one  child." 

That  in  the  United  States  at  large  "approximately  only  one-third  of 
the  married  women  have  a  sufficient  number  of  children  to  keep  the  pop- 
ulation of  the  country  even  at  a  stationary  level." 

That  in  the  United  States  at  large  "the  urban  birth  rate  has  fallen  so 
shockingly  low  that  all  American  cities  of  one  hundred  thousand  and  over 
would,  in  three  generations,  or  one  hundred  years,  fall  to  one-third  their 
present  size  if  left  without  accessions  to  their  populations  outside." 

That  in  the  United  States  at  large  "the  professional  classes  in  Ameri- 
can cities  are  reproducing  themselves  only  sixty  percent." 

That  "in  many  local  areas  conditions  are  even  far  worse.  Note,  for 
instance,  the  city  of  Chicago.  More  than  half  its  families  have  no  chil- 
dren whatever — to  be  exact  534,125  out  of  its  842,578  families  are  without 
a  single  child  of  their  own.  And  there  are  many  American  cities  that  have 
even  a  worse  birth  rate  than  Chicago  .... 

"The  one  large  group  of  people  that  remains  least  affected  by  the 
scourge  of  artificial  birth  control  is  our  rural  population.  Were  it  not  for 
them  America  would  already  be  headed  down  the  speedy  slopes  of  decline." 

Seeking  the  pleasures  of  conjugality  without  a  willingness  to  assume 
the  responsibilities  of  rearing  a  family  is  one  of  the  onslaughts  that  now 
batter  at  the  structure  of  the  American  home.  Intelligence  and  mutual 
consideration  should  be  ever-present  factors  in  determining  the  coming 
of  children  to  the  household.  When  the  husband  and  wife  are  healthy, 
and  free  from  inherited  weaknesses  and  diseases  that  might  be  trans- 
mitted with  injury  to  their  offspring,  the  use  of  contraceptives  is  to  be 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


31 


condemned.  Prime  Minister  Winston  Churchill,  March  21,  1942,  said 
in  a  broadcast  to  the  world : 

One  of  the  most  sombre  anxieties  which  beset  those  who  look  ahead  is  a  dwind- 
ling birthrate  in  thirty  years.  Unless  present  trends  alter,  a  smaller  working  and 
fighting  population  will  have  to  support  and  protect  nearly  as  many  old  people.  In 
fifty  years  the  position  will  be  still  worse.  If  this  country  is  to  keep  its  high  place 
in  the  leadership  of  the  world  and  to  survive  as  a  great  power  that  can  hold  its  own 
against  external  pressure,  our  people  must  be  encouraged  by  every  means  to  have 
larger  families. 

Former  president  of  the  United  States,  Theodore  Roosevelt,  said : 

The  severest  of  all  condemnations  should  be  that  visited  upon  wilful  sterility. 
The  first  essential  in  any  civilization  is  that  the  man  and  woman  should  be  the  fa- 
ther and  mother  of  healthy  children  so  that  the  race  will  increase  and  not  decrease. 

The  Census  Bureau  on  January  31,  1941,  declared: 

If  the  present  birth  and  death  rates  continue,  the  non-white  population  of  this 
country  will,  in  the  long  run,  increase  at  the  rate  of  about  seven  percent  per  genera- 
tion, while  the  white  population  (including  the  Mexicans)  will  decrease  at  the  rate 
of  about  five  percent  per  generation. 

The  principal  reason  for  marriage  is  to  rear  a  family.  Failure  to  do 
so  is  one  of  the  conditions  that  cause  love  to  wilt  and  eventually  to  die. 

Divorce  Increase 

Another  indication  of  the  weakening  of  the  Home  Front  is  the  in- 
creasing rate  of  divorce.  At  the  beginning  of  this  century  (1900)  there 
were  in  the  United  States  75  divorces  per  100,000  population ;  41  years  lat- 
er there  were  200  per  100,000  population.  Today  here  in  the  United  States 
there  is  one  divorce  out  of  every  6.37  marriages.  Out  of  every  one  hun- 
dred couples  married  in  this  country,  twenty  are  wrecked  on  the  shoals  of 
divorce.  It  is  reported  that  in  about  half  of  these,  children  are  affected 
by  the  decree. 

It  is  pleasing,  brethren,  to  note,  that  the  divorce  rate  in  the  Church 
including  civil  and  temple  marriages  is  only  one-half  that  generally 
throughout  the  United  States.   The  temple  marriages  fall  way  below  that. 

Except  in  cases  of  infidelity  or  other  extreme  conditions,  the  Church 
frowns  upon  divorce,  and  authorities  look  with  apprehension  upon  the 
increasing  number  of  divorces  among  members  of  the  Church. 

A  man  who  has  entered  into1  a  sacred  covenant  in  the  House  of  the 
Lord  to  remain  true  to  the  marriage  vow  is  a  traitor  to  that  covenant  if 
he  separates  himself  from  his  wife  and  family  just  because  he  has  per- 
mitted himself  to  become  infatuated  with  a  pretty  face  and  comely  form 
of  some  young  girl  who  flattered  him  with  a  smile.  Even  though  a  loose 
interpretation  of  the  law  of  the  land  would  grant  such  a  man  a  bill  of  di- 
vorcement, I  think  he  is  unworthy  of  a  recommend  to  consummate  his 
second  marriage  in  the  temple.  A  separation  because  of  infidelity  is  an- 
other matter. 

When  we  refer  to  the  breaking  of  the  marriage  tie,  we  touch  upon  one 
of  the  saddest  experiences  of  life.  For  a  couple  who  have  basked  in  the 


32  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Day 

sunshine  of  each  other's  love  to  stand  by  daily  and  see  the  clouds  of  mis- 
understanding and  discord  obscure  the  lovelight  of  their  lives  is  tragedy 
indeed.  In  the  darkness  that  follows,  the  love  sparkle  in  each  other's  eyes 
is  obscured.  To  restore  it,  fruitless  attempts  are  made  to  say  the  right 
word,  and  to  do  the  right  thing ;  but  the  word  and  act  are  misinterpreted, 
and  angry  retort  reopens  the  wound,  and  hearts  once  united,  as  two  dew- 
drops  that  slip  into  one,  become  torn  wider  and  wider  asunder.  When  this 
heartbreaking  state  is  reached,  a  separation  is  sought.  But  divorce  is  not 
the  proper  solution,  especially  if  there  are  children  concerned.  Far  bet- 
ter to  follow  the  wise  admonition  of  William  George  Jordan : 

Life  is  too  short  and  love  too  great  to  sacrifice  one  hour  through  pettiness.  What 
matters  it  whose  the  fault  or  whose  the  forgiveness?  It  is  a  very  poor  brand  of 
personal  dignity  that  dares  to  throw  its  desecrating  shadow  between  them  and  the  joy 
of  reconciliation  and  new  bonds  of  love. 

When  the  realization  of  the  waning  of  love  comes,  the  two  should  seek  to  forget 
for  a  moment  the  differences,  the  saddening  changes,  the  cemetery  of  dead  memories 
and  buried  emotions,  and  try  to  get  back  somehow  to  some  common  ground  of  unity 
and  understanding.  They  should  seek  to  gather  together  the  trifles  of  sacred  things 
not  yet  lost.  In  the  thought  of  these  there  may  be  a  vitalizing  flame  of  old  love  flash- 
ing out  from  the  dull  gray  of  the  ashes  that  will  burn  away  the  dross  of  discord  and 
misunderstanding. 

Love  is  the  most  valuable  cargo  on  the  ship  of  life.  It  is  the  greatest  thing  in  this 
world,  and  the  only  thing  that  will  make  the  next  worthy  of  the  living.  The  ebb- 
tide of  love  is  the  saddest  filing  in  a  true  individual  life.  It  is  a  life's  folly  to  let  love 
die  if  aught  we  can  do  will  keep  it  real  and  living. 

What  Should  be  Done  to  Stabilize  Home  Life 

1.  Instruct  the  youth  of  both  sexes  that  the  foundation  of  a  happy 
home  is  laid  during  pre-marital  days.  Keep  the  spring  of  life  pure  by  con- 
forming their  youthful  lives  to  the  single  standard  of  morality.  When 
that  is  done,  the  bride  comes  to  the  man  she  loves  a  stainless,  priceless 
jewel.  He  in  turn  receives  her  not  as  a  cheat,  but  as  a  man  who  can  meet 
his  bride  on  the  high  plane  of  moral  integrity. 

I  know  there  are  people  in  the  world,  some  perhaps  who  are  listening 
to  what  I  am  saying,  who  consider  such  an  ideal  old-fashioned,  behind  the 
times!  They  dub  those  who  entertain  such  ideas  as  "reactionaries," 
"stand-patters,"  and  "anti-progressives,"  etc.  Well,  all  I  can  say  is  that 
nature  herself  is  "old-fashioned,"  as  old  as  love  itself ;  for  since  history 
began  man  has  wanted  the  woman  he  loved  to  be  his  and  his  alone.  But 
aside  from  this,  the  couple  who  come  to  each  other  in  the  eyes  of  the  Cre- 
ator, as  true  lovers  should,  have  no  hidden  secrets  to  break  forth  at  a  fu- 
ture time  to  cause  embarrassment  and  perhaps  to  destroy  the  temple  of 
love  that  has  been  in  process  of  building  for  years. 

2.  Teach  the  young  people  that  marriage  is  not  merely  a  man-made 
institution,  but  that  it  is  ordained  of  God,  and  is  a  sacred  ceremony,  and 
should  receive  their  gravest  consideration  before  they  enter  upon  a  con- 
tract that  involves  either  happiness  or  misery  for  the  rest  of  their  lives. 
Marriage  is  not  something  which  should  be  entered  into  lightly,  termi- 
nated at  pleasure,  or  ended  at  the  first  little  difficulty  that  might  arise.  The 
least  young  people  can  do  is  to  approach  it  with  honest  intentions  of  build- 
ing a  home  that  will  contribute  to  the  bulwark  of  a  noble  society. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY  33 

3.  The  ceremony  should  be  consumated  not  in  secret  but  in  the  pres- 
ence of  friends  and  loved  ones.  Let  the  marriage  be  solemnized  as  far  as 
possible  at  the  place  of  residence,  which  will  minimize  the  evils  of  runaway 
marriages.  For  members  of  the  Church,  the  temple  should  be  the  chosen 
place  in  which  this  sacred  obligation  is  assumed.  For  the  future  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saint  homes,  young  men  and  young  women  should  so  live  that 
they  will  be  worthy  to  consummate  their  union  for  time  and  all  eternity  in 
the  House  of  the  Lord.  Regarding  this  any  intelligent  person  who  be- 
lieves in  the  persistence  of  personality  after  death,  in  the  immortality  of 
the  soul,  will  recognize  at  once  that  love,  the  divinest  attribute  of  the  soul, 
will  also  persist.  Death  cannot  dissolve  the  union  founded  by  love  when 
that  union  is  sealed  by  the  power  of  the  holy  Priesthood.  Couples  having 
sealed  upon  them  the  blessings  of  the  new  and  everlasting  covenant  may 
continue  in  joy  and  exaltation  throughout  the  eternities  to  come. 

Under  the  present  stress  and  commotion  of  social  and  political  groups 
today,  because  of  the  exigencies  and  horrors  of  war,  the  Home  Front 
may  seem  to  be  somewhat  unstable,  but  the  divine  institution  of  marriage 
must  and  shall  be  saved. 

Conclusion 

Would  you  have  a  strong  and  virile  nation  ? — then  keep  your  homes 
pure.  Would  you  reduce  delinquency  and  crime  ? — lessen  the  number  of 
broken  homes.  It  is  time  that  civilized  peoples  realize  that  the  home 
largely  determines  whether  children  shall  be  of  high  or  low  character. 
Home-building,  therefore,  should  be  the  paramount  purpose  of  parents, 
and  of  the  nation. 

One  of  our  boys  in  Australia  who  was  in  those  terrible  battles  in 
North  Africa  writes  of  his  feelings  upon  returning  home  as  follows  : 

It  was  the  most  joyful  experience  I  can  ever  recall.  Hours  before  we  sighted 
the  Australian  coast,  the  ship's  decks  were  crowded  by  returning  soldiers  looking 
for  that  first  glimpse.  I  shall  never  forget  that  great  thrill  which  came  over  us  all 
when  dimly  through  the  distance  we  first  saw  land  and  home.  Gosh !  how  we  did 
roar  and  cheer !  There  were  about  22,000  troops  in  the  convoy  and  you  could  hear 
the  cheering  coming  across  the  distance  which  separated  our  ships.  My ! — after 
three  and  one-half  years  of  roaming  about  the  battlefields,  living  like  nothing  on 
earth,  it  was  really  good  to  be  home  again!  As  we  neared  land  I  couldn't  help 
getting  a  lump  in  my  throat.  I  think  almost  every  hard-bitten  soldier  felt  the  same 
as  I  did,  especially  as  we  realized  that  we  were  the  lucky  ones  to  return.  There  were 
many  of  our  fine  boys  who  stayed  behind  forever ! 

There  are  a  million  men  and  more  on  the  battle  fronts  offering  their 
lives  in  defense  of  the  ideals  of  liberty  vouchsafed  by  the  constitution  of 
the  United  States.  They  are  praying  and  fighting  for  the  preservation 
and  permanency  of  the  homes  they  left  behind. 

It  is  the  duty  of  everyone  to  strive  to  make  it  possible  that  no  soldier 
now  dreaming  of  a  happy  homecoming  may  return  only  to  find  a  broken 
home  or  its  ideals  shattered  by  the  sinful  indulgences  of  a  member  of  the 
family. 

One  of  the  highest  ideals  of  life  is  to  keep  secure  and  free  from 
sorrow  the  homes  of  the  Church  and  of  the  nation. 


34  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,   October  2 


Second  Day 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

With  the  inspiration  of  the  past  and  of  the  present  and  facing 
the  greatest  opportunity  for  missionary  work  in  the  history  of  the 
Church,  it  becomes  our  duty  to  think  seriously,  make  definite  preparations, 
and  be  ready  to  accept  and  enjoy  the  call  of  tomorrow  which  will  soon 
come  to  many  to  take  the  revealed  word  of  the  Lord  to  a  weary  and  sorrow- 
ing world  where  men's  very  souls  are  being  tried. 

Methods  of  Early  Missionaries  of  the  Church 

Our  early  missionaries  thrill  us  with  their  stories  of  faith,  courage, 
sacrifice,  and  devotion. 

It  has  been  revealing  to  me  to  know  that  the  gospel  word  and  the 
story  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  has  been  told  by  our  missionaries  in 
Iceland,  Finland,  India,  Malta,  West  Indies,  China,  Siam,  Russia,  and 
in  many  of  the  far-away  islands  of  the  seas  as  well  as  in  the  well-known 
countries  of  the  world. 

Here  are  words  from  a  few  of  the  old  diaries  of  the  missionaries 
of  yesterday : 

I  quote,  "The  law  of  God  to  us  was  to  go  without  purse  or  scrip.  We 
put  some  Books  of  Mormon  and  some  clothing  into  our  valises,  strapped 
these  on  our  backs,' and  started  on  foot,  relying  on  the  Lord  for  preserva- 
tion and  blessing." 

"Our  way,"  said  another,  "  was  miraculously  opened,  that  we  might 
have  means  to  pursue  our  voyage." 

And  another :  "In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  we  went  forth  healing 
the  sick,  restoring  the  lame,  and  opening  the  eyes  of  the  blind.  The  honest 
in  heart  flocked  by  hundreds  to  the  standard  we  reared." 

"We  were  hailed  with  songs  and  shouting  and  other  tokens  of  joy." 

"After  a  long  and  hard  voyage,"  said  another,  "the  first  thing  we 
did  was  to  ascend  a  mountain  and  offer  prayers  of  thankfulness  and  ask 
for  guidance  in  our  work." 

"I  resolved,"  said  one  brother,  "to  start  on  my  mission  to  England, 
which  seemed  a  painful  duty  for  me  to  perform — to  have  my  family  go 
into  the  wilderness  westward,  and  I  turn  and  go  the  other  way.  Later, 
however,  in  England,  I  learned  they  were  one  hundred  and  twenty  miles 
out  of  Nauvoo,  all  well  and  rejoicing  in  the  gospel." 

"And  then,"  said  one,  "the  cholera  had  broken  out  on  the  boat.  Henry 
went  on  the  upper  deck,  called  upon  the  Lord  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ 
and  in  the  power  of  the  Priesthood  rebuked  the  destroyer.  The  one  person 
that  had  the  disease  died,  but  no  other  people  on  the  boat  were  afflicted." 

These  and  many  like  stories  which  you  might  tell  give  us  the  inspira- 
tion of  the  missionaries  of  yesterday. 

Comment  of  a  Military  Leader 

Today  their  grandsons  and  great-grandsons  in  foxholes,  on  battle- 
fields, in  hospitals,  and  in  army  camps  and  on  the  seas  are  bringing  to  their 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


35 


companions  and  friends  the  same  story  of  comfort  and  inspiration. 

"Give  me  the  soldier,"  said  one  of  our  military  leaders,  "who  has 
faith  in  God.  He  has  no  fear.  Once  he  knows  the  cause  is  just,  then  all 
hell  can't  stop  him  ....  What  we  need  here,"  said  he,  "is  more  Mormon 
missionaries  and  better  mechanics." 

But  tomorrow  when  this  terrible  conflict  is  over,  then  we  shall  have 
our  greatest  challenge.  For  our  Lord  has  said,  "Blessed  are  the  peace 
makers,  for  they  shall  be  called  the  children  of  God."  And  the  only  peace 
that  shall  endure  will  be  that  built  in  the  hearts  of  men. 

Faith  in  God  Brings  Peace 

In  the  Gospel  of  St.  John,  14th  chapter,  verse  27,  we  find  this  promise : 
"Peace  I  leave  with  you,  my  peace  I  give  unto  you :  not  as  the  world  giveth, 
give  I  unto  you.  Let  not  your  heart  be  troubled,  neither  let  it  be  afraid." 

To  have  faith  in  God  and  a  testimony  of  the  divine  mission  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith — these  great  truths  hold  the  secret  of  abiding 
peace. 

How  humble,  prayerful,  and  thoughtful  we  should  be  as  we  face  this 
great  task,  this  opportunity  to  do  so  much  good. 

One  has  said : 

Lord,  make  me  a  channel  of  thy  peace 
That  where  there  is  wrong  I  may  bring  the 

spirit  of  forgiveness, 
That  where  there  is  doubt  I  may  bring  faith, 
That  where  there  is  sadness  I  may  bring  joy, 
For  it  is  by  giving  that  one  receives ; 
It  is  by  self-forgetting  that  one  finds. 

Future  Missionary  Work 

Begin  now  for  your  mission  tomorrow.  The  Lord  is  blessing  many 
of  you  with  greatly  increased  incomes.  Set  aside  a  definite  amount  for 
missionary  service,  and  then  if  you  are  worthy  and  the  call  comes,  you  will 
be  ready  to  enjoy  the  greatest  experience  of  your  life — an  ambassador  of 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Let  us  be  humble,  and  prayerful,  and  study 
the  word  of  the  Lord.   Tomorrow  will  soon  be  here. 

May  the  Lord  add  his  blessings  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  made  a  call  at  President  McKay's  office  yesterday  morning  to  as- 
sure him  that  I  would  be  grateful  if  he  would  consider  the  broadcast  to- 
morrow morning  as  my  share  of  the  time  of  this  conference,  but  President 
McKay,  as  you  know,  is  a  man  of  firm  resolution,  and  so  here  I  am  this 
morning. 


36  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Day 

Advice  Regarding  Going  to  Law 

I  have  appreciated  very  greatly  this  morning,  President  McKay's  re- 
marks concerning  the  home  front.  That  which  I  have  in  mind  concerns 
the  home  front  also,  very  closely.  I  have  had  in  my  files  of  broadcast 
prospect  material  for  the  past  two  years  or  more,  a  text  from  First 
Corinthians  out  of  which  I  have  been  trying  to  evolve  a  broadcast  com- 
ment. Part  of  it  was  presented  last  Sunday,  and  part  of  it  hasn't  evolved 
as  yet.   The  text  is  from  Paul : 

I  speak  to  your  shame.  Is  it  so,  that  there  is  not  a  wise  man  among  you  ? 
no,  not  one  that  shall  be  able  to  judge  between  his  brethren? 

But  brother  goeth  to  law  with  brother,  and  that  before  the  unbelievers. 

Now  therefore  there  is  utterly  a  fault  among  you,  because  ye  go  to  law 
one  with  another.  Why  do  ye  not  rather  take  wrong?  why  do  ye  not  rather 
suffer  yourselves  to  be  defrauded? 

Nay,  ye  do  wrong,  and  defraud,  and  that  your  brethren.  (I  Corinthians 
6:5-8.) 

This  seemed  to  tie  in  with  another  statement  which,  among  others, 
was  more  recently  invited  to  my  attention  by  Dr.  G.  Homer  Durham  from 
the  utterances  of  President  John  Taylor : 

If  people  could  live  without  going  to  law,  society  would  be  greatly 
benefitted,  and  individual  pockets  suffer  less. 

That  comes  from  the  Nauvoo  Neighbor,  July  2,  1845.  Somehow  or 
other  the  two  seem  to  tie  in  together  with  another  statement  from  Co- 
rinthians : 

In  journeyings  often,  in  perils  of  waters,  in  perils  of  robbers,  in  perils  by 
mine  own  countrymen,  in  perils  by  the  heathen,  in  perils  in  the  city,  in  perils 
in  the  wilderness,  in  perils  in  the  sea,  in  perils  among  false  brethren.  (II 
Corinthians  11 :26.) 

And  another  one  from  Proverbs : 

Debate  thy  cause  with  thy  neighbor  himself ;  and  discover  not  a  secret 
to  another.    (Proverbs  25  :9.) 

Instructions  on  How  to  Settle  Difficulties 

These  are  all  by  way  of  preface,  brethren,  to  a  plea  that  if  we  have 
differences  that  we  settle  them  among  ourselves  through  the  various 
agencies  and  organizations  and  procedures  which  the  Lord  has  given  us. 
I  quote  again  from  John  Taylor : 

Then  the  teachers,  who  are  helps  to  the  priests,  whose  duty  it  is  to  go 
among  the  people  and  talk  to  them  on  their  duties — not  like  so  many  parrots, 
but  full  of  the  spirit  of  God — and  where  there  may  be  difficulties  to  settle, 
and  it  is  not  within  the  power  of  the  teachers  to  satisfactorily  adjust  them, 
report  them  to  the  bishop,  who  sits  as  a  common  judge  in  Israel  and  to  ad- 
judicate all  such  matters.  If  thy  brother  offend  thee,  go  and  say  to  him, 
"Brother,  you  have  done  so  and  so,  and  if  he  will  not  listen  to  you  nor  ask 
forgiveness  for  the  offense  he  has  given  you,  take  another  man  with  you — 
one  whom  you  think  has  influence  with  him,  and  one  whom  you  think  he 
will  listen  to — and  let  him  talk.  And  if  the  offending  person  will  not  listen 
to  him,  report  him,  to  be  dealt  with  according  to  the  order  of  the  Church. 
And  if  he  continues  obdurate  and  stubborn,  then  he  does  not  belong  to  us. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


37 


Let  us  always  feel  like  operating  together  for  the  good  of  each  other  and 
for  the  kingdom  we  are  identified  with.  {Journal  of  Discourses,  19:142.) 

If  men  have  differences,  they  should  try  to  settle  them  amicably  among 
themselves.  But  if  they  cannot  do  this,  let  them  take  the  first  steps  as  directed 
in  the  Church  covenants;  let  them  come  together  as  brethren  having  a 
claim  upon  the  Spirit  and  power  of  God  which  would  attend  them  if  they 
lived  their  religion,  and  then,  provided  the  priests  and  teachers  did  their 
duty  and  were  filled  with  wisdom  and  the  spirit  of  their  office  and  calling, 
so  ninety-nine  cases  out  of  every  hundred  might  be  satisfactorily  settled 
without  either  troubling  the  bishop's  court  or  the  high  council.  (Journal  of 
Discourses,  19:53-54.) 

The  organization  of  the  Church  is  after  the  plan  that  exists  in  heaven 
and  according  to  the  principles  that  God  has  revealed  in  the  interest  of  His 
Church  upon  the  earth  and  for  the  advancement  and  rolling  forth  of  His 
kingdom.  We  start  in  with  the  teacher  and  with  the  priest,  whose  duty  it  is 
to  know  the  position  of  all  the  members  in  their  several  districts.  If  they  do 
their  duty  they  will  know  really  and  truly  the  position  of  all  those  who  come 
under  their  charge.  Their  duty  is  very  simple.  What  is  it?  They  are  to 
see  that  there  is  no  hard  feeling  existing  in  the  breasts  of  the  Saints  one 
towards  another ;  that  there  are  no  dishonest  or  fraudulent  acts,  no  la- 
sciviousness  or  corruption,  no  lying,  false  accusations,  profanity,  or  drunk- 
enness ;  and  that  the  people  call  upon  God  in  prayer  in  their  various  house- 
hotds^the  father  and  mother  and  children,  and  that  all  perform  their  vari- 
ous duties  and  do  right  .... 

And  while  God  has  organized  His  Church  upon  the  earth  after  the  plan 
that  exists  in  the  heavens,  it  is  for  the  various  officers  in  the  Church  to  ful- 
fill the  duties  devolving  upon  them,  acting  in  all  kindness,  long-suffering, 
and  mercy  before  the  Lord,  yet  with  justice  and  judgment  that  the  law  of 
God  may  be  honored,  that  the  principles  of  righteousness  may  be  exalted, 
that  the  workers  of  iniquity  may  be  ashamed,  that  the  meek  may  increase 
their  joy  in  the  Lord,  and  the  poor  among  men  may  rejoice  in  the  Holy 
One  of  Israel ;  that  righteousness  and  truth  may  prevail  among  the  people 
of  God  ;  and  we  may  act  not  in  name  only,  but  in  reality  as  the  Saints  of  God 
without  rebuke  in  the  midst  of  a  crooked  and  perverse  generation.  (Journal 
of  Discourses,  23  :216-218.) 

If  I  violate  any  law  of  the  Church,  bring  me  up  for  it.  If  anyone  else 
does,  bring  him  up  for  it.  But  don't  go  sneaking  around  backbiting  and 
misrepresenting.  Let  us  act  as  men,  at  least,  if  we  won't  be  Saints.  But 
we  should  be  true  to  our  calling  and  profession  and  honor  our  God.  (Journal 
of  Discourses  24:233-35.) 

The  further  a  difficulty  spreads,  brethren,  the  more  bitterly  in- 
trenched does  it  become,  and  the  greater  is  the  cost  in  time  and  in  money 
and  in  feelings — sometimes  even  in  the  disaffection  of  our  families,  which 
is  an  experience  that  has  been  repeated  altogether  too  many  times.  In  the 
words  of  Paul — in  the  words  of  John  Taylor — settle  your  difficulties 
among  yourselves,  if  you  have  them.  Don't  worry  about  the  lawyers. 
They  have  plenty  to  do  without  becoming  embroiled  in  differences  among 
brethren,  and  the  court  dockets  are  crowded.  Settle  your  differences 
among  yourselves.  I  hope  we  haven't  any  Zeezroms  in  the  Church,  of 
whose  kind  it  was  said : 

.  .  .  because  they  received  their  wages  according  to  their  employ,  there- 
fore, they  did  stir  up  the  people  .  .  .  that  they  might  have  more  employ,  that 
they  might  get  money  according  to  the  suits  which  were  brought  before 
them.  (Book  of  Mormon.  Alma  11 :20.) 

If  we  have  any  such  I  hope  they  are  not  making  a  living  at  their 
profession. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


Incidents  Regarding  President  John  Taylor 


Speaking  of  John  Taylor,  I  would  like  to  digress  a  moment  to  give 
you  one  or  two  other  statements  of  his,  one  particularly  to  show  the  uses 
to  which  he  put  humor. 

A  smart  young  man  had  just  returned  from  college,  and  at  the  table 
he  wished  to  show  his  parents  what  extraordinary  advancement  he  had 
made.  "Why,  father,"  says  he,  "You  can  hardly  conceive  of  the  advance 
I  have  made." 

"Well,  my  son,"  says  the  father,  "I  am  sure  I  am  glad  to  hear  you  say 
so,  and  I  trust  you  will  make  a  great  man." 

There  happened  to  be  two  ducks  on  the  table  for  dinner,  and  this  young 
man  proposed  to  give  his  father  a  specimen  of  his  smartness. 

"Now,"  he  says,  "You  see  there  are  only  two  ducks,  don't  you?" 

"Yes."  answered  the  father. 

"Well,  I  can  prove  to  you  that  there  are  three  ducks." 
"Can  you,"  says  the  father,  "that's  quite  extraordinary,  really.  How  can 
you  do  it?" 

"Well,"  says  the  son,  "I  will  show  you.   That's  one?" 
"Yes.1' 

"That's  two?" 
"Yes." 

"Well,  two  and  one  make  three,  don't  they?" 

"Quite  so,"  says  the  father.  "It  is  very  extraordinary,  and  to  show  you 
how  much  I  appreciate  it,  I  will  eat  one  of  these  ducks,  and  your  mother  will 
eat  the  other,  and  we  will  leave  the  third  for  you."  (Laughter.) 

And  then,  says  John  Taylor,  speaking  out  of  the  nineteenth  century : 

Some  of  our  "financiers"  have  made  this  kind  of  discovery,  but  when  it 
comes  to  the  practical  thing,  they,  like  the  boy,  have  got  to  fall  back  on 
father's  duck  or  mother's  duck!  (Journal  of  Discourses,  20:164,  165.) 

"Do  I  talk  plainly?"  says  John  Taylor.  "God  expects  me  to  talk 
plainly.  I  have  not  come  here  to  daub  you  with  untempered  mortar,  but 
I  tell  you  the  truth." 

I  have  spent  many  hours  the  last  year  and  a  half  with  the  lofty 
thought  and  strong  language  of  John  Taylor.  I  am  sure  that  you  are 
going  to  enjoy  studying  him  in  the  priesthood  quorums  of  this  Church 
in  the  year  to  come. 

In  conclusion  a  thought  of  great  comfort  from  the  same  source : 

There  may  be  circumstances  arise  in  this  world  to  prevent  for  a  season 
the  order  of  God,  to  change  the  designs  of  the  Most  High,  apparently,  for  the 
time  being.  Yet  they  will  ultimately  roll  back  into  their  proper  place — 
justice  will  have  its  place  and  so  will  mercy,  and  every  man  and  woman 
will  yet  stand  in  their  true  position  before  God  ....  (Journal  of  Discourses, 


We  have  had  great  leaders,  brethren.  We  have  the  President  of  the 
Church  with  us  today.  I  was  reminded  last  night  that  he  has  served  long- 
er among  the  General  Authorities  than  any  other  man  who  has  served 
since  the  restoration.  On  the  sixteenth  of  October  of  this  year,  as  I  recall. 
President  Grant  will  have  served  as  one  of  the  General  Authorities  for 
sixty-one  years.   The  longest  term  of  service  prior  to  this,  I  believe,  was 


1 : 222-223.) 


President  Grant's  Lengthened  Service 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


39 


that  of  Wilford  Woodruff,  fifty-nine  years.  From  Joseph  Smith  to 
Heber  J.  Grant,  such  wisdom  and  counsel  as  has  been  read  here,  and  as 
is  found  in  each  of  the  utterances  of  these  brethren,  are  a  safe  guide  to 
the  current  conduct  of  our  lives. 

May  God  be  with  President  Grant,  and  help  us  to  appreciate  the 
privilege  of  a  living  leadership  with  divine  authority  and  inspiration  to 
direct  us  through  all  the  difficulties  of  our  day,  and  help  us  to  be  wise 
enough  to  live  in  accordance  with  those  counsels,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


Elder  William  Harper  Stoneman  sang  a  solo,  "Calvary"  (Rodney) . 

i 

ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  Twelve  A postles 

Brethren,  I  have  been  greatly  impressed  with  a  passage  of  very 
modern  scripture.  You  will  find  it  on  page  thirty  of  the  Message  of  the 
First  Presidency,  delivered  in  this  tabernacle  on  October  3,  1942.  It  fol- 
lows a  survey  of  Satan's  present  efforts  to  destroy  the  people  of  the  earth, 
and  reads : 

Strength  in  Unity 

In  the  midst  of  this  welter  of  lying  and  deception,  of  woe  and  misery, 
of  death  and  destruction,  of  violent  disorder  and  threatening  chaos,  the 
only  saving  forces  on  earth  are  the  eternal  principles  of  the  everlasting 
Gospel  of  Christ  and  the  rights  and  powers  of  the  Priesthood  of  Almighty 
God.  We  of  this  Church  stand  as  the  sole  possessors  of  these  mighty  forces 
which  we  have  for  our  own  blessing,  salvation,  and  exaltation,  not  only, 
but  also  we  hold  them  in  trust  for  all  mankind. 

It  seems  to  me  that  standing  thus  as  God's  representatives  in  the 
earth,  charged  with  the  responsibility  of  carrying  the  banner  of  righteous- 
ness in  the  mighty  conflict  now  raging  between  truth  and  error,  we  are 
under  great  responsibility  to  be  one,  for  we  fight  against  tremendous  odds, 
and  we  need  all  the  strength  we  can  get. 

United  we  are  strong.  We  have  great  strength  as  a  unit.  The  pro- 
grams we  have  undertaken  as  a  Church  have  been  accomplished  mag- 
nificently. 

Evidences  of  United  Effort 

I  call  to  mind  the  building  of  the  Nauvoo  Temple.  The  Saints  were 
poor.  The  securing  of  the  money  for  the  purchase  of  the  materials  they 
used  required  sacrifices  beyond  any  that  we  have  been  asked  to  make  in 
recent  times.  They  knew  that  as  soon  as  the  building  was  completed  and 
they  had  received  their  endowments  therein,  they  would  have  to  abandon 
it.  Still  they  held  to  their  purpose,  though  they  had  to  complete  the  con- 
struction with  a  sword  in  one  hand  and  a  trowel  in  the  other.  That  build- 
ing is  gone,  but  the  monument  erected  in  the  hearts  of  the  builders  shall 
live  forever  as  a  testimony  to  their  faith  and  unity. 


40  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.   October  2  Second  Dag 

The  missionary  work  of  the  Church  is  another  example  of  what  can 
be  done  when  the  people  are  united.  It  is  one  of  the  marvels  of  the  age 
to  all  who  are  acquainted  with  it.  Today,  one  foreign  mission  is  being 
manned  by  a  single  small  stake. 

The  erection  of  the  grain  elevator  on  Welfare  Square  in  this  city 
is  a  further  evidence  of  what  can  be  done  with  united  effort.  When  the 
erection  of  that  structure  was  in  contemplation,  it  was  stated  by  one  of 
the  consulting  engineers  that  the  building  could  not  be  erected  without  a 
skilled  crew,  and  that  it  would  take  such  a  crew  between  fourteen  and  fif- 
teen days  to  pour  the  cement  for  the  bins.  The  cement  was  poured  in 
eight  and  one-half  days,  almost  wholly  by  an  unskilled  force  of  volunteer 
Welfare  workers. 

The  production  of  the  annual  Church  Welfare  budget  is  another 
demonstration  of  what  this  Church  can  do. 

It  is  my  conviction  that  since  we  are  engaged  in  the  Lord's  work,  we 
can  accomplish  everything  He  wants  us  to  do  if  we  will  but  be  united. 

Can  we  not  be  so  in  all  things  ?  The  answer  is  obvious  and  certain. 
We  can,  but  there  is  only  one  way,  and  that  is  for  each  one  of  us  to  find 
out  what  the  Lord  wants  done,  and  then  for  all  of  us  to  proceed  together 
with  energy  to  do  it. 

Unity  never  comes  while  each  man  charts  his  own  course  and  walks 
in  his  own  way.  The  Lord  made  this  very  clear  in  the  first  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  when  He  marked  such  a  practice  as  one  of  the 
reasons  for  the  calamities  which  he  saw  coming  upon  the  inhabitants  of 
the  earth.   He  said : 

And  the  anger  of  the  Lord  is  kindled,  and  his  sword  is  bathed  in  heaven, 
and  it  shall  fall  upon  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth. 

And  the  arm  of  the  Lord  shall  be  revealed ;  and  the  day  cometh  that 
they  who  will  not  hear  the  voice  of  the  Lord,  neither  the  voice  of  his  ser- 
vants, neither  give  heed  to  the  words  of  the  prophets  and  apostles,  shall  be 
cut  off  from  among  the  people ; 

For  they  have  strayed  from  mine  ordinances,-  and  have  broken  mine 
everlasting  covenant ; 

They  seek  not  the  Lord  to  establish  his  righteousness,  but  every  man 
walketh  in  his  own  way,  and  after  the  image  of  his  own  God,  whose  image 
is  in  the  likeness  of  the  world,  and  whose  substance  is  that  of  an  idol,  which 
waxeth  old  and  shall  perish  in  Babylon,  even  Babylon  the  great,  which  shall 
fall.  (D.  &  C.  1 :13-16.)    [Italics  author's.] 

This  message  was  intended  for  all  the  world,  as  the  Lord  says,  and 
now  for  nearly  one  hundred  and  twelve  years  the  Lord's  servants  have 
been  carrying  it  to  the  world,  explaining  that  the  cause  of  all  this  strife, 
trouble,  and  wickedness  is  that  men  rely  upon  the  counsel  of  their  fellow 
men  and  trust  in  the  arm  of  flesh  and  walk  in  their  own  ways  after  the 
image  of  their  own  gods,  rather  than  seek  the  true  and  living  God  to 
establish  His  righteousness. 

I  repeat  that  the  only  path  to  unity  is  to  find  out  the  will  of  the  Lord, 
and  then  follow  it.  The  way  to  find  it  out  is,  first,  to  be  humble.  We  must 
not  be  hard  of  heart.  We  must  assume  our  proper  relationship  to  our 
Father  in  heaven,  recognizing  that  in  His  infinite  wisdom  He  knows  what 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


41 


ought  to  be  done.  Therefore,  we  should  be  willing  to  subject  our  personal 
opinions  and  actions  to  His  will. 

Understanding  of  the  Gospel  Comes  Through  Study  and  Prayer 

In  this  attitude,  we  should  learn  what  His  will  is  by  a  study  of  His 
word,  as  given  in  the  standard  works  of  the  Church  and  through  the  liv- 
ing prophets.  This  study  must  be  made  in  faith,  and  prayerfully.  We 
should  ask  the  Lord  to  help  us  comprehend  the  Prophet's  words  and  under- 
stand their  application  to  us. 

As  an  illustration  of  this  approach,  I  call  your  attention  to  some  Book 
of  Mormon  history.  You  will  recall  that  Father  Lehi  had  a  dream,  in 
which  he  saw  the  tree  of  life,  the  fountain  of  water,  the  iron  rod,  and  the 
large  and  spacious  building,  and  that  when  he  told  his  sons  about  it,  they 
did  not  understand  its  meaning.  Nephi  had  such  a  desire  to  know  what 
it  meant,  and  such  faith  that  the  Lord  could  make  it  known  unto  him, 
that  he  was  caught  away  into  a  high  mountain  and  given  its  interpretation. 
When  he  returned  to  the  tent  of  his  father,  he  found  his  brothers  dis- 
puting as  to  the  meaning  of  the  words  of  their  father,  and  they  were  hard 
to  understand  in  the  wisdom  of  men,  for  Nephi  says  that  his  father  spoke 
"many  great  things  unto  them  which  were  hard  to  be  understood,  save  a 
man  should  inquire  of  the  Lord."  His  brothers,  being  hard  in  their 
hearts,  had  not  inquired  of  the  Lord,  saying  that  the  Lord  "maketh  no 
such  things  known  unto  us."  Then  Nephi  said  : 

.  .  .  How  is  it  that  ye  do  not  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  ?  How 
is  it  that  ye  will  perish,  because  of  the  hardness  of  your  hearts? 

Do  ye  not  remember  the  things  which  the  Lord  hath  said?  If  ye  will 
not  harden  your  hearts,  and  ask  me  in  faith,  believing  that  ye  shall  receive, 
with  diligence  in  keeping  my  commandments,  surely  these  things  shall  be 
made  known  unto  you.  (I  Nephi  IS  :10-11.) 

Independence  the  Aim  of  the  Welfare  Plan 

One  of  the  activities  of  the  Church  which  is  being  given  great  em- 
phasis at  this  time  is  the  Welfare  work.  If  I  understand  the  counsel  of 
the  brethren  correctly  in  connection  with  this  program,  we  must  become 
a  self-sustaining,  independent  people.  This  means  that  the  Church  mem- 
bers, individually  and  as  a  body,  must  become  independent  of  direct  pub- 
lic relief  of  all  kinds. 

We  have  done  a  magnificent  work  in  our  production  program  and 
in  many  other  Welfare  activities.  What  we  need  to  do  now  is  to  become 
united  as  one  man  in  our  determination  to  accomplish  this  great  objective 
of  independence.  This  we  can  do  by  understanding  and  following  the 
advice  of  the  brethren  and  the  instructions  issued  from  the  headquarters 
of  the  Church. 

It  seems  to  me  that  there  is  no  greater  threat  today  against  our  funda- 
mental institutions  than  that  of  losing  our  independence.  It  is  a  sad  fact 
that  in  Utah  in  1942,  when  industrial  payrolls  were  up  270%  over  1936, 
the  public  welfare  expenditures  were  up  282%  over  1936.  It  is  possible, 
in  the  Church  Welfare  way,  to  free  every  member  of  the  Church  of  Christ 


42  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,   October  2  Second  Day 

from  the  necessity  of  accepting  direct  relief  from  any  public  agency  and 
to  make  all,  except  the  permanently  disabled,  self-sustaining. 

I  accept  this  Church  as  the  way  of  life,  not  only  in  the  interpretation 
of  theology,  but  in  the  social  and  economic  phases  of  our  lives,  and  I  ex- 
pect that  through  this  Welfare  program  the  Church  shall  point  the  way  to 
the  solution  of  economic  problems,  so  that  in  the  future  a  falling  world 
can  point  to  it  as  a  light  on  the  hill  which  has  solved  its  economic  problems 
in  the  midst  of  chaos. 

God  help  us  to  become  united  in  our  understanding  and  in  our  efforts 
to  accomplish  this  great  objective,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  trust  that  I  may  be  favored  of  the  Lord  in  what  I  shall  say,  to  the 
end  that  you  may  be  edified  and  that  the  time  that  I  occupy  may  be  profit- 
ably spent.  It  is  a  remarkable  experience  to  stand  here  and  face  an  army  of 
men,  and  realize  that  each  of  these  men  possesses  divine  authority.  No 
other  place  in  the  world,  no  other  group  in  the  world,  holds  the  authority 
of  the  holy  Priesthood  as  you  do. 

Causes  of  Present  Condition  of  the  World 

It  is  oftentimes  a  source  of  exceeding  distress  to  me  to  know  that  our 
brothers  and  our  sisters  are  in  the  world,  many  of  them,  seeking  to  de- 
stroy those  who  are  opposing  them  on  the  field  of  battle.  It  seems  that  at 
different  periods  of  the  world's  history,  those  who  have  been  faithful  in 
keeping  the  commandments  of  God  have  been  compelled  to  defend  the 
ideals  that  they  have  received  from  our  Heavenly  Father.  Today  those 
who  have  gone  out  from  among  us  are  not  only  representatives  of  the 
government  of  the  United  States  but  they  go  out  also  believing  that  it  is 
their  religious  duty  to  defend  the  liberties  of  the  nation  that  our  Heavenly 
Father  established  for  us  to  enjoy. 

It  does  seem  strange  that  after  hundreds  of  years  of  access  to  the 
holy  scriptures  comparatively  few  people  are  familiar  with  the  fact  that 
what  is  occurring  now  is  in  fulfillment  of  predictions  of  men  who,  like 
you,  have  held  the  Priesthood.  The  philosophies  of  men  vary  and  change. 
The  truths  of  God  are  fundamental  and  never  change.  Today  this  world 
is  facing  destruction  because  after  not  only  hundreds  of  years  but  thou- 
sands of  years  the  sons  and  daughters  of  the  living  God  have  failed  to 
conform  their  lives  to  His  kind  advice. 

One  of  the  prophets  told  us  that  the  Lord  God  would  do  nothing  but 
He  would  reveal  His  secrets  to  His  servants  the  prophets.  In  other  words, 
the  world  would  not  be  taken  by  surprise  if  they  paid  attention  to  the 
leadership  that  the  Lord  provided.  So  we  look  down  over  the  vista  of 
time,  to  the  days  of  Noah  when  the  Lord  warned  the  people  of  what  would 
occur,  and  they  apparently  paid  no  attention,  for  out  of  the  seeming  mul- 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


43 


titudes  that  dwelt  upon  the  earth,  only  eight  souls  were  saved  from  de- 
struction, yet  all  had  been  told  how  they  might  be  preserved. 

Warnings  of  Ancient  Prophets 

The  Lord  warned  Tyre  and  Nineveh  and  Jerusalem  and  Babylon,  and 
other  cities,  that  unless  they  repented  and  turned  to  him  they  would  be 
destroyed,  and  of  those  cities,  Nineveh  was  the  only  one  that  turned  im- 
mediately to  the  Lord  when  the  Prophet  Jonah  warned  them  of  impending 
danger.  The  king  and  people  clothed  in  sackcloth  and  sat  in  ashes  with- 
out delay,  and  the  Lord  permitted  the  destruction  that  was  promised  to 
pass  by. 

The  Lord  told  Abraham  that  his  seed  should  go  into  a  strange  land, 
that  after  four  hundred  years  they  would  return  with  great  possessions. 
He  did  not  tell  him  how  it  was  going  to  be  brought  about.  He  did  not  tell 
him  that  Joseph,  one  of  his  descendants,  should  be  sold  into  slavery  in 
Egypt  and  because  he  kept  the  commandments  of  God  should  have  com- 
munication with  the  heavens  and  preserve  the  great  nation  where  he  was 
living  at  the  time.  Abraham  was  not  told  that.  He  was  not  told  that  the  great 
Pharaoh  would  recognize  a  humble  Hebrew  who  was  taken  out  of  prison 
to  interpret  his  dream.  Abraham  was  not  told  that  the  family  of  Joseph 
would  be  brought  to  Egypt  in  order  to  be  preserved,  that  they  should  be- 
come a  mighty  multitude,  and  after  a  period  of  time,  four  hundred  years, 
six  hundred  thousand  people,  approximately,  came  out  of  Egypt  and 
wended  their  way  through  the  wilderness  into  the  Promised  Land.  It 
was  not  a  matter  of  guessing.  It  was  a  matter  of  knowledge  on  the  part  of 
God  and  He  gave  the  information  to  Abraham. 

Think  how  anxious  the  Lord  was  to  save  the  cities  of  the  plains,  Sod- 
om and  Gomorrah.  Abraham  pleaded  repeatedly  with  the  Lord,  asking 
that  they  be  spared  for  the  sake  of  the  righteous.  He  kept  reducing  the 
number  until  he  came  down  from  fifty  to  ten  righteous  people.  The  Lord 
said  that  if  in  these  cities  ten  righteous  could  be  found,  the  cities  would  be 
saved.  But  not  ten  righteous  persons  could  be  found  and  the  cities  were 
destroyed,  as  they  had  been  warned  by  a  servant  of  the  Lord  that  they 
would  be  because  of  wickedness. 

It  was  a  strange  thing  that  in  the  days  of  Isaiah  the  Lord  revealed  to 
him  that  the  greatest  of  all  the  nations  in  the  earth  should  be  humbled,  and 
He  gave  the  name  of  the  man,  Cyrus,  whom  the  Lord  referred  to  as  His 
anointed,  and  told  Isaiah  that  Cyrus  would  overthrow  Babylon  and  re- 
build Jerusalem.  The  prophet  had  said  that  Jerusalem  would  be  in  bond- 
age seventy  years.  It  was  just  seventy  years  when  Cyrus  gathered  to- 
gether and  took  back  to  Jerusalem  the  Jews  who  had  been  taken  captive 
to  Bablyon.  Cyrus  took  artisans  and  skilled  men  and  the  vessels  that  had 
been  stolen  from  the  temple  by  those  who  had  lived  in  Babylon  and  went 
back  to  rebuild  Jerusalem. 

It  was  not  very  long  after  that  until  the  Jews  who  would  not  repent 
were  punished  because  they  would  not  listen  to  the  Lord.  And  then  again, 
after  the  coming  of  our  Lord  and  Master,  Jesus  Christ,  they  would  not 


44  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Day 

receive  His  Gospel  and  they  would  not  repent.  This  time  Jerusalem  was 
not  only  overthrown  but  was  destroyed  and  her  temple  was  razed  until 
not  one  stone  was  left  upon  another. 

All  these  things  were  revealed  to  the  prophets  of  God.  And  so  we 
might  go  on  now  speaking  of  Babylon,  and  how  the  Lord  told  of  the  estab- 
lishment of  the  various  kingdoms  that  should  succeed,  by  giving  the  king, 
Nebuchadnezzar,  a  dream,  and  then  by  using  Daniel,  who  was  there  as  a 
captive  to  interpret  the  dream  of  the  king.  The  prediction  had  been  made 
that  certain  things  would  occur,  and  one  kingdom  should  follow  after  an- 
other, and  it  was  so  fulfilled.  It  took  hundreds  of  years  to  fulfil  the  predic- 
tion. One  of  the  remarkable  parts  of  the  interpretation  was  that  in  the 
days  of  the  kingdoms  that  should  grow  out  of  the  Roman  Empire,  the 
God  of  heaven  should  set  up  a  kingdom.  A  little  stone  was  to  be  cut  out  of 
the  mountain  without  hands,  and  the  God  of  heaven  would  set  up  a  king- 
dom. 

Daniel  was  a  prophet  of  God,  and  he  was  a  prophet  because  he  kept 
the  commandments  of  God.  I  would  like  you  brethren  who  are  here  today 
to  take  this  message  with  you.  Daniel  observed  the  teachings  of  God  with 
his  companions,  with  reference  to  the  kind  of  food  and  drink  they  should 
have,  and  refused  to  accept  the  food  that  was  served  upon  the  king's  table. 
He  kept  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and  the  result  was  that  he,  with  his  three 
associates,  who  also  kept  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  of  all  those  that  were 
captives,  received  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty  and  their  own  lives  were 
not  only  preserved,  but  they  were  also  permitted  to  tell  what  should  occur. 

The  Promises  of  the  Lord  Fulfilled 

Now,  in  the  days  of  the  kings  that  grew  out  of  the  Roman  Empire, 
the  kingdoms  were  partly  strong  and  partly  broken,  and  the  God  of 
Heaven  did  set  up  a  kingdom,  for  in  the  year  1830  he  established  His 
Church  here  upon  the  earth.  That  did  not  come  by  accident — it  did  not 
come  by  surprise.  It  had  all  been  predicted — all  these  things  that  are  con- 
tained in  the  Old  and  New  Testaments,  and  many  others  that  I  am  not 
trying  to  mention.  I  am  trying  to  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  when 
the  Lord  speaks,  what  He  promises  has  always  been  fulfilled. 

Well,  now,  has  He  promised  us  anything  today?  Read  your  scrip- 
tures. Not  only  the  Old  and  New  Testaments,  but  turn  to  your  Book  of 
Mormon.  See  how  the  Lord  has  fulfilled  His  promises — how  the  Ne- 
phites,  because  they  refused  to  accept  the  teachings  of  God — refused  to 
sustain  those  who  presided  over  them  by  authority — were  wiped  from  the 
face  of  the  earth.  That  was  not  done  without  a  warning;  they  knew  it 
would  come,  and  they  were  told,  across  the  mighty  ocean,  of  the  coming 
of  the  Savior,  what  would  occur  when  He  came,  and  what  would  happen 
when  He  was  crucified.  The  Lord  kept  these  things  in  the  minds  of  His 
people  who  were  prophets  and  who  paid  attention.  All  over  this  land  there 
was  destruction  because  the  people  were  not  righteous. 

You  may  follow  the  record,  and  you  will  discover  that  such  things 
have  never  happened  to  a  people  who  were  keeping  the  commandments 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


45 


of  God.  The  destruction  has  come  to  those  who  were  failing  to  pay  at- 
tention to  what  the  Lord  desired.  This  nation  was  raised  up  in  order  that 
men  might  worship  God  according  to  the  dictates  of  their  conscience- — 
this  nation  of  which  we  are  a  part.  God  raised  up  the  very  men  who  pre- 
pared the  Constitution  to  declare  to  us  our  privileges  and  our  liberties.  It 
was  not  an  accident.  Those  things  were  recorded  beforehand.  In  the 
Book  of  Mormon  He  announced  the  coming  of  Columbus,  and  of  the  Pil- 
grim fathers,  from  the  old  world,  those  who  came  here  to  worship  God. 

Predictions  of  a  Modern  Prophet 

All  these  things  had  been  made  known  beforehand,  and  then,  in  the 
case  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  when  they  were  in  distress  in  Nauvoo  and 
were  being  harassed  by  their  enemies,  the  Prophet  of  God  told  them  that 
they  would  be  driven  from  their  homes — and  that  they  would  come  to 
the  tops  of  the  Rocky  Mountains  where  they  would  become  a  mighty 
people.  What  did  they  know  about  the  Rocky  Mountains?  What  was 
there  in  the  Rocky  Mountains  that  they  should  come  to?  Not  anything 
but  what  God  had  prepared.  That  prophecy  was  fulfilled,  and  you  are  my 
witnesses  that  it  was  fulfilled  in  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  today  are  a 
mighty  people  in  the  midst  of  these  great  mountain  valleys. 

Another  prediction  of  our  times  that  was  fulfilled,  was  when  the 
Lord  revealed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  that  there  would  be  a  civil  war 
in  this  country  and  told  him  exactly  where  it  would  begin,  at  the  rebellion 
of  South  Carolina.  How  did  the  Prophet  Joseph  know,  nearly  thirty 
years  before  it  occurred,  that  it  would  start  in  South  Carolina?  He  knew 
because  the  Lord  knew  and  told  him  so.  So  from  the  beginning,  through 
Noah,  and  all  down  through  the  line  of  prophets  the  power  to  communi- 
cate with  the  heavens  has  been  with  those  whom  God  has  raised  up  and 
prepared.  The  people  have  been  taught,  and  they  have  been  warned,  and 
most  of  them  have  been  recreant  to  the  warning,  the  result  being  that  great 
destruction  has  come  upon  the  children  of  men. 

Now,  in  our  day  we  are  warned,  in  a  revelation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  that  unless  we  are  more_ righteous  than  those  who  are  receiving 
destruction  at  the  present  time  in  many  parts  of  the  world,  we,  too,  must 
lose  our  birthright  and  our  opportunity  and  be  destroyed  here  in  the  flesh. 
We  will  not  be  justified  by  saying  we  are  living  as  well  as  other  people. 
That  is  not  sufficient,  my  brethren.  We  have  a  special  destiny  if  we  live 
for  it.  That  destiny  is  to  live  here  upon  this  earth  when  it  becomes  the 
Celestial  Kingdom,  where  God  our  Heavenly  Father  and  His  Son  Jesus 
Christ  will  be  our  King  and  our  Lawgiver.  We  know  these  things,  and 
the  world  does  not  know  them.  So  it  is  not  sufficient  that  we  are  doing 
as  well  as  most  of  the  people  in  the  nation.  Unless  we  are  keeping  the 
commandments  of  God  and  living  worthy  of  the  blessings  of  our  Heavenly 
Father,  we  will  not  receive  those  blessings. 

Salvation  Through  Keeping  the  Commandments 
Now  that  is  not  said  with  any  feeling  of  unkindness  and  harshness. 


46  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  2  Second  Day 

From  the  depths  of  my  soul  I  wish  that  we  ourselves  could  see  our  own 
danger.  There  are  many  people  among  us  who  are  pleasing  to  our  Heaven- 
ly Father  because  they  are  keeping  the  commandments  of  God.  There 
are  many  people  who  are  not  members  of  the  Church  who  are  seeking  to 
keep  the  commandments  of  God  as  they  understand  them.  All  these  will 
receive  blessings  in  proportion  to  their  faithfulness.  But  in  preparation 
for  the  Celestial  Kingdom,  to  obtain  an  inheritance  here  when  this  shall 
be  that  kingdom,  the  Lord  Himself  has  given  the  rules  and  regulations. 
Yet,  I  fear  there  are  some  among  us  who  are  so  thoughtless  as  to  have  the 
idea  that  they  will  decide  for  themselves,  contrary  to  the  Lord's  advice, 
what  they  will  do  and  yet  expect  to  receive  an  inheritance  in  the  Celestial 
Kingdom,  but  they  are  doomed  to  disappointment.   The  Master  said : 

Not  everyone  that  saith  unto  me,  Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into  the  King- 
dom of  Heaven ;  but  he  that  doeth  the  will  of  my  Father  which  is  in  Heav- 
en. (Matt.  7:21.) 

Why  are  we  prevented  at  the  present  time  from  doing  as  we  have 
done  for  years,  to  bring  all  our  people  who  can  come  to  the  tabernacle? 
Because  the  people  of  the  world  have  transgressed  the  laws  of  God ;  be- 
cause the  people  of  our  nation  have  disappointed  the  Lord  and  have  re- 
fused His  blessings,  so  many  of  them. 

Then,  right  here  among  us,  in  our  own  homes,  in  the  organized 
stakes  of  Zion,  there  are  those  who  have  had  the  hands  of  the  servants  of 
God  laid  upon  their  heads  and  been  confirmed  members  of  the  Church, 
and  many  of  them  have  received  divine  authority,  and  today  what  would 
they  do  if  the  Savior  were  to  come  ?  What  would  we  do  ?  Are  we  pre- 
pared for  the  coming  of  our  Lord  ?  I  hope  we  are  preparing,  because  we 
need  to  be  prepared. 

And  so  today,  as  one  of  the  humblest  among  you,  I  feel  with  all  my 
heart  to  invoke  upon  you  the  blessing  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  You  who 
are  leaders  in  the  organized  wards  and  stakes  of  Zion,  and  some  in  the 
mission  fields,  I  pray  that  you  may  have  the  wisdom  to  see  the  truth  and 
to  understand  it  and  to  live  as  the  Lord  intends  that  we  should  live.  I 
say  to  you,  destruction  is  not  far  away  and  only  on  the  condition  that  we 
will  observe  the  laws  of  God  and  keep  His  commandments  have  we  the 
promise  that  He  will  preserve  us.  It  is  in  our  power  to  repent  as  it  was 
in  the  power  of  the  people  of  the  city  of  Nineveh.  When  they  were  about 
to  be  destroyed,  they  repented  and  were  preserved.  Unless  the  people  of 
this  land  that  we  live  in,  repent  of  their  infidelity  and  wickedness  and  turn 
to  the  Lord,  his  judgments  will  overtake  them.  I  do  not  say  that  with  harsh- 
ness or  unkindness,  but  because  the  Lord  Himself  has  said  it,  and  it  is 
your  duty  and  mine  to  let  our  light  so  shine  that  all  these  people  that  we 
can  contact  will  know  and  understand  that  God  lives  and  that  this  is  His 
footstool,  and  our  title  to  an  inheritance  here  shall  only  be  obtained  by 
honoring  Him  and  observing  His  laws,  and  keeping  His  commandments. 
All  these  things  are  made  plain  to  Latter-day  Saints.  It  is  our  duty  to 
divide  the  information  with  others  of  our  Father's  children. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  47 

Advice  of  President  Grant  Unheeded 

We  are  fortunate  today  to  have  the  servant  of  the  Lord  who  presides 
over  the  Church,  the  mouthpiece  of  the  Lord  to  us,  sitting  in  our  midst. 
There  are  thousands  of  people  who  would  walk  any  distance  they  were 
able,  in  order  that  they  might  see  the  face  and  touch  the  hand  of  the  Proph- 
et of  the  Lord,  and  yet  there  are  many  of  our  own  people  who  disregard 
his  council.  From  this  very  stand  he  pleaded  with  us  not  to  repeal  the 
Eighteenth  Amendment  to  the  constitution  of  the  United  States.  He 
didn't  speak  as  Heber  J.  Grant,  the  man.  He  spoke  as  the  President  of 
the  Church  and  the  representative  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  And  yet 
in  a  state  where  we  could  have  retained  what  we  had,  there  were  enough 
Latter-day  Saints,  so-called  (some  of  them  hold  positions  in  the  Church, 
or  did  at  that  time),  who  paid  no  attention  to  what  the  Lord  wanted,  ig- 
nored what  He  had  said  through  his  prophet,  and  what  is  the  result? 
Such  delinquency  as  we  have  never  known  is  in  our  own  community  to- 
day, and  the  sons  and  daughters  and  grandchildren,  and  in  many  cases  the 
fathers  and  mothers,  who  defied  the  advice  of  our  Heavenly  Father  and 
said  "We  will  do  as  we  please,"  are  paying  the  penalty  and  will  continue 
to  do  so  until  they  turn  away  from  their  foolishness  and  desire  with  all 
their  hearts  to  do  what  our  Heavenly  Father  desires  us  to  do. 

Now,  I  hope  that  I  am  not  saying  things  in  a  way  that  might  make 
you  feel  that  I  am  angry  with  anybody.  I  have  no  such  feelings.  My 
heart  is  warm  and  tender  toward  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God ;  I  am 
grateful  to  have  such  companions  as  I  have  in  this  Church  and  some  won- 
derful friends  outside  of  it — men  and  women  with  whom  we  are  seeking 
to  share  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Testimony  and  Advice 

Today  I  stand  here  as  one  of  the  humblest  among  you,  grateful  for 
the  blessings  that  have  been  bestowed  upon  me,  thankful  for  the  knowl- 
edge that  this  is  God's  work,  and  in  conclusion  I  would  like  to  bear  my 
testimony  that  I  know,  as  I  know  that  I  live,  that  the  God  of  Abraham, 
Isaac  and  Jacob  is  at  the  helm.  This  is  the  true  Church  and  it  bears  the 
name  of  His  Beloved  Son  who  named  it.  His  servants  have  the  power, 
and  they  have  bestowed  upon  you,  my  brethren,  a  portion  of  divine  author- 
ity with  the  belief  that  you  will  qualify,  with  the  hope  that  you  will  measure 
up,  and  when  I  say  "you"  I  mean  all  of  us.  Are  we  going  to  disappoint  our 
Heavenly  Father  ?  Are  we  going  to  let  our  own  homes  go  to  pieces  and 
our  families  forsake  the  truth  while  we  trifle  with  our  opportunity  ?  Are 
we  going  to  live  like  the  world,  because  it  is  popular  ?  Or  are  we  going  to 
do  as  the  people  of  Nineveh  did — turn  from  the  foolishness  of  man  to  the 
wisdom  of  God  and  prepare  ourselves  for  eternal  life  in  the  Celestial 
Kingdom  ?  That  is  what  He  offers  us.  That  is  what  each  of  us  may  en- 
joy if  we  will,  and  I  bear  you  witness  that  this  is  true  and  pray  that  our 
Heavenly  Father  will  help  us  to  cleave  to  the  truth  that  insures  exaltation 
and  eternal  happiness,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.  Amen. 


48  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,   October  2  Second  Datj 

ELDER  W.  AIRD  MACDONALD 

(Former  President  of  the  California  Mission) 

I  feel  very  humble,  my  brethren,  in  occupying  this  brief  moment  in 
this  great  Conference.  I  am  thrilled  to  be  present  again  with  President 
Grant.  It  was  my  great  opportunity  while  serving  in  California  to  be 
closely  associated  with  him  during  his  visits  there  and  I  want  to  bear  testi- 
mony here  that  he  is  the  prophet  of  the  Lord.  At  a  time  when  he  was 
stricken  and  when  medical  science  said  there  was  no  hope  for  him,  and 
as  he  lay  in  the  hospital  he  detected  our  anxiety  and  concern.  I  recall 
the  morning  when  we  visited  him  there  when  in  that  calm  assurance  of 
faith  he  said:  "Don't  worry,  the  Lord  has  made  manifest  to  me  that  I 
shall  recover  and  I  shall  walk  out  of  this  hospital."  It  has  been  three 
years  since  that  time  and  we  are  privileged  to  still  enjoy  his  inspired 
leadership.  I  am  grateful  for  this  opportunity  this  morning  to  see  him 
again  and  to  witness  before  you  our  loyalty  and  appreciation  of  his  great 
leadership  of  the  Church. 

I  want  to  bring  you  the  testimony  of  the  outside  world :  Recently 
the  President  of  the  College  of  the  Pacific  at  Stockton,  California,  paid 
a  visit  to  your  city  and  for  two  weeks  he  mingled  among  you.  He  re- 
turned amazed  at  the  great  work  that  is  being  accomplished  here  by  the 
great  Church  that  has  set  up  an  ensign  to  the  world,  and  when  talking  to 
a  minister  of  another  protestant  church  said,  "I  was  absolutely  flaber- 
gasted  at  what  I  found  in  Salt  Lake  City.  You  know,  Dr.  Long,  there 
were  seventy-three  churches,  and  they  all  held  services  on  Sunday  eve- 
ning— Seventy-three  churches  in  one  city,  and  we  can't  get  one  church 
filled  in  our  city  here." 

That  is  the  testimony  of  those  who  come  among  you.  I  appeal,  to 
you,  my  brethren,  to  continue  to  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  for 
you  are  an  ensign  to  the  world,  and  the  world  is  coming  here  to  learn  the 
ways  of  the  Lord. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  opportunity  that  has  come  to  me  to  serve  in  this 
Church,  and  I  am  thrilled  with  the  new  call  that  has  come  to  me  to  serve 
with  the  men  in  the  Service  who  I  believe  have  a  great  heritage  come  to 
them  through  being  the  men  who  shall  go  before  and  make  preparation 
for  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man.  I  believe  I  see  out  of  this  great  con- 
flict, that  this  great  army  of  freedom  shall  go  in  the  might  of  the  Lord  and 
shall  prepare  the  way  so  that  the  world  might  be  ready  to  receive  the  King 
of  Kings  when  He  shall  come.  These  young  men  who  shall  wear  the  uni- 
form of  this  great  army  of  righteousness  that  shall  prepare  the  way  like 
John  the  Baptist  in  the  Meridian  of  Time,  have  a  great  responsibility  and 
a  great  honor.  I  believe  they  go  out  as  missionaries,  these  few,  forty 
thousand  among  seven  million,  to  be  the  light  to  the  world  and  to  pre- 
pare the  way;  and,  by  their  lives,  living  among  their  buddies,  to  preach 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  see  a  greater  opportunity  before  them  to 
preach  the  gospel  than  the  missionaries  have  had  in  the  mission  field,  who 
have  spent  most  of  their  time  trying  to  find  men  who  would  listen  to  them. 
Now,  in  the  privacy  of  their  own  barracks,  to  their  own  buddies  they  can 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


49 


preach  the  gospel  many  times  without  even  saying  a  word.  And  so  I  ap- 
peal to  you  hrethren  who  stand  in  responsible  positions  in  the  stakes  and 
wards  of  Zion  from  whence  our  young  men  have  gone  into  the  Service,  to 
let  it  be  a  distinct  honor  to  your  ward  and  stake  that  these  are  your  repre- 
sentatives in  the  great  army  of  righteousness.  See  to  it  that  your  mem- 
bership and  your  families  and  the  parents  of  these  boys  do  not  bother 
them  with  the  petty  things  on  the  home  front.  They  have  all  they  can 
do  in  learning  the  great  problems  they  have  in  their  great  work.  I  ap- 
peal to  the  parents  to  write  encouraging  letters  to  their  boys  and  not  to 
trouble  them  with  the  petty  things  at  home. 

I  bear  testimony  to  you  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  and  I  pray 
that  we  as  a  people  may  be  worthy  of  the  great  responsibility  that  is  ours 
in  being  a  light  to  the  world,  and  so  living  our  religion  and  so  being  faith- 
ful to  our  teachings  that  our  lives  may  be  exemplary  and  that  other  men, 
seeing  our  good  works,  may  be  led  to  glorify  our  Father  in  Heaven.  I 
pray  God  to  bless  us  and  to  bless  our  beloved  President  that  his  life  may 
be  prolonged  upon  the  earth  and  that  we  may  enjoy  his  inspired  leader- 
ship. Help  us  all  to  be  faithful  and  true,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 


The  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Lord  Dismiss  Us." 
Elder  Silas  L.  Wright,  President  of  the  Montpelier  Stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.m. 

SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  third  session  of  the  Conference  convened  at  2  o'clock  p.m.,  Sat- 
urday, October  2nd. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

We  are  now  ready  to  begin  the  third  session  of  the  114th  Semi- An- 
nual Conference  of  the  Church. 

All  of  the  General  Authorities  are  present,  except  President  Grant, 
who  feels  that  it  is  not  wise  to  be  here  this  afternoon.  He  was  here  all 
the  morning  as  you  know.  He  has  the  love  and  faith  and  prayers  of  the 
Priesthood  here  assembled,  for  his  continued  health  and  improvement. 

The  other  General  Authorities  are  present,  also  the  Officers  of 
Stakes,  Quorums  and  Wards  as  heretofore  announced.  Attendance  is 
restricted  as  it  has  been  heretofore  during  the  last  three  Conferences  be- 
cause of  the  exigencies  of  war. 


50  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,   October  2  Second  Day 

The  proceedings  of  this  meeting  will  be  broadcast  over  station  KSL. 
We  will  make  only  such  announcements  as  may  be  necessary  for  the 
audience  listening  in  to  keep  in  touch  with  the  procedure. 

Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  will  conduct  the  music,  and  Elder  Frank 
W.  Asper  is  at  the  organ. 

The  congregation  will  now  join  in  singing,  "Come  Listen  to  a  Proph- 
et's Voice,"  number  27  in  the  Song  Folder,  68  in  the  Hymn  Book,  166  in 
your  small  books. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Come  Listen  To  A  Prophet's 
Voice." 

President  Heber  Moon  of  the  Duchesne  Stake  offered  the  invoca- 
tion. 

The  hymn,  "Jehovah,  Lord  of  Heaven  and  Earth"  was  sung  by  the 
congregation. 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Dear  brethren :  For  some  time  I  have  anticipated  this  experience  and 
with  a  great  deal  of  anxiety.  I  have  seen  in  my  mind  a  large  congrega- 
tion of  intelligent  leading  men  of  the  Church,  men  holding  the  Priesthood 
and  important  offices  in  the  Church,  whom  I  would  be  expected  to  lead  in 
intelligent  and  profitable  thought  in  matters  pertaining  to  our  eternal  wel- 
fare. In  thinking  what  I  might  say  that  would  be  appropriate  I  have 
thought  that,  as  this  is  a  General  Conference  of  the  Priesthood  of  the 
Church,  I  might  speak  on  the  importance  of  the  Priesthood  in  the  great 
scheme  of  man's  salvation  with  the  hope  that  it  might  lead  to  greater  faith- 
fulness in  magnifying  the  Priesthood. 

The  Importance  of  the  Priesthood  in  the  Church 

Priesthood  is  power  and  authority  of  God  delegated  to  man  to  speak 
and  act  for  Him  in  the  work  of  salvation.  We  are  all  candidates  for  the 
blessing  of  eternal  life  and  exaltation  and  have  been  from  the  beginning, 
and  in  the  end  I  am  sure  we  will  be  satisfied  with  nothing  less  than  a  ful- 
ness of  glory,  but  these  blessings  cannot  come  to  us  without  the  exercise  of 
Priesthood.  It  matters  not  how  much  faith  we  may  have,  how  sincere 
our  repentance,  we  can  enter  the  Kingdom  only  by  baptism  and  confirma- 
tion, and  these  ordinances  have  to  be  administered  by  the  Priesthood.  This 
really  places  the  Priesthood  on  a  par  in  importance  with  our  membership  in 
the  Church.  We  might  ask,  do  we  fully  appreciate  our  membership  in 
the  Church,  and  do  we  fully  appreciate  the  Priesthood  ?  There  are  other 
ordinances  of  supreme  importance  that  we  must  receive  if  we  would  ob- 
tain eternal  life  and  exaltation,  for  example,  the  endowments  as  ministered 
in  the  house  of  the  Lord.  In  these  endowments  we  are  informed  that  they 
are  to  prepare  us  to  enter  the  Celestial  Kingdom.  There  we  receive  knowl- 
edge and  information  which  with  faithfulness  on  our  part  are  intended  to 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


51 


admit  us  into  the  kingdom,  knowledge  that  is  received  from  no  other  source 
and  without  which  we  may  never  enter  the  Celestial  Kingdom.  Those 
ordinances  are  administered  in  the  power  and  authority  of  the  holy  Priest- 
hood. Do  we  see  the  importance  of  the  Priesthood  which  we  have  re- 
ceived ? 

There  are  other  blessings — the  new  and  everlasting  covenant  of  mar- 
riage, administered  by  the  authority  of  the  holy  Priesthood  entitling  faith- 
ful men  and  women  to  receive  that  covenant,  if  they  are  true  and  faith- 
ful, to  some  of  the  highest  and  most  glorious  blessings  that  our  Father  has 
for  His  faithful  children.  A  man  may  not  attain  to  the  goal  of  his  exist- 
ence, eternal  life  and  exaltation,  without  himself  bearing  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood.  He  may  not  receive  the  endowments  until  he  has  first  re- 
ceived the  Priesthood.  Nor  can  he  have  a  wife  sealed  to  him  for  time  and 
eternity  without  his  first  having  received  the  Priesthood.  These  facts 
make  the  Priesthood  of  equal  importance  with  all  these  other  ordinances 
of  the  Gospel  and  with  salvation  itself. 

Obligation  Resting  Upon  the  Priesthood 

Every  man  that  has  received  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  has  re- 
ceived the  oath  and  covenant  of  the  Priesthood  which  the  Lord  has  re- 
vealed and  which  is  recorded  in  the  eighty-fourth  section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  by  which  He  covenants  with  the  Lord  that  He  will  mag- 
nify that  Priesthood.  You  and  I,  all  of  us,  have  received  that  oath  and 
covenant,  and  the  Lord  on  His  part  covenants  to  give  to  us  all  that  He 
hath. 

If  by  bearing  this  Priesthood  and  magnifying  it  before  the  Lord,  we 
may  have  all  that  our  Father  possesses,  eternal  life  and  exaltation  in  the 
Celestial  Kingdom,  what  more  can  He  offer  as  inducement  and  reward  for 
magnifying  the  Priesthood  ? 

Brethren,  these  important  offices  which  we  hold  that  grow  out  of  the 
Priesthood,  afford  us  an  opportunity  to  magnify  the  Priesthood.  I  may 
say  that  when  we  magnify  these  offices,  we  magnify  the  Priesthood,  and 
if  we  fail  to  magnify  these  offices  we  have  accepted,  we  fail  to  magnify  the 
Priesthood. 

Opportunities  Neglected 

There  are  in  the  Church  today,  according  to  statistics,  something  like 
thirty-five  thousand  men  over  twenty-one  years  of  age  who  hold  some 
office  in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  who  have  never  received  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood.  Some  of  these  men  may  have  become  disgruntled  over  some 
little  thing  that  might  be  overcome  if  we  would  take  up  a  labor  with  them, 
inquire  into  their  feelings,  manifest  a  little  love  toward  them  and  an  in- 
terest in  their  eternal  welfare. 

Some  seem  never  to  have  appreciated  the  Gospel  which  they  have 
received.  They  have  gone  as  far  as  they  care  to  go,  apparently,  lying 
down  on  the  job.  This  we  do  know,  that  these  men  never  having  received 
the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  have  not  received  their  endowments.  They 
have  not  been  married  according  to  the  new  and  everlasting  covenant. 


52  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Day 

They  are  living  with  their  wives  and  rearing  their  children  outside  of  that 
covenant,  having  married  their  wives  for  the  duration  of  their  mortal 
lives.  Such  men  are  in  danger  of  losing  their  wives,  their  children,  and 
their  salvation.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  has  left  of  record  this  state- 
ment that  when  God  offers  a  man  knowledge,  or  a  blessing,  and  he  rejects 
it,  that  man  is  damned.  We  have  here  shown  that  the  Priesthood  is  a 
blessing  of  the  highest  type  and  degree,  and  the  Lord  offers  it  unto  the 
men  of  his  Church  if  they  will  qualify,  through  faithfulness,  to  receive  it. 
Our  boys  are  taken  when  twelve  years  of  age  and  are  given  an  office  in  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  and  ordained  deacons  that  they  might  assist  the 
Church,  that  they  might  learn  to  appreciate  and  magnify  the  Priesthood, 
that  they  might  prove  themselves  worthy  of  advancement,  and  at  the  age 
of  fifteen,  if  they  have  been  worthy,  they  are  entitled  to  a  further  ordina- 
tion in  that  Priesthood  to  that  of  a  teacher,  and  after  two  years  of  experi- 
ence as  a  teacher,  at  seventeen  they  are  entitled  to  receive  the  ordination 
of  a  priest.  And  then,  at  nineteen  years,  if  the  boy  has  proved  himself  all 
along  the  line  to  be  true  and  faithful,  he  is  entitled  to  the  ordination  of  an 
elder  in  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood.  Here  lies  a  great  responsibility,  one 
of  many  resting  upon  the  bishopric  of  this  Church,  to  see  that  that  boy 
be  not  neglected  and  allowed  to  go  on  to  be  more  than  twenty-one  years  of 
age  without  his  having  the  privilege  of  receiving  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood and  its  attendant  blessings. 

Covenants  Entered  Into  are  Sacred 

There  is  another  class  of  people  in  this  Church.  We  have  no  statistics, 
so  far  as  I  know,  to  determine  how  many,  but  I  am  sure  a  great  many  who 
have  gone  a  little  farther  than  these  adult  members  of  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood in  that  they  have  received  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood.  They  have 
been  privileged  to  go  to  the  temple  and  get  their  endowments  and  have  a 
wife  sealed  to  them  and  then  they  have  neglected  all  their  religious  duties 
and  responsibilities,  disregarded  their  vows  and  covenants  that  they  have 
entered  into  in  a  most  sacred  way  and  in  sacred  places,  and  seem  to  have  no 
interest  in  their  religion.  The  wives  of  these  men,  notwithstanding  they 
have  been  sealed  to  their  husbands  for  time  and  eternity,  do  not  always 
remain  with  them  through  time  and  eternity.  Sometimes  divorcements 
follow  because  a  man  has  not  kept  his  covenants,  is  not  living  his  religion 
which,  to  his  wife,  is  the  dearest  thing  in  the  world,  and  complications 
arise,  and  she  secures  a  divorce.  Another  good  man  comes  along  later  and 
courts  her,  wants  her  for  eternity  as  well  as  for  time.  She,  knowing  that 
he  is  a  worthy  man,  wants  him  for  eternity  also,  and  she  applies  to  the 
President  of  the  Church  for  a  cancellation  of  the  sealing  to  her  husband 
that  she  may  be  sealed  to  this  man,  and  that  is  often  given.  I  suppose  that 
the  President  of  the  Church  has  the  evidence  in  each  case  that  justifies 
rendering  a  decision  in  favor  of  the  woman.  If  the  children  are  old 
enough  to  decide  for  themselves  and  they  elect  to  be  sealed  to  their  mother 
and  their  stepfather,  it  is  permitted  and  the  dead  man  loses  his  wife,  and 
his  children.  And  where  there  is  no  divorcement  in  a  case  of  this  kind, 
if  the  man  is  altogether  unworthy  of  the  woman,  and  of  the  Priesthood 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 


53 


and  blessings  that  have  been  sealed  upon  him,  and  he  should  die,  that 
woman  may  get  a  cancellation  of  the  sealing  and  be  sealed  to  another  man. 
Now,  there  are  some  of  these  adult  members  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood, 
and  some  of  these  who  have  received  the  Priesthood  endowments  and  seal- 
ings  and  have  been  unworthy.  Now  this,  by  way  of  warning  to  these 
people.  I  do  not  wish  to  censure.  That  is  not  my  prerogative,  but  to  indi- 
cate the  way  of  life  and  salvation  and  what  the  remedy  is  for  these  men, 
whether  they  have  received  the  Priesthood  and  temple  blessings  or  not,  to 
live  happily  in  their  homes  and  make  their  wives  and  families  happy,  and 
live  their  religion,  and  then  if  a  man  has  had  a  wife  sealed  to  him  and  dies 
under  those  conditions  the  President  of  the  Church  is  under  obligation  to 
protect  his  rights  in  the  matter. 

Seeking  After  the  Negligent 

Now  brethren  of  the  Priesthood,  do  we  seek  work  that  may  be  done? 
Do  we  really  love  these,  our  brethren,  who  are  among  the  unfortunate  as 
members  of  this  Church,  so  as  to  go  out  after  them  in  love,  in  humility, 
kindness,  pleading,  helping  them  to  see  the  better  way  of  life?  Elder 
Lyman,  in  his  talk  here  yesterday  made  very  impressive  the  work  that  is 
being  done  in  the  stakes  of  Zion  by  the  stake  missionary  work.  He  re- 
ported thousands  of  men  who  had  been  inactive  who  had  been  brought  in- 
to activity.  May  the  good  work  go  on  as  well  as  the  conversions  being 
made  of  good  men  and  women  who  have  not  been  members  of  the  Church 
because  they  have  not  been  taught  and  invited  to  become  such. 

The  ward  teaching  work  is  another  means  by  which  these  men  might 
be  reached,  and  toward  those  who  have  received  the  Priesthood,  the  quor- 
um of  the  Priesthood  to  which  they  belong,  and  the  presidencies  thereof 
have  a  great  responsibility.  With  all  these  agencies  and  the  individual 
effort  which  the  Lord  requires  of  us,  every  man  to  his  neighbor,  he  that 
is  warned  to  warn  his  neighbor,  is  it  possible  that  we  cannot  bring  these 
members  of  the  Church  into  activity  that  the  Lord  may  have  their  help  ? 
He  needs  it.  The  conversions  made  here  in  the  stakes  of  Zion  in  recent 
years  are  greater  in  number  than  have  been  made  in  the  mission  fields  in 
the  same  period  of  time.  They  are  here  to  be  converted.  Would  that  all 
these  inactive  members  were  brought  into  activity.  Something  for  us  to 
do,  brethren  of  the  Priesthood.  May  the  Lord  help  us  to  do  it  well  and 
faithfully,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  trust,  my  brethren  that  the  Lord  will  bless  me  so  that  I  may  con- 
tribute at  least  a  bit  to  the  thoughtfulness  of  this  conference. 

The  Heritage  Left  by  the  Pioneers 

The  other  day  a  man  came  into  the  office,  we  began  to  talk  about  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  our  families.  This  man's  grandfather  and  his 
parents  were  among  the  early  pioneers  of  the  Church.    They  had  made 


54  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Day 

every  necessary  sacrifice  in  order  to  come  to  this  country  in  the  early  pio- 
neer days.  In  talking  with  the  man  I  found  that  he  hadn't  been  doing  the 
things  that  ought  to  be  done.  He  had  not  been  quite  faithful  to  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  nor  had  he  lived  up  to  the  privileges 
that  were  his  as  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 

After  talking  with  him,  this  thought  came  to  me :  These  pioneers  of 
ours,  our  fathers  and  mothers  and  grandparents,  have  been  gathered  from 
all  the  nations  of  the  earth.  It  was  not  such  an  easy  thing  to  leave  the 
advantages  of  their  homes  and  their  country.  They  had  made  consider- 
able sacrifice  in  order  to  come.  Many  of  them  had  abandoned  good  posi- 
tions and  wealth,  and  all  that  they  owned,  in  order  that  they  might  come 
to  the  valleys  of  the  mountains  to  worship  the  Lord.  They  were  honest 
people.  They  had  the  characteristic  of  playing  fair  with  all  men.  They 
taught  that  it  was  necessary  to  be  good  citizens  and  to  keep  the  laws  of 
our  government  which  would  enable  them  to  live  more  righteously  and 
help  them  to  enjoy  freedom  in  this  great  land  of  ours.  They  had  an  abid- 
ing sense  of  modesty  and  decency,  and  protected  themselves  and  their  own 
and  everyone  else,  that  out  of  life  might  come  the  finest  things  possible. 
They  were  willing,  when  arriving  here,  to  be  sent  out  in  the  various  places 
to  build  up  other  sections.  They  were  obedient  not  only  to  the  laws  of 
their  land  but  obedient  to  the  laws  of  their  Church.  They  had  the  loyalty 
that  made  them  steadfast  to  the  prophets,  seers,  and  revelators,  and  the 
men  who  presided  over  them.  In  every  way,  they  seemed  to  be  willing  to 
do  the  things  that  ought  to  be  done.  I  am  quite  sure  that  they  had  faults, 
but  they  were  few  compared  to  their  many  splendid  qualities. 

Their  love  of  the  Gospel,  their  desire  to  be  obedient,  their  desire  to 
go  to  Church,  their  desire  to  honor  the  Priesthood  which  had  been  given 
to  them  has  been  handed  down  to  us  as  a  heritage.  The  pioneers  measure 
their  success  in  life  by  their  ability  to  give  to  their  children  a  heritage  that 
eventually,  if  cherished,  would  lead  them  back  into  the  presence  of  God, 
the  Eternal  Father. 

I  wondered  as  I  talked  to  the  man  and  after  he  left  me,  just  what  we 
as  Latter-day  Saints  are  doing  with  our  precious  heritage,  a  heritage  paid 
for  with  so  much  toil,  service,  faithfulness,  and  in  many  instances  sacri- 
fice of  life  that  those  who  followed  after  might  live  just  a  bit  finer  and 
better. 

Obligation  of  Present  Day  Latter-day  Saints 

I  am  wondering  whether  we  are  feeling  that  it  is  quite  as  necessary 
to  follow  the  heritage  that  has  to  do  with  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as 
we  do  the  heritage  that  has  come  to  us,  to  succeed  in  a  material  way,  and 
to  make  money.  While  this  ability  is  a  valuable  and  important  one  to  re- 
ceive from  our  parents,  it  is  not  worth  while  if  we  lose  the  other  heritage 
of  being  splendid  and  decent  and  kind  and  honest.  There  is  no  higher 
compliment  that  we  can  pay  to  those  who  gave  us  our  heritage  than  in 
using  it  in  establishing  ourselves  upon  the  earth  in  righteousness  and  lay- 
ing up  treasures  in  heaven  and  thus  becoming  worthy  to  be  with  our  par- 
ents after  we  have  finished  our  lives  here  upon  the  earth. 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


55 


We  know  the  story  of  Jacob  and  Esau.  The  birthright  didn't  seem 
to  be  so  important  to  Esau,  and  so  the  birthright  came  to  another.  Some- 
times it  seems  to  me  we  get  the  idea  that  because  we  have  been  born  in  the 
Church  all  the  blessings  that  God  can  give  to  us,  such  as  good  health  and 
good  brains  and  many  other  fine  things  naturally  belong  to  us.  But  these 
gifts  are  valuable  and  helpful  only  as  we  make  use  of  them.  It  seems  to 
me,  brethren,  that  as  fathers  we  are  responsible  for  laying  such  a  splendid 
foundation  and  getting  into  the  hearts  of  our  children  in  such  a  way  that 
after  we  pass  on,  they  will  consider  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  the  finest 
heritage  that  we  could  have  left  them  to  enable  them  to  be  helpful  as  they 
labor  here  on  the  earth  and  to  keep  them  safe  until  they  find  their  way 
back  into  the  presence  of  God,  their  Eternal  Father. 

As  we  live  our  lives,  I  hope  and  pray  that  all  of  us  will  not  be  satisfied 
to  be  merely  born  in  the  Church.  There  is  no  royal  road  to  learning, 
neither  is  there  a  royal  road  into  the  presence  of  God,  the  Eternal  Father. 
Whether  they  be  our  children  or  somebody  else's  children,  gaining  salva- 
tion and  attaining  God's  kingdom  is  totally  dependent  on  the  type  of  life 
each  one  lives  as  he  spends  his  time  here  upon  the  earth. 

May  we  not  lose  our  parents  because  of  our  unfaithfulness.  May 
the  Lord  be  good  enough  to  us  that  we  shall  not  lose  our  children  because 
of  our  lack  of  teaching  or  training  or  love  or  sympathy  or  tolerance ;  but 
may  they  remember  us  because  of  our  good  works,  and  the  principles  of 
righteousness  which  we  have  placed  in  their  hearts,  I  humbly  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

God  of  our  fathers,  known  of  old — 
Lord  of  our  far-flung  battle  line, 
Beneath  whose  awful  hand  we  hold 
Dominion  over  palm  and  pine — 
Lord  God  of  Hosts,  be  with  us  yet, 
Lest  we  forget!  Lest  we  forget! 

Patriotism  Commended 

With  you  I  am  very  much  gratified  that  Utah  went  over  the  top  in 
the  bond  sale,  and  that  the  nation  over-subscribed  the  government  loan. 
This  shows  that  patriotism  is  not  dead  and  that  the  love  of  pleasure  does 
not  predominate  the  spirit  of  sacrifice.  Every  American  should  do  all  he 
can  to  frustrate  the  wicked  ambition  of  those  who  would  rather  rule  in 
hell  than  serve  in  heaven.  Brethren,  we  must  not  boast :  we  are  not  yet 
out  of  the  woods.  Our  hope  is  in  Jehovah,  the  Lord  of  Heaven  and  earth. 
He  will  not  fail  us.  With  God  we  can  do  everything  that  is  right ;  for  if 
he  be  with  us  who  can  be  against  us  ? 

A  Lesson  From  the  Bees 

Now,  may  I  turn  your  attention  for  a  moment  to  some  other  matters. 
In  the  morning  paper,  a  day  or  two  ago,  Mr.  Belliston,  the  head  of  the 


56  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  2  Second  Day 

honey  industry  of  this  state,  requested  the  people  to  sow  clover  in  the  bar- 
row pits,  and  on  the  sides  of  the  road,  that  the  honeybees  might  be  pro- 
vided with  the  proper  food  and  consequently  make  better  honey.  This  is 
excellent  advice. 

I  was  in  Miami  years  ago.  The  president  of  the  branch  had  several 
beehives.  I  said,  "Brother  Newbeck,  have  you  a  lot  of  honey  now  ?"  He 
said,  "Yes."  "Is  it  good  honey?"  "No,"  he  said,  "it  is  not."  "Why? 
"Look  over  yonder,"  he  said.  And  I  beheld  a  bottling  plant ;  there  were 
scores  of  boxes  covered  with  syrup.  The  bees  had  become  lazy.  Instead  of 
flying  out  into  the  fields  and  extracting  the  nectar  from  the  flowers,  they 
lighted  upon  these  boxes  and  fed  upon  this  syrup ;  consequently  the  honey 
wasn't  much  good. 

I  am  wondering  if  we  are  sowing  clover.  Are  we  providing  the  prop- 
er food  for  our  children?  I  do  not  mean  physical  food.  We  are  a  well- 
fed  nation ;  but  we  are  not  grateful  enough  to  the  Almighty.  In  the  care- 
ful rearing  of  children  we  are  building  a  mighty  republic. 

Holding  Cottage  Meetings  Suggested 

Alexander  Cairns  said  that  there  was  such  a  thing  as  "wasting  our 
sorrows."  We  have  been  deprived  of  some  Church  privileges,  we  think, 
because  of  this  war.  It  seems  that  there  are  wards  in  Zion  where  Sunday 
evening  meetings  are  dispensed  with  because  of  the  inconveniences  caused 
by  shortage  of  gas,  etc. 

In  each  of  such  wards  the  bishop  could  have  at  least  twenty  or  twenty- 
five  cottage  meetings  on  Sabbath  evenings.  This  would  provide  for  young 
and  old  rich  spiritual  food.  In  attending  such  meetings  they  would  not 
be  in  places  to  feed  on  stuff  that  does  not  form  character  nor  develop  the 
qualities  of  true  manhood  and  womanhood.  If  we  would  hold  these  cot- 
tage meetings  and  praise  the  Lord  in  worship  and  in  song,  behold  there 
would  be  manifested  in  the  lives  of  the  young  people  increased  Church  ac- 
tivity and  more  spirituality. 

The  Sunday  School  is  the  most  powerful — it  is  the  greatest  spiritual 
auxiliary  organization  in  the  Church.  Fathers  and  mothers  would  do  well 
to  go  with  their  children  to  Sunday  School.  There,  in  that  divinely  found- 
ed institution,  the  children  are  given  proper  spiritual  food  to  develop  a 
nobility  of  character,  manhood,  and  womanhood  which  will  endure  for- 
ever. 

Sometimes  we  think  that  in  counseling  our  boys  and  girls,  it  is  like 
pouring  water  on  a  duck's  back. 

Alma's  Conversion 

We  read  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  the  story  of  Alma.  He  and  the  sons 
of  Mosiah  were  going  around  trying  to  destroy  the  Church.  An  angel 
stopped  them  by  the  way.  For  three  days  and  three  nights  Alma  suffered 
the  pain  of  a  damned  soul.  He  was  racked  with  the  pains  of  hell.  While 
he  was  praying,  while  he  was  in  this  distress,  this  agony,  for  he  seemed 
to  have  touched  the  bottom  of  hell,  he  remembered  the  words  of  his  fa- 
ther, the  father  who  prophesied  that  Jesus  Christ  would  come  into  the 


ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 


57 


world  and  redeem  mankind.  And  as  Alma  thought  of  this  holy  being 
(no  man  can  think  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  without  being  a  better  man) 
he  pleaded  with  Jesus,  and  prayed  to  Him.  Then  his  pain,  his  torment, 
his  guilty  conscience  subsided,  and  into  his  life  there  came  an  exquisite 
feeling  of  peace  and  love  and  joy. 

Home  Influence  Potent 

In  the  home  a  father's  voice  and  counsel,  the  mother's  law  will  be 
more  effective  than  if  they  were  given  outside  the  home.  I  plead  for  a 
greater  parental  control,  benevolent  of  course,  persuasive,  kind,  and  lov- 
ing, because,  "Come  along,  come  along,  is  the  call  that  will  win."  If  the 
homes  are  provided  with  this  parental  control,  with  good  reading  matter, 
with  the  magazines  of  the  Church  placed  on  the  table  where  the  boys  and 
girls  can  read  them,  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  parents  are  going  to  have 
much  more  ease  of  heart,  much  less  concern.  I  plead  with  you  all  to  see 
what  food  your  children  are  feeding  upon.  Provide  them  with  that 
nourishment  which  will  make  them  faithful  members  of  the  Church,  good 
members  of  society,  and  great  citizens  of  this  glorious  republic. 

In  the  mission  field  young  men  have  come  to  me  and  said :  "Brother 
Callis,  the  words  and  counsel  of  my  father,  which  I  had  forgotten  before 
I  came  on  a  mission,  have  come  to  me  in  times  of  peril  and  distress,  and 
they  have  built  me  up  and  steadied  me  and  made  me  a  better  missionary. 

God  help  us  all,  my  dear  brethren,  to  see  that  our  children  are  fed  the 
words  of  God,  to  go  with  them  to  Sunday  School,  for  our  faith  is  refreshed, 
renewed,  stimulated  by  observing  the  external  ordinances  of  the  Gospel, 
such  as  the  sacrament  and  other  holy  things. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony,  the  youth  of  Zion  will  respond  to  example. 
Bid  them  go  with  you,  love  them,  you  fathers.  Keep  close  to  your  boys, 
be  chummy  with  them,  associate  with  them.  Mothers,  make  your  daugh- 
ters feel  that  you  are  their  best  friend  on  earth  and  teach  them  to  come 
and  confide  in  you. 

God  help  us  all  to  fulfil  our  righteous  obligations  and  to  be  worthy 
earthly  parents  of  that  immortal  soul  which  God  has  trusted  to  your  care 
and  of  which  you  have  charge,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


A  vocal  solo,  "My  Hope  is  in  the  Everlasting" — Stainer,  was  sung 
by  Elder  Richard  P.  Condie. 


ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

As  always,  I  stand  before  this  Church  in  these  great  gatherings  with 
a  sense  of  adoration,  realizing,  as  I  do,  through  the  study  of  its  history 
from  its  commencement,  God's  blessings  upon  it. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


Labor  in  the  Church  Brings  Compensation 


I  think  frequently  as  I  meet  with  groups  of  the  Priesthood,  and  par- 
ticularly today,  that  this  is  like  unto  the  great  organized  corporations,  and 
you  the  governing  body  in  its  Priesthood  are  the  directors  thereof. 

I  reflect  upon  the  temporal  remuneration  which  you  receive,  and  in 
contrast  to  this  the  great  results  which  come  from  your  untiring  efforts. 
I  am  reminded  also  of  the  sacrifice  which  so  many  of  you  have  made  and 
are  making ;  you  men  whom  I  associate  with  and  know,  you  who  have 
walked  virtually  barefooted  for  the  advancement  of  God's  work  in  your 
mission  fields  and  yet,  out  of  it  all  you  come  home,  go  into  business,  and 
devote  thereafter  a  good  portion  of  your  profits  and  earnings  back  into 
this  Church,  to  this  great  institution  which  God  has  established,  never 
again  to  be  taken  from  the  earth.  So,  I  marvel  and  constantly  give  praise 
and  homage  to  each  member  of  the  Priesthood  of  this  Church. 

I  am  grateful  indeed  for  the  kindness  and  consideration  which  you 
fine  presidents  of  stakes  have  given  to  me  as  I  come  into  your  midst. 

I  am  fully  aware  that  we  perhaps  are  the  best  paid  board  of  directors 
that  God  has  on  earth,  and  if  each  one  of  us  were  asked,  nothing  could  be 
given  Him  which  in  the  slightest  degree  could  compare  with  the  compen- 
sation which  God  has  given  him  for  the  unselfish  labor  and  interest  he  has 
shown  in  God's  great  work. 


You  know  that  in  the  beginning  when  this  Church  was  young,  ex- 
tremely young,  nearly  all  the  membership  of  it  had  a  great  urge  to  proclaim 
its  message,  and  a  very  restless  feeling  to  go  out  to  do  something.  They 
could  not  remain  inactive,  and,  so,  they  kept  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
very  busy  answering  their  questions,  particularly  the  question  which  arose 
in  the  hearts  of  so  many  men  : 

For  many  times  you  have  desired  of  me  to  know  that  which  would  be  of 
the  most  worth  unto  you. 

Behold,  blessed  are  you  for  this  thing,  and  for  speaking  my  words  which 
I  have  given  you  according  to  my  commandments. 

And  now,  behold,  I  say  unto  you,  that  the  thing  which  will  be  of  the  most 
worth  unto  you  will  be  to  declare  repentance  unto  this  people,  that  you  may 
bring  souls  unto  me,  that  you  may  rest  with  them  in  the  kingdom  of  my 
Father.  (D.  &  C.  15:4-5-6.) 

You  will  find  as  you  read  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  say  from,  I 
think,  the  12th  Section  on  throughout  this  great  volume  of  scripture  that  in 
almost  every  instance  the  answer  was  the  same. 

Leave  thy  house  and  home,  except  when  thou  shalt  desire  to  see  thy 
family ; 

And  speak  freely  to  all ;  yea,  preach,  exhort,  declare  the  truth,  even  with 
a  loud  voice,  with  a  sound  of  rejoicing.  (D.  &  C.  19  :36-37.) 

One  after  another  of  the  brethren  received  that  answer,  and  they  all 
went  forth  to  do  God's  bidding  and  to  receive  God's  commendation,  and 
from  that  start,  to  the  present  time,  the  Church  has  grown  through  this 
great  and  marvelous  system  of  missionary  activity  unequaled  anywhere. 


Instructions  to  Early  Day  Missionaries 


ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 


59 


A  Labor  to  Be  Performed  At  Home 

Now,  we  find  in  our  own  midst  here  at  home  situations  which  call  for 
additional  help,  situations  which  have  been  so  eloquently  and  beautifully 
spoken  of  today.  The  touching  of  the  hearts  of  the  young,  and  turning  of 
the  minds  of  those  who  are  innocent  and  free  into  channels  which  will 
bring  back  the  results  which  we  here  desire  in  the  Church. 

You  all  have  had  the  experience  of  meeting  these  situations.  It  was 
my  experience  to  contact  recently  on  one  of  our  unfrequented  streets  a 
very  little  child,  perhaps  three  years  of  age,  with  streaks  down  its  face 
where  the  teardrops  had  run,  who  couldn't  talk  plainly,  with  another  child 
but  a  year  or  two  older,  left  to  guard  it.  I  had  gone  to  ask  for  a  certain 
person.  No  one  was  home.  The  parents  were  at  work  and  these  children 
left  alone.  You  will  understand  what  I  mean  when  I  say  that  this  little 
one  came  and  hugged  me  by  the  knees,  and  looked  at  me  with  the  most  in- 
telligent and  imploring  gaze,  hungering  for  parental  love  and  attention. 
I  can't  forget,  and  never  shall,  but  I  do  remember  God's  words  which  I 
have  written  here  to  quote  accurately : 

But,  behold,  I  say  unto  you,  that  little  children  are  redeemed  from  the 
foundation  of  the  world  through  mine  Only  Begotten; 

Wherefore,  they  cannot  sin,  for  power  is  not  given  unto  Satan  to  tempt 
little  children,  until  they  begin  to  become  accountable  before  me; 

For  it  is  given  unto  them  even  as  I  will,  according  to  mine  own  pleasure, 
that  great  things  may  be  required  at  the  hand  of  their  fathers.  (D.  &  C. 
29:46-48.) 

I  think  these  things  which  God  requires  at  our  hands  can't  be  fully 
realized  until  we  have  performed  our  duty  and  come  with  clean  hands 
concerning  this  younger  generation  which  is  here  among  us. 

Francis  Thompson  wrote  this  about  a  child : 

Know  you  what  it  is  to  be  a  child  ?  It  is  to  be  something  very  different 
from  the  man  of  today.  It  is  to  have  a  spirit  yet  streaming  from  the  waters 
of  baptism.  It  is  to  believe  in  love,  to  believe  in  loveliness.  It  is  to  believe 
in  belief.  It  is  to  be  so  little  that  the  elves  can  reach  and  whisper  in  your  ear. 
It  is  to  turn  pumpkins  into  coaches  and  mice  into  horses,  lowness  into  lofti- 
ness and  nothing  into  everything,  for  each  child  has  its  fairy  godmother. 

Changing  Conditions  in  Home  Life 

Well,  in  our  day,  we  see  many  changes.  We  have  relegated  to  the 
scrapheap  the  sayings  of  yesterday.  We  make  fun  of  the  old  horse  and 
buggy  days. 

We  have  more  or  less  gone  from  that  most  beautiful  commodious 
home  with  a  few  acres  of  choice  land  around  it  where  we  played  as  boys, 
where  there  came  joyous  gatherings  in  the  evening  to  that  house,  and 
where  the  hospitality  of  parents  and  children  made  it  a  blessed  joyful 
place  of  dwelling  and  retreat.  We  live  now  in  apartment  houses  where 
five  hundred  live  in  the  same  house,  and  yet  we  don't  know  any  of  them. 
God  says  this : 

Every  spirit  of  man  was  innocent  in  the  beginning;  and  God  having 
redeemed  man  from  the  fall,  men  became  again,  in  their  infant  state,  inno- 
cent before  God. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


And  that  wicked  one  cometh  and  taketh  away  light  and  truth,  through 
disobedience,  from  the  children  of  men,  and  because  of  the  tradition  of  their 
fathers. 


But  I  have  commanded  you  to  bring  up  your  children  in  light  and  truth. 
D.  &  C.  93:38-40.) 


And  again,  inasmuch  as  parents  have  children  in  Zion  [where  we  are] 
or  in  any  of  her  stakes  which  are  organized,  that  teach  them  not  to  under- 
stand the  doctrine  of  repentance,  faith  in  Christ  the  Son  of  the  living  God, 
and  of  baptism  and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  the  hands, 
when  eight  years  old,  the  sin  be  upon  the  heads  of  the  parents. 

For  this  shall  be  a  law  unto  the  inhabitants  of  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her 
stakes  which  are  organized.  (D.  &  C.  68:25-26.) 


I  am  acquainted  with  this  great  body  of  men  who  go  forth  to  teach 
the  beautiful  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ — I  speak  now  of  our  stake  mission- 
aries, and  I  do  earnestly  plead  with  them  that  they  will  put  forth  an  extra 
effort,  not  alone  to  those  who  belong  to  this  Church,  but  to  those  with 
whom  they  constantly  come  in  contact  who  are  not  members  of  the  Church ; 
to  devote  some  of  their  time  and  attention  to  the  children,  those  choice 
diamonds  from  heaven  which  God  has  given  us,  that  they  may  be  taught 
in  the  truth,  for  in  this  generation  of  which  I  speak  the  coming  glory  and 
grandeur  of  this  nation  must  be  through  the  growth  and  development  of 
the  children,  in  paths  of  virtue  and  righteousness,  and  that  their  hearts 
and  energies  be  centered  in  "light  and  truth." 

God  bless  us,  I  pray,  and  give  us  this  understanding  that  the  children 
may  be  helped  by  our  efforts  and  I  ask  it  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 


While  at  luncheon  today  with  my  family,  there  was  a  lull  in  the  con- 
versation, and  one  of  my  daughters  remarked  that  she  hoped  daddy  would 
be  called  upon  in  this  afternoon's  session,  so  he  could  quit  worrying  and 
"join  with  us  in  conversation."  [Laughter.] 


I  trust,  my  brethren,  that  I  shall  be  inspired  and.  guided  in  what  I  say 
this  afternoon.  It  seems  to  me  that  at  each  general  or  stake  conference 
that  I  attend  I  sense  more  keenly  the  great  responsibility  resting  upon 
those  who  are  called  upon  to  speak,  and  I  confess  that  I  do  worry,  and 
the  habit,  I  fear,  is  getting  worse  instead  of  better  as  time  goes  on. 

I  appreciate  the  opportunity,  however,  of  meeting  you  fine  brethren 
here  and  especially  in  your  stakes,  and  am  very  thankful  that  we  can  still 
meet  in  this  great  historic  building,  even  if  it  is  under  some  restrictions.  I 
hope  with  you  that  the  time  will  soon  come  when  these  restrictions  will  be 
removed,  that  natural  conditions  will  prevail  and  we  can  again  have  our 
wives,  mothers,  and  sisters  meet  with  us. 


Duty  of  Stake  Missionaries 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Appreciation  for  Conference  Meetings 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 


61 


European  Mission  Conditions 

I  am  very  happy  for  the  privilege  of  again  reporting  briefly  on  con- 
ditions existing  in  the  European  missions.  As  far  as  we  can  learn,  our 
members  are  still  carrying  on  in  each  of  the  twelve  missions  that  comprise 
the  European  group.  There  are  now  about  thirty-two  thousand  members. 
We  are  still  able  to  correspond  with  the  British,  the  Palestine- Syrian,  the 
South  African,  the  Swedish,  and  the  Swiss  missions.  However,  our  let- 
ters to  Switzerland  are  all  returned  stamped  "Service  suspended — re- 
turned to  sender."  But  we  do  get  mail  from  Switzerland.  We  were  very 
happily  surprised  a  few  weeks  ago  to  receive  several  copies  of  a  new  book 
from  Basel,  Switzerland.  Brother  Max  Zimmer,  the  acting  mission  presi- 
dent of  the  Swiss  mission  has  translated  the  series  of  lectures  by  Elder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  given  about  two  years  ago.  These  were  printed 
in  the  Church  section  of  The  Deseret  News,  and  Brother  Zimmer  has 
translated  them  into  the  German  language  and  had  them  printed.  . 

We  still  get  letters  and  reports  regularly  from  the  French-Swiss  dis- 
trict. A  very  successful  district  conference  was  held  at  la  Chaux  de 
Fonds,  May  16,  where  special  tribute  was  paid  to  Brother  Henry  Chap- 
puis,  president  of  the  Lausanne  Branch  for  many  years,  who  died  Febru- 
ary 18.  He  is  the  father  of  our  Brother  Gaston  Chappuis,  and  another  son 
is  at  present  presiding  over  the  Basel  Branch  in  the  Swiss  Mission ;  an- 
other son  is  a  major  in  the  Swiss  army.  A  fine  new  hall  has  been  secured 
for  the  Geneva  Branch. 

By  way  of  Switzerland,  we  also  received  rather  surprising  news,  that 
a  member  of  our  Paris  Branch,  a  young  lady,  is  singing  leading  opera  roles 
in  France  and  Switzerland.   So  they  are  still  carrying  on  in  Paris. 

We  received,  also  via  Switzerland,  the  sad  news  of  the  recent  death 
of  Sister  Aurore  Horbach,  of  Liege.  All  the  missionaries  who  have  la- 
bored in  Liege  will  remember  her  and  her  husband  who  was  president  of 
that  branch  for  years,  and  also  mission  translator  until  the  time  of  his 
death  in  1935.  He  translated  the  Articles  of  Faith  into  French,  and  also 
many  of  our  hymns. 

Letters  and  reports  continue  to  come  quite  regularly  from  the  Pales- 
tine-Syrian and  the  South  African  missions.  Cumorah's  Southern  Mes- 
senger, the  sixteen-page  monthly  publication  of  the  South  African  Mission 
would  be  a  credit  to  any  mission. 

Through  the  assistance  of  the  Red  Cross  correspondence  department 
we  have  heard  recently  from  Denmark — Copenhagen.  This  message  came 
just  last  week.   It  was  dated  June  24th : 

Dear  President  McKay: 

We  send  greetings  to  you  and  the  Church.   We  are  all  well  and  safe. 
Write,  if  possible. 

Sincerely, 

Orson  B.  West 

A  similar  message  has  also  been  received  from  the  Netherlands  Mis- 
sion.  Whef  we  left  Europe,  the  headquarters  were  at  The  Hague,  but 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


this  message  just  received  last  week  comes  from  Utrecht,  and  was  dated 


Excerpts  From  Letters  From  Sweden  and  Denmark 

Very  interesting  letters  and  very  complete  reports  are  still  received 
from  the  Swedish  Mission  although  they  are  censored  by  both  the  English 
and  the  Germans;  from  these  letters  we  hear  indirectly  from  the  Nor- 
wegian and  the  Danish  missions.  The  following  are  excerpts  from  the 
last  letter  dated  August  5,  1943 : 

I  hereby  forward  the  statistical  and  financial  reports  for  the  months  of 
June  and  July.  We  read  with  interest  about  the  conferences  you  have  held 
and  happy  that  they  were  so  blessed  in  results.  I  am  particularly  thankful 
to  our  Heavenly  Father  that  we  also,  in  our  country,  have  been  able  to  hold 
our  meetings  and  conferences.  June  23-27  we  held  our  great  M.I. A.  con- 
ference in  Goteborg,  with  participants,  both  old  and  young,  from  many  dif- 
ferent places  in  our  land,  thus  further  fortifying  the  singular  unity  and  love 
existing  among  the  Saints  in  the  mission. 

Participants  from  Finland  and  Norway  in  our  midsummer  conference 
had  been  announced,  but  permission  to  travel  abroad  was  refused  them, 
which  we  very  much  regretted. 

This  is  interesting : 

The  Danish  mission  has  published  a  book  entitled  The  Truth  About 
Mormonism,  by  Reed  Smoot,  in  the  reviews  of  which  many  newspapers  have 
printed  a  great  deal  about  the  Church,  a  copy  of  the  picture  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  in  the  book  having  even  accompanied  some  of  the  write-ups. 

It  has  come  to  my  knowledge  that  relatives  of  a  former  missionary  to 
Denmark,  by  name  of  Homer  P.  Andersen,  had  received  information  that  in 
a  raid  over  Germany,  Andersen  had  been  forced  to  make  a  landing,  and  was 
interned.  He  was  well  and  not  suffering  for  anything.  He  had  asked  his 
relatives  in  Norway  to  forward  greetings  to  the  parents,  which  commission  I 
carried  out  by  sending  a  letter  to  Hans  P.  Andersen,  326  West  First  South 
Street,  Logan,  Utah.   I  hope  that  that  communication  has  reached  them. 

I  have  received  deplorable  information  from  Norway  that  their  mission 
periodical,  Lys  Over  Norge,  which  under  normal  conditions  was  issued 
semi-monthly  and  later  was  retrenched  to  a  monthly  issue,  has  by  order  of 
the  trade  department  been  discontinued  altogether.  It  is  also  now  clear 
to  me  that  a  great  need  of  provisions  exists  and  that  the  aged,  especially, 
are  hard  hit.  I  have  therefore  decided  to  go  to  Oslo,  if  permission  can  be 
had  for  traveling  abroad,  to  personally  find  out  what  can  be  done.  Presum- 
ably the  Church  here  in  our  country  must  try  to  organize  some  source  where- 
by our  members  in  the  Norwegian  mission  can  be  assisted.  I  believe  Presi- 
dent McKay  will  agree  with  me  that  we  must  try  to  do  something  to  help 
them. 


In  the  British  Mission  they  have  just  concluded  their  annual  district 
conferences,  and  I  quote : 

Never  have  we  experienced  a  greater  evidence  of  unity  and  faith  among 
our  members,  and  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  has  been  present  in  rich  abundance 
at  every  conference.  An  annual  missionwide  Priesthood  conference  has  also 
been  held.  The  sixty  brethren  present  will  never  forget  the  three-day  con- 
ference attended  by  the  marvelous  manifestation  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 


April  12,  1943 : 


Holland  Church  all  well.   Live  in  beautiful  home  at  Utrecht. 

(Signed)  Jacob  Schipaanboard 


British  Annual  District  Conferences 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 


63 


Message  From  Boy  Overseas 

May  I  also  take  this  opportunity  of  reading  just  two  paragraphs  from 
a  letter  from  one  of  our  boys  in  the  service  received  by  his  parents.  He 
has  been  overseas  nearly  three  years,  much  of  the  time  in  countries  be- 
longing to  the  European  Mission : 

When  we  joined  up  I  resolved  to  come  back  the  same  way  I  left.  I  have 
been  away  nearly  three  years,  and  I  am  still  going  to  return  home  the  same. 
I  have  no  difficulty  in  keeping  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  I  do  not  swear  and 
have  never  had  any  need  to  do  so.  I  still  say  my  prayers  and  have  had  them 
answered  many  times.  I  have  been  lucky  to  always  have  companions  and 
friends  who  are  clean  in  habits ;  some  smoke  but  know  that  it  is  not  good 
for  them  and  try  to  quit.  You  have  always  taught  me  at  home  to  have  clean 
habits,  read  good  literature,  associate  with  people  who  have  high  standards. 
You  have  always  shown  me  the  way  (not  just  told).  My  ambition  has  al- 
ways been  to  live  so  that  you  would  be  proud  to  call  me  your  son,  as  I  have 
always  been  proud  of  you,  my  parents. 

I  miss  the  Church  a  great  deal.  The  principles  taught  in  the  Church 
have  always  been  a  great  source  of  comfort  and  satisfaction  to  me.  I  always 
know  that  I  have  a  Higher  Aid  as  long  as  I  live  in  accordance  with  His 
teachings.  I  know  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is 
the  true  Church.  I  have  always  endeavored  to  show  to  others  by  my  ac- 
tions, as  well  as  by  my  teachings,  my  sincerity. 

That  letter,  brethren,  is  typical  of  thousands  of  others  that  are  re- 
ceived by  parents  whose  sons  are  in  all  parts  of  the  world  serving  their 
country,  fighting  for  the  perpetuation  of  "man's  free  agency" — the  same 
principle  for  which  we  fought  in  our  pre-existent  state.  The  leader  of 
that  rebellion  and  his  followers  were  defeated  and  cast  out  of  heaven  and 
they  are  here  on  earth  still  fighting  truth,  determined  to  deprive  us  of  our 
free  agency.  We  here  at  home  must  not  let  our  boys  down — forty  thou- 
sand of  them  in  all  parts  of  the  world.  Let  us  wholeheartedly  get  behind 
every  movement  that  would  hasten  the  victory  in  this  "war  against  wicked- 
ness." 

A  Plea  for  Love  in  the  Home 

And  may  I  suggest  in  closing  that  during  these  unsettled,  uncertain 
conditions,  where  all — not  only  those  in  uniform,  but  also  those  of  us  at 
home,  are  under  a  strain,  that  we  be  more  tolerant,  show  a  little  more  kind- 
ness and  tenderness,  and  consideration  towards  our  wives  and  children, 
and  our  neighbors.  We  are  liable  if  we  are  not  careful  in  an  unguarded 
moment  to  say  or  do  things  that  we  otherwise  would  not  do  or  say.  So  let 
us  guard  our  tongues,  never  say  an  unkind  word  to  our  loved  ones  in  the 
home.  When  I  speak  of  unkind  words  I  am  reminded  of  "The  Old  Set- 
tler's Story,"  written  around  the  theme  contained  in  these  words : 

Boys  flying  kites  haul  in  their  white  winged 
birds, 

But  you  can't  do  that  when  you're  flying 
words. 

Thoughts,  unexpressed,  may  sometimes  fall 
back  dead, 

But  God  Himself  can't  kill  them  when  they're 
said. 


64  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  2  Second  Day 

So  let  us  never  say  unkind  words.  "Kind  words  are  sweet  tones  of 
the  heart."   I  love  that  song  very  much. 

Let  us  oft  speak  kind  words  to  each  other, 

At  home  or  where'er  we  may  be, 
Like  the  warbling  of  birds  on  the  heather, 

The  tones  will  be  welcome  and  free ; 
They'll  gladden  the  heart  that's  repining, 

Give  courage  and  hope  from  above; 
And  where  the  dark  clouds  hide  the  shining 

Let  in  the  bright  sunlight  of  love. 

Oh,  the  kind  words  we  give 
Shall  in  memory  live — 

(And  so  will  unkind  words  in  memory  live — do  not  forget  that.) 

And  sunshine  forever  impart ; 

Let  us  oft  speak  kind  words  to  each  other, 

Kind  words  are  sweet  tones  of  the  heart. 

May  the  Lord  help  us,  brethren,  to  carry  out  in  our  lives  the  thoughts 
expressed  in  those  words,  and  follow  the  admonition  of  our  Savior  to 
"love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with 
all  thy  mind,  and  with  all  thy  strength,  and  thy  neighbor  as  thyself,"  I 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Brother  Wilford  W.  Emery  will  be  our  concluding  speaker.  He 
recently  returned  from  presiding  over  the  Samoan  Mission.  He  was  told 
by  a  physician  several  months  before  he  left  that  he  should  leave  that 
climate,  or  the  affliction  that  had  come  upon  him  might  become  perma- 
nent. The  Authorities  of  the  Church  sent  him  a  cable  for  him  to  leave 
on  the  first  boat,  but  he  answered :  "My  duty  is  here,  I  will  leave  after 
the  work  is  properly  turned  over  to  my  successor."  I  repeat,  that  is  an 
illustration  of  the  faith  and  stability  of  our  missionaries. 

ELDER  WILFORD  W.  EMERY 

(Former  President  of  the  Samoan  Mission) 

My  brethren :  I  am  happy  with  you  to  be  here  in  this  session  of  our 
great  Conference.  I  bring  you  greetings  from  Samoa.  The  saints  in 
that  mission  are  vitally  interested  in  the  work  of  the  Lord.  They  love 
God.   They  try  to  the  best  of  their  ability  to  keep  His  commandments. 

In  1940  Sister  Emery  and  I  went  to  Samoa  at  the  call  of  the  First 
Presidency  to  preside  over  that  mission.  One  of  the  first  instructions 
received  after  arriving  in  the  mission  field  was  to  send  all  the  missionaries 
home ;  send  them  home  in  as  large  groups  as  possible ;  send  them  home 
on  American  boats ;  use  my  own  discretion  as  to  whether  I  send  my  fam- 
ily home  or  not,  but  for  the  present  the  mission  president  was  to  remain. 

It  was  quite  a  shock  to  all  the  elders.  They  didn't  want  to  go  home. 
They  wanted  to  stay  in  the  mission  field.    They  had  learned  to  love  the 


ELDER  WILFORD  W.  EMERY 


65 


people.  They  loved  the  work  that  they  were  engaged  in  and  they  wished 
to  stay  the  full  length  of  time,  but  we  also  desired  to  obey  the  counsel  and 
advice  of  our  Authorities,  and  so  the  elders  were  sent  home.  The  way 
was  opened  up  to  send  them  home.  In  the  beginning  there  were  no  boats 
to  send  them  over  to  American  Samoa  where  they  could  catch  a  large 
steamer  for  America.  The  boats  that  were  running  were  filled  up  with 
passengers  but  when  I  made  my  wants  known  to  those  in  charge  they 
gladly  pulled  off  passengers  to  make  room  for  our  missionaries  to  return 
home.  After  that  was  done  I  received  word  from  the  Tongan  Mission, 
from  President  Dunn,  asking  me  to  arrange  for  passage  for  ten  elders 
from  the  Tongan  Mission.  I  again  went  to  the  authorities  in  charge  of 
the  boats  and  they  again  were  kind  and  pulled  off  ten  more  passengers 
from  their  boats  to  make  room  for  these  ten  Elders  from  Tonga.  I  thought 
it  was  quite  wonderful  for  them  to  do  this.  If  they  had  not  done  so,  our 
elders  would  not  have  been  able  to  return  when  they  did. 

There  was  a  lot  of  fear  felt  at  that  time.  The  Saints  mourned,  they 
felt  bad,  they  felt  that  the  work  of  the  Lord  was  going  to  die  out.  They 
said,  "We  can't  possibly  carry  on  without  Elders  from  Zion."  I  told  them 
in  meetings  that  we  held  with  the  Saints  that  they  could  carry  on  with  the 
help  of  the  Lord,  they  could  do  everything.  I  said  to  them,  "I  believe 
that  this  in  a  way  will  be  a  great  blessing  to  you.  You  will  not  rely  so 
much  upon  the  Elders  but  you  will  rely  more  upon  the  Lord."  They 
agreed  to  try  to  do  the  best  they  could. 

We  have  three  districts  in  the  mission,  fifty-five  branches  all  pre- 
sided over  by  native  elders,  and  they  are  carrying  on  the  work  of  the  Lord. 
In  every  branch  there  is  a  Sunday  School  established,  also  a  Relief  So- 
ciety organization,  and  those  people  are  carrying  on  the  work  of  the  Lord 
just  as  well  today  as  they  were  when  the  white  elders  were  there  with 
them  to  assist  them.  They  are  relying  more  upon  the  Lord  and  are  seek- 
ing His  advice  and  counsel  and  His  assistance.  Baptisms  have  kept  up 
just  the  same  I  believe  in  the  last  three  years  we  were  there.  Four  hundred 
seventy-five  people  were  baptized  into  the  Church.  Tithes  increased.  In 
1940  seventeen  hundred  and  some  odd  dollars  was  paid  as  tithing.  In  1941 
the  tithing  more  than  doubled  that  of  1940,  and  in  1942  the  tithing  reached 
ninety-nine  hundred  and  some  odd  dollars.  Almost  ten  thousand  dollars 
was  paid  by  the  Saints  in  that  mission  as  tithing  in  1942,  greater  than  in 
any  other  four  years  of  the  history  of  the  mission,  showing  that  those 
people  have  faith  in  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

The  Saints  are  doing  their  best  to  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  They 
have  many  trials  at  the  present  time.  I  don't  think  it  is  news  to  you,  but 
there  are  thousands  and  tens  of  thousands  of  Marines  in  Samoa,  and  those 
Marines  taught  the  natives  how  to  use  tobacco  and  cigarettes.  Boys  and 
girls  and  little  tots  were  smoking  who  never  smoked  before.  So,  in  a  way 
the  Marines  have  taught  the  people  bad  habits.  In  another  way  it  has 
been  a  blessing  to  the  people.  It  has  brought  much  money  into  the  coun- 
try, and  our  people  have  been  obtaining  some  of  it  and  are  putting  it  aside 
so  that  after  the  war  they  will  be  able  to  go  to  Laie  and  enter  the  temple 
there  and  receive  their  blessings  and  their  anointings.    The  people  are 


66  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.   October  2  Second  Day 

full  of  faith.  They  have  great  faith  in  the  healing  ordinances  of  the  gos- 
pel. Whenever  there  are  any  sick  among  them  they  call  in  the  Elders. 
The  Elders  anoint  them  and  pray  over  them  and  they  are  healed. 

I  don't  know  whether  it  would  be  wise  for  me  to  take  up  a  moment 
of  time  to  relate  one  or  two  instances,  but  I  would  like  to.  There  was  a 
young  man  very,  very  sick,  I  don't  know  what  his  affliction  was,  but  he 
became  as  it  were  possessed.  He  became  raving  mad,  so  that  he  had  to 
be  held  down,  night  and  day,  by  strong  men.  Three  and  four  men  at  a 
time  had  to  hold  him,  and  that  continued  for  at  least  three  weeks.  I  didn't 
know  a  thing  about  this  until  a  certain  day  a  couple  came  in  and  said, 
"President  Emery  there  is  a  young  man  who  is  very  sick.  We  have  raised 
him  since  he  was  a  little  child.  After  he  married  he  has  been  living  in  a 
village  where  his  wife's  folks  live.  They  are  not  members  of  the  Church, 
but  this  young  man  is.  We  are  interested  in  him,  and  we  know  that  if 
you  will  go  and  give  him  a  blessing  he  will  become  well.  He  is  a  raving 
maniac  at  the  present  time." 

I  agreed  to  go  and  visit  him  and  give  him  a  blessing.  I  took  a  native 
elder  with  me  and  we  anointed  him  and  blessed  him,  and  he  immediately 
became  well.  He  sat  up  and  talked  to  us  rationally,  the  first  rational 
words  he  had  spoken  in  three  weeks.  The  people  were  amazed  and  they 
were  also  very,  very  happy  and  thankful  for  they  had  been  nursing  him 
night  and  day  for  these  three  weeks. 

One  afternoon  a  telephone  message  came  from  the  hospital,  asking 
me  to  come  to  the  hospital  and  give  a  young  woman  a  blessing.  She  was 
in  great  pain  and  great  suffering.  I  went  to  the  hospital.  I  tried  first  to 
obtain  a  native  elder  to  go  with  me,  but  none  was  available.  They  were 
all  at  their  work.  I  went  to  the  hospital  and  entered  a  large  ward,  ap- 
parently a  maternity  ward.  There  were  many  beds  in  the  room,  all  oc- 
cupied by  women  who  had  recently  become  mothers.  There  was  one  bed 
there  occupied  by  a  young  woman.  They  told  me  then  that  she  had  been 
suffering  for  four  days.  She  had  been  in  labor  pains  for  four  days,  but 
did  not  seem  to  have  strength  to  give  birth  to  her  child.  They  asked  if  I 
would  give  her  a  blessing.  I  did  so,  then  immediately  excused  myself  and 
went  out,  got  in  my  car  and  drove  home.  The  next  day  one  of  our  good 
Relief  Society  women  came  in  and  said,  "President  Emery,  I  was  present 
yesterday  when  you  gave  that  young  woman  a  blessing.  You  didn't  see 
me,  but  I  was  there.  1  want  to  tell  you  that  before  you  reached  your  car. 
the  young  woman  gave  birth  to  her  baby.  All  is  well  with  the  baby  and 
with  the  mother,  and  the  people  there  in  that  room  marveled  and  they  said, 
Well,  what  kind  of  power  is  it  that  President  Emery  has,  that  all  he  has 
to  do  is  to  come  in  here,  lay  his  hands  on  a  woman's  head  and  she  has 
strength  to  bring  forth  her  baby  ?"   They  marveled  greatly. 

Now,  I  could  go  on  and  tell  many  stories  of  this  kind.  The  gospel 
is  true,  brethren,  and  the  work  of  the  Lord  is  progressing  in  those  far- 
off  islands 

I  pray  that  God's  choicest  blessings  will  be  with  you.  God  bless  you. 
Your  souls  are  precious  in  his  sight.  May  we  ever  keep  this  in  mind.  May 
we  do  our  full  duty  always,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

This  is  probably  the  only  opportunity  we  shall  have  to  call  attention 
to  a  special  drive  that  the  Government  is  now  making  in  the  collection  of 
scrap  salvage  from  October  1st  to  November  15th.  This  scrap  is  vitally 
needed  and  will  be  moved  when  placed  in  piles.  The  necessity  of  having 
such  a  drive  at  this  time  was  brought  about  by  a  shrinkage  of  scrap  inven- 
tory in  the  nation.  Seven  million  tons  of  scrap  is  the  healthy  inventory 
that  must  be  maintained  in  order  to  guarantee  steel  mills  and  production 
lines  to  continue  uninterruptedly.  In  the  last  two  months  this  inventory 
has  fallen  from  the  desired  seven  million  tons  down  to  some  five  and  one- 
quarter  million  tons.  Almost  fifty  times  as  much  steel  is  needed  in  this 
war  as  compared  with  the  last  war,  and  at  the  present  time  scrap  salvage 
is  furnishing  55%  of  the  finished  steel  product,  45%  coming  from  the 
virgin  ore.  The  largest  factor  in  not  being  able  to  make  steel  out  of  100% 
iron  ore  is  the  time  factor.  Fifty  percent  of  the  time  necessary  to  fabri- 
cate the  finished  steel  product  from  iron  ore  is  saved  by  the  use  of  salvage. 
If  we  had  to  depend  upon  iron  ore  alone  for  steel,  it  would  require  twice 
as  many  blast  and  open  hearth  furnaces  and  twice  as  many  men  to  load 
and  unload  and  work  in  the  mills.  We  do  not  have  these  facilities  avails 
able,  so,  therefore,  the  job  of  furnishing  55%  scrap  salvage  to  help  make 
the  finished  steel  product  is  the  responsibility  of  all  volunteer  salvage 
committees  throughout  the  State  and  Nation.  This  is  merely  a  matter  of 
thrift  and  economy  and  gathering  the  things  that  are  going  to  waste. 

Here  are  two  items  which  those  listening  to  the  radio  should  properly 
take  note  of :  Used  household  fats,  a  critical  war  material  due  to  the 
glycerine  content  which  is  needed  in  explosives  and  medicines. 

Only  five  States  have  reached  their  quota  since  the  collection  started 
eighteen  months  ago.  Utah  has  reached  its  quota  of  80,500  pounds  in 
May,  June,  and  August;  in  July  they  ranked  first  place  on  the  number 
of  pounds  contributed  per  dwelling. 

Another  item :  Tin  cans.  One  of  the  most  effective  methods  of  col- 
lecting tin  cans  set  up  in  any  State  is  now  operating  in  Utah  through  co- 
operation of  the  merchants,  trucking  and  beverage  and  bottling  companies 
who  are  collecting  many  tons  per  month. 

The  other  day  there  was  placed  in  the  office  of  the  First  Presidency 
a  little  thing  called  a  "syrette."  It  is  now  designated  as  "Angels  of  Mer- 
cy," for  they  help  save  the  lives  of  thousands  of  our  fighting  men.  This 
is  a  tiny  morphine  hypodermic  syringe  about  the  size  of  the  first  joint  of 
one's  little  finger,  as  big  around  as  a  lead  pencil.  At  one  end  is  a  hollow 
needle  covered  with  plastic,  to  be  torn  off  when  used.  It  looks  like  a  baby 
toothpaste  tube,  with  a  needle  at  one  end.  The  infinitesimal  pouch  is 
made  of  soft  tin,  and  when  the  needle  is  inserted  near  a  wound  and  the 
tube  pressed,  a  single  dose  of  pain-relieving  morphine  is  injected.  A 
wounded  soldier  can  make  bearable  the  hours  before  arrival  of  any  help 
by  use  of  the  "syrette"  in  his  kit.  The  tin  reclaimed  from  two  tin  cans 
is  needed  to  make  one  "syrette." 


68  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  2  Second  Day 

I  think  it  is  appropriate  to  call  the  attention  of  the  people  to  this  pres- 
ent drive,  so  that  your  waste  material  hanging  around  the  farms  and  out 
in  the  streets  may  be  piled  up  and  properly  taken  care  of  as  herein  out- 
lined. 

Tomorrow  morning  will  the  former  Mission  Presidents  who  are  in 
attendance  kindly  occupy  these  seats  at  the  left  of  the  rostum.  Some  of 
you  may  be  asked  to  occupy  a  few  moments,  giving  us  a  picture  of  con- 
ditions in  the  country  in  which  you  have  been  laboring  recently. 

The  congregation  will  now  join  in  singing,  "I'll  Go  Where  You  Want 
Me  To  Go,"  Song  Folder,  number  23. 

After  the  benediction  this  conference  will  be  adjourned  until  7 
o'clock  this  evening  in  this  building. 


The  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn  "I'll  Go  Where  You 
Want  Me  To  Go." 

Elder  Edwin  L.  Murphy,  President  of  the  Moon  Lake  Stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  7  o'clock  p.m. 

SECOND  DAY 
EVENING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  at  7  o'clock  p.m.,  Saturday,  October  2nd. 
The  Tabernacle  Choir  male  chorus  was  in  attendance  and  furnished 
special  musical  numbers. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

We  will  open  this  meeting  by  singing,  "O  Say,  What  Is  Truth?" 
page  2  in  the  Song  Folder,  page  71  in  the  small  Hymn  Book. 

Brother  Spencer  Cornwall  will  direct  the  music,  and  Elder  Alexander 
Schreiner  is  at  the  organ. 

Many  of  you  brethren  will  be  pleased  to  know  that  though  we  are 
not  on  the  air  tonight,  KSL  has  been  thoughtful  enough  to  extend  a  di- 
rect wire  to  President  Grant's  home,  and  he  is  listening  in  to  these  ex- 
ercises. 


The  congregation  and  Tabernacle  Choir  male  chorus  joined  in  sing- 
ing the  hymn,  "O  Say,  What  Is  Truth?"  (John  Jaques). 

Elder  Arthur  C.  Brown,  President  of  the  Millard  Stake,  offered  the 
invocation. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  male  chorus  sang  "Pilgrim's  Song"  (by 
Tschaikowsky) . 


BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


69 


BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

It  is  a  real  pleasure  to  have  the  privilege  of  attending  this  conference. 
Last  night  most  of  you  were  present  at  the  bishops'  meeting  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall,  and  while  we  were  together  two  and  a  half  hours,  we  only 
covered  a  very  small  portion  of  the  program  in  which  you  bishops,  par- 
ticularly, are  as  much  interested  as  are  we. 

The  Aaronic  Priesthood  Program 

I  thought  tonight  I  would  like  to  say  a  few  words  about  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  program  of  the  Church.  I  am  very  grateful  for  my  assign- 
ment to  labor  with  the  young  men  and  for  the  fine  work  that  is  being  done 
by  the  bishops  and  their  associates  in  their  behalf.  I  feel  we  have  a  pro- 
gram that  really  is  effective. 

I  have  no  thought  of  criticism  for  the  past,  but  in  trying  to  follow  our 
program  of  a  record  of  every  boy,  and  a  monthly  boys'  leadership  meeting, 
where  the  bishopric  sit  at  the  head  and  with  them  those  who  are  interested 
in  the  care  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  in  the  wards — the  Mutual,  and  Sun- 
day School  officers,  who  also  are  charged  with  the  responsibility  of  work- 
ing with  the  same  age  group — it  seems  to  me  that  we  have  been  able  to 
keep  closer  in  touch  with  the  boys. 

For  instance,  through  this  program  we  found  in  one  ward  thirty-three 
boys  between  the  ages  of  twelve  and  twenty-one  who  held  no  Priesthood. 
Another  ward  had  twenty.  When  the  bishop  discovered  this,  he  was  as 
much  surprised  as  anyone  could  be.   He  had  never  checked  before. 

When  visiting  a  stake  recently,  it  was  reported  to  me  that  a  son  of  one 
of  our  recent  General  Authorities  had  never  been  ordained,  even  to  the  of- 
fice of  a  deacon.  When  his  own  son  was  to  be  ordained,  the  bishop  asked 
him  if  he  held  such  Priesthood  that  he  could  officiate,  and  he  had  to  apolo- 
gize and  tell  the  bishop  that  he  had  never  even  been  ordained  a  deacon.  A 
time  had  been  set,  but  for  some  reason  he  could  not  come,  and  no  one 
followed  the  matter  up  to  find  out  why. 

Only  this  week  I  learned  that  one  of  our  present  General  Authorities 
was  not  baptized  until  he  was  fifteen,  because  there  was  no  checkup  in  the 
ward.  We  now  have  a  program  whereby  every  boy  is  being  looked  after 
— and  we  are  trying  to  consider  the  boys  more  individually  rather  than  in 
groups.  It  is  my  impression  that  we  will  come  to  a  day  in  the  Church  when 
our  greatest  achievements  will  be  through  individual  work. 

Individual  Work  With  Boys 

In  our  work  this  winter  with  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  we  are  study- 
ing in  the  teachers'  training  course,  Dr.  Stott's  book,  How  to  Win  Boys, 
and  the  author  paraphrases  a  statement  of  the  Master  as  he  went  along 
the  Sea  of  Galilee  and  gathered  to  himself  the  fishermen,  saying,  "Come, 
and  I  will  make  you  fishers  of  men" ;  Dr.  Stott  says,  "Come,  and  I  will 
make  you  fishers  of  boys." 


70  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  2  Second  Day 

Then  he  indicates  that  all  over  the  world  there  are  literally  thousands 
and  tens  of  thousands  of  boys,  waiting  to  be  caught,  if  we  only  use  the 
right  kind  of  bait. 

In  a  demonstration  of  a  boys'  monthly  leadership  meeting  in  a  stake 
recently,  one  of  the  brethren  in  reporting  a  visit  he  had  made  to  a  home 
said  :  "You'll  never  get  John  into  his  Priesthood  meeting  on  Sunday  morn- 
ing so  long  as  there  is  snow  on  the  mountain  so  he  can  go  skiing."  After 
the  discussion  was  ended  and  no  solution  was  offered  to  get  John  off  the 
mountain,  I  said  to  the  bishop,  "Bishop,  are  you  going  to  leave  John  out 
on  the  mountain  skiing  on  Sunday  mornings  ?" 

We  have  a  feeling  that  there  should  be  sufficient  genius  of  leadership 
in  this  group  with  the  bishopric  at  the  head  assisted  by  their  helpers  in 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  the  M.I.A.,  and  Sunday  School  workers,  that 
when  they  pool  their  wisdom,  certainly  they  can  find  the  kind  of  bait  that 
will  bring  John  off  the  mountain  on  Sunday  morning. 

There  are  some  of  us,  I  fear,  who  have  the  feeling  that  there  are  only 
a  few  that  will  be  saved.  I  am  not  unmindful  of  the  fact  that  the  Savior 
said,  "Strait  is  the  gate  and  narrow  is  the  way,"  but  I  also  remembered 
that  in  the  76th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the  Lord  indicates 
that  He  will  save  all  the  works  of  His  hands,  except  the  Sons  of  Perdition, 
and  I  have  never  been  able  to  feel  that  the  sons  of  Latter-day  Saint  fathers 
and  mothers  born  under  the  covenant,  are  likely  to  be  so  classified.  They  are 
born  heirs  of  all  the  gifts  and  Blessings  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  So, 
as  far  as  I  am  concerned,  I  believe  if  we  will  do  our  duty,  with  the  help  of 
the  Almighty,  we  need  not  fear  that  any  of  our  boys  will  be  lost. 

Now,  when  we  gather  them  in,  it  is  very  important  that  we  have  some- 
thing for  them.  They  want  to  be  fed,  and  I  think  besides  teaching  them 
their  duties  in  the  Priesthood,  one  of  the  greatest  things  we  ought  to  have 
in  mind  is  to  try  to  plant  in  their  hearts  a  testimony  of  the  Gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

A  Testimony  of  the  Gospel  of  Great  Worth 

My  experience  in  the  Church  has  taught  me  that  the  most  powerful 
motivating  thing  I  know  of  in  this  world  is  a  testimony  of  the  Gospel. 
Possessing  it,  men  and  women  will  do  anything ;  they  will  make  any  sacri- 
fice. When  we  listened  here  yesterday  to  the  testimonies  of  Brother 
Kimball  and  Brother  Benson,  whom  we  sustained  as  new  members  of  the 
Quorum  of  the  Twelve,  both  indicated  that  they  were  making  financial  sac- 
rifices. I  had  the  privilege  of  attending  Washington  Stake  conference  a 
week  ago  last  Sunday  with  President  Benson,  and  he  told  me  of  some  of 
the  financial  offers  that  had  been  made  to  him.  I  took  occasion  before  the 
people  of  the  stake  to  compliment  them  on  the  honor  that  had  come  to 
them  in  the  call  of  their  stake  president,  but  I  assured  them  that  Brother 
Benson  would  make  great  financial  sacrifices,  but  God  granted  unto  the 
children  of  men  blessings  that  were  worth  far  more  than  money,  and 
reminded  them  of  when  Peter  and  John  went  to  the  temple  and  at  the 
gate  thereof  found  a  man  who  had  been  a  cripple  from  his  youth,  and 
when  he  asked  alms  at  their  hands,  Peter  said:  "Silver  and  gold  have  I 


BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


71 


none,  but  such  as  I  have,  give  I  thee.  In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Nazareth,  rise  up  and  walk."  And  immediately  the  cripple's  feet  and 
ankle  bones  received  strength,  and  he.  walked  into  the  temple  with  Peter 
and  John. 

You  do  not  buy  gifts  like  that  with  money.  They  are  the  riches  of 
heaven,  that  come  through  faith  and  a  testimony  of  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ. 

Recently  I  read  the  new  book  by  Brother  Hinckley  on  the  life  of 
President  Daniel  H.  Wells,  and  I  was  greatly  impressed  with  the  power 
of  his  testimony.  When  he  saw  the  Saints  move  toward  the  West,  al- 
though he  was  not  a  member  of  the  Church  and  at  that  time  possessed 
much  property  and  a  wife  who  was  opposed  to  the  Church,  and  a  son,  he 
had  to  make  a  choice  to  cast  his  lot  with  the  Saints  or  remain  with  his  wife 
and  son  and  his  property.  He  left  his  property  to  her,  and  left  her  and 
the  boy  behind,  going  on  with  the  Saints ;  and  the  Lord  multiplied  unto 
him  because  of  his  sacrifice,  and  that  because  of  his  testimony  of  the 
Gospel. 

You  and  I  know,  as  we  have  witnessed  on  every  side,  particularly  in 
our  ministry  in  this  Church,  how  marvelously  people  sacrifice,  and  how 
willingly  they  do  it  when  their  souls  are  touched  with  a  testimony  of  the 
Gospel. 

Willing  Sacrifices 

I  think  of  a  little  woman  in  our  ward.  We  as  a  bishopric  approached 
her  and  her  husband,  who  was  not  a  member  of  the  Church,  and  asked 
them  if  they  were  in  a  position  to  send  their  son  on  a  mission.  We  said, 
"We  don't  know  whether  you  have  any  rich  relatives  who  can  help  you" — 
we  knew  they  were  of  meager  circumstances — but  we  said,  "The  boy  is 
worthy  to  go,  and  we  would  be  proud  to  have  him  represent  our  ward." 

By  that  time  tears  were  trickling  down  the  little  mother's  face,  and 
she  said,  "Bishop,  if  you  will  send  my  boy  on  a  mission,  I'll  see  that  he 
has  the  money  if  I  have  to  work  every  day  he  is  gone  to  keep  him  in  the 
mission  field." 

When  living  in  California,  I  passed  a  bakery  night  after  night  on  my 
way  home  from  work  and  saw  one  of  our  good  sisters  in  her  little  bakery 
uniform  clerking  while  she  kept  two  of  her  sons  in  the  mission  field. 

I  would  like  to  see  this  testimony  planted;  in  the  hearts  of  our  boys  and 
our  girls,  and  I  want  you  to  know  that  I  know  .boys  can  have  a  testimony 
of  the  Gospel,  even  in  their  youth. 

The  Promise  of  Spiritual  Gifts 

A  statement  reached  us  at  the  Presiding  Bishop's  office  a  few  days 
ago  from  one  of  our  educators  who  in  teaching  a  Sunday  School  class 
made  this  statement :  "I  don't  know  whether  it  would  be  proper  for  us  to 
teach  our  young  people  to  read  Leaves  from  My  Journal,  by  Wilford 
Woodruff,  for  fear  they  might  expect  similar  spiritual  experiences,  and 
be  disappointed." 

I  wonder  if  there  are  really  very  many  Latter-day  Saints  who  would 


72  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Day 

be  afraid  to  promise  unto  the  youth  of  Zion  the  spiritual  gifts  and  blessings 
that  God,  the  Eternal  Father  Himself,  has  promised. 

We  cannot  offer  our  young  people  the  Bible  as  the  word  of  God,  or 
the  standard  Church  works,  and  believe  only  a  small  portion  of  that  which 
is  written  therein. 

After  the  Savior  was  resurrected,  He  commissioned  His  disciples  to 
go  into  all  the  world  and  preach  the  Gospel  to  every  creature,  and  then  he 
promised  them  spiritual  gifts  and  blessings  as  a  result  of  their  faith.  I 
find  nowhere  in  all  Holy  Writ  where  the  Savior  ever  rescinded  the  prom- 
ises He  made  unto  those  who  would  accept  His  Gospel. 

On  the  day  of  Pentecost,  the  Spirit  of  God  was  poured  out  like  cloven 
tongues  of  fire,  and  Peter,  representing  the  apostles,  spoke  until  men  were 
moved  upon  and  smitten  in  their  hearts,  and  said:  "Men  and  brethren, 
what  shall  we  do  ?"  And  Peter,  the  mouthpiece  of  God  upon  the  earth, 
replied : 

Repent,  and  be  baptized  every  one  of  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ 
for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  ye  shall  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

For  the  promise  is  unto  you,  and  to  your  children,  and  to  all  that  are  afar 
off,  even  as  many  as  the  Lord  our  God  shall  call.  (Acts  2:38,  39.) 

I  want  you  to  know  that  as  far  as  I  am  concerned,  that  promise  has 
been  made  good  in  my  life,  and  I  have  faith  it  will  be  made  good  in  the  lives 
of  my  children  and  their  children,  unto  the  latest  generation,  if  they  have 
faith  in  God  and  are  willing  to  keep  His  commandments. 

Then  I  remind  you  that  in  the  last  chapter  of  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
Moroni  writes  at  some  length  on  this  subject.  He  tells  of  the  marvelous 
gifts  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  says  that  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
might  we  know  the  truth  of  the  words  contained  in  that  book,  for  "by  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  ye  mav  know  the  truth  of  all  things."  (Moroni 
10  :S.)  Then  he  warns  us  that  we  deny  not  the  gifts  of  God,  and  enumer- 
ates them  and  then  adds  that  these  gifts  shall  never  be  taken  away  as  long 
as  the  world  shall  stand,  except  according  to  the  unbelief  of  the  children 
of  men. 

Closing  that  historic  record  with  that  promise,  I  feel  we  ought  to  live 
to  anticipate  and  expect  the  gifts  of  the  Spirit  of  God.  ...  I  was  in  this 
tabernacle  when  Wilf ord  Woodruff  told — and  I  think  it  was  his  last  pub- 
lic address — how  marvelously  the  Lord  had  led  and  guided  and  inspired 
him,  and  how  we  would  not  have  Bishop  So-and-So,  if  he  had  not  heeded 
the  promptings  of  the  Spirit  of  God  not  to  take  the  company  of  emigrants 
on  the  boat  down  in  New  Orleans,  how  that  by  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit 
he  arose  in  the  night  and  moved  his  team  and  wagon  just  in  time  to  escape 
the  falling  oak  that  had  stood  there  all  those  years,  etc. 

That  made  an  impression  upon  my  life.  I  would  like  my  children  im- 
pressed with  that  kind  of  inspiration,  spiritual  power,  spiritual  gifts.  Now, 
as  I  look  back  over  my  life,  I  want  to  bear  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren, 
here  this  night,  that  the  Lord  has  been  kind  to  me,  and  I  have  had  evidences 
enough  all  through  my  ministry  to  know  that  the  sweetest  thing  in  this 
world  that  I  know  anything  about  is  the  companionship  of  the  Spirit  of 
God,  and  the  gifts  and  blessings  that  come  by  virtue  of  the  same. 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNlON 


73 


A  Knowledge  of  God  Comes  Through  His  Spirit 

It  is  my  testimony  that  when  you  read  the  words  of  the  Master  that 
"this  is  life  eternal,  that  they  might  know  Thee  the  only  true  God,  and 
Jesus  Christ,  whom  Thou  hast  sent,"  (John  17:3)  you  are  not  going  to 
know  Him  just  because  you  read  about  Him  in  books ;  you  are  going  to 
know  Him  because  you  have  partaken  of  His  Spirit  and  of  his  power,  and 
you  have  been  lifted  up  until  you  know  there  is  a  power  in  this  world  so 
much  greater  than  yours  that  it  leaves  no  room  for  doubt. 

We  should  remember  the  words  of  Paul  when  he  said  that  the  things 
of  God  are  understood  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  and  the  things  of  man  are 
understood  by  the  spirit  of  man,  and  the  natural  man  understandeth  not 
the  things  of  God,  for  they  are  foolishness  unto  him.  We  do  not  want 
natural  men  teaching  our  boys  in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood ;  we  want  men  of 
God,  who  have  faith  in  God  and  faith  in  His  promises,  and  faith  in  spiritu- 
al gifts  and  spiritual  power. 

You  brethren  do  not  need  to  be  afraid  to  promise  your  children  or 
the  youth  of  Zion  that  the  blessings  and  gifts  of  the  Holy  Ghost  will  be 
theirs  if  they  will  live  for  them.  You  do  not  have  to  fulfill  these  promises. 
God,  the  Eternal  Father,  who  made  them,  will  fulfill  them.  And  when 
they  have  a  testimony  and  spiritual  conviction  in  their  souls,  you  do  not 
need  to  worry  about  your  boys  or  your  girls,  no  matter  where  they  go. 

God  bless  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  am  delighted,  my  brethren,  to  be  in  your  midst  tonight,  and  to 
have  attended  the  Conference  today  and  yesterday.  It  has  been  a  great 
pleasure,  for  many  years,  to  attend  these  Conferences,  and  to  listen  to 
the  instructions  of  the  Lord's  servants.  In  our  organizations,  both  of 
men  and  women,  I  am  sure  we  have  leaders  who  are  divinely  called,  and 
I  have  heard  their  testimonies  many  times ;  they  have  strengthened  mine, 
that  this,  beyond  any  question,  is  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

Administration  and  Resultant  Thoughts 

There  are  a  good  many  things  in  the  plan  of  salvation  that  have  not 
yet  been  made  clear,  but  which  some  day  will  be  revealed.  I  had  an  ex- 
perience this  past  summer,  of  administering  to  a  child  six  days  old,  in 
a  hospital.  I  had  never  before  administered  to  a  child ;  I  have  blessed 
many  children,  but  never  had  administered  to  any.  This  child  had  to 
undergo  an  operation,  so  the  doctor  had  sent  it  to  the  hospital.  The 
mother  had  asked  that  I  should  be  called  to  administer  to  it. 

I  could  find  no  one  in  the  hospital  at  that  time  to  go  with  me,  and  so 
it  became  necessary  to  perform  the  ordinance  alone.  I  saw  that  little 
infant  lying  there,  just  six  days  old ;  it  had  never  taken  any  food,  it  could 
not  digest  it,  and  something  had  to  be  done.  So  I  administered  to  the 
child.   And  this  remarkable  thing  happened :  it  was  unable  to  cry,  it  was 


74  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.   October  2  Second  Day 

so  weak,  yet  it  opened  its  eyes  when  I  administered  to  it,  and  looked  at 
me  with  as  much  intelligence  as  any  person  I  have  ever  seen  in  my  life. 
Now,  this  is  the  truth  I  desire  to  point  out :  I  do  not  know  just  how  the 
transition  is  made,  hut  I  knew  this  much  as  I  administered  to  that  child, 
that  six  days  before  it  had  been  a  fully  grown  spiritual  man,  and  that  it 
was  fully  grown  when  this  earth  was  made.  And  I  remembered,  too, 
that  the  Savior  of  the  world,  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord,  was  born  as  was 
that  child,  with  a  fully  matured  spiritual  body  but  in  the  physical  form 
of  a  babe. 

This  vital  truth  is  made  plain  in  the  incident  recorded  in  Third  Nephi. 
That  great  prophet  was  crying  unto  the  Lord  for  help  to  control  and 
lead  those  rebellious  people  who  had  turned  away  from  the  promises  of 
their  fathers.  He  was  wondering  when  the  time  of  the  Messiah's  coming 
should  be — that  event  which  Samuel  the  Lamanite  had  predicted  should 
take  place,  and  he  was  crying  unto  the  Lord  in  mighty  faith,  when  a  voice 
came  unto  him  saying:  "Lift  up  your  head  and  be  of  good  cheer;  for 
behold,  the  time  is  at  hand,  and  on  this  night  shall  the  sign  be  given,  and 
on  the  morrow  come  I  into  the  world  .  .  ."  (Ill  Nephi  1:13.) 

On  the  morrow  he  was  born  in  that  stable  in  Judea,  and  cradled  in 
manger,  even  as  I  saw  this  little  infant  that  I  administered  to  lying  in 
the  hospital. 

Christ's  Pre-Mortal  Position 

This  is  one  of  the  things  we  do  not  fully  understand.  But  the  Christ 
made  this  world,  there  is  no  question  about  that.  It  was  he  who  estab- 
lished his  Father's  work  in  the  days  of  Adam ;  who  gave  the  Law  unto 
Moses ;  who  brought  the  children  of  men,  anciently,  to  a  realization  of 
His  divine  plan ;  and  it  was  He  who  established  His  people  in  this  land 
upon  which  we  live,  long  before  He  came  into  the  world,  in  the  Meridian 
of  Time. 

I  do  not  know  how  this  earth  was  made,  only  I  know  it  was  not 
made  of  nothing ;  it  was  made  of  material  substances.  In  a  revelation  to 
Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet,  we  are  given  to  understand  that  to  those  who 
are  faithful  at  the  Lord's  coming,  He  will  show  how  He  made  the  world. 
That  is  one  of  the  things  that  will  come  to  our  knowledge  if  we  keep  the 
commandments  of  God — this  and  many  other  great  and  marvelous  truths. 

Responsibility  of  Leadership 

This  congregation  of  men  here  are  representatives  of  our  Eternal 
Father  in  the  earth.  You  hold  positions  of  trust,  spiritually  and  financial- 
ly. You  uphold  the  leadership  and  are  the  leadership  of  the  Church.  You 
are  the  men  who  establish  faith  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men,  and 
I  know  that  you  have  a  testimony  of  the  gospel.  This  work  is  growing 
and  the  work  of  God  is  being  built  more  firmly  than  ever  before.  I  do 
not  know  just  what  the  end  of  the  present  conflict  will  be,  or  how  far  it 
will  reach,  but  in  the  end  I  know  that  the  democracy  established  in  this 
land  will  survive,  and  it  will  govern  and  rule,  for  the  Lord  established 
His  Church  here,  nevermore  to  be  thrown  down,  nevermore  to  be  dis- 
organized, but  to  be  in  the  earth  when  He  should  come  in  the  day  of  His 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION 


75 


wrath  and  in  the  day  of  his  fulfilment  of  His  promises  and  His  pledges 
unto  the  children  of  men. 

He  will  come  to  His  own ;  He  will  come  to  His  people,  unto  the  men 
who  hold  His  Priesthood,  the  power  to  act  in  His  name. 

Courage  of  the  Pioneers 

Now,  we  are  facing  problems,  I  think,  that  we  have  never  faced 
before,  at  least  in  the  history  of  my  time.  I  have  been  actively  engaged 
for  the  past  thirty-nine  years,  and  I  have  never  seen  conditions  that  con- 
front us  as  they  do  now.  When  our  pioneer  fathers  came  down  these 
canyons  in  1847  and  later,  they  came  into  this  barren  country,  a  country 
most  forbidding.  It  was  no  wonder  that  some  of  the  women  folk  cried, 
as  my  grandmother  cried  when  she  saw  the  land  that  she  had  to  live  in 
after  the  pilgrimage  across  the  plains.  She  had  left  her  home  in  England, 
where  she  had  enjoyed  life;  she  did  not  join  the  Church  until  she  came 
to  this  country,  but  she  came  with  her  husband  or  she  would  have  been  left 
behind.    That  was  the  mandate. 

She  wept  when  she  saw  this  country,  and  I  want  to  tell  you,  my 
brethren,  the  men  and  women  who  came  into  this  country  found  it  a 
hard  place  in  which  to  live.  They  struggled  day  and  night  and  all  the 
time,  to  gather  something  to  eat  and  clothing  to  wear.  Many  of  them 
went  hungry.  But  they  weathered  the  storm  of  adversity  and  they  estab- 
lished in  the  valleys  of  the  mountains  the  greatest  commonwealth  that 
can  be  found  in  America.    They  were  courageous  men  and  women. 

Perils  Facing  Youth  of  the  Present 

Now  then,  the  thing  that  confronts  us  all  is  the  conditions  that  exist 
today.  What  changes  have  come !  Today  our  boys  and  girls  can  secure 
employment  at  salaries  they  have  never  before  heard  of.  Many  of  them, 
who  have  been  reared  in  homes  where  they  have  been  taught  to  pray, 
where  they  have  had  wise  guidance  by  parents  who  loved  them,  and  where 
they  listened  to  them  because  they  had  not  seen  the  outside  world — these 
boys  and  girls,  today,  many  of  them,  have  left  their  homes  and  have 
come  to  the  larger  centers  by  the  hundreds,  yes,  by  the  thousands.  They 
are  getting  more  money  than  they  had  ever  dreamed  of,  and  they  are 
spending  it.  There  are  hundreds  of  young  people  in  this  country  right 
now,  who,  because  of  this  increase  in  wealth,  are  not  able  to  control 
themselves,  and  are  drinking  and  using  tobacco  and  ruining  their  lives. 

To  save  them  is  the  duty  that  confronts  the  Priesthood  of  this 
Church  at  the  present  time  and  most  seriously,  in  my  opinion.  There 
should  be  nothing  left  undone.  You  have  to  persuade  these  boys  and 
girls ;  you  cannot  drive  them.  Dictators  try  to  do  that,  but  those  who 
follow  our  Lord  and  Savior's  example  must  lead  men  and  persuade  them 
by  kindness  and  love  unfeigned.  We  must  hold  our  youth — thousands 
of  them  born  under  the  eternal  covenants  of  our  Eternal  Father.  They 
are  the  ones  we  must  reclaim.  We  must  not  allow  them,  if  it  is  possible, 
to  be  led  away. 


76  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Dag 

Our  Duty  to  Make  Known  the  Truth 

This  work  with  our  youth  is  closely  allied  to  our  larger  obligation — 
missionary  work.  There  is  nothing  like  it  in  all  the  world.  As  the  blood 
is  the  life  of  the  flesh,  so  is  missionary  work  the  life  of  this  Church, 
and  if  you  take  it  away,  there  is  no  Church. 

This  is  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God  that  was  established  by  the 
Savior  who  came  to  this  earth  in  the  Meridian  of  Time,  who  performed 
His  mission  and  died  that  we  might  live.  It  is  the  work  of  God ;  I  know 
that  our  Eternal  Father  appeared  to  Joseph  Smith,  His  son,  and  said 
unto  him,  "Joseph,  this  is  my  beloved  Son.    Hear  Him." 

As  a  result  of  that  visitation  came  this  great  organization,  the 
Church,  which  will  go  on  to  perfection  until  the  Christ  comes  again.  There 
will  never  be  a  time  when  you  and  I  will  have  so  big  a  part  to  play  as  we 
do  today.  This  is  your  day,  it  is  my  day,  it  is  the  time  for  men  to  prepare 
to  meet  their  God,  and  to  establish  the  principles  of  eternal  truth  in  the 
hearts  of  the  children  of  men. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 

In  humility  and  with  full  appreciation  of  my  immediate  responsibil- 
ity, and  with  complete  awareness  of  my  own  weakness,  I  call  upon  my 
Father  in  Heaven  to  direct  my  thinking  for  a  few  moments  and  to  grant 
me  profitable  utterance. 

The  Binding  Power  of  Testimony 

In  the  past  thirty-six  hours  we  have  had  eloquent  evidence  of  the 
power  of  Mormonism.  As  I  have  sat  through  these  sessions,  considering 
the  personnel  of  the  General  Authorities,  I  have  been  greatly  impressed 
with  the  wealth  of  background  and  secular  training  that  they  bring  to  this 
work,  men  who,  before  their  calling,  were  bankers,  business  men,  farmers, 
laborers,  engineers,  chemists,  dentists,  attorneys-at-law,  schoolteachers. 
All  of  them  with  varying  secular  background,  yet  all  of  them  unitedly 
bound  together  with  one  thing — a  tremendous  testimony  of  the  truth  of 
Mormonism  !  Every  one  of  us  was  moved  with  the  testimonies  of  Brother 
Kimball  and  Brother  Benson  yesterday. 

I  have  been  impressed  with  how  many  times  the  necessity  for  loving 
one  another  has  been  mentioned  in  these  sessions. 

Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy 
soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind.    This  is  the  first  and  great  commandment. 

And  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself 
(Matt.  22:37,  38.) 

Divine  Guidance  Necessary  in  Civil  Government 

There  is  a  certain  disposition  among  a  good  many  people,  and  some 
of  our  own  faith  are  not  entirely  free  from  it,  to  criticize  any  pulpit  ut- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH 


77 


terance  which  dwells  on  major  current  issues.   There  are  those  among  us 
who  suspect  insidious  political  intent,  if,  from  the  pulpit,  even  so  much  as  ' 
mention  of  government  is  made,  but  religion  is  of  no  value  whatsoever  if 
it  deals  only  in  platitudinous  generalities. 

We  are  the  children  of  God,  literally.  That  being  the  case,  God's 
word  should  be  uppermost  in  our  minds  in  trying  to  bring  about  worth- 
while government.  Until  we  as  a  people  in  particular,  and  the  sons  and 
daughters  of  God  in  general,  realize  that  our  civil  governments  will  be 
failures  so  long  as  they  are  not  based  upon  divine  guidance,  so  long  will 
we  continue  to  have  strife,  conflict,  and  bloodshed. 

The  Kingdom  of  God  Based  Upon  Love 

We  are  facing  a  time  when,  unless  men  repent  and  accept  in  very 
deed  the  Gospel  of  Christ,  we  shall  see  revolution  in  our  own  country. 
"Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart  and  with  all  thy  soul, 
and  with  all  thy  mind.  .  .  .  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself.  Upon 
these  two  commandments  hang  all  the  law  and  the  prophets." 

Until  we  can  be  big  enough,  individually,  to  love  our  neighbors,  and 
together  love  each  other,  we  shall  fail.  That  has  some  pretty  practical 
and  definite  applications.  It  means,  for  one  thing,  that  men  who  call  them- 
selves employers  and  men  who  call  themselves  laborers  must  get  together 
and  work  together  and  love  one  another,  literally.  So  long  as  we  have  on 
the  one  hand  employers  who  are  motivated  only  by  profit,  and  who,  for 
their  profit,  are  willing  to  exploit  labor  at  any  cost,  and  so  long  as  on  the 
other  side  of  the  fence  we  have  men  who  call  themselves  laborers,  and  who 
band  themselves  together,  and  make  unjust  demands  at  any  cost,  so  long 
as  we  have  groups  like  these  fighting  each  other,  we  have  no  hope  for 
establishing  the  kingdom  of  God  upon  the  earth. 

Class  hatred  is  growing,  even  within  the  confines  of  our  own  country. 
While  many  were  inclined,  a  while  ago,  to  laugh  at  the  "zoot  suit"  riots, 
they  were  but  symptoms  of  basic  social  disease.  We  must  learn  to  love 
one  another.   Successful  government  will  be  impossible  without  it. 

This  body  of  Priesthood,  together  with  all  others  holding  the  Priest- 
hood, has  a  tremendous  responsibility  in  persuading  men  to  work  together. 
The  magnificent  material  accomplishment  of  fifty  million  cans  of  food, 
that  President  Clark  has  told  us  about,  is  of  less  importance  in  my  estima- 
tion than  the  brotherhood,  the  increased  love  for  one  another,  that  has  re- 
sulted from  people  getting  together  and  working  shoulder  to  shoulder. 

Priesthood  Given  Because  of  Worthiness 

Not  long  ago  in  one  of  our  council  meetings,  President  Clark  called 
attention  to  the  fact  that  there  had  just  been  called  to  the  office  of  the 
Patriarch  in  a  certain  stake  a  man  who  was  a  janitor.  President  Clark 
pointed  out  that  there  was  an  evidence  of  the  strength  of  Mormonism — 
a  job  that  is  looked  upon  by  the  world  as  a  lowly  job,  and  yet  among  the 
Latter-day  Saints  a  man  so  employed,  because  of  his  righteousness  and 
his  integrity,  could  receive  the  patriarchal  Priesthood,  and  even  the  men 
arid  women  who  enjoyed  the  cleanliness  of  the  building  which  he  cared 


78  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Day 

for  would  go  to  him  in  reverence  and  respect  for  their  patriarchal  bless- 
ings. 

Just  Criticism  Helpful 

When  we  can  love  one  another,  we  will  be  well  on  our  way  to  the  solu- 
tion of  our  problems.  It  is  well  for  us  not  to  be  led  astray  by  words.  Call- 
ing a  government  democratic,  does  not  make  it  so,  any  more  than  calling 
a  man  a  villain  makes  him  a  scoundrel.  We  need  vision.  It  is  so  easy  to 
denounce  without  judgment. 

The  other  day  one  of  our  young  men,  in  most  vitriolic  language,  was 
denouncing  the  bureaucracy  of  our  present  government,  and  someone 
asked  him,  to  his  great  embarrassment,  what  a  bureaucrat  was,  and  he  did 
not  have  the  slightest  idea,  but  in  his  home  he  had  heard  bureaucrats  de- 
nounced. Now,  that  sort  of  uncritical  denunciation  is  foolish. 

It  behooves  us,  as  men  holding  the  Priesthood,  to  examine  govern- 
mental procedures  and  if  those  procedures  result  in  the  general  good,  if 
those  procedures  are  compatible  with  the  Gospel,  the  Lord's  word,  it  is 
our  business  to  foster  them,  and  if  necessary  fight  for  them,  just  as  it  is 
our  business  to  examine  governmental  procedures,  and  where  we  find 
them  out  of  harmony  with  the  Lord's  word,  to  fight  against  them,  no  mat- 
ter what  high-sounding  names  those  procedures  may  be  given. 

Brethren,  let  us  not  be  discouraged  because  we  are  what  is  called  a 
minority.  What  is  a  minority  ?  The  Latin  has  a  motto,  multum  in  parvo  : 
"Much  in  small  space."  In  the  field  of  biochemistry  it  has  been  proved 
that  one  part  of  adrenalin — one  of  the  endocrine  secretions — in  100,000 
parts  of  water,  will  cause  certain  live  tissue  to  react.  In  statistical  terms 
that  one  part  in  100,000  is  a  minority. 

Jesus  of  Nazareth,  in  terms  of  the  census,  was  a  pitiful,  almost  a 
ridiculous,  minority ;  but  Jesus  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  is  the  greatest 
power  we  know,  before  whom  ultimately  every  knee  shall  bow.  Let  us 
not  be  discouraged  by  the  specious  argument  that  we  are  of  relatively  lit- 
tle moment  because  we  are  a  minority. 

Power  in  the  Priesthood 

We  have  the  Priesthood  of  Almighty  God,  and  if  we  are  righteous 
and  magnify  it,  and  exercise  it,  there  is  no  limit  to  what  we  can  accomplish 
in  the  way  of  good,  no  matter  how  great  are  the  mere  numbers  arrayed 
against  us. 

I  pray  that  we  may  magnify  the  Priesthood,  that  we  may  have  vision, 
that  we  may  not  be  led  astray  by  mere  names,  that  we  shall  be  able  intelli- 
gently to  examine  governmental  procedures,  and  that  bringing  our  judg- 
ment to  the  matter  of  government,  we  shall  have  wisdom  and  unusual  dis- 
cernment in  selecting  men  for  office  who  will  stand  for  government  that 
is  compatible  with  the  gospel. 

I  have  not  heard  of  it,  but  I  hope  that  in  some  of  our  international 
conferences  the  men  who  are  our  leaders  are  big  enough  to  get  down  on 
their  knees  and  ask  for  divine  guidance.  I  have  not  heard  that  it  was  done 
at  Casablanca ;  I  have  not  heard  that  it  was  done  at  Washington ;  I  have 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


79 


not  heard  that  it  was  done  in  Quebec.  It  may  have  been.  I  hope  it  was. 
But  when  we  can  have  men  who  realize  that  the  solution  to  our  problems 
must  be  in  terms  of  the  word  of  the  Lord,  then  shall  we  have  just  govern- 
ment ;  then  can  we  fight  a  just  battle. 

We  can  exercise  great  influence.  This  little  numerical  minority  must 
be  the  leaven  which  leavens  the  lump  of  the  world.  It  is  our  responsibility. 
Where  much  is  given,  much  is  expected.  God  grant  that  we  can  live  up 
to  our  responsibility,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


Selection  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  male  chorus,  "Discovery"  (by 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

As  I  have  looked  over  this  audience,  and  all  of  the  congregations  that 
have  been  present  in  this  great  tabernacle  the  past  two  days,  my  feeling  has 
been  that  some  people  are  not  far  from  the  kingdom  of  God. 

Gratitude  Expressed  For  Local  Missionary  Work 

We  have  heard,  and  heard  rightly  and  beautifully,  about  the  mission- 
ary effort  that  is  being  put  forth  to  teach  the  people  of  the  world  some- 
thing new,  something  deep,  something  of  truth  about  the  kingdom  of  God, 
and  I  want  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  presidents  of  stakes,  and 
all  the  bishops  of  wards  for  their  faithful  support  and  help  in  spirit  and 
in  prayer  for  the  work  that  is  being  undertaken  by  all  the  missionaries  of 
the  stakes  of  Zion.  It  is  a  great  work  in  which  they  are  engaged,  and 
they  are  unafraid.  You  missionaries  who  are  present  at  this  conference, 
remember,  please,  that  you  are  in  the  service  of  God ;  and  all  the  sacred 
scriptures — and  the  scriptures  are  great  and  many — have  been  entrusted 
to  you  to  study,  to  think  about,  and  to  teach. 

A  Sacred  Calling 

Yesterday  we  heard  beautifully  expressed  the  admonition  of  Jesus 
Christ  to  His  disciples  to  go  forth  and  preach  the  Gospel  unto  all  people, 
and  that  causes  us  to  recall  the  words  of  the  Lord  that  have  been  written 
by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith : 

And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be  unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths  of  My 
disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen  in  these  last  days.  (D.  &  C.  1 :4.) 

You  are  called  to  go  forth  to  learn,  and  to  teach,  and  to  bear  your 
testimonies,  which  are  sacred.  And  when  you  do  bear  your  testimonies, 
it  is  the  depths  speaking  unto  the  depths  of  people's  souls. 

Above  the  door  of  the  School  of  Music  at  Harvard  University  are 
these  words :  "To  charm,  to  strengthen,  and  to  teach,  these  are  the  three 
great  cords  of  might."  Remember,  my  fellow  missionaries,  the  words  of 
a  prophet  of  old  when  he  said : 

We  have  heard  with  our  ears,  O  God,  our  fathers  have  told  us,  what 
work  thou  didst  in  their  days,  in  the  times  of  old  ...  .  For  they  got  not  the 


80  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,   October  2  Second  Day 

land  in  possession  by  their  own  sword,  neither  did  their  own  arm  save  them ; 
but  thy  right  hand,  and  thine  arm,  and  the  light  of  thy  countenance,  because 
thou  hadst  a  favor  unto  them.  (Psalm  44.) 

You  must  awaken,  strengthen,  teach  all  people,  and  with  your  faith 
in  the  Lord  securely  fixed,  you  will  be  able  to  reach  the  hearts  of  those 
people  with  whom  you  speak.  It  is  truth  and  sincerity  that  are  called  for 
today,  and  you  have  the  power  to  say :  "In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Nazareth,  rise  up  and  walk."  You  are  called  to  do  service.  You  are 
servants  of  the  Lord. 

What  a  great  thing  it  is  to  say  to  people,  "We  believe  in  God,  the 
Eternal  Father."  Think  of  it !  The  Creator  of  heaven  and  earth  and  the 
stars,  the  Father  of  all  things,  our  Father  and  our  God.  "And  in  Jesus 
Christ,"  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  Christ  the  King,  our  Lord,  who  died 
for  us  that  we  might  have  life  eternal  if  we  will  but  work  out  our  own 
destinies  by  Him.  "And  in  the  Holy  Ghost."  What  a  sacred  message 
you  and  I  carry  to  the  world ! 

Visitors  At  Temple  Square  Impressed 

Before  any  of  you  were  admitted  to  these  grounds  this  morning,  I 
met  a  lady  and  gentleman  just  outside  the  gate  and  because  of  their  desire 
to  see  the  flowers,  trees,  and  buildings,  I  had  them  admitted  with  me, 
when  I  explained  something  of  the  history  of  the  temple  and  tabernacle, 
the  sea  gull  monument,  and  the  monuments  of  Joseph  and  Hyrum  Smith. 
The  conversation  was  soon  over,  when  the  gentleman  said :  "I  take  it  that 
you  are  a  Mormon.  We  are  Lutherans.  I  have  often  wondered  what  you 
people  believe." 

You  see,  there  was  a  family  with  certain  ideals  of  life,  as  I  had  my 
ideals  of  life.  The  very  spirit  of  the  surroundings  gave  them  a  feeling 
of  reverence,  for  they  so  expressed  themselves.  Said  the  lady:  "What 
noble  buildings  to  be  created  by  the  pioneers  of  your  state.  Only  good 
people  could  build  such  houses  of  worship." 

Now,  my  brother  missionaries  before  we  can  teach,  we  must  get  on 
common  ground,  with  that  love  that  has  just  been  spoken  about,  with  that 
genuineness  of  understanding  of  the  human  heart.  This  man  said,  "I  am 
a  Lutheran." 

I  had  the  pleasure  of  saying  to  him,  "I  remember  what  Luther  taught 
his  people  when  he  said :  T  believe  it  takes  the  truth  of  the  heart  and  soul 
to  understand  the  truths  of  God.'  " 

He  replied:  "I  believe  that."  And  continuing,  he  said,  "You  are  a 
great  admirer  of  Luther  ?" 

"Yes,  very  much  so."  I  will  not  go  into  detail,  for  my  time  is  up,  but 
when  he  went  through  the  gate  he  turned  to  me  and  said  :  "And  I  want  to 
say  to  you,  friend,  that  I  am  an  admirer  now  of  Joseph  Smith,  who,  you 
say,  is  a  prophet  of  God." 

You  see,  we  came  on  common  ground,  and  he  felt  happy  that  we 
found  something  good  in  his  belief,  and  I  felt  happier  that  he  found  some- 
thing noble  in  mine. 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOW  EN 


81 


God  bless  you,  and  let  us  all  remember  that  we  are  missionaries  of 
God,  declaring  the  Gospel  of  His  kingdom,  that  it  may  be  lodged  in  the 
hearts  of  men.  I  have  a  humble  testimony  of  this  great  work  of  God  that 
has  been  revealed  in  these  the  last  days  through  prophecy,  of  those  ser- 
vants who  have  been  near  to  God  and  have  spoken  for  him  and  His  holy 
word.  God  bless  you  all,  I  ask,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 

Of  The  Council  of  The  Twelve  Apostles 

We  talk  about  a  great  many  of  the  departments  of  the  Church,  of 
its  various  organizations,  and  quorums,  but  we  have  often  neglected  to 
mention  one  of  the  very  important  and  influential  departments  that  it 
sustains.  I  refer  to  the  Department  of  Education. 

Living  of  Gospel  Brings  Better  Temporal  Conditions 

This  people  has  always  been  a  people  that  believed  in  the  enlighten- 
ment of  its  members.  Wherever  the  gospel  has  been  carried  by  the  mis- 
sionaries of  this  Church,  there  has  been  an  endeavor  to  raise  the  level  of 
knowledge  and  understanding  of  its  members.  When  our  emissaries  have 
gone  to  the  islands  of  the  seas,  they  have  built  schoolhouses,  they  have 
taught  the  natives,  they  have  tried  to  let  light  into  their  minds,  and  have 
tried  to  make  them  better.  In  every  way  they  have  tried  to  improve  the 
spiritual,  mental,  and  temporal  conditions  of  peoples  they  have  gone 
among. 

We  could  not  be  satisfied,  as  a  people,  with  our  ideals,  to  remain  unac- 
quainted with  the  learning  of  the  day.  We  could  not  be  satisfied  to  be 
classed  among  the  ignorant,  and  neither  would  it  conduce  to  our  general 
temporal  welfare  if  we  did  that. 

The  farmer  is  a  better  farmer  if  he  knows  something  about  the  science 
of  agriculture.  We  have  conquered  pests ;  we  have  saved  millions  through 
the  learning  that  our  people  have  acquired.  You  men  sitting  here  do  not 
have  to  think  back  very  far  to  remember  the  day  when  your  sugar  factories 
could  not  run  because  a  little  insect  destroyed  the  beets.  Those  insects  were 
conquered  because  men  came  to  learn  how  to  produce  a  seed  that  would 
yield  a  beet  that  could  resist  the  onslaught  of  this  little  pest. 

Great  acres  of  the  land  of  this  state  have  been  brought  into  fertility 
and  have  produced  the  wherewithal  to  sustain  life,  because  certain  chemists 
studied  in  their  laboratories  and  learned  the  secret  of  making  these  lands 
productive,  and  of  producing  the  kinds  of  seeds  that  would  thrive  in  our 
climate. 

Important  Objectives  in  Education 

We  believe  in  learning.  Every  time  I  have  to  do  anything,  I  know 
that  I  could  do  it  better  if  I  only  knew  more.  The  limit  of  my  power  is  the 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Dag 

limit  of  my  knowledge  and  understanding ;  if  I  can  extend  the  scope  of 
these,  I  can  grow  in  power,  because  truly,  knowledge  is  power. 

But  we  would  not  at  this  time  have  set  up  schools  in  the  Church  to 
teach  some  of  these  things  that  I  have  been  talking  about.  There  were 
times  in  our  earlier  history  when  all  the  educational  advantages  offered 
were  those  that  were  fostered  by  the  Church.  With  the  growth  of  the  state 
in  population  and  wealth,  it  has  assumed  the  responsibility  now  for  a  great 
deal  of  that  kind  of  instruction. 

But  there  are  other  things  that  ought  to  go  side  by  side  with  these 
elements  of  learning  that  I  have  been  talking  about.  It  is  an  interesting 
observation,  the  cycle  through  which  our  thoughts  have  run  and  the  way 
the  pendulum  has  swung  from  one  end  of  the  arc  to  the  other,  respecting 
what  constitutes  a  proper  education.  We  have  the  old  scholastics,  who 
dealt  in  the  classics,  and  who  spent  their  time  in  philosophical  discussion, 
dealing  with  the  meaning  and  purpose  of  life  and  man's  relationship  to  the 
universe,  rather  than  with  what  we  have  in  this  day  come  to  regard  as  the 
more  practical  training. 

Then  we  came  upon  a  period  when  we  thought  it  was  more  important 
in  our  educational  system  to  prepare  men  to  make  a  living  and  so  education 
came  to  be  supposed  to  have  as  its  purpose  the  training  of  men  in  the  art 
of  making  a  living.  We  gave  training  in  the  crafts,  in  the  trades,  and  now 
a  good  many  of  our  educators  are  looking  over  the  field  and  are  saying : 
"We  have  lost  something."  They  suspect  that  we  have  laid  too  much  em- 
phasis upon  these  so-called  practical  things.  And  so  we  are  veering  around 
again  now  to  the  notion  that  the  classics  should  be  taught,  that  men  should 
be  concerned  more  with  the  intangibles ;  that  education  is  a  business  of 
cultivating  the  heart  and  soul  of  man,  rather  than  training  him  in  the 
mere  business  of  providing  food. 


Education  as  a  Teacher  of  Man's  Relationship  to  God 

While  the  pendulum  has  been  swinging  from  one  extreme  of  educa- 
tional theory  to  the  other,  the  Church  has  had  a  fairly  stabilized  view  com- 
bining the  virtues  of  both.  The  basic  conception  upon  which  our  system 
is  elaborated  is  found  in  section  88  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  from 
which  I  now  read : 

Teach  ye  diligently  and  my  grace  shall  attend  you,  that  you  may  be 
instructed  more  perfectly  in  theory,  in  principle,  in  doctrine,  in  the  law  of 
the  gospel,  in  all  things  that  pertain  unto  the  kingdom  of  God,  that  are 
expedient  for  you  to  understand; 

Of  things  both  in  heaven  and  in  the  earth,  and  under  the  earth ;  things 
which  have  been,  things  which  are,  things  which  must  shortly  come  to  pass  ; 
things  which  are  at  home,  things  which  are  abroad ;  the  wars  and  the  perplex- 
ities of  the  nations,  and  the  judgments  which  are  on  the  land ;  and  a  knowl- 
edge also  of  countries  and  of  kingdoms.  .  .  .  (D.  &.  C.  88:78,  79.) 

As  I  interpret  that  scripture,  it  admonishes  us  in  our  educational 
system,  first  to  make  sure  that  we  do  the  things  for  which  the  classicists 
have  so  strongly  contended,  namely  to  teach  men  in  the  art  of  living, 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 


83 


and  particularly  living  the  highest  philosophy  rather  than  to  make  educa- 
tion the  mere  instrumentality  for  getting  their  bread  and  butter.  The 
first  business  of  education  is  to  establish  a  proper  understanding  of  man's 
relationship  to  the  universe  in  which  he  lives,  and  to  the  God  who  created 
it.  Those  are  the  things  which  are  essentially  laid  down  here,  in  the  first 
verse  that  I  have  read. 

Following  upon  that  is  given  us  a  latitude  wide  enough  to  accom- 
modate the  most  vaulting  ambition.  There  is  nothing  from  which  we 
are  barred.  The  whole  wide  world  of  knowledge  is  open  to  us,  and  we  are 
invited  to  enter  in  and  make  it  our  own.  It  is  this  combination  of  purpose 
and  attainments  which  the  educational  system  fostered  by  the  Church  is 
intended  to  carry  out. 

We  have  scores  of  teachers  in  our  seminaries  and  our  institutes, 
carrying  on  the  teaching  of  the  eternal  values  to  supplement  what  is  taught 
in  the  other  schools  alongside  of  which  they  are  placed.  And  at  Brigham 
Young  University  at  Provo,  standing  at  the  head  of  the  system,  we  hope 
we  may  train  the  men  that  will  be  the  peers  of  any  men  who  come  out 
from  any  institutions  of  learning  in  all  this  broad  land. 

Influence  of  Good  Teachers  Needed 

Something  has  been  said  of  the  sacrifices  which  the  Authorities  of 
the  Church  make  in  accepting  the  positions  that  come  to  them.  These 
teachers  make  their  sacrifices,  too.  The  amount  of  time  and  energy  which 
they  devote,  and  the  intelligent  effort  they  put  forth  in  order  to  qualify 
themselves,  would,  turned  into  other  channels,  be  vastly  more  remunera- 
tive. 

Anyone  who  has  the  intelligence  to  make  a  good  teacher  has  enough 
intelligence,  if  he  wanted  to  direct  it  in  commercial  channels,  to  become 
vastly  more  successful  financially.  I  cannot  develop  the  ideas  here,  for 
want  of  time,  that  I  would  like  to  develop,  but  I  would  like  to  make  this 
plea  to  you  leaders  in  the  wards  and  stakes  of  the  Church :  That  you  induce 
the  parents  of  the  children  to  make  use  of  these  opportunities  that  are 
afforded  them  in  the  seminary  system  and  the  institute  system  of  the 
Church  and,  for  those  qualified,  in  its  university. 

There  is  no  use  of  our  building  buildings  and  manning  them  with 
teachers,  unless  students  fill  the  halls.  We  are  living  in  a  day  when  the 
influence  and  power  of  those  men,  specialized  in  their  training  and  under- 
standing, is  needed  to  assist  in  the  matter  of  development  of  character  and 
the  nurturing  of  a  living  faith  in  our  boys  and  girls,  if  we  will  just  put 
them  under  the  influences  that  are  provided  for  their  convenience.  Above 
all  a  conviction  concerning  the  purpose  of  life  and  their  own  eternal  destiny 
realizable  through  righteous  living  and  conformance  to  laws  of  God  should 
be  given  to  the  youth  of  our  time. 

May  God  bless  these  teachers  in  their  unselfish  efforts,  their  earnest 
devotion,  and  their  untiring  endeavors  to  make  the  kind  of  men  and  women 
of  our  boys  and  girls  that  we  would  like  to  have  them  be,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


84  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Day 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Of  The  Council  of  The  Twelve  Apostles 

Brethren,  we  were  informed  that  these  meetings,  except  this  one, 
would  be  on  the  air,  so  I  prepared  accordingly.  But  since  this  meeting  is 
off  the  air  I  shall  speak  extemporaneously  rather  than  from  notes  pre- 
pared on  another  topic. 

A  number  of  thoughts  have  passed  through  my  mind  during  the 
sessions  of  this  conference.  There  are  two  or  three  of  them  that  I  would 
like  to  speak  about,  extemporaneously.  They  have  been  suggested  by 
things  that  were  said  here.  When  I  attend  a  conference  out  in  the  stakes, 
and  am  the  senior  authority,  I  always  ask  to  speak  last ;  then  I  do  not  have 
to  think  about  what  I  am  going  to  say,  because  there  have  been  so  many 
good  things  and  so  many  inspiring  things  said,  that  all  I  need  to  do  is  to 
say  amen  to  what  has  preceded,  and  perhaps  proceed  to  elaborate  a  little 
on  some  phase  of  what  has  gone  before. 

So  I  am  doing  that  at  this  meeting.  I  can  say  a  hearty  amen  to  what 
has  preceded.  But  the  thought  I  have  in  mind  is  that  we  have  had  called 
to  our  attention  the  teaching  of  the  gospel.  I  think  the  teaching  of  the 
gospel  as  we  proclaim  it  goes  forward  under  two  great  divisions,  precept 
and  example.  Our  missionaries  go  out  into  the  world.  They  represent 
both  divisions.  They  teach  by  precept,  they  teach  by  example. 

Mysteries  Defined 

Now  as  to  precept,  I  believe  it  is  extremely  important  to  confine  our 
teaching  to  fundamentals.  On  this  matter  may  I  say  I  am  strongly  influ- 
enced, have  been  influenced  for  a  considerable  number  of  years,  by  the 
attitude  of  the  late  President  A.  W.  Ivins.  When  we  teach  by  precept,  he 
said,  we  should  confine  our  attention  to  things  that  are  fundamental  and 
leave  mysteries  alone.  And,  on  asking  what  he  would  call  a  mystery,  he 
said: 

Suppose  I  read  a  passage  of  scripture;  suppose  you  read  it;  suppose 
other  brethren  read  it,  and  then  we  are  asked  what  we  think  it  means  ? 

If  our  understanding  is  not  essentially  in  agreement,  that  passage  belongs 
to  the  realm  of  the  mysteries.  We  should  leave  it  alone,  because  the  Lord  has 
not  revealed  it  in  sufficient  clearness  and  detail  that  we  all  understand  it  alike. 

And  therefore,  it  is  your  duty,  the  First  Presidency  ask  you  to  make  it 
your  duty,  to  see  that  in  our  Church  system  of  education,  within  the  field  of 
religion,  at  any  rate,  that  mysteries  be  left  alone. 

He  used  to  give  me  these  admonitions  when  I  was  in  the  office  of 
Commissioner  of  Education. 

So  in  our  meetings,  in  our  circulars,  and  whenever  we  had  opportunity 
to  contact  our  teachers,  we  delivered  that  message.  And  in  our  lessons 
also  we  tried  to  confine  them  to  those  things  that  were  fundamental,  those 
things  that  are  necessary  for  us  to  understand  while  here,  in  order  that 
we  may  properly  govern  our  lives  to  comply  with  the  commandments 
of  the  Lord,  as  they  effect  us,  both  in  our  faith  and  in  our  daily  conduct. 

I  have  carried  that  message  ever  since,  to  all  the  teaching  groups  that 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL  85 

I  have  contacted,  and  to  the  missionaries  in  the  field.  I  never  meet  a  group 
of  missionaris  engaged  in  any  religious  teaching  without  in  some  form  or 
another  conveying  that  message  to  them. 

President  Ivins  said,  with  respect  to  mysteries  : 

You  know,  as  I  know,  that  even  our  high  priests'  classes  sometimes  get  to 
the  hairpulling  stage  because  each  insists  that  his  particular  interpretation 
is  the  right  interpretation.  The  result  is  that  by  delving  into  the  realm  of 
mysteries  an  immense  amount  of  damage  is  done  in  this  Church  all  the 
time. 

I  think  I  know  something  about  the  truth  of  that,  because  I  have 
known  cases  where  such  has  been  true.  It  is  something  that  has  been,  I 
think,  a  handicap  to  the  development  of  our  faith,  and  it  is  still  a  handicap. 

Teaching  of  Fundamentals  Essential 

Now,  of  course  we  have  many  classes  in  the  Church.  We  have  a  num- 
ber of  organizations  that  carry  forward  classwork,  and  that  classwork 
relates  to  our  principles,  to  our  doctrine,  and  to  our  practices.  We  are 
inclined,  greatly  inclined,  my  brethren,  to  leave  the  fundamental  things, 
the  essential  things  alone,  or  pass  over  them  lightly  because  we  think  if  we 
have  an  opportunity  to  exhibit  some  type  of  superior  intelligence,  or 
superior  wisdom,  or  we  have  a  clearer  insight  than  our  brethren,  it 
is  therefore  a  privilege  for  us  to  enlighten  these  brethren  from  our  points 
of  view.  Well,  those  points  of  view,  I  tell  the  missionaries,  are  not  appli- 
cable in  teaching  the  gospel  to  the  world. 

I  am  asked  a  question :  "What  does  this  mean  ?  How  do  you  interpret 
it  ?"  And  I  proceed,  if  I  do  as  some  of  our  people  attempt  to  do,  to  tell 
what  I  think,  and  the  questioner  is  not  satisfied.  He  then  asks  another  mis- 
sionary and  still  another  elder.  But  he  is  not  satisfied  with  the  answers 
because  they  do  not  agree.  So  he  comes  to  the  conclusion,  "None  of  you 
know  what  you  are  talking  about,"  and  instead  of  having  his  faith  devel- 
oped in  the  fundamentals  and  essentials  of  our  religion,  he  is  cooled  toward 
us. 

I  am  a  strong  believer  and  advocate  of  the  admonition  that  in  our 
classwork,  in  our  quorums,  in  our  Sunday  Schools,  in  our  M.  I.  A.  classes, 
and  in  all  other  gospel  teaching  classes,  we  confine  our  teachings  to  the 
essential  things,  the  things  that  we  understand,  because  the  Lord  has  re- 
vealed them,  either  in  our  standard  works,  or  through  the  mouths  of  the 
First  Presidency  of  this  Church,  so  plainly  and  clearly  that  we  can  accept 
and  understand  them  alike.  These  things  we  may  call  fundamentals.  But 
when  we  get  beyond  them  I  think  we  are  getting  on  dangerous  ground. 

Immortality  Following  Present  Life 

Now,  brethren,  we  are  going  to  live  a  long,  long  time.  We  are  not 
born  to  die.  Of  course  in  this  state  of  our  existence  we  shall  not  tarry 
long,  but  we  are  going  beyond.  We  are  immortal.  We  came  from  an  im- 
mortal parentage,  and  we  shall  continue  on  and  on  and  on. 

In  this  connection,  I  remember  something  that  President  William  R. 
Harper  of  the  University  of  Chicago  said  at  one  of  the  commencement 


86  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Day 

exercises — though  there  they  call  them  convocations — in  the  month  of 
June,  1897.  I  do  not  know  what  led  him  to  say  it,  but  I  remember  that 
in  effect  he  said : 

I  do  not  want  to  go  to  the  Christian  heaven.  I  do  not  want  to  sit  around 
the  throne  of  grace  with  a  crown  on  my  head  and  sing  praises  forever  to  my 
Redeemer.  I  want  to  go  to  a  sphere  where  I  can  continue  my  work,  where  I 
can  continue  to  grow  in  knowledge  and  understanding  and  intelligence. 

"Well,"  I  thought,  "brother,  you  want  to  go  to  the  Mormon  heaven." 

Well,  yes,  we  are  going  to  live  a  long,  long  time,  and  many  of  the 
things,  that  we  would  like  to  know,  we  will  have  an  opportunity  to  learn, 
when  we  pass  beyond  this  sphere,  if  we  are  willing  to  comply  with  the  con- 
ditions for  advancement.  Now,  of  course,  we  are  not  going  to  come  into 
the  possession  of  knowledge  and  greater  wisdom  and  understanding  with- 
out effort.  We  are  not  made  that  way.  That  is  not  the  way  the  Lord  has 
planned.  Yet  we  are  taught  that  "as  God  now  is,  man  may  become."  How 
may  man  become  like  God  ?  By  working,  advancing,  growing,  increasing, 
by  his  efforts,  and  he  will  have  a  long,  long  time  in  which  he  can  continue 
those  efforts.  , 

So,  we  needn't  be  discouraged  if  we  don't  learn  everything  here.  It  is 
impossible,  of  course. 

Teaching  by  Example 

Now,  there  is  another  phase  of  this  teaching  I  want  to  speak  about, 
and  that  is  the  teaching  by  example.  So  far  as  we  are  concerned — those 
of  us  who  are  in  this  meeting — I  think  we  ought  to  hold  that  method  of 
teaching  constantly  in  our  minds :  We  teach  by  example. 

You  know  it  is  said,  and  I  think  truthfully  by  many  people,  "I'd 
rather  see  a  sermon  any  day  than  hear  one."  I  think  that  is  true,  and  we 
are  called  upon  to  teach — and  that  is  what  I  tell  nearly  every  returned 
missionary  whom  I  interview  in  my  office — we  are  called  upon  to  teach 
every  day  of  our  lives  by  this  method  of  example.  I  tell  the  returned 
missionaries  whom  I  interview  that  they  are  released  for  the  moment  from 
the  precept  method.  When  will  they  be  released  from  the  method  of  ex- 
ample? Of  course  they  say,  "Never."  That  is  true,  not  as  long  as  they 
are  fellowshiped  in  this  Church,  at  any  rate. 

For  most  of  us,  I  think,  the  example  method  is  a  far  more  effective 
teacher  than  our  precept  method.  We  are  called  upon,  therefore,  to  live  in 
harmony  with  our  faith,  with  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  with  the  teach- 
ings that  the  Lord  has  revealed  to  our  understanding,  which,  if  we  will 
follow,  will  eventually  lead  us  back  into  His  presence. 

Yes,  brethren,  we  do  know  that  we  should  love  one  another,  we  do 
know  that  we  should  teach  the  two  great  commandments  by  example  as 
well  as  by  precept,  and  we  cannot  effectively  teach  the  second  great 
commandment  unless  we  live  the  Golden  Rule.  We  must  do  unto  others  as 
we  would  have  others  do  unto  us.  And  a  test  of  whether  we  are  doing  it  or 
not,  is  just  to  imagine  that  we  are  in  the  other  fellow's  shoes  and  he  is  in 
ours.  When  we  are  in  his  shoes,  how  would  we  like  to  be  treated  ? 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


87 


Well,  if  we  can  reason  and  practice  it  in  fairness,  I  think  we  can  adopt 
a  method  of  living  that  will  not  be  very  far  from  living  the  Golden  Rule. 
Of  course,  we  cannot  live  it  completely,  I  think,  because  we  are  in  a  world 
of  temptations,  we  are  in  a  world  of  evil,  and  we  are  strongly  influenced 
by  what  other  people  do  and  what  they  say,  what  they  think,  how  they  act, 
behave,  and  so  on.  s 

Again,  we  all  inherit  weaknesses  from  our  forebears,  to  indulge 
some  of  which,  from  our  point  of  view,  from  the  Lord's  way  of  life,  is 
definitely  sinful.  Well,  by  reason  of  these  weaknesses,  the  influence  of  the 
world,  and  the  temptations  of  the  Evil  One,  all  of  us  find  it  so  difficult  to 
live  fully  and  completely  according  to  our  teachings  and  standards,  that  we 
do  not  quite  succeed.  But  anyhow,  we  are  obligated  to  do  our  best  to  do  it, 
particularly  all  of  us  who  are  here.  I  think  perhaps  every  man  in  this 
meeting  could  stand  on  his  feet  and  say,  "Yes,  I  do  know  that  the  Lord 
lives ;  I  do  know  that  this  is  His  work ;  I  do  know  that  the  Priesthood  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  has  been  given  to  us." 

Well,  if  we  can  speak  that  positively — and  certainly  if  we  speak 
positively  we  are  speaking  according  to  our  knowledge — we  are  obligated, 
brethren,  to  pay  particular  attention,  I  think,  to  the  method  of  teaching  by 
example. 

It  is  so  easy  to  be  misunderstood  that  we  must  avoid  the  very  appear- 
ance of  evil,  because  if  we  do  not,  what  will  some  of  our  people  do  ?  What 
will  some  not  of  us  do  ?  Well,  they  will  charge  us  with  delinquency,  and 
while  of  course  our  principles  and  the  Lord's  way  of  life  are  absolutely 
independent  of  what  I  do,  or  what  anyone  of  you  does,  the  fact  is  that 
what  I  do  and  what  you  do,  by  reason  of  our  positions  of  leadership,  has 
great  influence  upon  our  brethren  and  our  sisters,  upon  our  fellow  men. 

I  feel,  therefore,  that  we  are  obligated,  whether  we  like  it  or  not,  to 
deny  ourselves  some  indulgences  that,  perhaps  are  not  particularly  sinful, 
but  the  example  of  which  would  be  bad.  We  must  remember  our  obliga- 
tions. We  have  these  brethren  and  sisters,  some  of  whom  are  weak.  They 
are  ours.  We  are  our  brothers'  keeper,  and  they  are  looking  to  us  for 
guidance.  They  are  looking  to  us  as  examples.  I  think  we  might  remember 
continually  that  we  are  obligated  to  teach  by  example,  and  therefore  we 
must  deny  ourselves  of  what  many  indulge  in. 

The  Golden  Rule  a  Daily  Guide 

Now,  among  the  greatest  of  these  things  that  we  need  to  keep  in  mind 
is  this  matter  of  the  Golden  Rule,  this  matter  of  the  second  great  command- 
ment. And  so  there  must  be  love  in  our  hearts,  not  only  for  one  another 
whom  we  contact  daily,  but  love  for  all  our  fellow  men,  because  we  are  all 
children  of  our  Father  in  Heaven,  both  in  the  spirit  and  in  the  flesh ;  and 
therefore  the  members  of  the  human  family  are  one  hundred  percent 
brothers  and  sisters,  and  I  think  a  proper  interpretation  of  loving  our 
neighbors  extends  to  the  entire  human  family.  Therefore  we  are  obli- 
gated to  love  them,  we  are  obligated  to  serve  them  to  the  extent  of  our  op- 
portunities ;  and  we  can  serve  them  greatly,  not  by  words  of  mouth  alone, 
but  by  the  example  that  we  set. 


88  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  3  Third  Dag 

The  Lord  help  us,  brethren,  to  be  true  to  our  obligations,  to  live  ac- 
cording to  our  teachings,  and  to  seek  his  guidance,  because  without  it  we 
shall  make  mistakes,  serious  mistakes,  we  shall  fail  many  times,  but  if  we 
can  only  enjoy  the  companionship  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  which  we  may 
obtain  if  we  fulfil  the  conditions  necessary  to  get  it,  then  we  can  teach 
acceptably,  both  by  precept  and  by  example,  which  may  the  Lord  help 
us  to  do,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

In  your  behalf,  brethren,  I  express  to  the  members  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  Male  Chorus  appreciation  for  their  inspirational  selections.  They 
have,  with  the  speakers,  contributed  to  a  very  upbuilding  and  instructive 
session. 

After  the  singing  and  benediction,  this  Conference  will  be  adjourned 
until  ten  o'clock  tomorrow  morning.  You  will  have  only  from  9  a.m.  to 
about  9  :S0  a.m.  to  get  into  your  places  in  the  tabernacle.  The  broadcast 
will  begin  promptly  at  10  o'clock,  and  all  members  should  be  in  their  seats 
if  possible  ten  minutes  before  that  hour — no  later  than  9:55  a.m.  Ad- 
mission as  usual  will  be  by  ticket.  Please  bring  your  Song  Folders  with 
you. 

We  have  had  a  number  of  messages  sent  up  to  us  during  these  ses- 
sions, and  undoubtedly  there  will  be  some  tomorrow.  Will  you  please 
call  at  the  Bureau  of  Information  if  you  are  anticipating  any  messages, 
or  call  there  if  you  have  any  indication,  either  from  this  pulpit  or  other- 
wise, that  you  have  messages  awaiting  you.  We  shall  not  have  much  op- 
portunity and  shall  not  have  the  time  to  make  many  announcements. 


The  congregation  and  Tabernacle  Choir  male  chorus  joined  in  sing- 
ing the  hymn,  "Abide  With  Me." 

Elder  Carl  D.  Greenhalgh,  President  of  the  Santaquin-Tintic  Stake 
offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Sunday  morning,  October  3,  10  a.m. 

THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Sunday  morning,  October  3. 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

During  the  period  from  10:00  to  10:30  a.m.,  the  regular  Sunday 
morning  nationwide  broadcast  of  choral  and  organ  music  and  brief  spok- 
en comment  was  presented.   This  program  was  presented  by  the  Taber- 


TABERNACLE  CHOIR  BROADCAST 


89 


nacle  Choir  and  organ  broadcast  through  the  courtesy  and  facilities  of 
the  Columbia  Broadcasting  System's  coast-to-coast  network,  throughout 
the  United  States.  The  broadcast,  written  and  announced  by  Elder  Rich- 
ard L.  Evans,  originated  with  radio  station  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City,  and 
was  presented  as  follows : 

(The  organ  and  choir  broke  into  "Gently  Raise"  singing  words  to 
end  of  second  line,  from  which  point  choir  hummed  for  announcer's 
background  to  end  of  verse.) 

Richard  L.  Evans:  With  the  passing  of  another  seven  days,  once 
more  we  beckon  your  thoughts  unto  the  hills,  as  music  and  the  spoken 
word  are  heard  again.  From  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Columbia 
presents  the  Tabernacle  choir  and  organ  in  the  742nd  nationwide  per- 
formance of  this  traditional  broadcast,  now  in  its  fifteenth  consecutive 
year. 

The  Tabernacle  choir  is  conducted  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall.  Dr. 
Frank  W.  Asper  is  at  the  organ. 

Richard  L.  Evans:  We  begin  with  a  hymn  of  America.  The  ar- 
rangement is  by  the  conductor,  and  among  its  immortal  words  are  these : 
"Confirm  thy  soul  in  self-control,  thy  liberty  in  law."  The  choir  sings 
"America  the  Beautiful." 

(Choir  sings  "America  the  Beautiful" — -arranged  by  Cornwall) 

Richard  L.  Evans :  As  we  introduce  the  solo  voice  of  the  Tabernacle 
organ  we  hear  the  music  of  an  unspoken  "Prayer."  It  is  one  of  the  com- 
positions of  Dr.  Frank  W.  Asper,  who  now  presents  it. 

(Organ  presents  "Prayer" — Asper) 

Richard  L.  Evans:  There  comes  to  us  now  from  Temple  Square  a 
choral  arrangement  of  one  of  the  Nineteenth  Century  writings  of  Robert 
Goldbeck,  in  which  the  composer  has  let  his  thoughts  reach  out  to  hear 
and  to  record  what  seemed  to  him  to  be  the  music  of  the  "Angelic  Choir." 
His  offering  is  titled,  "Awake,  thou  soul  of  mine,  awake  and  hear  angelic 
choirs."   The  incidental  solo  is  by  Jessie  Evans  Smith. 

(Choir  sings  "Angelic  Choir" — Goldbeck) 

Richard  L.  Evans:  From  the  organ  of  the  Tabernacle  we  hear  re^ 
called  now  one  of  the  hymns  of  George  Careless,  written  on  a  text  by 
Isaac  Watts :  "He  Died,  the  Great  Redeemer  Died." 

(Organ  presents  "He  Died  the  Great  Redeemer  Died.") 

Richard  L.  Evans:  "At  even,  ere  the  sun  was  set,  the  sick  around 
the  Master  lay.  Lo  !  In  what  divers  pains  they  met !  And  with  what  joy 
they  went  away !  Once  more  'tis  eventide,  and  we  oppressed  with  worldly 
cares  draw  near.  What  though  our  paths  we  dimly  see !  We  know  and 
feel  his  peace  is  here."  This  "Prayer  at  evening"  by  Georg  Josephi  comes 
down  to  us  from  the  Seventeenth  Century  and  is  recalled  by  the  men's 
voices  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir. 

(Men  sing  "Prayer  at  Evening" — Josephi) 

Richard  L.  Evans:  As  we  near  the  close  of  this  hour  from  Temple 
Square  we  turn  to  a  text  from  Isaiah  and  the  Psalms,  around  which  Men- 


90  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  3  Third  Day 

delssohn  wrote  the  closing  chorus  of  the  "Elijah."  "And  then  shall  your 
light  break  forth  as  the  light  of  morning  breaketh  .  .  .  Lord,  our  Creator, 
how  excellent  Thy  name  is  in  all  the  nations !  Thou  f  illest  heaven  with 
thy  glory !" 

(Choir  presents  "And  Then  Shall  Your  Light  Break  Forth"— 
Mendelssohn) 

Richard  L.  Evans :  This  Sabbath  hour  from  the  crossroads  of  the 
West  is  ended.  Until  we  beckon  your  thoughts  again  unto  the  hills,  may 
peace  be  with  you  this  day — and  always. 

This  concludes  the  742nd  nationwide  performance  of  this  broadcast 
from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  presented  by  the  Co- 
lumbia network  and  its  affiliated  stations,  originating  with  Radio  Station 
KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

As  the  voices  of  the  choir  and  the  organ  fade  away  within  these  walls, 
so  will  they  return  again  at  this  same  hour  next  Sunday,  over  Columbia 
stations  from  coast-to-coast,  continuing  the  fifteenth  year  of  this  tra- 
ditional broadcast  from  Temple  Square. 

The  singing  of  the  Tabernacle  choir  was  conducted  by  J.  Spencer  Corn- 
wall, Dr.  Frank  W.  Asper  was  at  the  organ.  The  spoken  word  by  Rich- 
ard L.  Evans. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

We  are  now  convening  the  morning  session  of  the  third  day  of  the 
1 14th  Semi- Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  President  Heber  J.  Grant  is  present  and  presiding  and  he 
has  requested  that  David  O.  McKay  conduct  the  exercises.  The  pro- 
ceedings of  this  Conference  are  being  broadcast  from  station  KSL.  All 
the  General  Authorities  are  present  on  the  stand,  also  in  the  audience 
are  the  stake,  ward,  and  quorum  officers,  as  heretofore  announced 
through  the  press  and  otherwise. 

Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  will  direct  the  music,  Elder  Frank  W. 
Asper  is  at  the  organ. 

Our  opening  song  "An  Angel  From  On  High,"  a  trio,  will  be  sung 
by  the  Tabernacle  Male  Chorus  and  Choir,  and  the  congregation  will  join 
in  the  chorus.  The  words  are  by  Parley  P.  Pratt,  music  by  Tullidge.  You 
will  find  it  in  the  Folder  No.  33. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  (with  the  congregation  joining  in  the  chorus), 
sang  the  hymn,  "An  Angel  From  On  High,"  (Words  by  Parley  P.  Pratt, 
music  by  Tullidge). 

Elder  Wilf  ord  A.  Beesley,  President  of  the  Salt  Lake  Stake,  offered 
the  invocation. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


91 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

The  radio  audience  will  be  interested  to  know  that  notwithstanding 
the  attendance  at  this  conference  has  been  restricted  to  the  officers 
already  named,  with  the  exception  of  a  few  seats  in  the  tabernacle  in  the 
northeast  part  of  the  tabernacle  the  entire  auditorium  is  filled  with  repre- 
sentatives of  the  Priesthood. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

Of  The  Council  of  The  Twelve  Apostles* 

I  would  like  to  use  the  limited  time  available  to  me  at  this  conference 
to  broadcast  a  message  to  the  youth  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  These  young  people  are  not  with  us  in  our  meetings. 
Restrictions  on  travel  and  other  war  necessities  not  only  prevent  their 
attendance,  but  have  also  hindered  the  functioning  of  the  several  organiza- 
tions of  the  Church  which  are  devoted  principally  to  the  care  and  educa- 
tion of  the  youth.  For  two  years  now  no  general  conferences  of  the  young 
peoples'  organizations  have  been  held  and  these  groups  have  had  but 
limited  opportunities  to  meet  in  stake  capacities.  I  want  them  to  know, 
however,  that  they  have  not  been  forgotten  and  that  the  Church  is  now 
as  always  most  ardently  devoted  to  their  welfare  and  advancement. 

Provision  for  Care  and  Training  of  Youth 

I  believe  it  is  safe  to  say  that  no  organization  has  ever  made  more 
ample  and  adequate  provision  for  the  care  and  training  of  youth  than 
has  the  restored  Church  of  Christ.  Since  its  organization  it  has  devoted 
a  very  major  portion  of  all  its  efforts  to  the  education  and  development 
of  children  in  the  home,  the  school,  and  the  Church.  And  not  only  has  it 
provided  almost  unparalleled  opportunities  for  their  education  but  it  has 
also  placed  upon  youth  responsibilities  that  have  seldom,  if  ever,  come  to 
young  people  of  comparable  age.  This  has  come  about,  in  part,  through  the 
unique  organization  of  the  Church,  and,  in  part,  through  the  universal 
concept  of  its  membership  that  everyone,  old  and  young  alike,  who  secures 
a  knowledge  and  testimony  of  the  restored  gospel  thereby  becomes  a 
potential  missionary  for  the  dissemination  of  the  truth  to  all  mankind. 

Another  most  unusual  circumstance  supporting  this  concept  is  that  all 
the  young  men  of  the  Church,  almost  without  exception,  have  been  or- 
dained to  the  holy  Priesthood.  Beginning  at  twelve  years  of  age,  all  boys 
of  good  moral  standing  pass  through  three  gradations  or  offices  of  the 
Priesthood  by  the  time  they  reach  the  age  of  nineteen,  and  before  they 
reach  their  majority  nearly  all  of  the  young  men  of  the  Church  come  to 
hold  the  higher  or  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  which  is  the  Priesthood  after 
the  order  of  the  Son  of  God.  It  is  needless  to  say  that  these  offices  of 
Priesthood  bring  to  the  boys  obligations  and  opportunities  for  service. 
Through  divine  revelation  there  have  come  specific  duties  for  each  order 
of  Priesthood  and  these  duties  entail  a  devotion,  a  discernment,  and  wis- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


dom  that  might  well  become  men  of  far  more  mature  years.  So  that  the 
Priesthood  duties  of  boys  within  the  Church  are  not  trivial ;  they  call  for 
and  promote  manliness ;  and  they  fully  support  the  premise  that  the 
youth  can  make  large  contributions  to  the  support  of  the  work  of  God. 


The  history  of  the  Church  is  replete  with  such  contributions.  The 
Prophet  Joseph  was  but  fourteen  when  he  received  the  first  heavenly  vision 
which  initiated  the  work  of  the  restored  gospel.  He  was  seventeen  when 
he  received  the  revelation  of  the  coming  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
He  was  twenty-one  when  he  was  given  the  plates  for  translation,  and  he 
had  not  long  passed  his  twenty-fourth  birthday  when  he  caused  to  be 
organized  the  restored  Church  with  its  marvelous  institutions  and  a  sizable 
part  of  the  great  body  of  theological  doctrine  and  principle  that  has  under- 
gone the  scrutiny  of  more  than  a  century  without  discovering  a  single 
error  in  the  fundamentals  he  announced.  He  lived  only  fourteen  years 
after  the  Church  was  organized  and  died  at  an  age  young  enough  to  have 
been  included  within  the  present  draft  of  young  men  for  military  service. 

The  Prophet's  associates  in  beginning  the  work  of  the  Church  were, 
with  but  few  exceptions,  very  young  men.  Brigham  Young,  John  Taylor, 
Wilford  Woodruff,  and  Lorenzo  Snow,  who  became  presidents  of  the 
Church,  assumed  responsibilities  very  early  in  their  lives.  George  A. 
Smith,  grandfather  of  our  present  president  of  the  Twelve,  was  only 
twenty-two  when  he  was  ordained  to  the  apostleship,  and  our  beloved 
President  Grant  was  not  yet  twenty-six. 

The  missionary  work  of  the  Church  has  been  carried  on  principally 
by  young  people.  For  many  years  the  average  age  of  missionaries  did 
not  exceed  nineteen,  and  latterly  it  has  scarcely  been  above  twenty  until 
the  war  made  impossible  the  sending  of  more  young  men.  The  missionary 
labors  of  the  young  people  of  the  Church  are  too  well  known  to  require 
much  comment.  I  believe  that  their  work  measured  in  terms  of  devotion 
to  a  cause,  expenditure  of  available  time  and  means,  and  proportionate 
numbers  of  the  whole  group  engaged,  has  fed,  if  any,  counterparts  in  all 
history.  What  these  young  missionaries  have  accomplished  in  bearing 
God's  word  to  the  world  would  require  volumes  in  the  telling,  and  the 
appreciation  of  their  efforts  in  the  joy  they  have  brought  to  the  hearts  of 
men,  women,  and  children  the  world  over  is  of  a  depth  and  a  nature  never 
to  be  told.  Thousands  upon  thousands  who  are  the  beneficiaries  of  their 
unselfish  Christ-like  ministry  rise  up  all  over  the  land  to  call  them  blessed, 
and  generations  to  come  will  look  back  upon  them  as  the  source  of  the 
most  enduring  happiness  they  will  ever  know. 


I  cite  these  things  in  the  hope  of  making  my  young  friends  in  the 
Church  more  conscious  of  the  part  they  have  to  play  in  this  great  work 
of  the  latter-days.  I  am  cognizant  of  the  fact  that  the  young  men  of 
military  age  are  not  now  available  for  Church  service  as  they  otherwise 
would  be.  I  must  address  my  remarks  chiefly  to  the  boys  of  pre-induction 


Responsibilities  Carried  By  the  Young 


Obligation  to  Those  in  Armed  Services 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


93 


age  and  to  the  girls.  These  constitute  a  large  group  in  the  Church,  and 
to  them  I  would  like  to  make  a  special  appeal. 

I  also  acknowledge  the  necessity  of  making  the  fullest  possible  con- 
tribution to  the  war  effort  and  the  country's  service.  We  are  impelled, 
not  only  by  the  circumstances,  but  by  our  sense  of  obligation  to  our  own 
and  other  boys  who  are  fighting  the  country's  battles  to  give  them  the  full- 
est possible  cooperation  and  support  in  every  way  in  which  it  is  possible 
to  help  them.  But  while  this  is  war  and  it  is  probably  a  good  time,  as 
someone  has  suggested,  "to  adjourn  politics,"  it  is  no  time  to  "adjourn" 
religion.  We  have  a  definite  obligation  to  our  soldiers  who  bear  the  brunt 
of  this  terrific  ordeal  to  help  preserve  the  worth-while  things  for  which 
they  are  fighting — liberty,  morality,  and  justice,  and  to  try  to  make  the 
country  and  the  world  worth  their  sacrifice  and  effort. 

I  don't  need  to  argue  with  you,  young  men  and  women  of  the  Church, 
that  the  true  religion  of  Jesus  Christ  is  essential  to  make  the  kind  of  world 
which  the  thoughtful,  high-principled,  young  men  of  the  Church  and  of 
America  are  fighting  to  establish.  You  know  that  they  want  to  come 
back  to  a  decent  society  that  has  not  been  ruined  by  crime  and  moral  per- 
version. You  know  that  they  want  to  come  back  to  sweethearts  and  girls 
yet  to  be  sweethearts  who  are  worthy  of  their  fidelity  and  devotion,  and 
worthy  to  be  true  mothers  in  countless  homes  yet  to  be  established,  and 
you  know  that  they  want  to  come  back  to  wholesome  education,  to  good 
opportunities  for  making  a  living,  and  to  mothers  and  fathers  and  brothers 
and  sisters  and  dear  friends  whom  they  prize  more  than  anything  else  in 
the  world,  and  of  whom  they  proudly  boast  as  being  the  finest,  the  sweet- 
est, and  the  most  exemplary  of  all  people  in  the  earth. 

Now,  my  first  appeal  to  you  young  men  and  women  is  not  to  disap- 
point these  gallant  fellows  who  have  gone  to  defend  your  liberties  and  the 
things  you  prize  most.  They  are  counting  on  you,  and  I  think  an  enemy 
bullet  would  not  hurt  your  soldier  brother  more  than  information  telling 
him  that  in  his  absence  his  sister  had  forsaken  the  high  ideals  that  he  as- 
cribes to  noble  womanhood,  or  that  his  brother  had  been  a  cad  and  lacked 
the  courage  and  manhood  to  maintain  standards  of  truth  and  honor. 
Young  folk,  you  cannot,  you  will  not,  be  guilty  of  such  treason  against 
your  fighting  brothers. 

Is  it  not  treason  to  betray  the  cause  these  soldiers  support ;  to  turn 
liberty  into  licentiousness,  to  mock  the  God  of  the  land,  to  violate  the 
high  principles  upon  which  the  republic  was  founded?  In  the  long  run 
could  any  traitor  do  more  damage  than  those  who  violate  the  sanctity  of 
home,  the  purity  of  womanhood,  and  otherwise  corrupt  the  morals  and 
honor  of  our  national  life?  You  are  to  live  in  this  country  and  with  so- 
ciety longer  than  some  of  us,  my  young  friends.  It  will  be  a  great  source 
of  regret  to  you,  for  all  your  lives  to  come,  if  you  do  not  make  it  a  good 
and  decent  place  to  live  in. 
I 

Future  Missionary  Work 

'  Now,  I  do  not  wish  to  dwell  on  the  gloomy  side  of  the  picture.  There 
is  unfortunately  much  discouraging  information  and  statistical  data  which 


94  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  3  Third  Dag 

might  be  presented,  but  I  pass  over  these  items  because  I  indulge  the 
confidence  that  when  my  young  friends  of  the  Church  come  to  realize 
the  opportunities  that  lie  ahead  of  them  they  will  devote  themselves  to 
making  preparations  for  the  future.  It  is  of  these  opportunities  and  this 
preparation  that  I  wish  to  speak  briefly. 

Every  young  man  and  many  young  women  of  the  Church  can  look 
forward  to  missionary  experience.  The  Church  is  essentially  a  missionary 
Church,  its  chief  objective  being  to  proclaim  and  establish  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  among  men.  As  I  said  before,  foreign  missionary  work  has 
been  carried  forward  largely  by  young  people.  At  the  present  time  very 
few  young  missionaries  are  in  the  field  and  in  the  course  of  a  few  months 
almost  none  will  be  left.  It  is  possible  that  a  good  many  young  men  who 
would,  except  for  military  service,  have  been  available  for  missions,  may 
never  now  have  that  opportunity.  Upon  their  return  from  the  war  many 
will  take  on  family  responsibilities  and  be  unable  to  leave  their  homes 
for  missionary  service.  In  these  circumstances,  we  must  look  to  the  group 
to  whom  I  now  speak — young  men  of  pre-draft  age  and  some  of  our 
young  women,  to  be  our  principal  missionaries  in  the  near  future.  I  most 
earnestly  hope  that  this  group  will  prepare  themselves  for  the  service.  In 
this  preparation  I  see  three  chief  items  which  I  shall  mention. 

Preparation  for  Missionary  Labors 

First,  young  men  and  young  women  should  make  financial  prepara- 
tion. Many  are  now  receiving  high  wages.  I  know  of  nothing  better  to 
do  with  any  excess  money  than  to  save  for  a  mission.  Such  purposeful 
saving  will  accomplish  several  things.  It  will  deter  excessive  spending. 
It  will  reduce  the  temptations  which  come  with  excessive  spending.  It 
will  establish  thrift  habits.  It  will  retard  inflation.  It  will  put  purpose 
into  earning,  and  it  will  ultimately  bring  great  blessings  to  many  people. 
From  the  reports  which  have  come  on  young  people's  earnings,  I  feel  war- 
ranted in  saying  that  many  hundreds  of  missions  could  be  totally  or  par- 
tially financed  by  a  consistent  practice  of  saving  for  that  purpose. 

In  this  respect,  I  should  like  to  reinforce  counsel  which  has  long 
been  given  to  parents  to  pay  their  debts  and  put  their  houses  in  such  finan- 
cial order  that  they  can  contribute  to  the  proclamation  of  the  gospel  and 
the  support  of  missionaries.  I  well  remember  numbers  of  families  in 
the  days  of  economic  stress  whose  bondage  in  debt  and  financial  diffcul- 
ties  made  impossible  this  worthy  attainment  for  many  a  Latter-day  Saint 
home. 

It  is  readily  conceivable  that  after  the  war  the  Church  may  have  need 
for  and  opportunities  to  use  far  more  missionaries  than  it  has  heretofore 
maintained  in  the  field,  although  previous  numbers  have  been  very  great. 
New  fields  of  labor  may  be  opened  and  a  more  kindly  reception  offered 
our  missionaries  in  many  parts  of  the  world.  Some  influences  which  have 
heretofore  made  our  entry  into  countries  and  among  people  almost  im- 
possible may  be  broken  down.  I  feel  that  the  opportunities  of  the  future 
may  tax  our  missionary  resources  to  a  much  extended  limit.  May  all  be 
prepared  when  the  day  comes. 

The  next  item  that  .1  urge  is  education — education  to  expound  the 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


95 


true  principles  of  the  mighty  cause  we  have  the  honor  to  represent.  This 
education  comprehends  school  learning,  gospel  understanding,  and  spirit- 
ual development.  Boys  and  girls  who  contemplate  a  mission  should  neg- 
lect no  opportunities  which  their  facilities  afford  to  acquire  good  study 
habits  and  as  much  knowledge  of  history,  man,  and  the  universe  as  they 
can  possibly  secure. 

I  wish  to  lay  stress  on  the  knowledge  of  gospel  doctrine  and  principle 
which  every  missionary  should  possess.  It  is  true  that  with  the  adaptabil- 
ity of  youth  many  missionaries  secure  a  good  working  knowledge  of  the 
gospel  after  they  reach  their  mission  fields.  Unfortunately,  however,  a 
good  deal  of  time  most  valuable  to  the  missionaries  and  those  whom  they 
serve  is  lost  in  so  postponing  gospel  education.  With  the  facilities  which 
the  Church  maintains,  this  equipment  could  be  had  before  the  missionary 
leaves  home.  If  he  would  avail  himself  fully  of  opportunities  offered  in 
Priesthood  quorums,  Sunday  Schools,  Mutual  Improvement  Associations, 
and  other  activities,  he  could  if  he  would,  be  prepared  to  present  the 
distinctive  messages  of  the  restored  gospel  clearly  and  impressively  be- 
fore he  reaches  his  field  of  labor.  He  could  have  practice,  too,  in  the  ex- 
position of  the  gospel,  for  he  would  be  welcomed  into  the  ranks  of  those 
who  carry  the  gospel  to  our  neighbors  within  the  stakes  of  Zion.  Such 
education  and  practice  would  save  thousands  of  dollars  expended  for  mis- 
sionaries' maintenance  during  the  learning  period  of  their  mission.  On 
this  matter  of  gospel  education,  I  should  like  to  ask  a  question.  Will  the 
election,  which  we  are  told  each  one  of  God's  children  is  to  make  as  to 
whether  or  not  he  will  receive  the  gospel  of  Christ,  be  binding  upon  the 
one  who  makes  it  unless  the  principles  of  the  gospel  have  been  adequately 
presented  to  him  clearly  and  understandingly  ?  I  know  of  no  way  to  se- 
cure a  presentation  that  will  suffice  except  through  preparation  and  testi- 
mony. 

Testimony  Necessary  to  Success  in  Missionary  Work 

That  brings  me  to  the  final  item  in  a  missionary's  equipment — testi- 
mony and  spiritual  influence.  Before  missionary  experience  is  attained  it 
may  be  difficult  to  establish  these  essentials  in  the  minds  and  hearts  of 
youth.  I  shall  have  to  get  my  young  friends  to  take  the  word  of  those 
who  have  had  opportunity  to  observe  the  missionary  process,  that  the 
spiritual  influence  of  the  missionary  is  the  most  important  converting 
factor  at  his  disposal.  Now  spiritual  influence  is  the  product  of  disposi- 
tion and  living.  No  one  ever  acquires  it  who  does  not  want  it  and  live 
for  it.  It  is  in  reality  the  spirit  of  God  manifest  through  man.  We  often 
call  it  testimony  because  it  is  characterized  by  a  deep  and  abiding  convic- 
tion of  the  existence  of  God  and  the  truth  of  his  gospel.  It  is  the  expres- 
sion of  perfect  faith  and  a  sincere  love  for  God's  children.  If  our  young 
people  could  but  know  its  worth,  I  am  sure  they  would  strive  for  it. 

Happiness  in  Wholesome  Living 

To  secure  spiritual  influence  is  not  a  joy-killing  operation.  It  is  a 
mistake  to  think  that  it  robs  youth  of  the  zest  and  beauty  of  young  life. 


96  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  3  Third  Day 

It  puts  only  one  limitation  on  all  the  aspirations  and  desires  of  youth,  and 
that  is  to  do  nothing  that  is  not  good.  Experience,  as  well  as  divine 
principle,  has  taught  us  that  there  is  no  enduring  happiness  except  in 
goodness,  and  the  Church  seeks  only  the  lasting  happiness  of  its  young 
people,  as  well  as  the  old. 

So  I  say  to  my  young  friends  everywhere — enjoy  the  happy  days  of 
youth.  Live  life  joyously,  beautifully,  unmarred  by  the  ugliness  of  sin. 
Show  to  the  world  what  good,  wholesome  living  will  do  for  the  oncoming 
generations.  Demonstrate  your  gratitude  for  good  homes,  loving  fam- 
ilies, and  great  opportunities  and  prepare  for  happy  days  ahead  when  the 
army  of  liberators  shall  have  won  the  victory  and  broken  down  the  barriers 
so  that  you  may  go  forth  as  an  army  of  peace  and  good  will  to  invade 
the  countries  of  the  earth  and  take  to  men  everywhere  the  pure,  restored 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  God  keep  and  preserve  you  for  that 
great  and  holy  mission,  I  humbly  pray  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Believe  not  every  spirit,  but  try  the  spirits  whether  they  are  of  God : 
because  many  false  prophets  are  gone  out  into  the  world.  (I  John  4:1.) 

Purported  Spiritual  Manifestations 

It  has  only  been  a  few  weeks  since  I  was  approached  at  a  stake  con- 
ference by  a  good  brother  who  said  there  was  a  gentleman  there  who  had 
a  very  important  message  that  he  wished  to  present  to  me,  and  would  I 
please  give  him  an  interview.  So  the  interview  was  arranged.  This  man 
stated  that  he  had  been  visited  by  one  of  the  three  Nephite  disciples,  and 
he  told  me  a  very  fantastic  story.  After  listening  to  it  patiently  until  he 
had  finished,  I  said  to  him,  "If  you  have  had  a  vision  or  manifestation,  it 
is  your  duty  to  keep  it  to  yourself  ;  it  is  not  for  the  Church,  and  I  advise 
you  not  to  repeat  it."   I  hardly  think  that  was  the  counsel  he  was  seeking. 

In  the  past  few  months  I  have  received  a  number  of  communications 
from  various  parts  of  the  Church,  from  good,  honest-thinking  people  who 
have  made  inquiry  regarding  some  purported  visions  and  dreams  which 
are  being  circulated  in  all  parts  of  the  Church.  These  inquirers  wish  to 
know  what  my  judgment  is  concerning  these  purported  visions.  We  have 
also  had  certain  individuals  traveling  among  our  people,  prevailing  on 
some  of  the  bishops  to  let  them  hold  meetings  where  they  could  relate 
to  the  people  their  remarkable  experiences  which  they  claim  to  have  had. 
They  have  on  their  own  responsibility  held  cottage  meetings  and  invited 
the  people,  and  some  have  been  foolish  enough  to  go  and  listen  to  these 
stories  as  they  have  been  told. 

Now,  I  think  it  is  wrong  for  any  bishop  or  anyone  else  to  invite  these 
people  who  profess  to  have  had  a  dream  or  a  vision,  or  some  kind  of 
manifestation,  into  a  meetinghouse,  or  even  into  the  homes  and  gather  the 
people  in  to  listen  to  these  presentations.  In  my  judgment  it  is  contrary  to 
the  teachings  of  the  Church.   When  John  said,  "Believe  not  every  spirit, 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


97 


but  try  the  spirits,"  he  did  not  mean  that  we  should  spend  our  time  accept- 
ing or  encouraging  every  wind  of  doctrine,  but  that  we  should  prove  every 
doctrine  by  the  revelations  of  the  Lord;  by  those  principles  of  eternal 
truth  which  have  been  revealed  for  our  guidance.  We  have  certain  stand- 
ards which  have  been  accepted  and  by  which  we  are  to  be  governed. 

Revelations  From  the  Lord  the  Standard 

If  I  should  say  something  which  is  contrary  to  that  which  is  written 
in  the  standard  works  of  the  Church,  and  accepted  by  the  Authorities  of 
the  Church  and  approved  by  the  Church  generally,  no  one  is  under  obliga- 
tion to  accept  it.  Everything  that  I  say  and  everything  that  any  other 
person  says  must  square  itself  with  that  which  the  Lord  has  revealed,  or 
it  should  be  rejected. 

Paul  said,  "Follow  after  charity,  and  desire  spiritual  gifts,  but  rather 
that  ye  may  prophesy."  (I  Cor.  14:1.)  Well,  this  counsel  is  very  good; 
but  do  we  understand  what  Paul  meant  by  the  gift  of  prophecy?  When 
the  angel  appeared  to  John  on  the  Isle  of  Patmos,  and  he  appeared  in  glory, 
John  fell  before  him  upon  his  knees  and  was  about  to  worship  him,  but  the 
messenger  said  to  John : 

See  thou  do  it  not :  I  am  thy  fellow  servant,  and  of  thy  brethren  that  have 
the  testimony  of  Jesus  :  worship  God  :  for  the  testimony  of  Jesus  is  the  spirit 
of  prophecy.  (Rev.  19:10.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  has  said  that  every  member  of  the  Church 
should  be  a  prophet,  meaning,  of  course,  that  he  should  have  that  testi- 
mony of  Jesus  and  keep  himself  in  perfect  accord  with  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  so  that  he  could  recognize  truth  and  the  Lord  could  reveal  the  truth 
to  him,  so  that  he  might  comprehend  it.  Every  man  in  the  Church  has 
the  right  to  receive  revelation  for  his  own  guidance,  but  not  for  the  guid- 
ance of  the  Church.  Back  in  the  very  beginning,  when  the  Church  was 
only  a  few  months  old  in  this  dispensation,  certain  individuals  arose  claim- 
ing to  have  had  manifestations  and  visions  for  the  Church,  and  they  led 
some  of  the  members  astray.  There  was  a  woman  by  the  name  of  Hubble 
who  claimed  to  have  revelations,  and  some  of  the  members  of  the  Church 
listened  to  her.  One  of  the  eight  witnesses  of  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
Hiram  Page,  began  to  have  manifestations,  and  he  was  able  to  have  in- 
fluence over  others.  He  persuaded  some  of  the  Whitmers  and  even  Oliver 
Cowdery,  to  accept  the  things  that  he  proclaimed.  The  result  was  that 
the  Lord  had  to  give  a  revelation  correcting  all  of  this  sort  of  thing,  but 
before  it  was  corrected  the  Prophet  had  a  difficult  time  to  get  some  of  his 
brethren  to  understand  that  what  had  been  given  by  Hiram  Page,  and 
Mrs.  Hubble,  and  others,  was  not  of  the  Lord. 

The  Lord  Speaks  Through  His  Prophets 

In  that  revelation,  which  was  given  in  February,  1831,  the  Lord  said 

this: 

O  hearken,  ye  elders  of  my  church,  and  give  ear  to  the  words  which  I 
shall  speak  unto  you. 


98  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  3  Third  Dag 

For  behold,  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  that  ye  have  received  a  com- 
mandment for  a  law  unto  my  church,  through  him  whom  I  have  appointed 
unto  you  to  receive  commandments  and  revelations  from  my  hand. 

And  this  ye  shall  know  assuredly — that  there  is  none  other  appointed 
unto  you  to  receive  commandments  and  revelations  until  he  be  taken,  if  he 
abide  in  me. 

But  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  that  none  else  shall  be  appointed  unto 
this  gift  except  it  be  through  him ;  for  if  it  be  taken  from  him  he  shall  not 
have  power  except  to  appoint  another  in  his  stead. 

And  this  shall  be  a  law  unto  you,  that  ye  receive  not  the  teachings  of  any 
that  shall  come  before  you  as  revelations  or  commandments ; 

And  this  I  give  unto  you  that  you  may  not  be  deceived,  that  you  may 
know  they  are  not  of  me. 

For  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  he  that  is  ordained  of  me  shall  come  in  at 
the  gate  and  be  ordained  as  I  have  told  you  before,  to  teach  those  revelations 
which  you  have  received  and  shall  receive  through  him  whom  I  have  ap- 
pointed. (D.  &  C.  43:1-7.) 

This  ought  to  be  clear  enough  for  us  all.  If  the  Lord  has  a  revelation 
or  a  commandment  to  give  to  His  people,  it  is  going  to  come  from  the 
head,  and  when  someone  else  comes  among  the  people  professing  to  have 
revelations  and  to  give  commandments  we  can  test  that  matter  very  readily. 
We  do  not  have  to  go  into  any  details  or  make  an  extended  examination 
of  the  claims,  there  is  no  need  of  any  investigation  whatever,  because  the 
Lord  has  given  us  the  key  as  a  law  to  the  Church  by  which  we  are  to  be 
governed. 

Seek  for  the  Best  Gifts 

Now,  again,  in  another  revelation  which  was  given  a  short  time  later, 
in  March,  1831,  the  Lord  said  this : 

But  ye  are  commanded  in  all  things  to  ask  of  God,  who  giveth  liberally ; 
and  that  which  the  Spirit  testifies  unto  you  even  so  I  would  that  ye  should  do 
in  all  holiness  of  heart,  walking  uprightly  before  me,  considering  the  end  of 
your  salvation,  doing  all  things  with  prayer  and  thanksgiving,  that  ye  may 
not  be  seduced  by  evil  spirits,  or  doctrines  of  devils,  or  the  commandments 
of  men ;  for  some  are  of  men,  and  others  of  devils. 

Wherefore,  beware  lest  ye  are  deceived  ;  and  that  ye  may  not  be  deceived 
seek  ye  earnestly  the  best  gifts,  always  remembering  for  what  they  are 
given ; 

For  verily  I  say  unto  you,  they  are  given  for  the  benefit  of  those  who  love 
me  and  keep  all  my  commandments,  and  him  that  seeketh  so  to  do ;  that  all 
may  be  benefited  that  seek  or  that  ask  of  me,  that  ask  and  not  for  a  sign 
that  they  may  consume  it  upon  their  lusts.  (D.  &  C.  46:7-9.) 

In  conclusion,  I  will  say  that  I  agree  with  Paul,  that  prophecy  is  a 
wonderful  gift,  one  that  should  be  sought,  for  the  gift  of  prophecy  is  the 
gift  of  revelation  and  may  be  received  for  the  personal  guidance  of  each 
member  of  the  Church.  I  also  think  that  the  gift  of  discernment  is  a  gift 
everyone  should  seek,  so  that  we  may  not  be  deceived.  If  we  have  the 
spirit  by  which  we  can  discern  the  hearts  of  men,  and  the  doctrines  of  men, 
and  interpret  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord,  then  we  shall  not  be  deceived. 
Again  the  Lord  has  said,  "And  whoso  treasureth  up  my  word  shall  not 
be  deceived."  This  does  not  mean  merely  the  reading  of  the  word,  but 
that  we  put  it  into  practice. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


99 


President  David  0.  McKay :  We  are  happy,  we  are  blessed  with  hav- 
ing the  Tabernacle  Choir  with  us  this  morning.  This  famous  organiza- 
tion will  now  sing :  "Lend  Thine  Ear  to  My  Prayer,"  ( Archangelsky) . 

(The  Choir  then  sang  "Lend  Thine  Ear  to  My  Prayer.") 

ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren,  I  am  full  of  fear  and  apprehension  as  I  face  this  large 
audience  of  Church  leaders.  I  have  been  deeply  touched,  as  you  have, 
by  the  stirring  messages  which  have  come  to  us  in  song  and  in  sermon.  I 
have  been  trying  to  summarize  the  messages  which  we  have  received,  and 
as  I  have  done  so,  the  words  of  Jesus  have  come  to  my  mind  with  force 
and  persistence : 

Man  shall  not  live  by  bread  alone,  but  by  every  word  that  proceedeth 
out  of  the  mouth  of  God.  (Matt.  4:4.) 

The  Master's  words  never  grow  old  and  trite.  They  come  with  the 
freshness  of  today,  and  are  never  outworn  and  obsolete.  They  are  al- 
ways vital  and  timely.  I  have  seen  men  grow  wealthy  and  influential  in 
worldly  things  and  at  the  same  time  grow  exceedingly  poor  in  spiritual 
things.  I  do  not  discount  material  achievements,  but  deplore  the  acquisi- 
tion of  such  power  and  influence  at  a  loss  of  the  higher  goal  in  life. 

In  1846,  Brigham  Young  stood  on  the  fringe  of  the  great  western 
desert.  He  looked  to  the  eastward  and  saw  the  cities  abandoned  by  the 
Saints.   He  jotted  down  in  his  diary  a  statement  something  like  this: 

Our  homes,  our  orchards,  our  farms,  our  schools,  our  churches,  our 
temples,  and  our  public  buildings,  we  leave  as  a  monument  to  our  patriotism, 
our  toil,  our  devotion,  our  industry,  our  integrity,  and  our  honesty  of  purpose. 

And  he  might  have  added,  "our  faith." 

With  Brigham  Young  first  things  came  first.  He  knew  there  were 
things,  even  more  important  than  lands  and  homes  and  worldly  com- 
forts, things  like  freedom,  the  right  to  worship,  the  right  to  grow  and 
develop  under  the  inspiration  and  guidance  of  Christian  ideals.  What 
better  testimony  could  he  give  of  their  integrity  and  their  faith?  Here 
was  the  workmanship  of  their  own  hands.  Here  were  the  fruits  of  their 
labors,  the  results  of  their  strivings  and  sacrifice  and  struggle.  All  of  it 
they  placed  on  the  altar  rather  than  compromise,  and  rather  than  forsake 
their  standards  and  the  guiding  principles  which  sustained  them. 

I  read  an  article  recently,  written  by  George  E.  Sokolsky  and  ap- 
pearing in  The  Deseret  News.  He  discusses  the  Bible  as  a  guide  to  hu- 
man progress.   Said  he : 

I  am  sure  that  one  of  our  major  difficulties,  and  when  I  say  "our,"  I 
mean  the  whole  of  mankind,  is  that  we  have  lost  guidance,  moving  rapidly 
without  compass,  for  the  man  without  guidance  lives  in  a  vacuum,  nothing 
has  come  before  and  he  can  find  no  road  to  the  future.  I  turn  to  the  wisdom 
of  the  ages,  and  find  there  a  transcendent  comfort,  for  those  who  would 
destroy  are  a  multitude,  but  the  builder  is  often  and  wearily  alone. 


100  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  3  Third  Day 

The  wisdom  of  the  ages  to  which  he  refers  is  the  holy  Bible.  History 
has  proved  that  humanity  needs  guidance  and  enlightenment.  Without 
guidance  man  is  a  law  unto  himself.  He  falters  and  fails.  There  are 
signposts  everywhere,  but  men,  in  their  eagerness  to  pursue  their  own 
course,  pass  them  by.  God  knows  His  children.  He  has  made  provision 
for  their  safety  and  their  security.  Christ's  gospel  is  the  beacon  light  to 
guide  humanity.  It  points  the  way  of  salvation.  It  has  come  to  earth  in 
its  fulness  to  lead  the  children  of  men  back  to  God.  The  true  end  and 
felicity  of  man  lies  in  the  enjoyment  of  God's  favor,  and  His  saving 
power. 

Joseph  Smith  brought  to  light  a  great  revelation  given  to  Abraham 
of  old.  "We  will  prove  them  herewith,"  said  God  to  Abraham,  "to  see 
if  they  will  do  all  things  whatsoever  the  Lord  their  God  shall  command 
them ;  and  they  who  keep  their  first  estate  shall  be  added  upon  ;  *  *  *  and 
they  who  keep  their  second  estate  shall  have  glory  added  upon  their  heads 
forever  and  forever." 

Divine  guidance  for  a  wise  and  holy  purpose  is  thus  assured  to  Abra- 
ham and  his  children  to  the  latest  generation.  One  of  the  most  powerful 
sermons  ever  delivered  by  man  was  preached  by  Peter  to  the  Jews  on  the 
day  of  Pentecost.  It  was  persuasive  and  convincing  and  touched  deeply 
the  hearts  of  the  listeners.  They  were  pricked  in  their  hearts  and  said 
unto  Peter  and  to  the  rest  of  the  apostles,  "Men  and  brethren,  what  shall 
we  do  ?"  It  was  a  cry  of  despair  and  remorse,  an  appeal  for  enlighten- 
ment.  Said  Peter : 

.  .  .  Repent,  and  be  baptized  every  one  of  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ 
for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  ye  shall  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
For  the  promise  is  unto  you,  and  to  your  children,  and  to  all  that  are 
afar  off,  even  as  many  as  the  Lord  our  God  shall  call.  (Acts  2  :  38-39.) 

May  we  heed  the  counsel  and  the  guidance  which  we  receive  as  mem- 
bers of  Christ's  Church,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Pioneer  Labors 

When  our  Pioneer  fathers  came  to  this  semi-arid  country  they  set- 
tled on  the  mountain  streams  without  the  benefits  of  which  they  could 
not  have  made  their  homes  or  established  communities.  They  organized 
themselves  into  irrigation  companies  in  order  that  the  water  so  vital  to 
their  welfare  might  be  properly  distributed,  each  man  receiving  shares 
according  to  his  need.  They  builded  ditches  and  canals  ;  they  constructed 
reservoirs  to  hold  back  the  spring  run-off  for  late  summer  use.  They 
gave  special  attention  to  the  securing  of  culinary  water  that  they  might 
have  from  the  mountain  springs  the  purest  of  the  water  for  human  use. 
They  were  aware  of  the  fact  that  if  they  carried  this  water  long  distances 
in  open  ditches  there  was  danger  of  pollution ;  that  disease  and  epidemic 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


101 


might  result,  unless  there  be  a  special  care  given.  With  that  in  mind  they 
safe-guarded  the  channels,  and  later  constructed  pipe-lines  that  were 
placed  below  the  level  of  the  ground  to  protect  from  heat  and  frost.  To 
enjoy  the  benefits  of  this  system,  it  was  necessary  that  they  work  to- 
gether, each  man  receiving  an  assessment  which  he  was  expected  to  pay 
either  in  labor  or  in  money,  and  for  the  maintenance  of  such  a  system 
each  was  required  to  pay  his  annual  dues.  Those  who  refused  to  accept 
such  obligations  were  penalized  by  the  company's  refusing  to  deliver  the 
water  that  they  were  therefore  not  entitled  to. 

Gospel  Essential  to  Spiritual  Life 

Just  as  water  was  and  is  today  essential  to  the  physical  life  of  those 
who  settle  in  this  country,  just  so  is  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
essential  to  the  spiritual  life  of  God's  children.  That  analogy  is  suggested 
by  the  words  of  the  Savior  to  the  woman  at  the  well  in  Samaria,  when 
He  said :  "  .  .  .  whosoever  drinketh  of  the  water  that  I  shall  give  him  shall 
never  thirst ;  but  the  water  that  I  shall  give  him  shall  be  in  him  a  well  of 
water  springing  up  into  everlasting  life."  (John  4 :14.) 

Great  reservoirs  of  spiritual  water,  called  scriptures,  have  been  pro- 
vided in  this  day  and  have  been  safeguarded  that  all  might  partake  and 
be  spiritually  fed,  and  that  they  thirst  not.  That  these  scriptures  have 
been  considered  of  great  importance,  is  indicated  by  the  words  of  the 
Savior,  "Search  the  scriptures ;  for  in  them  ye  think  ye  have  eternal  life : 
and  they  are  they  which  testify  of  me"  (John  5  :39)  ;  and  the  experience 
of  the  Nephites  being  sent  back  to  procure  the  brass  plates  which  con- 
tained the  scriptures  so  vital  to  the  welfare  of  the  people.  The  use  of 
those  scriptures  was  suggested  in  the  statement  of  Nephi  when  he  said, 
".  .  .  for  I  did  liken  all  scriptures  unto  us,  that  it  might  be  for  our  profit 
and  learning."  (I  Nephi  19:23.)  And  again,  when  Laban  forbade  their 
use  of  these  scriptures,  the  angel  declared  it  were  better  that  one  man 
should  perish  than  a  whole  nation  dwindle  and  perish  in  unbelief.  Through 
these  generations  the  messages  from  our  Father  have  been  safeguarded 
and  carefully  protected,  and  mark  you  likewise  that  in  this  day  the  scrip- 
tures are  the  purest  at  their  source,  just  as  the  waters  were  purest  at  the 
mountain  source  ;  the  purest  word  of  God,  and  that  least  apt  to  be  polluted, 
is  that  which  comes  from  the  lips  of  the  living  prophets  who  are  set  up  to 
guide  Israel  in  our  own  day  and  time. 

The  distribution  system  which  our  Heavenly  Father  has  provided  is 
known  as  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God  to  give  aid  to  His  great  an 
divine  purpose  in  bringing  to  pass  the  immortality  and  the  eternal  life 
of  man,  whereby  eternal  joy  might  come.  But  because  of  the  free  agency 
which  our  Father  in  His  wisdom  has  vouchsafed  to  us,  His  children,  the 
dangers  of  pollution  are  great,  for  ever  beckoning  with  tinsel  show  and 
with  gaudily  wrapped  packages,  with  neon  signs  beckoning  on  every 
hand,  the  devil  has  tried  to  entrap,  and  under  the  label  of  "pleasures"  he 
has  sought  to  dissuade  mankind  from  a  straight  course  which  would  lead 
to  eternal  happiness.  Pleasure-mad  crowds  surge  at  the  bargain  counters 
of  him  who  would  thus  destroy. 


102  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  3  Third  Day 

Priesthood  Quorums  Channels  of  Truth 

The  Priesthood  quorums  and  the  auxiliary  organizations  are  the 
carefully  guarded  channels  provided  within  the  Church  through  which 
precious  truths  are  to  be  disseminated.  Some  have  speculated  that  the 
strength  of  this  Church  lies  in  the  tithing  system ;  some  have  thought  in 
the  missionary  system ;  but  those  who  understand  rightly  the  word  of  the 
Lord  understand  full  well  that  the  strength  of  the  Church  is,  funda- 
mentally, in  neither  of  these.  The  strength  of  the  Church  is  not  in  a  large 
membership,  but  the  real  strength  of  this  Church  lies  in  the  power  and 
authority  of  the  holy  Priesthood  which  our  Heavenly  Father  has  given 
to  us  in  this  day.  If  we  exercise  properly  that  power  and  magnify  our 
callings  in  the  Priesthood,  we  will  see  to  it  that  the  missionary  work  shall 
go  forward,  that  the  tithing  shall  be  paid,  that  the  Welfare  plan  prospers, 
that  our  homes  shall  be  safe,  and  that  morality  among  the  youth  of  Israel 
shall  be  safeguarded. 

Just  as  in  the  illustration  of  the  water  system,  however,  we  have  cer- 
tian  obligations  which  we  must  assume  if  we  are  to  be  blessed.  The  price 
we  pay  for  these  eternal  blessings  and  the  right  to  use  of  this  eternal 
stream  of  water  is  first,  to  yield  obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of 
the  gospel,  second,  to  render  willing  and  unselfish  sacrifice,  and  third,  to 
assume  responsibility  and  our  obligation  to  serve  our  fellow  men  whereby 
we  might  gain  rights  and  titles  to  blessings  that  our  Heavenly  Father  has 
in  store  for  us.  Every  faithful  Church  member  can  bear  witness  to  the 
joy  and  extreme  happiness  that  comes  to  one  who  has  kept  the  law ;  but, 
perhaps  all  of  us  can  likewise  bear  witness  to  the  anguish  and  the  dis- 
appointment that  come  through  lack  of  obedience  and  through  our  own 
negligence. 

Experiences  of  an  Army  Doctor 

> 

Last  June  I  was  in  an  army  camp,  up  near  Corvallis,  Oregon,  I 
listened  to  a  young  Latter-day  Saint  army  doctor  tell  of  an  experience  he 
had  down  in  one  of  the  islands  just  off  the  raging  battle  of  Guadalcanal. 
He  said  they  had  established  a  hospital  base  back  away  from  the  front 
line  where  they  were  receiving  the  wounded  that  were  now  coming  from 
that  area.  Because  of  their  limited  facilities  and  the  great  need  of  medical 
attention  by  so  many  wounded,  it  was  necessary  that  someone  look  care- 
fully over  the  men  who  were  brought  in,  that  those  who  were  most 
seriously  wounded  might  be  attended  to  first,  and  his  was  the  task  of 
making  the  initial  examination  as  the  boys  came  ashore.  As  he  leaned 
over  to  these  boys  who  were  conscious,  he  would  whisper  to  them,  ask 
them  how  they  were  feeling,  and  would  ask  each  one,  "What  church  do 
you  belong  to?" 

On  one  occasion  as  he  leaned  close  to  the  ear  of  one  boy,  pretty 
badly  wounded,  and  asked  him  what  church  he  belonged  to,  the  boy 
whispered  back,  "I  am  a  Mormon."  The  doctor  said,  "Well,  I'm  a  Mor- 
mon, too.  I'm  an  elder  in  the  Church.  Is  there  anything  you  would  like 
me  to  do  for  you  ?"  The  boy,  as  he  clenched  his  teeth,  with  resolute  white 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


103 


face,  replied,  "I'd  like  you  to  administer  to  me."  The  doctor  said,  "I  took 
out  my  little  bottle  of  consecrated  oil,  and  there  before  the  gaze  of  all, 
because  there  was  no  chance  for  privacy,  I  anointed  his  head  with  oil,  by 
the  authority  of  the  holy  Priesthood.  I  blessed  him  that  he  might  be 
made  well.  I  took  him  into  the  hospital  tent  for  the  care  that  he  so  much 
needed,  and  returned  back  to  the  other  wounded  men.  By  a  strange  coin- 
cidence I  found  the  next  boy  that  I  approached  was  likewise  one  of  our 
own  Latter-day  Saint  boys,  and  I  asked  him  the  same  question,  "What 
would  you  like  me  to  do?"  and  he  replied,  "I'd  like  a  cigaret."  I  said,  "I 
think  I  could  get  you  a  cigaret,"  and  as  the  boy  started  to  smoke  the 
cigaret  I  said  to  him,  "Son,  are  you  sure  there  is  nothing  else  you  would 
like  me  to  do  for  you  now  ?"  Tears  filled  the  boy's  eyes.  He  said,  "Yes, 
there  is,  doctor,  but  I'm  afraid  I  am  not  entitled  to  ask  for  what's  in  my 
heart.  I  wonder  if  the  Lord  would  have  a  blessing  for  me.  Would 
you  administer  to  me  ?"  I  said,  'We'll  leave  that  for  our  Heavenly  Father 
to  judge.  If  you  want  a  blessing,  I  shall  be  his  servant  in  asking  the  Lord 
to  give  you  that  blessing." 

Work  of  the  Church  Among  Soldiers 

I  ask  you,  my  brethren,  what  condition  are  our  boys  in  ?  What  part 
have  you  played  in  preparing  them  to  partake  deeply  of  the  streams  of 
eternal  life  ?  A  great  missionary  work  is  going  forward  under  the  guidance 
of  the  Church  today  among  these  forty  thousand  Mormon  boys  out  in 
armed  service.  In  this  missionary  work,  under  the  authority  of  the  Priest- 
hood, they  have  been  organized  into  M.I.A.  groups  and  have  been  pre- 
pared to  partake  of  these  things  which  our  Lord  has  for  them.  On  my  desk 
I  have  a  picture  of  a  group  over  in  New  Guinea  who  are  holding  a  sacra- 
ment service.  Their  rifles  are  across  their  knees,  which  evidences  the  fact 
that  they  are  on  alert  and  expecting  attack  any  moment.  I  read  in  a  letter 
how  down  on  the  Midway  Island  our  boys  likewise  gathered  around  to 
hold  sacrament  services.  Said  the  boy  writing  this  letter,  "...  because  we 
felt  if  the  Church  could  come  that  close  to  us  we  would  feel  better  and 
our  minds  would  be  relieved."  And  when  I  read  the  story  of  the  boy  who, 
with  five  companions  flew  over  in  a  plane,  by  permission  of  their  com- 
manding officers  in  Sicily,  to  administer  to  one  of  their  sick  comrades 
who  had  been  severely  wounded,  when  I  read  of  a  boy  getting  the  names 
of  our  boys  who  had  been  killed  in  this  last  campaign  down  in  Italy, 
securing  the  places  where  they  were  to  be  buried  or  had  been  buried  that 
he  might  go  there  and  dedicate  their  graves ;  when  I  read  of  the  stories 
of  their  holding  Sunday  services  out  in  the  olive  groves  of  that  place, 
their  songs  rending  the  Sabbath  air,  I  remember  the  words  that  have  come 
from  our  Father : 

And  that  thou  mayest  more  fully  keep  thyself  unspotted  from  the 
world,  thou  shalt  go  to  the  house  of  prayer  and  offer  up  thy  sacraments 
upon  my  holy  day.  (D.  &  C.  59:9) 

I  can't  think  of  the  work  being  done  among  these  boys,  and  the  results 
therefrom,  without  remembering  that  if  there  be  thirty-two  thousand 


104  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  3  Third  Datj 

Latter-day  Saints  in  the  war-torn  countries  of  Europe  as  has  been  stated 
in  this  conference,  approximately  fifty  percent  of  these  live  in  the  nations 
we  now  call  the  Axis  powers.  If  the  same  percentage  of  boys  have  been 
called  from  among  the  Saints  there  as  have  been  called  here,  there  are 
probably  no  fewer  that  seven  or  eight  hundred  of  our  Latter-day  Saint 
boys  who  hold  the  Priesthood  bearing  the  arms  in  those  nations  we  call 
our  enemies.  Oh,  I  pray  that  the  channel  of  communication  will  be  opened 
to  those  boys  whom  we  can't  reach  with  M.I. A.  organizations,  to  whom 
we  cannot  send  books,  to  whom  we  cannot  give  the  ministrations  of  the 
Priesthood.  I  pray  God  that  He  will  save  our  boys  in  those  countries 
who  perhaps  are  no  more  guilty  of  wrongdoing  than  our  own  loved  boys 
in  this  country,  and  yet  are  suffering  the  pangs  of  a  terrible  war. 

Faithfulness  Shown  by  a  Young  Girl 

I  met  a  young  girl  over  at  the  Lion  House  last  summer  where  I  had 
been  speaking  to  a  group  of  a  hundred  and  fifty  or  two  hundred  girls  who 
had  come  to  Salt  Lake  City  from  outside  of  the  city  for  work  here.  After 
the  meeting,  this  young  girl  came  up  to  me,  with  a  sparkle  in  her  eyes,  and 
showed  me  a  picture  of  a  handsome  soldier  boy  down  in  Australia.  From 
behind  his  picture  she  took  out  and  unfolded  a  paper  that  proved  to  be  his 
baptismal  certificate.  She  said,  as  she  filled  with  emotion,  "I  left  that  boy 
six  months  ago — I  thought,  never  to  see  him  again,  because  I  told  him  that 
I  could  not  be  married,  except  it  was  in  the  temple  of  our  God,  for  time  and 
eternity.  He  was  not  a  member  of  the  Church,  but  after  he  left  he  began 
to  think,  and  he  began  to  study.  Six  months  have  gone  past,  and  on  my 
birthday  he  sent  me  this  and  says  in  his  letter,  'I  am  now  preparing  myself, 
so  that  when  I  return  I  can  be  sealed  to  you,  my  sweetheart,  in  the  house 
of  the  living  God.'  " 

There  was  a  girl  who  had  drunk  deeply  from  the  fountain  of  spiritual 
waters,  and  hers  will  be  a  well  of  living  water,  springing  up  into  everlast- 
ing life.  And  so  we  might  go  on. 

Plea  for  Guardianship  by  Leaders 

Latter-day  Saints,  you  bearers  of  the  Priesthood,  and  leaders  in 
Israel,  may  we  see  to  it  that  the  streams  that  guard  youth,  that  guard  our 
homes,  are  kept  unpolluted,  because  of  ever-watchful  care  that  we  shall 
exercise  in  this  trying  day.  May  we  be  not  unmindful  of  the  counsel  of 
our  Father  in  these  fatherly  words : 

.  .  .  provide  yourselves  bags  which  wax  not  old,  a  treasure  in  the  heav- 
ens that  faileth  not,  where  no  thief  approacheth,  neither  moth  corrupteth. 
For  where  your  treasure  is,  there  will  your  heart  be  also.  Let  your  loins 
be  girded  about,  and  your  lights  burning ;  And  ye  yourselves  like  unto  men 
that  wait  for  their  Lord,  when  he  will  return  from  the  wedding ;  that 
when  he  cometh  and  knocketh,  they  may  open  unto  him  immediately. 
(Luke  12:33-36.) 

And  then,  again  in  our  day : 

Wherefore,  fear  not  even  unto  death;  for  in  this  world  your  joy  is 
not  full,  but  in  me  your  joy  is  full.    Therefore,  care  not  for  the  body 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


105 


neither  for  the  life  of  the  body;  but  care  for  the  soul  and  for  the  life 
of  the  soul.  And  seek  the  face  of  the  Lord  always,  that  in  patience  ye 
may  possess  your  souls,  and  ye  shall  have  eternal  life.  (D.  &  C.  101  :36-38.) 

God  bless  us  to  seek  always  the  face  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  May 
we  without  fear,  even  unto  death,  protect  the  fountains  of  truth,  and  if  it 
need  be  in  this  day  that  our  lives  be  given  for  the  protection  of  that  truth, 
may  we  do  so  willingly  and  with  the  seal  of  approval  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  upon  us,  I  pray  humbly,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen.  . 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  anthem  "Great  and  Marvelous," — 
(Gaul). 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Perhaps  it  is  because  this  is  the  only  session  at  which  we  shall  br 
favored  with  the  presence  of  the  Choir  that  our  appreciation  is  heightened. 
Be  that  as  it  may,  I  am  sure  I  am  expressing  the  feelings  of  everyone  pres- 
ent when  I  say,  Brother  Cornwall,  the  organists,  and  members  of  the 
Choir,  thank  you  and  God  bless  you ! 


Elder  Peter  E.  Johnson,  President  of  the  Nampa  Stake,  offered  the 
benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  p.m. 

THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  final  session  of  the  Conference  convened  at  2  o'clock  p.m.,  Sun- 
day. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

This  is  the  final  session  of  the  114th  Semi-Annual  Conference  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Those  who  are  present 
will  note  that  President  Grant  is  not  in  the  usual  place.  He  is  at  home, 
however,  and  through  the  courtesy  of  KSL  will  be  in  touch  with  every- 
thing that  is  going  on  in  this  session.  We  are  happy  to  feel  his  presence 
even  though  he  is  physically  absent. 

The  proceedings  of  this  conference  will  be  broadcast,  as  those  that 
have  preceded  it. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  afternoon  all  the  General 


106  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  3  Third  Day 

Authorities,  and  in  the  audience  representatives  of  Stake  Presidencies, 
High  Councils  and  Bishops,  Quorum  presidencies,  etc. 

Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  will  direct  the  music,  Elder  Alexander 
Schreiner  is  at  the  organ. 

Our  opening  song,  "O  Ye  Mountains  High"  will  be  found  on  page 
10  of  your  Song  Folder.  All  please  join  in  singing. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "O  Ye  Mountains  High." 
Elder  David  H.  Cannon,  President  of  the  San  Fernando  Stake,  of- 
fered the  invocation. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "O  My  Father." 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  rejoice  with  you  in  the  attendance  of  this  Conference.  I  cannot 
recall,  in  my  recollection,  at  least,  where  there  has  been  held  a  conference 
of  the  Church  when  there  has  been  such  a  uniform  spirit  of  cooperation 
and  good  will.  It  seems  to  me  that  there  has  not  been  a  jar  of  any  kind, 
there  has  not  been  anything  that  was  not  compatible  with  the  spirit  of  our 
Heavenly  Father.  I  am  sure  we  will  go  away  from  this  Conference  built 
up  in  our  faith  and  strengthened  and  renewed. 

It  was  said  here  last  night,  by  Brother  Joseph  F.  Smith,  the  patriarch, 
that  we  have  had  evidence  of  the  divinity  of  this  work  in  the  testimonies 
that  have  been  borne  and  the  things  that  have  been  said.  That  is  true. 

Many  Evidences  of  Divinity  of  Work 

There  are  other  things,  however,  that  bear  witness  of  the  divinity  of 
this  work.  We  who  come  from  pioneer  parents  have  been  and  are  appre- 
ciative of  the  faith  of  those  who  made  possible  the  settlement  of  these 
valleys.  As  was  suggested  here  yesterday,  we  point  with  pride  to  some  of 
the  monuments  that  have  been  erected :  the  Nauvoo  Temple,  the  Kirtland 
Temple,  the  great  temple  on  this  block,  this  building,  all  of  these  the 
products  of  poverty  and  hardship,  and  yet  the  products  of  a  great  faith 
and  devotion  to  the  Church  and  to  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

As  we  think  about  these  things,  we  are  inclined  to  hold  them  perhaps 
a  little  above  other  evidences  that  we  may  have  had.  We  sometimes  like  to 
live  in  the  past ;  we  like  to  think  of  the  past,  and  in  so  doing,  we  magnify 
the  past,  sometimes  to  the  disadvantage  of  the  present. 

It  is  not  my  purpose,  nor  I  would  not,  for  the  world,  say  anything 
that  would  in  any  way  detract  from  the  magnificent  work  of  those  who 
have  gone  before.  There  is  no  one,  I  am  sure,  that  has  any  deeper  appre- 
ciation of  a  faith  that  has  come  down  through  a  pioneer  parentage  than 
have  I,  but  I  have  been  made  conscious,  my  brethren,  of  the  magnificent 
work  that  is  being  done  in  our  day. 

It  has  been  my  privilege — and  I  regard  it  as  a  rare  privilege — to 
travel  in  some  of  the  .stakes  of  Zion,  and  I  have  seen  evidences  which  to 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 


107 


me  are  just  as  great,  which  reflect  just  as  strong  a  faith,  as  any  evidences 
of  the  past.  It  is  true  that  the  conditions  of  a  generation  ago  were  different 
from  what  they  are  now.  There  was  not  the  wealth,  the  material  wealth, 
but  there  was  a  great  faith.  There  were  not  the  same  kind  of  temptations 
and  the  same  kind  of  allurements  that  are  had  today,  but  there  were  hard- 
ships, there  was  necessity,  and  there  was  poverty.  There  was  persecution, 
and  sometimes  men  and  women  had  to  give  their  lives  for  the  testimonies 
that  they  bore,  and  all  of  these  we  appreciate  and  value,  and  we  thank 
the  Lord  for  them. 

A  Monument  to  Faith 

So  I  repeat,  there  are  evidences  today  that  are  just  as  great.  May  I, 
just  for  a  moment,  recall  some  of  the  things  that  have  tremendously 
impressed  me  ?  ' 

Two  weeks  ago  I  had  the  privilege  of  attending  conference  in  the 
Farmington  Ward  in  the  Young  Stake.  We  participated  in  the  dedication 
of  a  meetinghouse,  a  lovely  little  chapel  that  was  begun  six  years  ago, 
when  the  ward  only  had  a  membership  of  fewer  than  one  hundred  souls, 
when  the  families  there  were  largely  in  debt,  and  the  economic  conditions 
were  not  good. 

Two  weeks  ago  that  chapel  was  dedicated,  having  cost  $40,000. 
There  are  now  three  hundred  and  fifty  members  in  the  ward,  and  the 
little  chapel  stands  there  as  a  monument  to  the  thrift  and  the  industry 
and,  above  all,  to  the  faith  of  those  people. 

A  Real  Service 

In  that  same  stake  it  was  my  good  fortune  to  meet  with  a  little 
group  of  some  of  the  Lamanite  brethren  who  live  down  there  and  who 
are  being  directed  by  President  Ralph  Evans — one  couple  in  particular, 
a  Brother  and  Sister  Palaca,  faithful,  and  true,  and  devoted.  Sister 
Palaca  goes  out  with  a  little  pressure  cooker  that  has  been  provided  for 
her,  and  among  the  Lamanite  women  she  teaches  them  how  to  can  their 
vegetables  and  their  fruit,  and  how  to  make  quilts,  according  to  the 
Relief  Society  way. 

As  I  saw  this,  and  as  I  felt  the  spirit  of  it,  and  as  I  caught  the  spirit 
that  was  back  of  the  erection  of  this  little  chapel,  I  could  not  help  feeling 
here  again  is  an  evidence  of  the  things  that  have  been  so  potent  in  this 
work  since  the  beginning. 

Commendation  of  Welfare  Projects 

Then  again  I  thought  of  the  various  activities  that  are  going  forward 
throughout  the  Church,  inspired  as  they  are  by  the  desire  to  carry  out 
the  great  Welfare  program  of  the  Church. 

I  had  the  privilege  of  visiting  and  inspecting  the  plant  at  Cedar  City, 
a  credit  to  the  Church,  standing  out  as  an  emblem  of  sacrifice  and  devo- 
tion. It  is  a  lovely  building.  The  bricks  in  it  were  made  by  the  adult 
members  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  and  they  are  a  credit  to  any  build- 


108  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,   October  3  Third  Day 

ing.  It  is  not  so  much  what  the  building  cost,  but  it  is  what  is  back  of  it ; 
and  as  I  went  through  that  building  with  President  Palmer  and  his  as- 
sociates, I  thought :  "Here  again  is  reflected  the  spirit  and  devotion  that 
have  been  a  part  of  the  Church  from  the  beginning." 

As  I  listened  to  Brother  Kimball  here  Friday,  I  thought  of  the 
achievements  down  in  the  Arizona  region,  when  a  few  years  ago  the 
little  wards  of  Virden  and  Duncan,  Mt.  Graham  Stake,  were  virtually 
wiped  out  by  flood.  Promptly  the  brethren  of  the  Arizona  region,  the 
stake  presidents,  we're  called  together,  and  through  a  magnificent  cooper- 
ative effort  they  did  that  which  our  fathers  and  our  grandfathers  used 
to  do,  that  we  hold  up  today  as  a  sacred  heritage. 

These  examples,  my  brethren,  are  but  a  few  of  hundreds  of  such 
that  are  going  on  all  over  the  Church.  There  is  evidence  everywhere  of 
that  faith  and  devotion,  and  it  is  not  only  in  the  spoken  word,  but  it  is 
evidenced  in  the  doing,  and  I  thank  the  Lord  that  the  Church  today  has 
in  it  that  same  wholesome  attitude  of  faith  and  devotion  and  consecration. 

As  our  children  look  back,  they  will  see  in  the  achievements  of  today 
in  the  stakes  and  wards  of  Zion  the  same  thing  that  you  and  I  see  in  the 
achievements  of  a  generation  ago.  And  after  all,  are  they  not  the  things 
that  really  give  power  and  strength  to  this  great  latter-day  work? 

Enduring  Blessings  to  Be  Sought 

We  sometimes  measure  our  blessings  by  a  temporal  standard.  We 
frequently  hear  it  said  that  we  are  blessed  in  these  days  more  greatly 
than  ever  before,  measuring  our  blessings  by  the  temporal  things  that 
we  have — wages  are  up,  crops  are  bringing  high  prices,  and  there  is 
plenty  of  money,  seemingly,  everywhere — but  I  am  not  sure  that  those 
are  the  blessings  we  want  to  emphasize.  I  am  not  sure  but  what  in  these 
blessings  there  may  be  great  danger.  If  we,  however,  can  preserve  the 
spirit  of  sacrifice  and  the  spirit  of  devotion  that  have  characterized  our 
people,  then  we  need  have  no  fear,  because  those  are  the  attributes  that 
endure. 

I  was  tremendously  impressed  with  a  statement  that  was  made  by 
Eddie  Rickenbacker,  in  making  a  report  in  Washington  on  his  return. 
In  describing  his  harrowing  experience  with  his  associates  in  the  Pacific, 
he  explained  how,  as  they  became  conscious  of  the  fact  that  they  would 
have  to  make  a  crash  landing  that  might  prove  fatal,  in  their  hope  they 
could  SO'  guide  the  ship  that  time  would  be  given  for  them  to  get  into  the 
lifeboats,  and  how,  he  said,  they  threw  overboard  everything.  They 
had  many  valuables,  registered  mail,  much  of  great  value  as  far  as  this 
world's  goods  are  concerned,  and  yet,  he  said,  'We  threw  over  every- 
thing, because,  gentlemen,  we  learned  then  and  there  that  things  have 
no  value." 

So,  my  brethren,  "things"  have  little  value  to  you  and  me ;  because 
these  heritages,  these  evidences  of  devotion,  these  evidences  of  faith  that 
we  see  everywhere  in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  these  monuments  builded  by 
our  forebears,  these  are  the  things  that  stimulate  us,  that  give  us  en- 
couragement, that  build  us  up,  and  make  us  realize  that  God  our  Father 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


109 


is  back  of  this  work,  to  sanctify  to  the  good  of  His  cause  the  efforts  that 
are  put  forth  in  sacrifice  and  in  devotion,  that  we  see  in  evidence  in  all 
the  stakes  and  wards  of  the  Church. 

May  God  help  us  that  we  may  appreciate  these  things,  I  humbly 
pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

My  dear  brethren,  if  I  say  anything  to  you  that  will  be  worth 
while  this  afternoon,  I  shall  need  your  faith  and  prayers,  so  please  ex- 
tend them  in  my  behalf. 

Interesting  Visit  to  Mission 

Most  of  the  month  of  September.  I  spent  visiting  the  North  Central 
States  Mission,  in  company  with  President  Richards,  his  wife,  and  my 
wife.  I  bring  to  you,  who  are  the  fathers  of  those  missionaries,  their 
greetings,  and  the  report  that  they  are  all  well  and  happy,  and  doing  an 
excellent  work. 

I  went  into  that  mission  to  find,  as  I  went  from  place  to  place  that  I 
was  asked  to  meet  people  who  are  not  of  our  faith,  in  numbers  equal, 
almost,  to  those  of  the  converted  members  resident  in  the  branches.  I 
was  faced  with  the  problem  of  explaining  to  them  why  we  are  there, 
and  why  we  are  working  in  the  world  as  we  are. 

I  wonder  if  it  would  be  well  for  us  to  think  occasionally  about  our- 
selves in  that  light,  what  we  want  to  tell  the  world.  Many  of  you  who  are 
here  today  are  missionaries  in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  and  you  are  faced  with 
that  problem  likewise. 

As  I  faced  those  audiences,  I  felt  impressed  to  bear  testimony  to 
the  restoration  of  the  gospel  in  this  day  and  age.  I  remembered  that 
Christ  told  Peter  that  he  would  found  His  church  upon  the  testimony 
that  He  is  the  Son  of  God.  I  remembered  also  that  when  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  was  alive  that  the  world  appeared  to  have  a  very  hazy 
idea  as  to  the  personality  of  God.  They  were  shocked  and  surprised  when 
that  lad  told  them  that  he  had  gone  into  the  woods  to  ask  God  for  wis- 
dom, and  that  both  God  the  Father  and  Christ  His  Son  had  appeared 
to  him,  in  vision,  and  that  he  saw  them  as  glorified  Beings. 

Personality  of  God 

The  world  was  shocked  to  think  that  God,  after  all,  might  have  a 
personality  of  that  kind;  and  generally  speaking,  I  believe,  that  idea  is 
not  to  this  day  accepted,  for  they  rely  upon  a  certain  scripture  in  the  New 
Testament  which  says,  "God  is  a  God  of  spirit,"  and  they  say:  "All 
the  world  knows  that  spirit  is  immaterial." 

I  called  to  their  attention  the  fact  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
teaches  that  there  is  no  such  thing  as  immateriality  in  the  world,  and  that 
even  spirit  is  matter,  and  substance ;  and  if  God  is  a  God  of  spirit,  and 


110  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  3  Third  Day 

if  spirit  is  matter,  then  God  is  material,  and  thus  can  have  a  definite  form. 
The  scripture  which  says  that  God  created  man  in  his  own  image,  is  a 
real  and  true  scripture,  and  when  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  given 
that  wonderful  blessing,  he  saw  God  in  His  true  form. 

While  we  worship  God  the  Father,  His  Son  Jesus  Christ  and  the 
Holy  Ghost,  we  have  a  different  idea  as  to  their  personality  and  being 
from  that  which  the  world  at  large  possesses.  It  was  the  restoration  of 
that  truth,  among  others,  that  was  essential  at  that  time.  When  we  tell 
the  world  that  they  have  gone  astray,  we  do  nothing  more  than  quote  the 
word  of  Christ  our  Lord  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  there  is  no 
egotism  on  our  own  part  when  we  say  it.  We  accept  the  responsibility 
of  that  announcement  in  humility  and  faith. 

I  found  that  there  are  many  people  who  are  blessed  with  that  inter- 
pretation of  God,  even  among  those  who  are  not  of  our  faith.  They  are 
pleased  with  the  thought  that  God  can  be  real,  that  there  is  no  confusion 
in  that  scripture,  after  all,  but  that  he  is  a  definite  personality.  I  taught 
them  our  method  of  faith  in  that  type  of  God. 

I  believe  as  our  many  friends  who  have  come,1  amongst  us  here  in- 
quire as  to  why  Mormonism,  that  that,  perhaps,  shall  be  our  first  explan- 
ation :  that  God  is  real,  and  truly  a  being,  and  that  he  has  restored  the 
gospel. 

The  First  Principles  of  the  Gospel  Necessary 

Then  I  taught  them  that  the  Priesthood  of  God  was  restored  through 
the  instrumentality  of  heavenly  beings,  and  that  we  are  the  custodians  of 
that  Priesthood,  as  we  were  told  by  Brother  Richards  in  his  address  here 
at  this  Conference.    I  taught  them  faith  and  repentance  and  baptism. 

The  law  of  repentance  is  a  law  that  is  ever  active  among  us.  I  read 
that  there  is  nothing  so  apparent  to  man  as  his  own  imperfection,  that 
life  is  a  struggle  to  reduce  that  imperfection.  No  man  can  compare  him- 
self with  his  ideals  and  be  proud  or  haughty.  The  proud  and  the  haughty 
are  only  they  who  compare  themselves  with  more  unfortunate  people  than 
they.  There  is  no  place  in  the  heart  of  man  for  pride  or  arrogance,  and 
there  is  room,  every  day  that  we  live,  for  repentance  on  the  part  of  man. 

Repentance  is  the  recognition  of  improper  ways  of  living,  the  reso- 
lution to  depart  from  them,  and  the  final  putting  in  the  place  of  those 
bad  ways  of  life  the  correct  and  superior  methods  of  doing  things.  And 
if  there  is  ever  a  day  in  the  lives  of  anyone  of  us  when  that  type  of  repent- 
ance does  not  have  place,  Iwill  be  surprised. 

When  God  told  certain  of  His  servants,  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  that  the  thing  they  could  best  do  for  their  own  spiritual  welfare 
was  to  cry  repentance  to  this  generation.  He  knew  exactly  what  He  said, 
and  repentance  is  the  thing  that  we  most  need,  all  of  us,  every  day  of 
our  lives. 

Along  with  the  law  of  repentance  comes  a  law  of  forgiveness.  We 
are  told  that  though  our  sins  shall  be  as  scarlet,  if  we  repent,  honestly 
and  sincerely,  and  do  them  no  more,  we  shall  be  washed  as  white  as  wool. 

Now,  repentance  brings  that  forgiveness.  There  are  too  many  of 


i 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IV INS  111 

us,  however,  who,  when  we  say  that  we  forgive,  forget  that  forgiveness 
means  the  washing  away  of  our  remembrance  of  those  things.  Forgive- 
ness availeth  a  man  nothing,  so  long  as  we  who  pretend  to  forgive  hold 
before  our  eyes  when  we  consider  him,  his  past  record.  If  we  are  going 
to  forgive  a  person,  being  convinced  of  his  sincere  and  honest  repentance, 
offer  reinstatement  and  forgiveness,  we  must  forget.  We  must  accept 
him  as  of  today,  with  a  clean  heart  and  an  honest  motive,  and  we  must 
give  him  his  opportunity. 

I  believe  that  it  is  in  that  spirit  that  God  accepts  of  us  through 
repentance,  and  that  He  will  actually  forget  our  offenses  against  Him 
if  our  repentance  is  sincere,  and  our  future  conduct  honorable  and  up- 
right, such  as  to  jusify  His  confidence.  Wherever  you  go,  you  find  the 
past  record  of  people  following  them  from  place  to  place  after  we  have 
forgiven  them.  I  would  ask  your  indulgence  to  give  them  an  honest 
"break."  That  is  what  repentance  means  to  me. 

And  then  we  have  to  teach  those  people  in  the  world  the  necessity 
for  baptism,  and  our  method  of  baptism,  which  is  not  unique  with  us 
at  all,  because  it  was  one  established  by  Christ,  and  it  has  persisted  in 
certain  quarters  of  the  world.  But  baptism  by  immersion  for  the  for- 
giveness of  sin,  the  remission  of  sin,  is  a  cardinal  principle  with  us.  The 
why  and  the  wherefore,  we  leave  with  God,  for  Christ  has  said  it  is 
necessary.  "Whomsoever  ye  baptize  shall  be  saved,"  and  whoever  is  not 
baptized  and  rejects  the  teaching  will  be  damned.  It  is  essential,  because 
Christ  has  said  so. 

The  symbolism  is  an  interesting  study,  and  means  much  to  us.  It 
is  only  necessary  because  Christ  has  said  so,  and  God  established  it  from 
the  beginning  as  a  principle  of  redemption  for  mankind. 

These  and  many  other  things  we  had  the  pleasure  of  testifying  to 
these  good  people,  and  we  hope  that  we  did  them  good.  We  know  full 
well  that  we  ourselves  were  benefited  and  blessed,  and  I  feel  that  these 
are  cardinal  things  that  we  should  contemplate  every  day  of  our  lives. 
If  we  are  sincere  in  our  testimony,  such  contemplation  will  benefit  and 
bless  us,  and  make  us  better. 

Strength  in  Testimony 

The  strength  and  the  power  of  this  Church  is  in  the  testimony  of 
its  members,  for  Christ  said,  "Upon  this  rock  I  will  build  my  church" — 
upon  the  testimony  that  He  is  the  Son  of  God.  In  every  generation  and 
every  place  where  the  Church  has  been  established,  it  has  been  introduced 
by  that  testimony,  and  so  long  as  that  testimony  was  retained  in  the  hearts 
of  the  members  and  followers  of  Christ,  strength  and  power  and  vigor 
characterized  the  organization. 

If  there  ever  comes  a  time  that  the  members  of  this  Church  shall 
fail  in  that  testimony,  the  Church  will  go  down  to  destruction.  Fortun- 
ately, Christ  has  told  us  that  He  will  never  take  it  from  the  earth  so 
long  as  we  are  faithful,  and  my  faith  leads  me  to  believe  that  there  is 
the  power  within  this  Church  to  maintain  that  testimony  in  vigor  and 
strength ;  and  that  God  will  keep  us  all  firm  in  it,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord  and  Redeemer.  Amen. 


112  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  3  Third  Dag 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  dear  brethren :  I  hold  it  a  great  privilege  to  be  allowed  to  bear 
witness  of  the  truth  of  this  work  to  the  assembled  priesthood  leadership 
of  the  Church.  I  bear  testimony  to  you  that  this  is  the  work  of  God, 
established  by  Him  through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith. 

Formula  for  a  Testimony 

This  testimony  I  found  in  my  early  youth.  It  has  remained  with 
me  as  a  certain  knowledge  all  these  years.  I  have  discovered,  as  you 
have,  I  am  quite,  sure,  the  method  by  which  such  a  testimony  may  be  kept 
alive,  blossoming,  useful  in  human  life.  The  formula  is  simple :  Live  the 
gospel  every  day,  practice  it,  and  study  it  regularly;  do  not  let  the  af- 
fairs of  the  day  that  deal  with  the  making  of  our  temporal  living  crowd 
aside  matters  that  pertain  to  the  gospel.  If  we  use  this  formula,  our 
testimony  will  become  increasingly  certain,  will  grow,  will  expand  in 
meaning  and  comprehension. 

Objective  of  Church  to  Bring  Peace 

During  these  days  of  Conference  I  have  enjoyed,  with  all  of  you  a 
feast  of  good  things.  During  the  days  a  thought  has  come  into  my  mind 
repeatedly  and  has  crowded  out  any  preparation  that  I  may  have  made 
for  this  occasion.  It  is  an  ancient  theme,  touched  upon  by  several  speakers 
at  this  conference.  If  the  Lord  will  help  me,  I  should  like  to  discuss  it 
with  you  briefly. 

This  is  a  Church  of  peace.  The  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is 
a  gospel  of  peace.  The  head  of  the  Church,  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  was 
spoken  of  in  Brother  McKay's  address,  as  the  Prince  of  Peace.  If  we 
study  the  conditions  of  the  Church,  its  principles,  its  practices,  all  that 
pertains  to  it,  we  shall  find  that  they  all  converge  upon  one  great  ob- 
jective— the  establishment  of  peace  upon  earth  and  among  the  children 
of  men.  That  is  the  objective  which  dates  back  to  the  beginning  of 
mortal  time. 

This  matter  of  peace  appears  and  reappears  in  the  scriptures.  It 
was  Brother  Kirkham,  yesterday,  who  quoted  the  Savior :  "Peace  I 
leave  with  you,  my  peace  I  give  unto  you.  .  .  ."  (John  14:27.) 

At  this  particular  time  in  the  world's  history,  we  have  much  to  say 
about  peace.  The  devil  for  some  time  has  been  given  ample  dominion 
over  his  own ;  but  we  understand,  that  there  never  was  a  time  when  the 
hand  of  the  Lord  was  wholly  withdrawn  from  human  affairs.  Apparent- 
ly the  tide  of  battle  is  now  being  turned  by  the  Lord  toward  victory  for 
those  who  are  battling  for  righteous  principles. 

Therefore,  men  are  speaking  about  peace,  and  what  is  going  to 
happen  after  the  war.  Books  and  articles  are  being  published,  there  is 
a  deluge  of  written  material  setting  up  propositions  and  proposals  rela- 
tive to  the  disposition  of  all  mankind  and  all  human  affairs  after  the 
war  is  over. 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


113 


I  want  to  say  to  my  brethren  here  today  that  these  proposals  begin 
at  the  wrong  end,  and  that  they  will  all  fail.  Peace  upon  earth  is  not 
to  be  established  by  Congress  or  Parliament,  or  by  a  group  of  interna- 
tional representatives.  Peace  is  not  a  thing  that  can  be  taken  on,  then 
taken  off  again,  as  we  do  a  piece  of  clothing.  Peace  is  quite  different 
from  that.  Peace  cannot  be  legislated  into  existence.  It  is  not  the  way 
to  lasting  peace  upon  earth.   That,  every  man  here  understands. 

Remember,  the  Savior  Himself  tried  to  point  that  out  to  us,  for 
when  he  spoke  to  his  disciples  and  said,  "Peace  I  give  unto  you,  peace 
I  leave  with  you,"  He  added,  "Not  as  the  world  giveth,  give  I  unto  you." 

Peace  comes  from  within ;  peace  is  myself,  if  I  am  a  truly  peaceful 
man.  The  very  essence  of  me  must  be  the  spirit  of  peace.  Individuals 
make  up  the  community,  and  the  nation — an  old  enough  doctrine,  which 
we  often  overlook — and  the  only  way  to  build  a  peaceful  community  is 
to  build  men  and  women  who  are  lovers  and  makers  of  peace.  Each 
individual,  by  that  doctrine  of  Christ  and  His  Church,  holds  in  his  own 
hands  the  peace  of  the  world. 

That  makes  me  responsible  for  the  peace  of  the  world,  and  makes 
you  individually  responsible  for  the  peace  of  the  world.  The  responsi- 
bility cannot  be  shifted  to  someone  else.  It  cannot  be  placed  upon  the 
shoulders  of  Congress  or  Parliament,  or  any  other  organization  of  men 
with  governing  authority. 

I  wonder  if  the  Lord  did  not  have  that  in  mind  when  he  said :  .  .  . 
"the  kingdom  of  God  is  within  you,"  (Luke  17 :21 ) ,  or  perhaps  we  should 
re-emphasize  it  and  say :  "The  kingdom  of  God  is  within  you." 

Peace  Comes  From  Within 

I  believe  that  our  problems  iri  this  day  and  age  are  in  some  respects 
the  most  terrible  in  the  whole  history  of  the  world,  and  the  most  difficult 
to  understand.  Yet  we  know  that  peace  and  all  that  pertains  to  it  must 
come  from  within  honest  human  hearts  who  have  been  drilled  and  tested 
in  righteousness. 

The  question  may  be  asked,  Is  it  really  possible  for  such  individuals 
to  be  vanquished,  shall  we  say,  by  peace  ?  Is  it  possible  for  such  individ- 
uals to  be  so  multiplied  in  number,  as  to  make  of  the  earth  a  happy,  peace- 
ful dwelling  place.  The  answer  which  we  give  to  the  world  is  that  if  a 
man  but  conform  to,  if  he  be  in  harmony  with,  eternal  law,  peace  will  be 
his.  That  is  a  simple  formula  which  refers  to  body,  mind,  and  spirit, 
and  to  our  neighbors.  If  I  obey  the  physical  laws  of  the  body,  physical 
peace  will  be  mine.  If  I  obey  the  laws  of  mental  health,  I  shall  be  men- 
tally at  peace.  If  I  obey  the  spiritual  laws  which  God  has  given,  I  shall 
likewise  find  peace,  the  highest  peace.  If  I  love  my  neighbors,  even  as 
I  love  myself  and  my  God,  and  all  men'  do  the  same,  there  will  be  com- 
plete social  peace.  Such  obedience  can  be  yielded ;  such  harmony  can 
be  won.  It  has  been  done  by  men ;  it  can  be  done  again.  Such  harmony 
with  law  lies  at  the  foundation  of  the  problem  of  our  searching  and 
reaching  out  for  peace  in  our  troubled  world. 


114  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  3  .      Third  Dag 

There  may  be  some  here  who  have  tried  to  pay  a  part  of  the  tithing 
due  the  Lord.  Has  peace  remained  in  their  hearts  ?  Ask  ourselves !  There 
may  be  those,  like  the  soldier  mentioned  by  Brother  Lee  this  morning, 
who  have  been  taught  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and  have  failed  to  keep  it. 
There  was  not  peace  in  the  heart  of  our  soldier  brother  when  he  lay 
wounded  and  in  dire  need  of  divine  help.  There  is  not  peace  in  our 
hearts  when  we  disobey  the  law  .  Conformity  to  the  law  alone  brings 
peace. 

But  before  we  can  obey  we  must  know  and  understand  the  law. 
Thereby  hangs  a  tale  so  long  that  it  is  impossible  to  discuss  it  in  the  few 
minutes  at  my  disposal.  Peace  has  been  lost  because  the  world  has  lost 
the  knowledge  of  divine  truth,  or  knowing  it,  has  misunderstood  it. 

For  example,  God,  who  needs  to  be  known  first,  has  been  made  into 
an  ethereal  essence,  filling  space,  which,  as  the  Father  of  men,  is  incom- 
prehensible to  the  human  mind.  It  is  folly  to  look  for  peace  among  men 
when  the  deeper  realities  of  existence  are  not  understood.  Men  are  ill 
at  ease  who  do  not  comprehend  these  truths  correctly,  and  are  prone  to 
warfare.  Only  as  the  truths  of  existence  are  found  and  accepted  will 
peace  prevail  on  earth. 

Men  must  also  understand  the  plan  of  salvation,  the  meaning  of 
life,  to  find  peace  in  their  own  hearts,  and  to  help  establish  peace  on 
earth.  I  remember  the  hostile  British  officer  who  attempted  to  prevent 
my  entrance  into  Great  Britain  because  I  was  a  "Mormon."  In  the  en- 
suing conversation  he  said  finally :  "If  I  admit  you,  what  will  you  do  in 
Great  Britain?" 

I  answered :  "If  you  admit  me,  I  shall,  to  the  best  of  my  ability  teach 
the  people  of  Great  Britain  how  to  win  happiness  in  this  life  and  the  life 
hereafter.  I  shall  tell  them  whence  they  came,  why  they  are  here  upon 
this  earth,  and  where  they  are  going  after  death." 

The  uniformed  man,  a  long-time  servant  of  the  empire,  looked  at 
me  in  astonishment.  "Can  you  answer  these  questions?  All  my  life  I 
have  sought  answers  to  them.  No  one  has  been  able  to>  answer  me. 
Please  teach  me." 

He  was  not  at  peace,;  he  was  uneasy  in  his  heart. 

I  remember  the  aged  widow  in  southern  Utah,  a  convert  from  Eng- 
land, who  had  left  a  cultured  home  to  begin  the  pioneer  toil  of  building 
an  empire  here  in  the  western  desert.  She  told  of  her  struggles  and 
sacrifices,  of  the  pains  of  her  days  and  years.  When  she  had  told  the 
story,  one  to  bring  tears  to  my  eyes,  I  said  to  her,  "Sister,  yours  has 
been  a  hard  life ;  you  have  sacrificed  much.  Let  me  ask  you,  if  you  were 
a  girl  again  in  England  and  could  look  down  the  coming  years,  would 
you  do  it  again?  Would  you  accept  the  gospel  and  face  the  life  that 
you  have  here  lived  ?" 

The  old  lady,  in  her  eighties,  got  up  from  her  chair,  looked  me  in 
the  eye:  "You  ask  me,  would  I  do  it  again?  For  that  which  the  gospel 
has  given  me,  I  would  do  it  over  again  ten  thousand  times."  She  had 
found  peace.   Her  heart  was  at  ease. 

There  is  no  time  to  discuss  further  the  method  by  which  individual 
peace  may  be  won,  but  it  may  be  added  that  the  seeker  after  peace  must 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE  115 


forget  himself  in  the  search.  The  art  of  placing  the  cause  above  one- 
self is  of  first  importance  if  peace  shall  grow  in  our  hearts.  Whenever 
we  place  ourselves  before  the  cause,  we  are,  in  the  words  of  President 
John  Taylor,  in  the  hands  of  evil.  The  peace  disappears. 

The  Meaning  of  "Zion" 

Let  me  say  one  thing  more.  There  is  a  statement  in  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  which  I  have  read  with  many  a  sober  thought: 

.  .  .  every  man  that  will  not  take  his  sword  against  his  neighbor  must  needs 
flee  unto  Zion  for  safety. 

And  there  shall  be  gathered  unto  it  out  of  every  nation  under  heaven ; 
and  it  shall  be  the  only  people  that  shall  not  be  at  war  one  with  another. 
(D.  &  C.  45:68,  69.) 

"They  shall  flee  to  Zion  for  safety."  That  I  believe  does  not  mean 
a  geographically  limited  place,  but  a  place  where  the  pure  in  heart  dwell, 
for  they  are  Zion,  and  out  of  that  Zion  consisting  of  the  pure  in  heart 
shall  go  forth  the  force  and  power  that  will  bring  peace  to  pass  upon  this 
unhappy  earth. 

We  are  Zion ;  we  say  we  are ;  I  know  we  are.  We  are  under  the 
tremendous  commission  so  to  live,  so  to  establish  peace  in  our  own  hearts 
as  to  make  our  companionship,  wherever  we  are,  a  society  to  which  the 
suffering,  the  uneasy,  those  without  peace,  in  all  the  world,  may  flee 
for  safety.  Truly  a  tremendous  obligation  rests  upon  the  Latter-day 
Saints. 

Our  patriarch  spoke  last  night  of  this  people  being  as  a  leaven.  We 
know  that  to  be  true.  We  are  as  a  leaven  to  all  the  world.  That  is  why 
the  "minority"  of  which  he  spoke  does  not  count.  Future,  lasting  peace 
is  not  a  question  of  majority  or  minority,  but  of  the  power  of  the  leaven. 
The  leaven  may  be  weak.  Sometimes  it  needs  to  be  strengthened.  That 
is  our  problem,  especially  the  task  of  leadership,  to  strengthen  among 
our  people  the  leaven  of  peace,  the  gospel  of  peace,  so  that  out  of  our  very 
presence,  out  of  our  hearts  and  faith,  something  radiates  that  will  touch 
the  hearts  of  all  who  are  seekers  after  truth,  who  are  lovers  of  peace.  As 
such  people  gather  to  us,  if  we  do  our  duty,  they  will  be  blessed  and  find 
that  which  they  seek,  and  with  us  help  establish  upon  earth  the  kingdom 
of  peace,  which  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

At  this  moment  I  am  looking  into  the  faces  of  the  leadership  of  the 
Church  of  Christ.  We  have  had  in  this  Conference  a  wonderful  feast 
of  good  things.  Seldom  have  I  felt  so  spiritually  fed.  Shall  we  go  back 
now  to  our  homes  and  to  our  labors  and  take  all  the  truths  that  we  have 
received,  and  convert  them  into  a  message  of  peace  wherever  we  go  ?  Let 
us  do  so.   Remember  that 

Blessed  are  the  peacemakers :  for  they  shall  be  called  the  children  of 
God.  (Matt.  5:9.) 

My  message  to  you,  and  my  plea  with  you  is  that  each  one  of  us, 
in  behalf  of  himself,  his  flock,  the  world,  will  constitute  himself  a  peace- 


116  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  3  Third  Day 

maker,  beginning  with  his  own  heart,  to  cleanse  it,  to  make  it  fit  for  the 
abode  of  peace. 

May  God  so  help  us  and  bless  us,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


Elder  John  Hibbard  sang  a  solo,  "The  Lord's  Prayer,"  (Music  by 
B.  Cecil  Gates). 

ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Brethren,  I  need  your  help.  For  the  first  time  in  thirteen  years  we 
have  had  our  whole  family  together  for  the  past  two  days,  and  they  have 
been  greatly  concerned  about  me.  My  wife  said :  "Daddy,  I  hope  you 
are  thinking."  But  how  can  a  man  think,  when  he  has  been  waiting  for 
what  I  have  been  expecting  for  three  days  ? 

Appreciation  for  the  Church 

This  Church,  to  me,  means  everything.  It  is  my  very  life.  All  my 
happiness,  all  my  desires,  have  been  wrapped  up  in  it.  I  have  known  the 
brethren ;  I  love  them,  and  I  appreciate  the  opportunity  of  being  permit- 
ted to  work  with  them  and  associate  with  them.  I  realize  that  our  ac- 
tions sometimes  are  misunderstood — the  things  we  do  and  the  things 
we  say.    As  leaders  of  this  Church  we  should  be  very,  very  careful. 

A  few  days  ago  we  spent  most  of  the  day  in  the  temple.  Nearly 
all  of  the  General  Authorities  were  there.  As  we  walked  in  a  body  back 
up  South  Temple  Street  to  the  Church  Office  Building,  and  repaired  to 
our  several  offices,  in  one  of  the  offices  a  telephone  rang  and  a  woman's 
voice,  using  the  name  of  the  Lord  in  vain,  informed  the  one  who  was 
answering  that  she  had  seen  these  men  going  up  the  street,  that  she  had 
never  committed  a  sin  in  her  life,  but  that  we  were  something  that  is  un- 
speakable over  this  microphone. 

I  thought  of  what  we  had  been  trying  to  do  in  the  temple,  to  prepare 
ourselves  that  we  might  be  better  servants,  that  we  might  be  better  able 
to  help  that  woman  and  all  other  souls  who  will  but  give  ear  to  the  teach- 
ings of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Respect  Shown  for  President  Grant 

The  experiences  that  crowd  in  upon  our  lives  are  the  things  that 
make  us  big  or  small.  We  learn  through  these  experiences.  Methinks  the 
greatest  thrill  that  ever  came  to  me  was  some  years  ago  when  I  was  per- 
mitted to  attend  a  meeting  of  the  Chamber  of  Commerce  in  the  city  of 
Reno,  Nevada,  made  up  completely,  of  course,  of  non-Mormons.  Presi- 
dent Heber  J.  Grant  was  to  be  the  speaker,  and  as  he  walked  into  that 
chamber,  every  man  there  stood  upon  his  feet  and  with  respect  in  his 
heart  stood  quietly  until  the  President  had  taken  his  place. 


ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 


117 


I  had  never  seen  that  before,  in  our  organizations  or  congregations, 
and  it  thrilled  me  to  the  fingertips. 

Friday,  Saturday,  and  today,  as  the  leaders  of  the  Church  stood 
as  President  Grant  entered  this  building,  it  thrilled  me  to  know  that  we, 
too,  now  are  beginning  to  appreciate  this  man  who  has  been  the  servant 
of  us  all.  God  bless  him,  that  he  may  be  strong  and  healthy  and  live 
yet  many  years  to  be  our  leader. 

An  Effective  Lesson  on  the  Word  of  Wisdom 

Not  so  very  long  ago  a  young  man  whose  duty  calls  him  to  go  to 
different  parts  of  the  United  States,  had  occasion,  after  visiting  up  near 
the  Canadian  border,  to  return  to  Washington,  D.C,  but  a  storm  came 
up  and  forced  him  and  his  associates  to  remain  somewhere  in  Pennsyl- 
vania. It  was  near  a  C.C.C.  camp.  The  C.C.C.  boys  were  just  ready 
to  have  their  evening  meal.  The  day  was  cold,  and  coffee  was  served, 
of  course,  to  all  of  those  who  were  seated  around  the  tables.  This  young 
man  thought  that  inasmuch  as  it  was  cold,  and  he  was  cold,  and  the  cof- 
fee was  hot — he  had  never  been  a  drinker  of  coffee,  he  had  never  even 
seen  it  nor  smelled  it  in  his  own  home — he  thought  he  would  warm  up 
a  bit  with  a  cup  of  coffee,  and  so  he  drank  it. 

Sitting  at  the  side  of  him  was  a  young  C.C.C.  lad,  and  they  got  into 
conversation,  and  the  boy  wanted  to  know  where  he  was  from.  He  said 
he  was  from  Utah.  The  boy  said,  "Are  you  a  Mormon?"  The  young 
man  said,  "Yes."  and  the  boy  said,  "You  are  not  a  very  good  one,  are 
you  ?" 

This  young  man  had  paid  thousands  of  dollars  in  tithing,  and  felt 
that  he  was  a  good  Mormon.  He  believed  in  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and 
he  lived  it.  But  here  was  an  occasion  where  he  thought  he  would  not 
be  known,  and  he  might  perhaps  warm  up  with  this  beverage,  only  to 
find  out  that  sitting  next  to  him  was  a  boy  who  had  worked  in  a  C.C.C. 
camp  down  around  St.  George,  and  knew  the  standards  of  the  Mormon 
people. 

This  young  man  said  that  this  was  the  most  effective  lesson  of  his 
life.   He  vowed  that  he  would  never  again  break  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 

Brethren,  none  of  us  who  holds  the  Priesthood  and  the  right  of 
leadership  in  this  Church  can  get  so  far  away  but  that  there  will  be  some- 
one who  will  know  what  we  are  doing.    We  cannot  hide  our  sins. 

I  have  heard  many  complaints  about  leaders  who  do  these  very 
things  of  which  I  have  been  speaking — not  occasionally,  but  very  often. 
What  a  mark  they  leave  upon  the  minds  of  those  who  see  and  observe ! 

A  Mormon  Missionary  and  a  Chaplain 

I  am  grateful  for  the  privilege  that  has  been  mine  to  be  a  missionary. 
I  am  receiving  letters  from  missionaries  who  are  now  scattered  all  over 
the  world.  Recently  one  came  in  to  see  me.  He  had  been  stationed  at 
Tampa,  Florida.  Upon  his  arrival  there  the  chaplain  became  very  much 
interested  in  him,  because  of  his  ability,  and  he  said  to  him,  "I  wonder 
if  you  would  be  willing  to  be  my  assistant  here?" 


118  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  3  Third  Day 

Elder  Lorin  Folland  said:  "I  will  be  very  happy  to  do  that,  but 
you  know,  I  am  a  Mormon." 

The  chaplain  said :  "A  Mormon !  My  gracious,  you  musn't  say  any- 
thing about  that  to  anybody  else.  Keep  that  a  secret.  But  you  do  what 
I  tell  you  to  do." 

Elder  Folland  began  to  do  what  he  told  him  to  do.  The  chaplain 
became  a  little  inquisitive  and  asked  him  about  himself.  He  is  a  lad  that 
I  had  sent  up  to  labor  in  Alaska,  and  he  spent  one  winter  there  in  the 
branches  of  that  great  country,  teaching  the  gospel  to  the  people  of  Alas- 
ka. He  had  a  testimony.  Finally  the  chaplain  was  so  interested  that  he 
got  the  whole  story  and  published  it  in  the  army  bulletin,  telling  of  this 
Mormon  missionary  who  was  his  assistant. 

A  few  days  ago  this  missionary  walked  into  my  office,  and  said, 
"You  know,  president,  that  chaplain  was  moved  away,  and  I  assisted 
three  or  four  of  the  chaplains  that  were  in  charge  down  there.  I  re- 
ceived a  letter  the  other  day  from  my  first  chaplain,  and  he  said  in  the 
letter,  'The  place  where  I  am  now  assigned  to  work  is  under  a  command- 
ing officer  who  is  a  Mormon,'  and  he  said,  T  feel  strength  in  knowing 
that  I  have  a  man  of  God,  a  witness  for  God,  as  my  leader.'  " 

I  do  not  know  who  that  man  is,  but  I  trust  that  our  Heavenly  Father 
will  so  move  upon  his  soul  that  he  will  desire  to  live  the  gospel  and 
be  an  example  to  the  many  men  who  are  laboring  under  him,  and  especial- 
ly to  that  chaplain  who  has  such  confidence  in  us  as  a  people  because  of 
my  missionary. 

An  Interesting  Experience  of  a  Lady  Missionary 

One  of  my  lady  missionaries  felt  impelled  to  join  the  Waves.  She 
too,  was  selected  to  be  the  assistant  to  the  chaplain.  She  could  not  sing 
the  Methodist  and  Presbyterian  songs  very  well,  so  she  got  a  book  of 
the  songs  of  Zion,  and  began  to  teach  them  to  this  great  group  of  girls, 
over  three  hundred  of  them.  She  said  to  me,  "You  know,  they  can  sing 
our  songs  as  well  as  we  can." 

Recently  the  newspapers  in  Chicago  sent  the  reporters  over  to  see 
this  group  of  three  hundred  Waves  with  the  purpose  of  interviewing 
the  three  outstanding  Waves,  and  they  selected  this  Mormon  missionary 
as  one  of  the  three  outstanding.  In  her  letter  she  said,  "President,  they 
didn't  care  anything  about  me,  but  they  were  interested  in  my  ideals.  They 
wondered  why  I  didn't  smoke,  and  why  I  didn't  drink."  Just  one  in 
three  hundred- — the  only  Mormon  girl  there — but  she  can  be  depended 
upon. 

Preaching  the  Gospel  by  Living  It 

One  young  man  wrote  me  from  California:  "President,  I  am  right 
back  where  I  started,  in  San  Luis  Obispo,  where  I  learned  to  be  a  mis- 
sionary, and  I  am  now  trying  to  learn  how  to  be  a  soldier."  He  said,  "it 
is  interesting.  Last  night,  just  as  I  was  ready  to  retire,  some  of  the 
boys  gathered  around  and  began  to  ask  questions.  They  wanted  to  know 
why  I  didn't  smoke,  why  I  didn't  drink,  why  I  didn't  go  out  girling  with 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


119 


them."  He  said,  "I  began  to  explain,  and  finally  over  thirty  of  the  fellows 
gathered  around  me  and  for  hours  I  was  preaching  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  to  them." 

Well,  his  best  sermons  will  be  his  life,  of  course.  The  words  we  say 
won't  count  for  very  much,  but  the  way  we  live  counts  for  so  much. 
You  men  are  marked  men.  All  of  us  are.  How  careful  we  should  be 
to  not  give  offense,  but  to  bless  always. 

Peace  Will  Come  Through  Love 

Peace  will  come  and  can  come  when  we  can  get  the  same  feeling  into 
the  hearts  of  others  that  is  in  our  hearts.  I  have  sometimes  wondered. 
Recently  I  visited  our  colonies  in  Mexico.  I  talked  to  one  of  the  brethren 
there  and  asked  him  whom  he  worked  for.  He  said,  "Oh,  I  couldn't  work 
for  anyone.  I  have  a  little  farm,  and  I  pay  the  Mexicans  to  do  the  work. 
I  pay  from  twenty  to  forty  cents  a  day,  and  they  do  the  work." 

I  thought,  "Yes,  all  the  apples  are  hanging  north  of  the  Rio  Grande, 
and  all  those  people  down  there  wanting  a  few,  but  how  can  they  get 
them?" 

Can  we  be  happy,  can  we  be  satisfied,  if  just  the  other  side  of  the 
river  men  work  for  twenty  cents  a  day,  and  here  our  boys  earn  seventy- 
five  cents  an  hour  ?  Can  peace  come  that  way,  or  have  we  got  to  do  some- 
thing to  help  the  other  folks  to  get  a  few  of  the  plums  ? 

The  sunny  road  to  happiness  is  easy, 

Friend  of  mine; 
You  work  ahead  serenely 

And  banish  care  from  mind; 
The  love  you  freely  scatter, 

The  good  you  daily  do, 
The  helping  hand  you  proffer, 

Brings  happiness  to  you. 

God  bless  us  that  we  may  live  always  near  Him,  is  my  prayer,  in 
Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

Those  of  us  who  are  privileged  to  work  with  youth  are  prone  many 
times,  in  fact  most  of  the  time,  to  admonish  and  counsel  parents  in  the 
training  of  their  sons  and  daughters.  In  this  there  is  involved  another 
factor  of  equal  importance,  namely,  the  counsel  that  should  be  given  to 
children  with  reference  to  their  attitude  toward  fathers  and  mothers.  This 
not  alone  involves  children,  young  men  and  women,  but  us  of  an  older 
generation. 

A  Covenant  of  Israel 

It  brings  to  mind  the  children  of  Israel  who  had  been  out  of  the  land 
of  Egypt  three  months,  traveling  to  the  wilderness  of  Sinai,  when  the  voice 
of  the  Lord  was  heard : 


120  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  3  Third  Dag 

Ye  have  seen  what  I  did  unto  the  Egyptians,  and  how  I  bare  you  on 
eagles'  wings,  and  brought  you  unto  myself.  Now  therefore,  if  ye  will  obey 
my  voice  indeed,  and  keep  my  covenant,  then  ye  shall  be  a  peculiar  treasure 
unto  me  above  all  people :  for  all  the  earth  is  mine :  And  ye  shall  be  unto 
me  a  kingdom  of  priests,  and  an  holy  nation.  These  are  the  words  which 
thou  shalt  speak  unto  the  children  of  Israel.  (Ex.  19:4-6.) 

Thus  spoke  the  Lord  to  his  covenant  people  with  whose  progenitors 
he  made  a  promise  and  a  covenant  that  they  were  to  be  his  chosen  people, 
the  elect  of  the  earth,  becoming  as  numerous  as  the  sands  of  the  seashore. 
But  bondage  to  a  great  nation  of  worshippers  of  false  gods  became  their 
lot,  and  the  ideologies  of  worship  and  life  of  the  Egyptians  became  a  part 
of  the  practices  and  lives  of  the  children  of  Israel.  Consequently,  the 
Lord  delivered  them  as  he  said  from  the  fleshpots  of  the  Egyptians  and 
gave  them  forty  years  of  preparation  based  upon  the  Ten  Commandments 
before  permitting  them  to  enter  the  land  of  their  inheritance,  a  repentent 
and  chastened  people. 

A  Commandment  and  a  Promise 

The  fifth  commandment  was  one  of  the  most  basic  in  the  Lord's  train- 
ing of  his  disobedient  children,  for  upon  it  hinged  the  patriarchal  order  of 
the  family.  It  is  the  only  commandment  of  the  ten  that  has  in  it  a  promise, 
a  promise  of  longevity  upon  the  earth  to  those  who  obey  it : 

Honour  thy  father  and  thy  mother :  that  thy  days  may  be  long  upon 
the  land  which  the  Lord  thy  God  giveth  thee.  (Ex.  20:12.) 

In  the  days  of  the  Israelites,  it  was  the  custom  for  a  father  to  become 
the  very  head  and  ruler  of  his  posterity;  his  word  was  law.  He  was 
counselor  to  his  children.  Although  Moses  was  called  of  God  to  deliver 
the  children  of  Israel  from  bondage,  in  lieu  of  his  own  father,  he  sought 
the  counsel  and  advice  of  his  father-in-law. 

All  of  the  ancient  servants  of  the  Lord  understood  fully  the  sig- 
nificance of  this  commandment,  for  the  writer  of  Proverbs  declared  to 
the  children  of  his  day  the  following : 

My  son,  keep  thy  father's  commandment,  and  forsake  not  the  law  of  thy 
mother :  Bind  them  continually  upon  thine  heart,  and  tie  them  about  thy 
neck.  When  thou  goest,  it  shall  lead  thee ;  when  thou  sleepest,  it  shall  keep 
thee  ;  and  when  thou  awakest,  it  shall  talk  with  thee.  For  the  commandment 
is  a  lamp ;  and  the  law  is  light ;  and  reproofs  of  instruction  are  the  way  of 
life.  (Prov.  6:20-23.) 

Parents  were  honored  and  revered  not  only  in  the  flush  of  younger 
years,  for  the  writer  of  Proverbs  again  declares  : 

Hearken  unto  thy  father  that  begat  thee,  and  despise  not  thy  mother 
when  she  is  old.  (Prov.  23:22.) 

A  son  or  a  daughter  who  cursed  father  or  mother  in  the  light  of 
Israelitish  understanding  of  the  fifth  commandment  had  the  following 
hanging  over  his  or  her  head  : 

Whoso  curseth  his  father  or  his  mother,  his  lamp  shall  be  put  out  in 
obscure  darkness.  (Prov.  20:20.) 

Micah,  the  old  prophet,  points  out  in  the  following  passage  the  rea- 
sons for  disunited  families  and  divided  households. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


121 


For  the  son  dishonoureth  the  father,  the  daughter  riseth  up  against 
her  mother,  the  daughter  in  law  against  her  mother  in  law  ;  a  man's  enemies 
are  the  men  of  his  own  house.  (Micah  7 :6.)  ^_ 

Jesus  Christ,  our  Elder  Brother,  exemplified  in  his  attitude  toward 
his.  earthly  parents  complete  compliance  with  and  obedience  to  the  fifth 
commandment,  indicating  to  the  Scribes  and  Pharisees,  upon  one  occasion, 
as  recorded  in  Matthew  15,  verses  2  to  8,  that  they  were  hypocrites  in  that 
they  had  failed  to  obey  the  fifth  commandment  and  had  taught  to  the 
people  the  wrong  concept  of  it. 

A  dying  Redeemer  on  Calvary's  hill  observed  the  swooning  form  of 
his  loyal  and  devoted  mother.  Mindful  of  her  to  the  very  last,  he  said  to 
John  the  Beloved,  "Behold  thy  mother,"  consigning  her  to  the  care  of 
John,  exemplifying  his  love  and  respect  for  her. 

The  Apostle  Paul  declared  to  the  Ephesians : 

Children,  obey  your  parents  in  the  Lord :  for  this  is  right.  Honour  thy 
father  and  mother ;  which  is  the  first  commandment  with  promise ;  That  it 
ma)-  be  well  with  thee,  and  thou  mayest  live  long  on  the  earth.  (Eph.  6  :l-3.) 

The  Fifth  Commandment  Binding  at  the  Present  Time 

Many  centuries  have  passed  since  the  days  of  the  Israelites  and  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world,  but  again  we  submit  the  question :  What  about 
the  fifth  commandment  in  this  dispensation  ?  Is  this  commandment  still 
binding  upon  the  covenant  people  of  this  day?  The  answer  is  obvious 
for  in  the  restoration  of  the  new  and  everlasting  covenant,  family  ties, 
bonds,  and  relationships  in  this  life  and  the  eternities  yet  to  come  are  de- 
pendent upon  the  acceptance  of  and  obedience  to  the  immortal  command- 
ment, "Honour  thy  father  and  thy  mother,"  for  the  Lord  promised  the 
ancients  that  He  would  send  Elijah  the  prophet  as  recorded  in  Malachi 
4,  verses  5  and  6. 

Behold,  I  will  send  you  Elijah  the  prophet  before  the  coming  of  the 
great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord :  And  he  shall  turn  the  heart  of  the 
fathers  to  the  children,  and  the  heart  of  the  children  to  their  fathers,  lest  I 
come  and  smite  the  earth  with  a  curse. 

Since  Elijah's  appearance  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  temples  have  ' 
been  erected  wherein  are  performed  these  binding  ordinances  which  seal 
fathers,  mothers,  sons,  and  daughters  together,  not  only  for  time  but  for 
all  eternity.  These  sealings  are  valid  as  far  as  eternities  are  concerned  in 
so  far  as  children  honor  fathers  and  mothers.  Family  relationship  in  this 
life  will  influence  our  future  eternal  associations.  Failure  to  honor  par- 
ents temporally  will  jeopardize  anticipated  eternal  blessings.  Israel's 
God  will  never  sustain  any  son  or  daughter  who  enjoys  the  privilege  of 
having  a  tabernacle  in  the  flesh  and  then  casts  that  father  or  mother  aside 
who  has  made  this  glorious  privilege  possible.  As  God's  covenant  people, 
the  obligation  resting  upon  us  to  honor  fathers  and  mothers  is  just  as  bind- 
ing as  it  was  upon  the  children  of  Israel  and  the  Saints  who  lived  in  the 
days  of  Christ.  If  there  is  one  people  who  should  fully  understand  and 
comprehend  the  fifth  commandment  from  a  temporal  and  a  spiritual  point 
of  view,  it  should  be  the  members  of  the  restored  Church  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ. 


122  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  3  Third  Day 

Parents  Worthy  of  Honor 

Consider  the  sacrifices  made  by  fathers  and  mothers  in  the  struggle 
to  provide  for  their  children  the  necessities  of  life  in  addition  to  scholastic 
and  other  opportunities.  In  many  instances  if  these  privileges  had  not 
been  afforded  by  the  parents,  the  parents  would  have  had  enough  of  this 
world's  goods  to  live  independent  of  children  or  other  agencies,  but  be- 
cause of  parental  love,  personal  sacrifices  for  children  have  not  been  too 
great  in  the  eyes  of  loyal  and  devoted  parents. 

The  Maintenance  of  Aged  Parents  A  Duty 

The  servants  of  Jacob's  God,  speaking  in  these  the  last  days,  declare 
again  to  the  people  of  the  Lord  to  honor  thy  father  and  thy  mother,  to  ac- 
cept their  advice  and  maintain  them  if  necessary  with  the  essentials  of 
life,  not  permitting  this  special  privilege  and  sacred  obligation  to  be 
placed  in  the  hands  of  any  public  agency. 

The  older  brethren  and  sisters  may  be  classified  in  two  divisions : 
first,  those  who  are  physically  able  to  work,  and  second,  those  who  are 
incapacitated.  Those  who  are  physically  able  to  work  should  be  provided 
with  this  opportunity,  for  the  Lord  has  denied  no  man  this  privilege  on 
account  of  age.  Adam  was  commanded  to  leave  the  Garden  of  Eden 
and  to  earn  his  bread  by  the  toil  of  his  hands  and  the  sweat  of  his  brow. 
The  Lord  at  no  time  indicated  to  Adam  that  a  certain  age  he  would  be 
retired.  Those  who  are  physically  incapacitated  for  work  should  be  cared 
for,  first  by  their  children,  then  by  the  Priesthood  quorum,  or  the  Church. 

The  fifth  commandment  is  a  definite  and  integral  part  of  the  Gospel 
of  salvation ;  therefore  the  servants  of  the  Lord  throughout  the  Church 
are  responsible  for  its  being  taught  to  the  people. 

Bishops  should  determine  the  economic  status  of  all  aged  members, 
calling  into  council  sons  and  daughters  of  those  who  are  dependent  for 
their  sustenance  upon  public  relief  agencies,  to  work  out  means  and  ways 
whereby  fathers  and  mothers  in  declining  years  receive  from  their  own 
flesh  and  blood  the  necessities  of  life  as  a  loving  expression  of  gratitude 
to  the  Lord  for  faithful  and  loving  parents. 

Quorums  to  Assist 

There  are  some  cases  where  sons  and  daughters,  because  of  family 
responsibilities,  find  their  resources  insufficient  to  care  fully  for  parents. 
For  this  reason,  the  Priesthood  quorum  to  which  the  aged  father  belongs 
should  be  called  upon  to  provide  work  or  some  means  whereby  an  indi- 
vidual can  sustain  himself.  Thus  the  Priesthood  quorum  magnifies  the 
real  order  of  this  divine  brotherhood,  namely,  in  being  my  brother's 
keeper. 

When  the  family  and  the  quorum  have  done  all  within  their  power 
to  assist,  should  further  assistance  be  needed,  then  the  bishop  of  the  ward, 
with  the  resources  of  the  Welfare  program,  the  fast  offerings,  and  the 
tithes  of  the  Church,  should  supplement  and  augment  the  assistance  al- 
ready rendered.  In  the  case  of  an  aged  brother  and  sister  who  have  no 
children  or  quorum  connections,  the  bishop  of  the  ward  is  obliged  to  pro- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


123 


vide  food,  shelter,  clothes,  fuel  and  such  cash  as  is  needed  to  provide 
medicine  and  other  small  incidentals  for  the  comfort  and  maintenance  of 
such  brethren  and  sisters.  Any  bishop  who  advises  older  brethren  and 
sisters,  worthy  members  of  the  Church,  to  seek  assistance  from  agencies 
other  than  that  of  family,  Priesthood  quorum  and  Church,  in  the  light  of 
the  fifth  commandment  is  not  following  the  will  of  the  Lord  nor  the  ad- 
vice and  conusel  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church. 

The  Government  Not  to  Be  Burdened 

No  doubt  the  question  has  already  flashed  through  your  minds, 
"What  about  taxes  paid  and  revenues  collected  for  maintenance  of  the 
aged?"  Because  taxes  are  levied  for  a  certain  cause  or  project  does  not 
make  the  cause  or  project  right  nor  lift  the  obligations  that  rest  pon  the 
shoulders  of  Latter-day  Saint  sons  and  daughters  in  relationship  to  their 
parents.  As  loyal  citizens,  we  pay  the  tax ;  in  fact  we  follow  the  admoni- 
tion of  the  Savior  when  He  said,  "Render  therefore  unto  Caesar  the 
things  which  are  Caesar's ;  and  unto  God  the  things  that  are  God's."  (Matt. 
22:21.)  Assuming  our  responsibilities  of  maintaining  parents,  we  also 
exemplify  a  high  degree  of  patriotism  and  genuine  love  for  our  govern- 
ment in  that  we  relieve  it  of  the  expense  involved.  We  should  ever  re- 
member that  the  government  in  and  of  itself  produces  nothing  except 
through  the  channels  of  taxation.  Therefore,  the  people  should  sustain 
the  government  and  not  expect  the  government  to  sustain  them. 

One  not  of  our  faith  declared : 

There  is  more  guarantee  in  the  initiative,  the  will,  the  conscience  of  an 
American  than  in  all  the  statutes  ever  passed  by  Congress.  How  have  we 
lived  on  this  continent  these  three  centuries  since  a  Pilgrim  set  foot  on 
Plymouth  Rock?  How  have  we  managed  to  exist  without  a  government 
guarantee?  Except  for  the  crippled  and  the  sick  and  the  weakest  among 
us,  we  lived  by  God's  mandate,  "Honour  thy  father  and  thy  mother."  The 
parent  nurtured  the  child ;  the  child  protected  the  aging  parent.  It  was  love, 
not  law,  that  guaranteed  life  within  a  God-fearing,  God-loving  family. 

Advice  and  Example  of  Leaders 

As  a  people,  our  leadership  has  always  set  us  an  inspiring  example  in 
that  they,  from  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  down  to  President  Heber  J. 
Grant,  have  been  most  solicitous  for  the  welfare  and  comfort  of  their 
parents.  Think,  if  you  will,  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant ;  faced  in  his 
younger  years  with  financial  ruin,  yet  he  provided  his  mother  with  a 
home  and  supplied  her  with  the  comforts  of  life  to  her  dying  day.  Such 
an  example  of  obedience  to  the  fifth  commandment,  "Honour  thy  father 
and  thy  mother,"  no  doubt  has  led  to  the  many  blessings,  both  spiritual 
and  temporal,  that  the  Lord  has  showered  upon  His  servant.  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith  declared : 

The  family  organization  lies  at  the  basis  of  all  true  government,  and 
too  much  stress  cannot  be  placed  upon  the  importance  of  the  government 
in  the  family  being  as  perfect  as  possible,  nor  upon  the  fact  that  in  all  in- 
stances respect  therefor  should  be  upheld. 

Young  men  should  be  scrupulously  careful  to  impress  upon  their  minds 
the  necessity  of  consulting  with  father  and  mother  in  all  that  pertains  to  their 
actions  in  life.   Respect  and  veneration  for  parents  should  be  inculated  into 


124  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  3  Third  Dag 

the  hearts  of  the  young  people  of  the  Church — father  and  mother  to  be  re- 
spected, their  wishes  to  be  regarded — and  in  the  heart  of  every  child  should 
be  implanted  this  thought  of  esteem  and  consideration  for  parents  which 
characterized  the  families  of  the  ancient  patriarchs. 

God  is  at  the  head  of  the  human  race ;  we  look  up  to  him  as  the  Father 
of  all.  We  cannot  please  him  more  than  by  regarding  the  respecting  and 
honoring  our  fathers  and  mothers,  who  are  the  means  of  our  existence  here 
upon  the  earth. 

Peter  declared : 

But  ye  are  a  chosen  generation,  a  royal  Priesthood,  an  holy  nation,  a 
peculiar  people;  that  ye  should  shew  forth  the  praises  of  Him  who  hath 
called  you  out  of  the  darkness  into  His  marvelous  light.  (I  Peter  2:9.) 

Modern  Israel  A  Covenant  People 

True,  we  enjoy  all  of  the  privileges  of  the  royal  Priesthood.  For 
that  reason  alone  we  should  become  a  holy  nation,  a  peculiar  people,  for 
our  path  has  led  us  out  of  darkness  into  the  marvelous  light  of  the  restored 
gospel  and  revealed  truth.  Being  a  covenant  people  as  were  the  children 
of  Israel  of  old,  we  today  are  the  descendants  of  the  modern  children  of 
Israel  who  one  century  ago  stood  on  the  banks  of  the  Mississippi  River 
with  Nauvoo  the  Beautiful  in  flames  at  their  backs  and  in  front  of  them 
the  desolate  wilderness,  swept  by  the  winds  of  winter.  But  God  of  Israel 
remembered  His  covenant  people  as  He  remembered  them  in  the  days  of 
bondage  in  Egypt  and  revealed  to  a  modern  Moses,  Brigham  Young,  the 
plan  whereby  this  peculiar  people  were  to  be  led  across  the  boundless 
plains  through  the  rugged  defiles  of  yon  mountains  and  into  the  land  of 
modern  Palestine,  with  its  body  of  fresh  water  on  the  south,  connected  to 
the  salten  sea  on  the  north  by  the  River  Jordan.  This  modern  Moses  de- 
clared after  arriving  in  the  valley,  "Hear  ye,  oh  hear  ye,  Israel!  Ye  are 
to  become  a  self-sustaining  people."  Alone  in  the  wilderness,  a  thousand 
miles  from  the  borders  of  civilization,  these  modern  children  of  Israel 
went  to  work  with  an  implicit  faith  in  their  God,  obeying  his  command- 
ments, sustaining  the  aged,  the  widow,  and  the  fatherless,  and  cooperating 
fully  with  one  another,  believing  wholly  in  the  principle  of  free  enter- 
prise and  personal  intiative ;  and  there  arose  on  the  foundation  of  these 
divine  fundamentals  a  great  commonwealth  in  which  the  kingdom,  as 
Brigham  Young  called  the  Church,  was  firmly  anchored. 

We,  the  descendants  of  these  fathers  and  mothers,  owe  all  that  we 
have  and  are  to  them,  which  affords  a  wonderful  opportunity  in  observ- 
ing the  fifth  commandment.  In  honoring  them  we  will  abide  by  the 
principles  in  which  they  had  implicit  faith,  and  render  service  to  the  cause 
for  which  they  worked,  lived  and  died,  to  the  end  that  we  may  remain 
away  from  the  fleshpots  of  a  modern  Egypt,  to  the  end  that  the  promise 
given  in  the  fifth  commandment  shall  be  fulfilled  in  our  behalf,  that  our 
days  shall  be  long  upon  the  land  which  the  Lord  our  God  giveth  us.  "Long 
days  upon  the  land"  stimulates  the  thought  that  it  may  not  mean  days  of 
mortality  alone,  but  the  days  to  come  when  our  earth  shall  become  ce-^ 
lestialized  and  the  dwelling  place  of  those  who  shall  enjoy  and  inherit  the 
celestial  kingdom,  which  I  pray  will  be  the  blessing  of  every  worthy  father 
and  mother  and  every  loyal  son  and  daughter  in  Israel.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  125 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

I  think  it  was  Carlyle  who  said : 

In  this  world  there  is  one  Godlike  thing,  the  essence  of  all  that  ever 
was  or  ever  will  be  of  Godlike  in  this  world — the  veneration  done  to 
human  worth  by  the  hearts  of  men. 

Tributes  to  Rudger  Clawson  and  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon 

That  came  to  my  mind  this  noon  when  our  beloved  President  sug- 
gested that  something  should  be  said  in  this  conference  by  way  of  ap- 
preciation and  tribute  to  two  members  of  the  General  Authorities  who, 
since  our  last  Conference,  have  passed  to  the  other  side — President  Rud- 
ger Clawson  and  Elder  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon. 

President  Grant  is  one  of  the  most  thoughtful  men  in  the  world, 
one  of  the  most  kind-hearted.  Many  people  do  not  know  that.  This  re- 
quest is  typical  of  him ;  his  mind  was  on  an  appreciation  of  services  ren- 
dered by  these  two  men  who  associated  with  him  so  many  years,  par- 
ticularly Brother  Clawson,  who  came  into  the  Council  somewhere  near 
the  time  or  soon  after  President  Grant  was  called. 

President  Clawson  was  a  heroic  defender  of  truth.  He  faced  death, 
as  you  know,  on  one  occasion,  folded  his  arms  and  said,  "Shoot."  His 
life,  however,  was  preserved.  His  companion  sacrificed  his  life,  was 
martyred  for  the  truth.  President  Oawson's  heroism  on  other  occasions 
is  a  good  example  for  us,  when  we  face  temptation.  Rather  than  yield 
the  truth  or  honor,  let  us  sacrifice  any  convenience,  and  if  necessary  life 
itself. 

President  Clawson's  life  was  integrated  with  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.   He  has  passed  to  a  great  reward. 

Elder  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon  was  Presiding  Bishop  of  this  Church 
for  many  years.  Hours  counted  nothing ;  it  was  just  service,  early  morn- 
ing until  late  at  night.  The  gospel  was  all  in  all  to  him.  In  fact,  he,  I 
believe,  shortened  his  life  through  over-exertion.  We  pay  tribute  to  his 
memory,  and  pray  God  to  bless  his  loved  ones,  and  give  them  the  as- 
surance that  Brother  Cannon,  too,  received  the  welcome  plaudit :  "Well 
done,  thou  good  and  faithful  servant,  enter  into  the  joy  of  thy  Lord." 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brethren :  It  is  not  an  easy  task  to  say  a  few  concluding  words 
in  this  great  Conference.  It  has  been  a  great  Conference,  great  in  it  at- 
tendance, for  those  who  are  here  are  the  leaders  of  the  Church.  It  has 
been  a  great  Conference  in  the  elequence  of  its  addresses.  It  has  been  a 
great  Conference  in  the  wide  field  of  human  effort  and  truth  which  the  ad- 


126  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  3  Third  Day 

dresses  have  covered.  It  has  been  a  great  Conference  in  the  fundamental 
philosophy  which  we  have  heard.  Lastly  and  most  importantly,  it  has 
been  a  great  Conference  because  of  the  spiritual  uplift  which  has  come  to 
each  and  every  man  who  has  been  in  attendance.  No  man  can  go  from 
this  Conference  without  being  a  better  man  than  when  he  came  to  its  first 
session. 

The  True  Meaning  of  Unity 

I  referred  Friday  to  the  question  of  unity.  "Except  ye  are  one,  ye 
are  not  mine." 

If  I  might  make  that  just  a  bit  intimately  personal :  If  I  am  not  one 
with  President  Grant,  if  I  as  his  counselor  do  not  hearken  to  what  he 
says ;  if  I  do  not  follow  along  the  lines  that  he  directs ;  if  I  do  not  lend 
to  him  every  assistance  and  every  aid  which  it  is  possible  for  me  to  give, 
I  am  not  one  with  him,  and  I  am  not  then  among  those  whom  the  Lord 
calls  "mine."  I  may  not  be  one  with  him  and  exercise  my  own  discretion, 
consult  my  beliefs,  trace  out  my  own  path  in  opposition  to  his,  and  what 
is  true  of  me,  is  true  of  every  other  officer  in  the  Church. 

If  we  are  going  to  bring  about  and  accomplish  the  great  purposes 
which  the  Lord  has  marked  out  for  us  and  of  which  we  have  heard  so 
much,  so  elequently,  so  beautifully,  and  so  truthfully  in  this  Conference, 
we  must  be  one.  As  I  have  said  to  the  Priesthood  of  this  Church  over 
and  over  again  in  the  past :  If  we  are  one,  really  one,  bringing  together 
all  of  our  wills  and  our  forces  of  character,  and  our  powers,  and  our  abili-> 
ties  into  harmony  with  the  Prophet,  Seer,  and  Revelator  of  God  on  earth 
at  this  time,  there  is  nothing  which  is  beyond  our  power  in  righteousness. 
And  I  can  think  of  nothing  that  today  is  more  important  than  that  we  as 
individuals  shall  seek,  each  and  everyone  of  us,  to  be  one  with  him  who 
is  the  Lord's  anointed,  called  and  ordained  to  head  His  Church. 

The  Lord's  Blessing  Invoked 

Brethren,  may  the  Lord  bless  us.  May  He  give  us  charity  and  for- 
bearance. May  He  give  us  the  power  to  discern  truth  from  error.  May 
He  give  us  the  most  precious  gift  He  has  to  give — wisdom.  May  He  in- 
crease our  knowledge,  our  testimonies,  for,  as  has  been  said  today  it 
seems  to  me  that  the  greatest  force  which  we  have  is  our  testimony,  which 
means  our  knowledge.  May  He  put  into  our  hearts  a  burning  fire  of  love 
of  freedom  and  liberty.  May  we  understand  what  it  means  to  have  our 
free  agency.  May  He  be  constantly  with  us  by  His  Spirit,  and  may  we 
be  able  always  to  enjoy  the  influence  and  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  May 
He  give  us  faith,  through  which  the  world  was  made  and  all  that  in  it  is. 
May  He  give  us  power  to  overcome  evil,  and  to  do  always  that  which  is 
good.  May  He  bring  constantly  nearer  to  us  the  knowledge  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  that  we  are  His  Church 
brought  to  pass  in  these  last  days  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  all 
to  the  end  that  we  and  ours  finally  may  be  saved  and  exalted  in  his  pres- 
ence, I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


127 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Before  we  all  join  in  singing  the  closing  song,  which  will  be  a  prayer 
for  all  of  us,  I  desire  to  express  for  you  appreciation  of  the  services  ren- 
dered by  the  following :  Our  ushers,  custodians,  and  all  who  have  helped 
at  the  gates  since  last  Friday  afternoon,  those  who  contributed  these 
beautiful  flowers,  the  soloists,  the  Tabernacle  Male  Chorus,  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir,  the  City  Commission  for  appointing  police  officers  around 
the  block  and  the  police  officers  who  have  rendered  such  valuable  ser- 
vice;  Brother  William  F.  Nauman,  who  has  charge  of  these  beautiful 
grounds ;  (he  is  probably  one  who  with  his  assistants  has  given  us  these 
beautiful  flowers)  ;  and  all  others  who  have  in  any  way  through  service 
and  willing  response  to  appointment  helped  to  make  this  Conference  such 
a  success.  I  cannot  refrain  either  from  mentioning  the  Mission  Presi- 
dents whom  we  invited  yesterday  to  take  seats  on  the  left  of  the  pulpit 
here  on  the  rostrum.  We  have  not  been  able  to  hear  from  them,  but  we 
have  them  before  us,  and  I  wish  to  read  their  names  to  you  brethren,  for 
we  do  appreciate  the  services  rendered  by  these  able  defenders  of  Truth. 
We  have  John  A.  Israelson,  who  remained  in  the  Norwegian  Mission  only 
a  short  time  because  of  the  war ;  Orlando  C.  Williams,  Spanish- American 
Mission;  Hilton  A.  Robertson,  Japanese  Mission;  Gilbert  R.  Tingey 
of  the  Samoan  Mission;  W.  Ernest  Young,  of  Argentine;  Eugene  M. 
Cannon,  Tahiti ;  W.  Aird  Macdonald,  whom  we  heard  today ;  John  Alden 
Bowers,  of  Brazil ;  Joseph  J.  Cannon,  of  the  Temple  Square ;  Roscoe  C. 
Cox  of  Hawaii ;  Frederick  S.  Williams,  of  Argentine ;  A.  Lorenzo  Ander- 
son, Mexican  Mission;  Wilford  W.  Emery,  Samoa;  David  F.  Haymore, 
Spanish-American ;  David  A.  Smith,  Canadian ;  John  F.  Bowman,  Cen- 
tral States ;  Leo  J.  Muir,  Northern  States,  who  has  not  yet  left  the  Mis- 
sion ;  William  P.  Whitaker  of  the  Southern  States,  who  I  see  is  with  us ; 
James  P.  Jensen  of  the  East  Central  States. 

We  will  all  join  in  singing,  "God  Be  With  You  Till  We  Meet  Again." 
It  is  on  page  11  of  your  Folder. 

The  brethren  are  invited  to  attend  meetings  in  the  Salt  Lake  City 
area  tonight. 

After  the  benediction  by  President  Alfred  E.  Rohner  of  Inglewood 
Stake,  this  Conference  will  be  adjourned  for  six  months. 


The  congregation  sang  as  a  closing  number,  "God  Be  With  You." 

Elder  Alfred  E.  Rohner,  President  of  the  Inglewood  Stake,  offered 
the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


The  musical  exercises  at  the  Sunday  morning  session  were  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor.    The  Tabernacle 


128  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  3  Third  Day 

Choir  male  chorus,  under  the  direction  of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  rendered 
musical  numbers  at  the  Saturday  evening  session. 

The  music  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  was  di- 
rected by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall.  Organ  presentations  and  organ  accom- 
paniments for  this  broadcast  were  by  Frank  W.  Asper,  the  spoken  word 
by  Richard  L.  Evans. 

The  congregational  singing  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall, 
Conductor,  and  Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played  by 
Alexander  Schreiner,  Frank  W.  Asper,  and  Wade  N.  Stephens. 


Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W.  Ot- 
terstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Ashton,  Elder  Marvin  O.      -  -  21 

Appreciation  for  new  Apostles                       -    22 

Authorities  present       1 

Authorities  sustained     3 

Auxiliary  officers  sustained         6 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  O.        — .  73 

Administration  and  resultant  thoughts,  73 — Christ's  pre-mortal  po- 
sition, 74 — Responsibility  of  leadership,  74 — Courage  of  the  pio- 
neers, 75 — Perils  facing  3'outh  of  the  present,  75 — Our  duty  to  make 
known  the  truth,  76. 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  T.    19 

Call  came  as  a  surprise,  19 — Appreciation  expressed  for  blessings, 
20 — A  happy  association,  20 — The  greater  call,  21. 

Bowen,  Elder  Albert  E.         ...  81 

Living  of  Gospel  brings  better  temporal  conditions,  81 — Improved 
objectives  in  education,  81 — Education  as  a  teacher  of  man's  rela- 
tionship to  God,  82 — Influence  of  good  teachers  needed,  83. 

Broadcast  of  Choir  and  Organ     88 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A         55 

Patriotism  commended,  55 — A  lesson  from  the  bees,  55 — Holding 
cottage  meetings  suggested,  56 — Alma's  conversion,  56 — Home  in- 
fluence potent,  57. 

Cannon,  Elder  Sylvester  Q.   1,  125 

Changes  in  Church  Officers   —    7 

Church  Welfare  Committee   5 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben  Jr.     10 

Church  finances,  10 — The  United  Order,  11 — Tithing  administra- 
tion, 12 — Welfare  program,  12 — Supplementary  canning,  13 — 
Spiritual  dividends,  14. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben  Jr.      125 

The  true  meaning  of  unity,  126 — The  Lord's  blessings  invoked,  126. 

Clawson,  President  Rudger    1,  125 

Deaths       8 

Emery,  Elder  Wilford  W.         64 

Evans.  Elder  Richard  L.  .       35 

Advice  about  going  to  law,  36 — Instructions  on  how  to  settle  diffi- 
cuties,  36 — Incidents  regarding  President  John  Taylor,  38 — Presi- 
dent Grant's  lengthened  service,  38. 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   89 

Remarks  with  choir  broadcast 

First  day — Afternoon  Meeting      2 

General  Authorities  present   1 

General  Authorities  sustained   3 

General,  Stake,  Ward  and  Branch  Officers  present   2 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   9 

Architects  of  our  own  lives,  9 — Soldiers  remembered  in  prayer, 
9 — Sympathy  expressed  for  parents,  10. 

Hardy,  Elder  Rufus  K   57 

Labor  in  the  Church  brings  compensation,  58 — Instructions  to  early 
day  missionaries,  58 — A  labor  to  perform  at  home,  59 — Changed 
conditions  in  home  life,  59 — Duty  of  Stake  missionaries,  60. 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R      109 

Interesting  visit  to  Mission,  109 — Personality  of  God,  109 — The 
first  principles  of  the  Gospel  necessary,  110 — Strength  in  testi- 
mony, 111. 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W   15 

Experiences  relating  to  call  as  an  Apostle,  15 — Blessings  received 
from  obeying  a  former  call,  16 — Predictions  made  in  patriarchal 
blessing,  16 — A  father's  prophecy,  17 — Promise  made  to  mother, 
17 — Comfort  found  in  scriptures,  18 — Appreciation  expressed,  18. 

Kirkham,  Elder  Oscar  A   34 

Methods  of  early  missionaries  of  the  Church,  34 — Comment  of  a 
military  leader,  34 — Faith  in  God  brings  peace,  35 — Future  mission- 
ary work,  35. 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B  100 

Pioneer  labors,  100 — Gospel  essential  to  spiritual  life,  101— Ex- 
perience of  an  army  doctor,  102 — 'Work  of  the  Church  among 
soldiers,  103 — Faithfulness  shown  by  a  young  girl,  104 — Plea  for 
guardianship  by  leaders,  104. 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R   22 

Two  tasks,  23 — To  make  friends,  23 — Must  endure  forever,  23 — 
Appeal  to  officials,  24 — A  great  missionary,  24 — A  most  valuable 
experience,  24 — The  greatest  message,  25 — You  are  called,  26. 

Macdonald,  Elder  W.  Aird   48 

McKay,  President  David  O.    

 2,  14,  26,  27,  28,  49,  64,  67,  68,  88,  90 ,  91 ,  105  ,  125 ,  127 

McKay,  President  David  O   28 

Four  essential  bulwarks,  28 — The  battle  front,  28 — War  Industries, 
28 — Agriculturists,  28 — The  family,  29 — Restricted  families,  30 — 
Divorce  increase,  31 — What  should  be  done  to  stabilize  home  life 
32 — Conclusion,  33. 


INDEX 


131 


McKay,  Elder  Thomas  E   60 

Appreciation  for  Conference  meetings,  60 — European  Mission 
conditions,  61 — Excerpts  from  letters  from  Sweden  and  Denmark, 
62- — British  annual  district  conferences,  62 — A  plea  for  love  in  the 
home,  63. 

Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F   84 

Mysteries  defined,  84 — Teaching  of  fundamentals  essential,  85 — 
Immortality  following  present  life,  85 — Teaching  by  example, 
86---The  Golden  Rule  a  daily  guide,  87. 

New  Mission  Presidents       7 

New  Stake  organized   7 

New  Temple  Presidents   7 

New  Wards  organized    8 

Officers  sustained   3 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   50 

Importance  of  the  Priesthood  in  the  Church,  50 — Obligation  rest- 
ing upon  the  Priesthood,  51 — Opportunities  neglected,  51 — Cove- 
nants entered  into  are  sacred,  52 — Seeking  after  the  negligent,  53. 

Richards,  Bishop  LeGrand   69 

The  Aaronic  Priesthood  program,  69 — Individual  work  with  the 
boys,  69 — A  testimony  of  the  Gospel  of  great  worth,  70 — Willing 
sacrifice,  71 — The  promise  of  spiritual  gifts,  71 — A  knowledge  of 
God  comes  through  his  Spirit,  73. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L   91 

Provision  for  the  care  and  training  of  youth,  91 — Responsibilities 
carried  by  the  3roung,  92 — Obligation  to  those  in  Armed  Service, 
92 — Future  missionary  work,  93— Preparation  for  missionary 
labors,  94 — Testimony  necessary  to  success  in  missionary  work, 
95 — Happiness  in  wholesome  living,  95. 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G  -   39 

Strength  in  unity,  39 — Evidences  of  united  effort,  39 — Understand- 
ing of  the  Gospel  comes  through  study  and  prayer,  41 — Indepen- 
dence the  aim  of  the  Welfare  plan,  41. 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   49 

Second  Day — Evening  Meeting           68 

Second  Day — Morning  Meeting       27 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert   42 

Causes  of  present  condition  of  the  world,  42 — Warning  of  ancient 
prophets,  43 — Promises  of  the  Lord  fulfilled,  44 — Predictions  of  a 
modern  prophet,  45 — Salvation  through  keeping  the  command- 
ments, 45 — Advice  of  President  Grant  unheeded,  47 — Testimony 
and  advice,  47. 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Smith,  Elder  Joseph  F   76 

The  binding  power  of  testimony,  76 — Divine  guidance  necessary 
in  civil  government,  76 — The  Kingdom  of  God  based  upon  love, 
77 — Priesthood  given  because  of  worthiness,  77 — Just  criticism 
helpful,  78 — Power  in  the  Priesthood,  78. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   96 

Purported  spiritual  manifestations,  96 — Revelations  from  the  Lord 
the  standard,  97— The  Lord  speaks  through  his  prophets,  97 — 
Seek  for  the  best  gifts,  98. 

Smith,  Elder  Nicholas  G    116 

Appreciation  for  the  Church,  116 — Respect  shown  for  President 
Grant,  116 — An  effective  lesson  on  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  117 — 
A  Mormon  missionary  and  a  chaplain,  117 — An  interesting  experi- 
ence of  a  lady  missionary,  118 — Preaching  the  Gospel  by  living  it, 
118 — Peace  will  come  through  love,  119. 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma   99 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast    88 

Taylor,  Elder  John  H.   53 

The  heritage  left  by  the  pioneers,  S3 — Obligation  of  present-day 
Latter-day  Saints,  54. 

Third  Day— Afternoon  Meeting      105 

Third  Day — Morning  Meeting     88 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A    112 

Formula  for  a  testimony,  112 — Objective  of  Church  to  bring 
peace,  112 — Peace  comes  from  within,  113 — The  meaning  of  Zion, 
115. 

Wirthlin.  Elder  Joseph  L       .119 

A  covenant  of. Israel,  119 — A  commandment  and  a  promise,  120 — 
The  Fifth  Commandment  binding  at  the  present  time,  121 — Main- 
tenance of  aged  parents  a  duty,  122 — Quorums  to  assist,  122 — The 
Government  not  to  be  burdened,  123 — Advice  and  example  of  lead- 
ers, 123 — Modern  Israel  a  covenant  people,  124. 

Young,  Elder  Clifford  E  106 

Many  evidences  of  divinity  of  work,  106 — A  monument  to  faith, 
107 — A  real  service,  107 — Commendation  of  Welfare  projects,  107 
— Enduring  blessings  to  be  sought,  108. 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar     79 

Gratitude  expressed  for  loyal  missionary  work,  79 — A  sacred  call- 
ing, 79 — Visitors  at  Temple  Square  impressed,  80. 


DANIEL  HAMMER  WELLS 


As  the  polished  facets  of  a  diamond  flash  back  brilliantly 
the  rainbow  of  colors  from  the  light  which  plays  upon  them,  so 
do  certain  historic  characters  reflect  the  light  and  color  of  their 
times. 

Daniel  Hanmer  Wells  was  one  of  these. 

Bryant  S.  Hinckley,  always  illuminating  and  inspirational, 
turns  the  spot  light  of  appraisal  and  appreciation  upon  a  dis- 
tinctive character  in  the  great  drama  of  Mormon  history. 

This  book  is  in  fact  a  new  approach  to  the  study  of  Church 
History.  It  offers  the  events  of  the  history  of  Mormonism  as 
one  of  the  principal  actors  saw  them  happen  and  as  he  acted 
in,  and  was  acted  upon  by  them. 

The  book  is  a  biography  and  more,  a  tribute  of  apprecia- 
tion and  more — it  is  a  history  throbbing  with  the  pulse  beats 
of  great  personalities  as  they  struggle  through  one  crisis  after 
another. 

His  life  ran  the  long  span  which  included  actively  within 
it  labors  of  love  for  and  loyalty  to  every  man  who  has  been 
president  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Daniel  H.  Wells  saw  it  all  happen:  The  rise  of  the  Church 
in  the  Middle  West;  the  glory  of  Nauvoo;  the  catastrophe  of 
the  martyrdom;  the  pain,  travail,  and  power  of  pioneering;  the 
building  of  the  West;  the  crises  of  pre-statehood  days;  and 
the  long,  hard  pull  which  finally  established  the  Mormon  people 
on  the  heights  where  they  are  now  building. 

Published  privately  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  as  a 
tribute  to  the  loyal  friend  of  his  youth,  it  will  stand  as  a  welcome 
addition  to  the  faith-promoting  literature  of  the  Church. 


DANIEL  HANMER  WELLS 


All  EVENTS  OF  HIS  TIME 

By  Bryant  S.  Hinckley 


AND  EVENTS  OF 


HIS  TIME 


$2.50 


DESEHET  BOOK 


COMPANY 


44  East  South  Temple  Street 


Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Enjoy  the  Fellowship  of  Great  Minds 

by  Reading  GOOD  BOOKS 

A  book  is  cm  invitation  to  share  the  thoughts  of  an  illum- 
inating mind.  Consider  the  enrichment  one  will  receive  from 
spending  quiet  hours  with  the  authors  of  these  books: 


Heber  J.Grant  GOSPEL  STANDARDS  $2.25 

David  O.  McKay  ANCIENT  APOSTLES   1.00 

lames  E.  Talmage      JESUS  THE  CHRIST   2.00 

ARTICLES  OF  FAITH   1.25 

B.H.  Roberts  THE  GOSPEL   1.00 

Joseph  F.  Smith  GOSPEL  DOCTRINE   2.50 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  ESSENTIALS  IN  CHURCH 

HISTORY   2.00 

TEACHINGS  OF  THE  PROPHET 

JOSEPH  SMITH    2.00 

LIFE  OF  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH   2.50 

WAY  TO  PERFECTION   1.25 

SIGNS  OF  THE  TIMES   1.25 

John  A.  Widtsoe  IN  SEARCH  OF  TRUTH  50 

PRIESTHOOD  AND  CHURCH 
GOVERNMENT    1.75 

DISCOURSES  OF  BRIGHAM 
YOUNG   2.50 

George  D.  Pyper  STORIES  OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINT 

HYMNS   _   1.50 

John  Henry  Evans        JOSEPH  SMITH.  AN  AMERICAN 

PROPHET    3.00 

Richard  L.  Evans         UNTO  THE  HILLS    1.50 

THIS  DAY  AND  ALWAYS   1.50 


These  and  many  other  sources  of  inspiration  are  available 
to  you  in  the  large  stock  of  the 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

Publishers  of  Latter-day  Saint  Literature 
44  East  South  Temple  Street 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
The  Book  Center  of  the  Intermountain  Wert 


