ONE-HUNDRED  AND  SECOND 

SEMI-ANNUAL 

CONFERENCE 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

October  2,  3,  4,  1931 

With  a  Full  Report  of  All 
the  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
?  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 


Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


gJtjbgg^JE>gS^l  £>!g^£3t^S^4E^B^a  S>«<3  £>^Sg3  tAgggJ  fc^B^l  E^SgJ  E^gggtE>g&g3  E>aB^3CAaB^J  t>a^3t^SS£lt*gB^3  t^3B^JE^S^4  t^S^J  E>gB^K>g&g3£^gi 


CA  ((Jhrilling  Story  of 
CENTURY  ONE  OF 
CHURCH  HISTORY 

mERE  is  a  new  story  of  "Mormonism,"  told  with  a  com- 
pleteness and  charm  that  will  thrill  Latter-day  Saints 
with  a  pride  of  achievement  and  at  the  same  time  win 
the  admiration  of  the  critic,  be  he  friend  or  foe.  In  a  COM- 
PREHENSIVE HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH,  B.  H.  Roberts 
has  done  a  masterful  piece  of  research  and  has  set  down  the 
record  of  Century  One— 1830  to  1930— in  a  brilliant  appraisal  of 
momentous  events.  The  reader  with  a  sentimental  interest  will 
be  fascinated  with  this  narrative  of  truth  stranger  than  fiction; 
the  reader  who  approaches  the  new  work  with  the  critical  vision 
of  the  historian  will  find  it  fair  in  statement,  authentic  in  fact, 
copious  in  detail  and  sound  in  judgment. 

A  COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH  was  writ- 
ten by  Elder  Roberts  at  the  instance  of  the  First  Presidency  of 
the  Church,  with  a  commission  to  make  it  exhaustively  complete, 
from  the  remotest  beginnings  to  the  close  of  the  Centennial 
Conference  of  April  6,  1930.  The  final  volume  ends  with  an 
account  of  the  Conference  itself,  making  the  history  technically 
inclusive  of  all  that  happened  in  Century  One  of  the  organized 
existence  of  the  Church.  Thus  it  is  a  fitting  commemoration  of 
one  hundred  years  of  struggle  and  achievement. 

This  monumental  work  is  not  to  be  confused  with  any  former 
history,  journal  or  chronicle.  Though  its  nucleus  is  the  history 
of  "Mormonism"  published  a  few  years  ago  in  AMERICANA, 
running  serially  for  six  years  through  that  magazine,  yet  this 
History  is  NEW — new  in  its  wealth  of  material,  new  in  method 
of  treatment  and  new  in  its  physical  representation  of  the  book 
maker's  art. 

Cash  Price  $30.00 
For  further  information  address  your  inquiry  to 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


One  Hundred  and  Second  Semi-Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 

The  One  Hundred  and  Second  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Friday,  Saturday  and  Sunday,  October  2,  3  and  4 
1931. 

The  proceedings  of  all  the  sessions  of  the  Conference  were  broad- 
cast by  radio,  through  the  courtesy  of  Station  KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City, 
for  the  benefit  of  the  general  public. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  Anthony  W.  Ivins,  and 
Charles  W.  Nibley. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed 
Smoot,  George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  David  O.  McKay, 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  James  E.  Talmage,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Rich- 
ard R.  Lyman,  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  *,  and  Joseph  F.  Merrill. 

Presiding  Patriarch :    Hyrum  G.  Smith. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy :  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  J.  Golden 
Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  **,  Charles  H.  Hart,  Levi  Edgar  Young,  and 
Antoine  R.  Ivins. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric:  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  David  A.  Smith, 
and  John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants :   Andrew  Jenson  and  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  ***. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  counselors  and  high  councilors  from 
the  various  Stakes  of  Zion. 

Patriarchs,  Bishops  of  Wards  and  their  counselors,  and  numerous 
high  priests,  seventies  and  elders,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Education,  and  General,  Stake, 
and  Ward  officers  of  the  auxiliary  organizations. 

Mission  Presidents:  James  H.  Moyle,  Eastern  States;  George  S. 
Romney,  Northern  States ;  Arthur  Welling,  North  Central  States ;  Sam- 
uel O.  Bennion,  Central  States ;  Miles  L.  Jones,  East  Central  States ; 
Charles  A.  Callis,  Southern  States;  Charles  E.  Rowan,  Jr.,  Texas; 
Elias  S.  Woodruff,  Western  States;  William  R.  Sloan,  Northwestern 
States;  John  V.  Bluth,  Canada;  Antoine  R.  Ivins,  Mexico;  Levi  Edgar 
Young,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake  City,  LItah. 


*John  A.  Widtsoe  was  in  Europe,  presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 

** Joseph  W.  McMurrin  was  absent  on  account  of  illness. 

***A.  William  Lund  was  in  England,  presiding  over  the  British  Mission. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


FIRST  DAY 

MORNING  MEETING 

The  first  session  of  the  Conference  convened  Friday  morning,  Oc- 
tober 2nd,  1931,  at  10  o'clock,  with  President  Heber  J.  Grant  presiding. 

The  great  tabernacle  auditorium  and  galleries  were  filled  with 
people  who  had  assembled  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

President  Grant  announced  that  the  meeting  would  commence  by 
the  congregation  singing  the  hymn  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a 
Prophet." 

After  the  singing  of  this  hymn,  the  opening  prayer  was  offered 
by  Elder  LeGrand  Richards,  President  of  the  Hollywood  Stake. 
The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "O  say,  what  is  truth?" 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

It  is  a  pleasure  to  again  have  the  opportunity  of  meeting  the 
Latter-day  Saints  in  general  conference.  J  rejoice  in  the  progress 
of  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

It  has  been  my  privilege  during  the  last  six  months  since  we  were 
assembled  here  in  this  capacity,  to  visit  quite  a  number  of  the  stakes 
of  Zion  and  to  be  in  a  number  of  the  missions  of  the  Church,  and  to 
dedicate  a  great  many  chapels  and  recreational  halls  in  different  parts 
of  the  Church. 

Notwithstanding  the  great  trouble  financially  all  over  the  world 
I  believe  that  as  a  people  we  are  suffering  less  than  are  those  in  other 
sections  of  the  country,  for  which  I  am  very  grateful  to  the  Lord. 

WORK  PROGRESSES 

The  work  of  the  Lord  is  progressing  all  over  the  world  without  any 
exceptions.  We  are  receiving  calls  from  the  presidents  of  all  our 
missions  for  additional  missionaries. 

Our  missionary  force  has  been  reduced  very  materially  on  account 
of  the  present  financial  condition  at  home  and  abroad,  but  the  spirit 
of  the  work  is  progressing  splendidly,  and  many  of  the  local  people  all 
over  the  world  where  we  have  missions  are  engaged  actively  in  mission- 
ary work;  and  in  many  places  local  people  are  being  installed  in 
presiding  positions,  thus  relieving  many  of  the  missionaries  from  some 
of  the  activities  that  they  have  heretofore  engaged  in.  I  rejoice  in  the 
present  condition  of  the  Church  and  the  progress  it  is  making. 

iTSTO  NEED  TO  WORRY 

I  do  not  think  that  we  need  to  worry  the  least  bit  about  any  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  suffering  on  account  of  lack  of  food  or  shelter 
during  these  hard  times.  I  am  confident  beyond  the  shadow  of  a  doubt 
that  with  our  system  of  fast-day  donations  and  the  work  that  is  being 
done  by  our  Relief  jSociety,  the  bishops  in  all  ,the  various  wards,  with 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


3 


the  help  of  the  auxiliary  officers,  will  be  able  to  look  after  those  who 
are  in  real  distress.  j 

I  am  converted  to  the  fact  that  if  the  Latter-day  Saints  as  a  people 
would  actually  do  without  two  or  three  meals  once  a  month,  as  pre- 
scribed, on  fast  days,  and  give  the  full  equivalent  to  the  bishop,  thus 
benefitting  their  own  individual  health  and  that  of  their  families — if 
they  conscientiously  paid  a  full  fast  day  donation,  each  and  every 
person  giving  the  equivalent  of  two  or  three  meals  one  Sunday  jn  each 
month — it  would  fully  take  care  of  those  who  are  in  distressed  circum- 
stances. 

I  rejoice  in  the  fact  that  from  many  sections  of  the  country  we 
have  received  reports  that  our  people,  as  a  rule,  who  have  been  honest 
and  conscientious  in  the  mission  field,  in  the  payment  of  their  tithes, 
almost  without  exception  are  retaining  their  employment  and  are  getting 
along  all  right  financially. 

FALSEHOODS  BEING  CIRCULATED 

I  do  not  know  that  the  subject  is  worthy  of  my  notice,  and  yet  it 
has  been  suggested  that  it  might  be  well  to  refer  to  the  continued  falsi- 
fying by  some  people  who  have  been  excommunicated  from  the  Church 
and  are  going  around  distributing  papers  and  documents  and  publishing 
papers  that  are  as  full  of  lies  as  an  egg  is  full  of  meat.  I  believe  that 
the  very  best  liars  I  have  any  acquaintance  with  are  those  who  have 
been  cut  off  from  the  Church  and  cast  out.  They  seem  to  be  very  active 
at  the  present  time,  making  statements  that  our  property  is  being 
mortgaged,  etc.,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  there  is  no  Church  prop- 
erty mortgaged.  Any  person  could  go  down  to  the  county  court  house 
in  any  of  the  counties  and  find  out  if  the  Church's  property  is  mort- 
gaged. There  is  no  part  of  the  property  of  any  one  of  the  wards  or 
stakes  in  our  Church,  or  of  the  general  Church  property,  that  is 
mortgaged. 

These  people  talk  about  the  funds  of  the  Church  having  been  used 
for  individual  benefit  and  so  on,  so  I  hear.  It  is  only  fair  to  say 
that  I  have  never  taken  the  trouble  to  read  what  they  publish  in  their 
"New  Era."  It  would  be  more  properly  named  the  "Regular  Liar," 
instead  of  the  "New  Era."  I  have  heard  that  a  lie  can  travel  around 
the  world  while  truth  is  getting  out  of  bed,  but  nevertheless  truth 
eventually  overtakes  the  lie  and  steps  on  it. 

MONEY  LOANED  TO  SUGAR  COMPANY 

The  fact  remains  that  the  Church  has  loaned  some  money  to  the 
Sugar  Company  and  it  has  taken  a  mortgage  for  that  money,  and  the 
loan  is  well  secured.  The  fact  remains  that  in  helping  the  Sugar  Com- 
pany the  Church  is  helping  itself,  because  the  first  beet  sugar  factory 
ever  built  in  the  iUnited  States  of  America  with  American  machinery 
was  built  at  Lehi,  and  'the  Church  used  its  credit  and  borrowed  the 
money  to  help  build  it.    Yes,  the  Church  had  to  borrow  the  money 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


at  that  time.  Now  it  .does  not  need  to  borrow  it.  The  Church 
is  the  principal  stockholder  in  the  Utah-Idaho  Sugar  Company,  and  by 
lending  it  some  money  and  taking  /security  on  real  estate,  it  is  simply 
protecting  its  own  property. 

PENALIZED    FOR  LOYALTY 

I  shall  be  very  happy  indeed  if  in  the  providence  of  the  Lord  there 
shall  be  a  return  of  prosperity  for  (the  Sugar  Company.  We  are  being 
penalized  today  in  the  sugar  business  because  of  the  loyalty  of  the 
people  in  response  to  jthe  appeals  of  the  Government  when  sugar  was 
retailing  at  20,  25  and  sometimes  30  cents  a  pound.  We  built  at  that 
time  twice  as  many  factories  as  we  can  now  get  beets  to  operate,  and 
I  suppose  it  is  just  as  well  that  we  could  not  get  the  beets  during  the 
last  year  tar  two  to  operate  all  our  factories  inasmuch  as  there  is  no 
profit  in  the  business. 

I  am  sure  that  whenever  the  time  comes  that  sugar  will  sell  at  rea- 
sonable prices,  so  that  the  farmers  can  get  a  little  more  money  for 
raising  beets,  some  of  our  idle  factories  can  be  opened,  and  there  will  be 
an  increase  of  prosperity  for  the  farmers  and  the  people  generally,  if 
this  industry  can  only  grow  and  increase. 

PERSONAL  PROFIT  DENIED 

The  original  sugar  factory  was  built  (by  jWilford  Woodruff  and  his 
associates  and  friends  mainly  for  the  benefit  of  the  farmers,  so  that 
they  might  have  an  increased  variety  of  crops.  That  was  the  only  object. 

The  idea  that  businesses  have  been  established  by  the  Church  for 
the  individual  profit  of  men  who  are  connected  with  the  leadership  of 
the  Church  is  absolutely  false.  Many  of  us  borrowed  money  and  put 
it  into  that  factory  at  the  request  of  [President  Woodruff  and  lost  the 
money  that  we  invested. 

I  know  something  about  it  individually  because  I  personally  bor- 
rowed a  large  sum  of  money,  bought  stock,  paid  interest  on  it  for  five 
years  and  then  sold  the  stock  for  less  than  one  half  of  what  it  cost.  I 
gained  a  whole  jlot  of  experience  financially  out  of  it  and  have  never 
recovered,  so  far  as  the  Sugar  Company  is  concerned.  II  thought  I 
would  make  this  much  of  an  explanation. 

SATISFIED  WITH  ,STATUS 

I  remember  delivering  a  sermon  here  nearly  a  year  ago — perhaps  it 
was  longer  ago  than  that,  I  do  not  remember  the  exact  date — in  which 
I  referred  to  the  fact  that  some  people  had  said  that  if  the  Mormons 
would  only  do  away  with  their  belief  in  Joseph  Smith  and  his  prophecies 
they  might  now  really,  with  the  progress  they  are  making  and  the 
changes  they  are  making,  etc.,  be  counted  in  the  Christian  family. 

Inasmuch  as  the  Church  to  which  you  and  I  belong  is  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ,  established  by  the  Savior  himself  through  the  instru- 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


5 


mentality  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  I  do  not  think  we  need  to  worry- 
about  being  admitted  into  the  various  Christian  denominations.  The 
one  thing  that  you  and  I  need  to  worry  about,  and  the  only  thing,  is 
with  regard  to  keeping  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  living  our 
religion  as  Latter-day  Saints. 

TRUE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

I  am  sure  that  the  man  who  is  honestly  and  conscientiously  observ- 
ing the  Word  of  Wisdom,  who  is  a  full  and  honest  tithe-payer,  and 
attends  to  his  meetings  and  his  family  and  secret  prayers,  such  a  man 
need  not  worry  about  anything  that  might  be  said  concerning  this 
Church  by  apostate  Mormons  or  anyone  else. 

A  true  Latter-day  Saint  is  living  a  life  that  is  above  reproach.  He 
is  living  a  life  that  stamps  him  in  the  eyes  of  all  honest,  conscientious 
people  as  a  man  worthy  of  respect  and  one  who  can  be  relied  upon, 
because  the  true  Latter-day  Saint  believes  in  God  and  in  Jesus  Christ, 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  He  believes  in  sustaining  the  laws  of  God 
and  the  laws  of  his  country,  and  in  living  a  virtuous,  true,  upright  life. 
No  man  can  be  a  true  Latter-day  Saint  without  being  worthy  of  the 
confidence  of  all  men,  without  regard  to  whether  they  believe  as  he  does 
or  have  any  respect  for  his  beliefs. 

CHANGES  AMONG  GENERAL  AUTHORITIES 

There  have  been  some  changes  made  since  our  last  conference. 
As  you  all  know,  Brother  Orson  F.  Whitney,  one  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  and  Elder  Rey  L.  Pratt,  one  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 
and  president  of  the  Mexican  mission,  have  passed  away.  They  were 
two  outstanding  preachers  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  men  of  great 
ability  in  proclaiming  the  Gospel  and  men  of  great  personal  inspiration. 
They  lived  lives  that  brought  honor  and  respect  to  them  and  thereby 
honor  and  respect  to  the  people  that  they  represented  as  general  officials. 

The  Presidency  and  Apostles  have  nominated,  as  you  know,  al- 
though they  have  not  yet  been  ordained  and  set  apart,  Brother  Joseph 
F.  Merrill  and  Brother  Antoine  R.  Ivins  to  fill  the  positions  made 
vacant  by  the  death  of  these  two  stalwart  workers  in  the  Church.  The 
other  changes  are  as  follows :  ■ 

CHANGES  IN  STAKE  AND  MISSION   OFFICERS  SINCE  LAST  APRIL 

CONFERENCE 

STAKE  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

LeGrand  Richards  has  been  appointed  president  of  the  Hollywood 
stake  to  succeed  George  W.  McCune.  \ 

Hyrum  B.  Calder  has  been  appointed  president  of  the  Uintah  stake 
to  succeed  Wallace  Calder. 

Peter  J.  Ricks  has  been  appointed  president  of  the  Fremont  stake 
to  succeed  George  S.  Romney. 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Joseph  R.  Christiansen  has  been  appointed  president  of  the  Moroni 
stake  to  succeed  James  L.  Nielson. 

We  wish  to  say  that  Brothers  George  W.  McCune,  Wallace  Calder, 
George  S.  Romney  and  James  L.  Nielson  have  all  labored  diligently 
and  faithfully  in  the  positions  they  have  occupied  and  they  have  been 
honorably  released. 

NEW  MISSION  PRESIDENTS 

George  S.  Romney  has  been  appointed  president  of  the  Northern 
States  mission  to  succeed  Noah  S.  Pond,  who  has  been  honorably  re- 
leased after  having  filled  a  splendid  mission. 

Leonidas  D.  Mecham  has  been  appointed  acting  president  of  the 
Australian  mission  to  succeed  Clarence  H.  Tingey,  who  has  returned 
from  Australia  in  the  enjoyment  of  health  after  filling  a  most  splendid 
mission.  I  '  .  !     J     !  \ 

Francis  Salzner  has  been  appointed  president  of  the  Swiss  and 
German  mission  to  succeed  Fred  Tadje.  Sister  Tadje  has  returned 
from  the  mission  and  Brother  Tadje  will  undoubtedly  come  after  his 
successor  has  been  installed. 

NEW  TEMPLE  PRESIDENT 

William  M.  Waddoups  has  been  appointed  president  of  the  Ha- 
waiian temple,  to  succeed  Castle  H.  Murphy,  who  is  president  of  the 
Hawaiian  mission,  and  who  was  also  directing  the  affairs  of  the  temple. 
We  considered  it  wisdom  to  have  Brother  Waddoups  return  to  Hawaii, 
where  he  has  labored  for  so  many  years  and  so  faithfully,  to  preside 
over  the  temple  there. 

NEW  WARDS  ORGANIZED 

Burbank  ward,  -Hollywood  stake. 
Salmon  ward,  Lost  River  stake. 
Elysian  Park  ward,  Hollywood- stake. 
Pasadena  ward,  Hollywood  stake. 

STAKE  PRESIDENT  WHO  HAS  PASSED  AWAY  , 

James  P.  Jensen,  president  of  the  San  Luis  stake,  Colorado,  has 
passed  away  after  an  honorable,  faithful  presidency  there. 

BISHOPS  WHO  HAVE  PASSED  AWAY  DURING  THE  PAST  SIX  MONTHS 

Harold  W'interton,  Woodland  ward  in  the  Summit  stake,  by  an 
auto  accident.  ' 

Lawrence  Gates  of  the  Antimony  ward,  Garfield  stake. 

THE  FOUNDATION  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Coming  back  to  the  suggestion  that  we  as  Latter-day  Saints  do 
away  with  faith  in  Joseph  Smith,  I  want  to  announce,  as  I  stated  on  the 


•PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


7 


occasion  referred  to,  that  the  moment  any  individual  or  individuals 
shall  lose  faith  in  the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
that  minute  they  are  not  entitled  to  be  called  Latter-day  Saints.  The 
whole  foundation  of  this  Church  rests  firmly  upon  the  inspiration  of 
the  living  God  through  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet. 
When  I  hear  the  song — 

"We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet 
To  .guide  us  in  these  latter  days," 

I  never  feel  as  though  it  applies  to  me.  I  never  hear  it  but  that  I  feel 
it  applies  to  that  man  who  was  the  instrument  in  the  hands  of  God  of 
restoring  again  to  the  earth  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the 
plan  of  life  and  salvation,  the  pearl  of  great  price,  that  which  is  of  more 
value  than  everything  else  in  all  the  world,  namely,  the  plan  which  if 
you  and  I  live  it  will  bring  us  back  into  the  presence  of  God  our 
Heavenly  Father,  to  dwell  there  in  joy  and  peace  eternally. 

TRUTH  EVIDENCED 

When  anybody  talks  about  Joseph  Smith  not  being  a  prophet  he 
should  look  into  the  great  and  remarkable  prophecies  that  he  uttered. 
He  should  read  the  marvelous  and  wonderful  revelations  in  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants  which  the  Lord  has  given  to  us  through  him. 
I  am  sure  when  people  realize  that  the  war  of  the  rebellion  was  foretold 
and  prophesied  of  by  him,  and  that  he  gave  the  world  a  solution,  so  to 
speak,  of  the  difficulties  which  brought  about  the  war,  advocating  the 
sale  of  the  public  lands  of  the  country  to  purchase  the  slaves  as  England 
had  done,  they  must  recognize  that  he  was  inspired  of  the  Lord. 

PUZZLES  WRITER 

I  remember  very  distinctly  that  in  the  book  entitled  "Figures  of  the 
Past"  the  man  who  wrote  it  said  he  could  not  account  for  Joseph  Smith 
and  intimated  that  he  must  have  been  partially  insane.  He  said  he  had 
visited  a  place  where  the  insane  were  kept,  and  I  suppose  he  was  on  a 
par  with  the  man  who  said  that  Joseph  Smith  received  his  revelations 
at  the  time  he  was  in  epileptic  fits.  Joseph  Smith  was  one  of  the  stal- 
warts physically.    He  was  an  athlete,  a  very  strong  man. 

The  wisdom  of  the  wise  shall  be  confounded.  This  same  man 
goes  on  to  say,  in  paying  tribute  to  Joseph  Smith,  that  of  all  the  men 
he  had  ever  met,  Elisha  R.  Potter  of  Rhode  Island  and  Joseph  Smith 
seemed  best  endowed  with  "that  kingly  faculty  which  directs  as  by 
divine  right  feeble  and  confused  souls  looking  for  guidance."  He 
went  on  to  say  that  great  credit  had  been  given  to  Ralph  Waldo  Emer- 
son as  being  a  statesman  ahead  of  his  day  because  of  his  advocating 
the  sale  of  the  public  lands  for  the  purchase  of  the  slaves ;  but  he  said, 
"What  shall  we  say  of  the  Mormon  prophet  who  advocated  the  same 
thing  eleven  years  previously,  when  the  heavens  were  clear  and  tran- 
quil ?"  At  the  time  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  advocated  this  course  there 
were  war  clouds  in  the  heavens. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


SUPERIORITY  ADMITTED 

Wje  say  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  living  God  and 
(hat  lie  gave  to  the  people  a  solution  that  would  have  saved  that  terrible 
fratricidal  war  between  the  Northern  and  Southern  States. 

He  goes  on  to  say : 

"Such  a  rare  human  being  is  not  to  be  disposed  of  by  pelting  his  memory 
with  unsavory  epithets.  Fanatic,  imposter,  charlatan,  he  may  have  been;  but 
these  hard  names  furnish  no  solution  to  the  problems  he  presents  to  us.  Fanatics 
and  imposters  are  Jiving  and  dying  every  day  and  their  memory  is  buried  with 
them ;  but  the  wonderful  influence  which  this  founder  of  a  religion  exerted  and 
still  exerts  throws  him  into  relief  before  us,  not  as  a  rogue  to  be  incriminated, 
but  as  a  phenomenon  to  be  explained." 

He  also  says  that  with  hundreds  of  thousands  believing  that  he  is  an 
emissary  from  the  Most  High  God  we  cannot  dispose  of  him  by 
ridiculing  his  name. 

A  MIGHTY  PEOPLE 

All  the  lies  that  are  being  told  about  the  people  today  are  as  nothing 
in  comparison  with  those  that  were  told  about  the  prophet.  He  taught 
the  people  that  we  would  be  driven  from  city  to  city,  county  to  county, 
state  to  state  and  finally  beyond  the  confines  of  the  United  States,  and 
that  we  would  become  a  great  and  a  mighty  people  in  the  midst  of  the 
Rocky  Mountains.  He  said  the  day  would  come  when  not  only  a  city, 
a  county  or  a  state  would  be  arrayed  against  this  handful  of  people 
called  Mormons,  but  that  the  day  would  come  when  the  whole  United 
States  would  be  arrayed  against  them. 

And  we  have  lived  to  see  these  statements  fulfilled.  We  have 
become  a  mighty  people.  We  have  over  a  thousand  wards  and  inde- 
pendent branches  from  Canada  on  the  north  to  Mexico  on  the  south. 
We  have  more  than  nine  hundred  branches  in  the  missions  throughout 
the  world.  We  have  splendid  edifices  in  our  wards  and  branches  from 
Canada  to  Mexico.  We  have  some  magnificent  temples  that  have 
been  erected  from  Canada  on  the  north  to  Arizona  on  the  south,  and  one 
splendid  temple  way  off  in  the  Hawaiian  Islands. 

The  work  of  the  Lord  is  progressing,  the  people  are  growing  in 
faith  and  a  love  of  the  truth,  in  absolute  testimony  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  in  very  deed  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  the  living  God. 

DURING  THE  PAST  ONE  HUNDRED  YEARS 

This  Gospel  has  been  proclaimed  now  for  over  one  hundred  years 
all  over  the  world,  in  every  land  and  every  clime  where  religious  liberty 
has  been  granted,  and  it  has  gathered  out  people  from  every  denomina- 
tion under  heaven ;  and  as  I  have  remarked  in  my  public  addresses,  I 
know  of  no  missionary  in  my  entire  experience,  although  we  have  at 
times  had  more  than  two  thousand  in  the  field,  that  has  ever  returned 
to  announce  that  he  had  found  that  some  other  religion,  in  England, 
in  Ireland,  or  some  other  part  of  the  world,  was  the  truth,  the  Gospel 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


Q 


of  Jesus  Christ.  Our  missionaries  have  come  home  during  the  past 
one  hundred  years  with  increased  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the 
mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

We  have  lived  to  see  the  issuing  of  an  exterminating  order  by  the 
governor  of  a  state  ,to  expel  the  Latter-day  Saints ;  we  have  lived  to 
see  the  army  of  the  United  States  of  America,  because  of  the  lies  of 
runaway  judges,  come  against  this  people.  W!e  have  lived  to  see  the 
property  of  the  Church  both  real  and  personal,  confiscated  by  the  highest 
.tribunal,  under  the  acts  of  Congress ;  and  I  have  picked  up  the  paper 
time  and  time  again  during  the  litigation  for  the  return  of  our  property 
and  have  read  in  bold  headlines,  "The  United  States  of  America  versus 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,"  and  have  laid  down 
the  paper  and  thanked  God  that  the  United  States  had  placed  the  stamp 
of  divinity  upon  the  utterances  of  the  prophet  of  the  living  God. 

EXAMPLE  QUOTED 

Stephen  A.  Douglas,  believing  absolutely  that  he  had  within  his 
grasp  the  presidency  of  the  United  States,  that  he  would  be  over- 
whelmingly elected,  presumed  to  say  that  we  had  destroying  angels, 
that  we  were  in  league  with  the  Indians,  that  we  were  in  rebellion 
against  the  government,  that  we  were  setting  up  a  kingdom  of  our  own 
here  with  Brigham  Young  at  the  head  of  it.  Then  he  was  reminded  by 
The  Deseret  News  that  the  (Prophet  Joseph  Smith  had  said  to  him  when 
he  was  an  obscure  country  judge: 

"Judge  Douglas,  the  day  will  come  when  you  will  aspire  to  the  presidency 
of  the  United  States,  and  if  you  ever  lift  your  voice;  against  my  people  you  shall 
be  disappointed  in  your  ambitions,  you  shall  die  a  broken-hearted,  disappointed 
man,  and  the  conversation  of  this  day  will  stick  to  you  until  the  day  of  your 
death." 

DEFIES  STATEMENT 

He  defied  that  statement.  When?  He  defied  that  utterance  of 
the  Prophet  when  he  felt  sure  that  he  would  be  elected  president,  and 
this  was  at  a  time  when  we  did  not  have_a  single  vote  in  the  electoral 
college  for  the  presidency  of  the  United  States.  We  were  a  territory 
without  a  vote  and  there  was  no  occasion  for  this  man  to  make  the 
speech  that  he  did  unless  he  felt  in  his  heart  that  he  could  brand  Joseph 
Smith  as  a  false  prophet.  But  instead  of  branding  him  as  such  he 
brought  forth  one  of  the  strongest  evidences  of  the  divine  mission  of 
Joseph  Smith. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  during  our  conference  sessions.  May  the 
light  and  inspiration  of  his  Spirit  attend  us.  May  we,  one  and  all,  seek 
every  day  of  our  lives  to  fully  live  up  to  the  requirements  of  the  Gospel. 
And  I  can  promise  you  that  ,if  you  do  so,  peace,  prosperity  and  happi- 
ness physically,  intellectually,  and,above  all,  spiritually,  will  attend  you. 
I  ask  this  blessing  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  have  listened  with  great  interest  to  the  remarks  of  President 
Grant.  He  has  outlined  a  course  of  procedure  and  attitude  of  mind 
and  spirit  which  all  Israel  should  accept  and  follow. 

TRY  THE  SPIRITS 

Just  as  my  name  was  announced  I  was  turning  the  leaves  of  my 
Bible  to  find  the  text: 

"Believe  not  every  ;spirit,  but  try  the  spirits  whether  they  are  of  God." 

It  is  a  wonderful  thing  to  be  anchored  in  the  truth.  W(hen  one 
is  anchored  to  a  testimony  that  God  has  spoken  in  this  dispensation, 
that  he  has  revealed  his  truth,  there  is  little  danger  of  one's  becoming 
moved  from  one's  place  by  any  false  theory,  or  any  half  truth,  or  any 
false  accusation,  that  may  be  brought  into  his  life.  All  such  will  affect 
one  only  as  the  waves  affect  immovable  cliffs  on  the  shore.  But  when 
one  is  not  anchored  then  one  becomes  easily  moved,  at  least  unrestful  and 
ill  at  ease.  So  it  is  necessary  at  all  times  to  try  the  spirits,  to  make  the 
test.  Let  the  Church,  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  be  the  measuring 
rod.  When  things  do  not  harmonize  with  the  truths  of  the  Gospel  we 
can  pass  them  by,  or  at  least  hold  them  in  abeyance  until  either  their 
truth  or  falsity  be  established. 

AN  EXPERIENCE  IN  THE  MISSION  FIELD 

My  mind  recently  has  been  drawn  to  the  importance  of  our  people 
testing  the  spirit  of  slander,  of  calumny,  and  I  would  like  to  raise  my 
voice  this  morning  in  warning  against  such  a  spirit.  It  is  easy  to  dis- 
tinguish between  the  spirit  of  slander  and  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel.  I 
remember  an  instance  in  England  during  my  late  mission  that  may 
illustrate  my  meaning.  Two  Elders  had  gone  to  great  expense,  for 
them,  in  procuring  a  hall,  in  announcing  their  meeting,  in  distributing 
literature,  etc.  Their  hopes  were  high  on  Sunday  morning  when  as  they 
approached  that  hired  hall,  they  saw  a  goodly  number  of  persons  ac- 
cepting their  invitation.  One  gentleman  who'  was  dressed  in  the  garb 
of  a  Christian  divine  approached  the  hall  and  was  greeted  by  the  Elder 
who  was  standing  at  the  door.  The  latter  extended  his  hand,  but  the 
minister  refused,  saying  contemptuously,  "I  did  not  come  here  to  shake 
hands  with  you."  ; 

"Very  well,"  said  the  Elder,  "you  are  welcome,"  and  invited  him 
into  the  hall. 

When  the  Elder  reported  this  to  me  he  said :  "I  felt  somewhat 
discouraged  and  gloomy." 

I  said :  "You  ought  to  be  very  thankful  for  the  experience  that 
came  to  you  that  morning.  That  gentleman  misjudged  you.  You 
know  he  misjudged  you.  You  know  your  sincerity.  You  know  what 
you  had  in  your  heart.    You  know  also  that  he  was  wrong  in  his 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


11 


accusation  and  in  his  feelings  toward  you  and  your  people.  Test  that 
spirit  and  see  if  you  have  not  more  confidence  in  the  work  in  which 
you  are  engaged  than  you  ever  had  before." 

THE  SPIRIT  OF  SLANDER 

And  so,  Latter-day  Saints,  test  the  spirit  of  the  various  accusations 
that  are  sometimes  hurled  against  our  leaders  and  against  the  Church. 
We  have  always  had  lies,  calumny  and  vituperation  to  fight  and  the 
Church  of  God  will  always  have  it.  Our  only  problem  is  for  us  to  be 
unmoved  from  our  station. 

The  scriptures  tell  us  that, 

"Whoso  privily  slandereth  his  neighbor,  him  will  I  cut  off. 
"He  that  worketh  deceit  shall  not  dwell  within  my  house;  he  that  telleth 
lies  shall  not  tarry  in  my  sight." 

Slander  is  defined  as  "defamation  whether  oral  or  written."  "A 
false  report  maliciously  uttered  and  tending  to  injure  the  reputation  of 
another." 

"Slander,"  says   Shakespeare,  "whose  edge  is  sharper  than  the  sword; 

whose  tongue 
Outvenoms  all  the  worms  of  Nile ;  whose  breath 
Rides  on  the  posting  winds,  and  doth  belie 
All  corners  of  the  world :  kings,  queens  and  states, 
Maids,  matrons,  nay,  the  secrets  of  the  grave 
This  viperous  slander  enters." 

"Slander  is  a  poison  which  extinguishes  charity,  both  in  the  slanderer  and 
in  the  person  who  listens  to  it;  so  that  a  single  calumny  may  prove  fatal  to  an 
infinite  number  of  souls ;  since  it  kills  not  only  those  who  circulate  it,  but  also 
all  those  who  receive  it." 

Diogenes  being  asked,  "What  is  that  beast,  the  bite  of  which  is  the 
most  dangerous?"  replied,  "Of  wild  beasts,  the  bite  of  a  slanderer; 
and  of  tame  beasts,  that  of  the  flatterer." 

The  source  of  slander  may  be  found  in  a  depraved  nature.  It  is 
a  weed  the  roots  of  which  find  richest  sustenance  in  a  soul  that  is  seeking 
to  destroy  his  fellows.  In  uncultured  souls  there  is  a  desire  to  ride  on 
the  downfall  of  another — their  souls  feed  on  others'  failures. 

It  was  Emerson  who  said,  referring  to  this  depravity  in  human 
nature,  that  an  accident  cannot  happen  in  the  street  but  the  bystanders 
will  be  animated  with  the  faint  hope  that  the  victim  may  die. 

george  Washington's  experience 

If  we  look  back  into  history  we  shall  find  that  great  men  have 
suffered  perhaps  more  from  this  evil  than  from  any  other  one  thing. 
I  ask  you  to  recall  the  father  of  our  country.  We  can  think  of  him 
appropriately  on  this  occasion  as  the  nation  will  soon  celebrate  the  two- 
hundredth  anniversary  of  his  birth.  Perhaps  the  saddest  experience  of 
his  life  was  at  Valley  Forge,  December,  1777.  His  army  was  in 
winter  quarters,  about  twenty-two  miles  from  Philadelphia.  He  had 
fewer  than  ten  thousand  men,  three  thousand  of  whom  deserted  to 
the  British. 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"The  soldiers  were  thinly  clad,  some  half  naked,  others  with  no  clothing, 
hut  tattered  blankets  wrapped  around  them.  So  many  were  sick  as  the  result 
of  privation,  and  so  many  were  without  coats,  blankets,  hats  or  shoes,  that  one 
wonders  how  the  army  held  together  at  all." 

Under  this  stress  of  critical,  desperate  condition  it  must  have 
seemed  to  Washington  that  he  was  abandoned  not  only  by  Con- 
gress, then  in  session  at  York,  but  also  by  most  of  his  friends  as  well. 
John  Adams  had  turned  against  him,  so  also  had  Richard  Henry  Lee. 
General  Gates  insulted  him  by  sending  reports  direct  to  Congress  in- 
stead of  to  Washington,  his  superior  officer. 

As  carrions  hover  around  a  dying  creature,  so  in  Washington's  dire 
calamity  came  men  to  seek  to  crush  him — men  who  formed  what  has 
been  called  the  "Conway  Cabal,"  a  contemptible  attempt  to  dishonor 
Washington  and  to  supplant  him  by  a  self-asserting,  arrogant  schemer. 
Falsehoods 'most  damnable  appeared  in  print,  and  lies  fell  like  froth 
from  unclean  mouths. 

In  the  midst  of  all  this  Washington's  imperturbable  conduct  makes 
his  character  shine  in  immortal  glory. 

I  need  not  refer  to  Lincoln  who,  surrounded  by  men  who  attacked 
him,  who  accused  him  falsely,  towered  as  Goldsmith  has  said  of  another, 

"As  some  tall  cliff,  that  lifts  its  awful  form, 
Swells  from  the  vale,  and  midway  leaves  the  storm, 
Though  round  its  breast  the  rolling  clouds  are  spread, 
Eternal  sunshine  settles  on  its  head." 

AN  IMPRESSIVE  INSTANCE  IN  CHURCH  HISTORY 

One  of  the  most  impressive  instances  in  all  the  world  of  the  dire 
effect  of  calumny  we  have  in  the  history  of  our  own  Church.  About 
June,  1844,  Joseph  Smith,  Hyrum  Smith  and  the  other  leaders  of  the 
Church  were  lied  about.  Enemies  right  in  the  city  of  Nauvoo  circulated 
some  of  the  worst  blasphemous  accusations  that  men  could  contemplate 
or  imagine.  Not  only  that  but  they  began  to  publish  vituperative 
slander.  You  know  that  there  was  one  issue  of  the  Expositor  which 
so  insulted  the  women  and  cast  reflections  on  the  men  that  the  City 
Council  convened  and  declared  that  printing  press  a  nuisance.  Later 
Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet,  in  speaking  to  Governor  Ford,  said :  "There 
is  not  a  state  in  the  Union  that  would  have  stood  it  as  calmly  as  we, 
that  would  have  put  up  with  it  one  hour." 

But  the  Prophet  controlled  himself  and  so  did  his  associates,  and 
only  legal  action  was  taken.  He  gave  himself  up  under  the  protection 
of  Governor  Ford,  assured  by  the  honor  of  the  State  of  Illinois  that 
he  would  be  protected  and  given  a  proper  hearing  and  a  fair  trial. 
After  he  received  what  seemed  to  be  a  partial  fulfilment  of  this  promise 
he  was  released;  then  a  false  charge  of  treason  was  placed  against 
him,  and  illegally  and  without  shadow  of  right  he  and  his  brother  were 
incarcerated  in  jail.  Then  lies  continued  to  circulate.  We  know  what 
the  result  was.  The  best  blood  of  this  country  was  shed  in  innocence. 
He  knew  he  was  innocent.  He  knew  his  rights.  So  did  his  brother 
Hyrum,  John  Taylor  and  Willard  Richards  who  were  there  with  him. 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


13 


But  because  of  lies,  black  and  damnable,  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  his 
brother  Hyrum  were  martyred. 

Governor  Ford  himself  tells  about  the  falsehoods  that  were  cir- 
culated after  the  martyrdom,  and  how  the  people's  minds  were  stirred 
up  against  them.  In  the  midst  of  it  all  what  was  the  Prophet's  attitude? 
A  calm,  Christ-like  attitude.  Said  he,  when  he  was  going  to  Carthage 
that  evening: 

"I  am  going  like  a  lamb  to  the  slaughter,  but  I  am  calm  as  a  summer's 
morning.  I  have  a  conscience  void  of  offense  toward  God  and  all  men.  If 
they  take  my  life  I  shall  die  an  innocent  man,  and  it  will  yet  be  said  of:  me, 
he  was  murdered  in  cold  blood." 

THE    MAN   OF  GALILEE 

What  was  Jesus'  attitude  when  they  circulated  calumny  against 
him?  Wherever  he  went  he  was  pursued  by  men  who  were  his  enemies. 
They  watched  him  in  order  that  they  might  trip  him.  They  questioned 
him  in  order  that  they  might  get  him  into  a  trap. 

"How  difficult  it  is  |to  speak  if  one  is  speaking  in  the  presence  of  people 
who  are  watching  each  sentence,  determined  if  possible  to  catch  the  speaker 
in  error.  Wherever  Jesus  went  his  conduct  was  scrutinized  by  eyes  that  were_ 
green  with  envy.  Everything  he  did  was  criticized,  every  action  called  forth 
a  storm  of  abuse.  His  enemies  gathered  around  him  like  a  swarm  of  mosquitoes 
biting  him,  like  a  swarm  of  hornets  stinging  him — but  he  never  complained.  They 
nagged  at  him,  pelted  him  with  abusive  epithets,  sowed  the  land  with  lies  about 
him,  but  he  never  grew  bitter.  We  have  known  many  a  good  man  to  grow 
sour  simply  because  he  had  been  misunderstood  by  a  few  people.  Many  a 
woman  has  grown  bitter  because  of  unfortunate  experiences  with  those  who 
were  her  fellow-workers  in  the  Church.  This  Man  of  Galilee  knew  little  but 
misunderstanding  and  ingratitude  and  criticism  and  abuse ;  but  he  never  com- 
plained, and  at  the  end  of  the  day  he  was  as  sweet  as  at  dawn.  Long  before 
he  came  somebody  had  said  that  when  the  supreme  man  arrived  he  would  submit 
to  tribulation  without  complaining.  As  men  looked  upon  this  Man  of  Galilee 
they  were  reminded  of  the  great  line  of  the  prophet,  'As  a  lamb  before  the 
shearer  is  dumb,  so  he  opened  not  his  mouth.'  " 

Brethren  and  sisters,  what  is  the  attitude,  the  spirit  of  the  vilifier, 
as  compared  with  the  spirit  of  the  Christ,  the  spirit  of  the  leaders  of 
the  Church,  the  spirit  of  every  true  Latter-day  Saint?  It  is  better  to 
suffer  wrong  than  to  do  wrong,  and  if  we  as  Latter-day  Saints  will  but 
hold  to  the  truth  as  it  has  been  revealed  all  will  eventually  be  well. 
My  brethren  and  sisters,  let  me  bear  you  my  testimony  that  in  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  it  has  been  revealed  in  this  day  lies  the  hope 
and  the  salvation  of  the  human  family.  I  feel  it  with  all  my  soul. 
I  believe  I  can  prove  it  to  the  satisfaction  of  any  who  will  honestly  and 
prayerfully  investigate  the  tenets  and  organization  of  the  Church. 

THE  TRIUMPH  OF  TRUTH 

Then  let  us  rally  around  our  President  who  this  morning  said, 
"Hold  to  the  truth,  be  true  to  the  principles  of  life  and  salvation  as 
revealed  in  this  dispensation." 

It  has  been  impressively  said  that : 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"A  man  cannot  believe  in  God  without  believing  in  the  final  inevitable 
triumph  of  truth.  If  you  have  truth  on  your  side  you  can  pass  through  the 
dark  valley  of  slander,  misrepresentation  and  abuse,  undaunted,  as  though 
you  wore  a  suit  of  mail  that  no  bullet  could  enter,  no  arrow  could  pierce.  You 
can  hold  your  head  high,  toss  it  fearlessly  and  defiantly,  look  every  man  calmly 
and  unflinchingly  in  the  eye,  as  though  you  rode,  a  victorious  king,  returning  at 
the  head  of  your  legions  with  banners  waving  and  lances  glistening,  and  bugles 
filling  the  air  with  music.  You  can  feel  the  great  expansive  wave  of  moral 
health  surging  through  you  as  the  quickened  blood  courses  through  the  body 
of  him  who  is  gladly,  gloriously  proud  of  physical  health.  You  will  know 
that  all  will  come  right  in  the  end,  that  it  must  come,  that  error  must  flee  before 
the  great  white  light  of  truth,  as  darkness  slinks  away  into  nothingness  in  the 
presence  of  the  sunburst.  Then,  with  truth  as  your  guide,  your  companion,  your 
ally,  and  inspiration,  you  tingle  with  the  consciousness  of  your  kinship  with 
the  Infinite  and  all  the  petty  trials,  sorrows  and  sufferings  of  life  fade  away  like 
temporary,  harmless  visions  seen  in  a  dream." 

God  help  us  to  be  anchored  in  the  truth,  give  us  power  to  preach 
it,  and  power  to  live  it.  Then,  when  slander,  calumny  and  misrepresenta- 
tion are  hurled  against  us,  they  will  fall  as  weakened  arrows  against  an 
impenetrable  coat  of  mail. 

May  we  ever  carry  forward  this  great  work  in  the  spirit  of  the 
Master,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  feel  assured  this  morning  that  we  are  to  have  a. most  excellent 
conference  because  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  has  been  with  us  and  has 
dictated  the  words  that  have  been  spoken.  I  trust  that  for  the  few 
moments  I  stand  here  I  too  may  be  led  to  say  that  which  will  be  pleasing 
in  the  sight  of  our  Heavenly  Father  and  beneficial  to  you. 

TESTIMONY  CONCERNING  GREAT  TRUTHS 

I  am  grateful  for  a  testimony  of  the  Gospel,  for  a  knowledge  that 
Jesus  Christ  is  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  the  Only  Begotten  Son 
of  the  living  God.  I  know  that  he  came  into  the  world  as  its  Redeemer 
and  as  the  Savior  of  men.  He  brought  salvation  and  exaltation  to  all 
who  are  willing  to  accept  in  faithfulness  all  of  his  teachings.  Moreover, 
I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  called  of  God  and  was  a  prophet,  and 
that  he  was  given  divine  authority  and  spoke  the  truth.  To  him  were 
the  heavens  opened.  He  received  a  visitation  of  the  Father  and  the 
Son  and  was  called  to  usher  in  the  great  last  dispensation  known  as  the 
Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times.  This  dispensation  was  spoken 
of  by  ancient  prophets  and  by  the  apostles  of  former  times.  The 
ancient  prophets  looked  forward  to  this  dispensation  for  they  knew 
it  was  to  be  the  time  of  the  restoration  of  all  things  both  which  are  in 
heaven  and  which  are  on  earth.  This  restoration  was  to  come  through 
the  sending  of  the  Gospel  from  heaven  with  the  fulness  of  the  priest- 
hood, and  all  things  were  eventually  to  be  set  in  order  according  to  the 
will  of  the  Lord. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


15 


I  am  grateful  for  the  Gospel  as  it  has  come  to  us  in  its  simplicity, 
and  in  its  fulness,  with  all  its  power  and  authority,  for  the  holy  priest- 
hood cannot  be  separated  from  the  Gospel  which  is  the  power  of 
God  unto  salvation.  This  power  has  again  been  brought  to  men  and 
they  have  the  privilege  of  worshipping  God  in  spirit  and  in  truth. 
How  grateful  I  am  for  this  knowledge,  and  to  know  that  I  have  been 
reared  in  it.  All  my  life  it  has  been  my  desire  to  know  the  truth  and 
to  have  a  testimony  which  comes  from  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  I  can 
say  that  I  know  that  these  things  are  true. 

THAT  WE  MAY  NOT  BE  DECEIVED 

Our  attention  has  been  called  this  morning  to  the  fact  that  there 
are  many  spirits  abroad  in  the  world,  that  we  are  to  try  the  spirits.  As 
I  understand  this  it  means  that  we  should  prove  them  to  know  from 
what  source  they  come.  How  are  we  going  to  prove  the  spirits  and 
understand  which  are  right  and  which  are  wrong  unless  we  ourselves 
are  walking  in  the  light?  Unless  we  have  been  studying  and  ponder- 
ing over  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  we  may  be  deceived.  If  we  have 
not  had  in  our  hearts  the  spirit  of  prayer,  of  ,faith,  of  humility,  and 
have  been  obedient  to  our  Eternal  Father,  then  how  are  we  going 
to  distinguish  between  these  spirits  and  discover  what  comes  from 
God  and  what  comes  from  man  or  from  some  evil  source? 

The  Lord  has  marked  out  the  way.  He  has  given  us  a  key  to  the 
situation.  It  was  never  the  intention  of  our  Father  in  heaven  to  leave 
men  to  grope  and  feel  their  way  in  darkness  and  that  without  any 
light  to  guide  them,  and  expect  them  under  such  conditions  to  find 
their  way  back  into  his  kingdom  and  into  his  holy  presence.  That 
is  not  the  way  of  the  Lord.  All  down  the  ages  from  the  beginning  our 
Father  in  heaven  has  shown  his  kindness  for  his  children  and  has  been 
willing  to  give  them  direction.  From  the  earliest  times  the  heavens 
have  been  opened,  the  Lord  has  sent  messengers  from  his  presence 
to  divinely  appointed  servants,  men  holding  the  authority  of  the  priest- 
hood who  have  -been  commissioned  to  teach  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel,  to  warn  the  people  and  teach  them  righteousness ;  and  these 
men  have  received  this  knowledge,  this  inspiration  and  guidance  from 
these  messengers  from  the  presence  of  God.  This  is  true  of  our 
own  dispensation.  There  is  no  need  for  men  to  shut  their  eyes  and  feel 
that  there  is  no  light  only  as  they  may  depend  upon  their  reason,  for 
the  Lord  has  always  been  willing  to  lead  and  direct  and  show  the  way. 
He  has  sent,  as  I  say,  messengers  from  his  presence.  He  has  sent 
revelation.  He  has  commanded  that  his  word  be  written,  that  it  be 
published,  so  that  all  the  people  might  know  it. 

UNTO  ALL  MEN 

In  the  very  first  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  there  are 
some  very  significant  things  in  relation  to  this  matter  as  the  Lord  has 
given  it  both  to  the  Church  and  to  the  world.    This  revelation,  known 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


as  the  preface  to  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  is  the  preface  by  the 
Son  of  God  himself  to  this  great  body  of  revelation  and  command- 
ment which  has  been  given  to  the  Church  and  to  the  world  if  they  will 
receive  it  for  their  salvation.    And  it  begins  as  follows: 

"Hearken,  O  ye  people  of  my  church,  .saith  the  voice  of  him  who  dwells  on 
high,  and  whose  eyes  are  upon  all  men;  yea,  verily  I  say:  Hearken  ye  people 
from  afar;  and  ye  that  are  upon  the  islands  of  the  sea,  listen  together." 

So  you  see  .in  this  introduction  to  this  preface  the  Lord  calls  the 
members  of  the  Church,  the  people  of  the  islands  of  the  sea,  in  foreign 
lands,  in  all  parts  of  the  earth,  to  listen,  to  give  heed  to  the  words  which 
he  shall  speak,  that  they  might  receive  his  truth  and  come  out  of  dark- 
ness.   And  then  he  says : 

"For  verily  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is  unto  all  men,  and  there  is  none  to 
escape;  and  there  is  no  eye  that  shall  not  see,  neither  ear  that  shall  not  hear, 
neither  heart  that  shall  not  be  penetrated." 

HERE  OR  HEREAFTER 

We  may  wonder  how  that  will  come  to  pass  because  we  under- 
stand that  with  the  best  efforts  we  can  make  in  sending  forth  and 
publishing  this  word  there  are  many  who  do  not  hear  it.  Our  two 
thousand  missionaries  who  are  scattered  over  the  face  of  the  earth 
preaching  the  Gospel  are  very  few  in  comparison  ,with  the  millions 
unto  whom  this  Gospel  is  to  be  proclaimed.  But  the  Lord  will  reach 
the  hearts  of  the  people,  his  word  will  not  fail.  And  I  do  not  under- 
stand even  from  this  wording  that  it  is  necessary  that  every  heart  be 
penetrated  and  every  ear  hear  in  this  life.  But  if  they  have  not  heard, 
if  this  opportunity  has  not  come  to  them  through  the  preaching  of 
the  Elders  and  through  the  things  that  have  been  published  in  the  word 
of  the  Lord  that  has  gone  forth  by  revelation,  the  opportunity  is 
going  to  come  to  them  and  they  must, hear  it  in  the  spirit  world. 

And  so  the  Lord  in  his  kindness  and  mercy  intends  to  bring  these 
truths  of  this  restored  Gospel  to  every  soul  living  or  dead.  In  this 
manner  every  heart  shall  be  penetrated  and  every  ear  shall  hear. 

"And  the  rebellious  shall  be  pierced  with  much  sorrow ;  ^f or  their  iniquities 
shall  be  spoken  upon  the  housetops,  and  their  secret  acts  shall  be  revealed. 

"And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be  unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths  of  my 
disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen  in  these  last  days." 

THE   LORD'S  PURPOSE 

And  then  farther  on  in  this  revelation  the  Lord  declares : 

"Wherefore,  I  the  Lord,  knowing  the  calamity  which  should  come  upon, 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  called  upon  my  servant  Joseph  Smith,  Jun.,  and 
spake  unto  him  from  heaven,  and  gave  him  commandments; 

"And  also  gave  commandments  to  others,  that  they  should  proclaim  these 
things  unto  the  world;  and  all  this  that  it  might  be  fulfilled  which  was  written 
by  "the  prophets — 

"The  weak  things  of  the  world  shall  come  forth  and  break  down  the  mighty 
and  strong  ones,  that  man  should  not  counsel  his  fellow  man,  neither  trust  in  the 
arm  of  flesh — 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


17 


"But  that  every  man  might  speak  in  the  name  of  God  the  Lord,  even  the 
Savior  of  the  world; 

"That  faith  also  might  increase  in  the  earth ;  - 
"That  mine  everlasting  covenant  might  be  established ; 

"That  the  fulness  of  my  gospel  might  be  proclaimed  by  the  weak  and  the 
simple  unto  the  ends  of  the  world,  and  before  kings  and  rulers. 

"Behold,  I  am  God  and  have  spoken  it;  these  commandments  are  of  me, 
and  were  given  unto  my  servants  in  their  weakness,  after  the  manner  of  their 
language,  that  they  might  come  to  understanding." 

SEARCH   THESE  THINGS 

I  have  read  from  this  revelation  with  the  idea  of  impressing'  upon 
our  minds  the  commandment  that  comes  from  our  Father  in  heaven 
through  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  who  is  the  author  of  these  words,  that 
it  is  the  duty  not  only  of  the  eldership  of  this  Church  but  of  all  the 
members  of  this  Church  to  search, these  revelations  and  commandments, 
that  we  might  know  them.  The  Elder  of  this  Church  no  matter  who 
he  is  who  is  unfamiliar  with  the  word  of  the  Lord  as  it  has  come 
unto  us  through  the  proclamation  of  his  Son  and  through  his  servants 
in  these  latter  days,  is  not  magnifying  his  calling  in  this  Church. 
Moreover,  it  is  the  duty  of  the  members  of  this  Church  to  make  them- 
selves familiar  with  the  revelations  as  they  have  been  given,  and  with 
the  commandments  as  they  have  been  taught  in  these  revelations,  or 
have  been  presented  in  them  and  given  to  the  people,  that  we  might  know 
the  truth  which  makes  us  free.  And  if  we  will  study  them,  if  we  will 
put  them  into  practice,  if  we  will  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord, 
we  will  know  the  truth  and  there  shall  be  no  weapon  formed  against 
us  that  shall  prosper.  There  shall  be  no  false  doctrines,  no  teaching 
of  men  that  will  deceive  us.  There  are  many  cults  and  many  false 
faiths,  there  are' many  strange  ideas  in  the  world,  but  if  we  will  search 
these  revelations  then  we  will  be  fortified  against  errors  and  we  will 
be  made  strong.  False  teachings  will  have  no  effect  upon  us  for  we 
will  know  that  truth  which  makes  us  free. 

The  word  of  the  Lord  which  he  spoke  when  in  his  ministry  is  just 
as  true  today  as  it  was  then  to  this  effect,  that  he  who  will  do  the  will 
of  the  Father  shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  and  he  will  not  be  led  astray; 
he  will  not  be  enticed  or  overcome  by  falsehoods  and  these  teachings 
that  prevail  in  the  world  which  tend  to  destroy  faith  in  God  and  his 
revelations. 

"whoso  treasureth  up  my  word" 

Let  me  read  to  you  this  key  that  the  Lord  gave  to  his  disciples 
when  he  was  in  his  ministry.  Speaking  of  the  last  days,  the  days  just 
preceding  his  coming  he  said : 

"And  whoso  treasureth  up  my  word  shall  not  be  deceived,  for  the  Son  of 
Man  shall  come,  and  he  shall  send  his  angels  before  him  with  the  great  sound 
of  a  trumpet,  and  they  shall  gather  together  the  remainder  of  his  elect  from  the 
four  winds,  from  one  end  of  heaven  to  the  other." 

Now  remember,  brethren  and  sisters,  if  you  treasure  up  the  word 
of  the  Lord,  if  you  study  these  revelations,  not  merely  those  that  are 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  but  those  that  are  in  all  the  standard 
works  of  the  Church,  and  you  put  into  practice  the  commandments 
that  are  here  found,  you  will  not  be  deceived  in  these  perilous  times, 
but  you  shall  have  the  spirit  of  discernment  and  you  shall  know  the 
truth  and  shall  know  falsehood,  for  you  shall  have  power  to  know 
the  spirits  of  men  and  to  understand  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

May  we  do  this  I  pray,  walking  in  righteousness,  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

It  is  my  purpose  to  make  a  few  remarks  on  temperance  and  upon 
upholding  the  Prohibition  laws. 

WHAT  SAYS  THE  LAW? 

In  Utah  it  is  unlawful  to  import,  advertise,  give  away,  exchange, 
dispense,  or  serve  liquor  in  any  form.  In  fact,  he  who  has  liquor  in 
his  hand,  in  his  home,  or  otherwise  in]  his  possession,  violates  the  Utah 
statute.  The  Federal  Constitution  prohibits  the  manufacture,  the  sale, 
or  the  transportation  of  intoxicating  liquors. 

WHAT   SAYS  LINCOLN? 

Abraham  Lincoln  has  been  called  our  greatest  American.  He  says : 
"Bad  laws,  if  they  exist,  should  be  repealed  as  soon  as  possible ;  still, 
while  they  continue  in  force,  they  should  be  religiously  observed." 

In  this  day  of  lawlessness  and  disrespect  for  law,  my  purpose  is 
to  appeal  to  the  members  of  my  own  Church,  as  well  as  to  all  other 
good  citizens,  to  support  the  laws  of  our  state  and  the  Constitution 
of  our  country.  By  disregarding  or  breaking  the  Prohibition  statutes, 
we  may  bring  all  Jaw  into  disrespect. 

By  taking  one  glass  of  beer,  leading  and  influential  citizens,  those 
who  direct  business  and  are  owners  of  property,  are  encouraging 
disrespect  for  aU  law.  Just  as  touching  the  little  electric  exciter  brings 
into  operation  the  mammoth  dynamo  so  he  who  drinks  a  single  glass 
of  liquor  ought  to  realize  that  he  is  helping  to  break  down  those  funda- 
mental barriers  which  the  law  provides  for  protecting  him  in  his  rights 
to  his  own  property. 

WHAT  SAYS  SCIENCE? 

In  this  age  of  science  and  scientific  investigation,  it  has  been 
demonstrated  beyond  question  that  alcoholic  liquor  is  harmful.  It 
has  been  proved  that  alcohol  is  not,  as  was  formely  believed,  merely 
a  stimulant ;  it  is  a  poison,  it  is  a  dangerous  habit-forming  drug. 
Always  it  produces  stupor.  It  has  been  shown  that  alcohol  has  much 
the  same  effect^on  the  human  body  and  mmd  that  ether  or  chloroform 
haSr  i  1  :  ; 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


19 


The  great  mass  of  people  today  accept  the  teachings  of  science — 
that  alcohol,  even  when  taken  in  small  amounts,  is  harmful.  Says 
Professor  Sims  Wogdhead  of  Cambridge :  "A  man  under  the  influence 
of  a  small  quantity  of  alcohol  (not  drunk  I  remind  you)  has  no  right 
to  believe  his  own  senses.  He  cannot  trust  them  to  give  him  facts, 
and  he  cannot  Tely  upon  his  judgment  for  the  interpretation  of  the 
facts." 

Experiments  show  that  when  men  have  taken  alcohol  they  actually 
feel  able  to  do  more,  and  think  they  are  doing  more ;  but  measurements 
demonstrate  that  the  work  they  actually  accomplish  is  considerably 
less  and  is  inferior.  Alcohol  deceives.  It  deadens  the  power  of 
judgment ;  he  who  uses  it  is  no  longer  capable  of  drawing  correct  con- 
clusions. 

WHAT   SAY  WE? 

Liquor  may  make  tongues  wag  more  freely,  but  the  thoughts 
expressed  are  less  accurate,  less  worth-while.  Who  would  care  to 
carry  on  a  conversation  even  with  his  dearest  friend  if  that  friend 
were  drunk  or  even  tipsy?  The  use  of  alcohol  is  a  curse,  not  only 
to  him  who  indulges,  but  to  his  dependents,  his  kindred,  and  his 
country.  To  enforce  Prohibition,  and  thus  to  banish  alcohol  as  a 
beverage,  would  produce  benefits  immeasurable. 

WHAT  SAY  THE  DOCTORS? 

Dr.  C.  P.  Bells  of  Toledo  says  that  he  has  in  his  files  more  than 
$11,000  in  bad  accounts  of  those  who  drank  and  did  not  pay  their  bills 
before  1918.  Since  that  period  his  loss  from  unpaid  bills  has  not 
exceeded  $500. 

To  users  of  liquor,  Dr.  Henry  Smith  Williams  says :  "You  are 
threatening  the  physical  structure  of  your  stomach,  your  liver,  your 
kidneys,  your  heart,  your  blood  vessels,  your  nerves,  your  brain;  you 
are  decreasing  your  capacity  for  work  in  any  field ;  you  are  lowering 
the  grade  of  your  mind,  dulling  your  higher  aesthetic  sense,  and  taking 
the  finer  edge  off  your  morals ;  you  are  distinctly  lessening  your  chances 
of  maintaining  health ;  you  may  be  entailing  on  your  descendants 
incalculable  misery."  \ 

And  the  famous  surgeon  Sir  Frederick  Greves  remarks  that  "the 
best  physical  condition  is  impossible  if  any  alcohol  is  used" — that  "no 
man  is  at  his  best  who  works  on  even  a  moderate  amount  of  liquor." 

WHAT  SAYS  THE  CHURCH  ? 

At  the  time,  a  hundred  years  ago,  when  Joseph  Smith  proclaimed 
to  the  Church  and  the  world  that  strong  drinks  are  not  good  for  man, 
the  daily  rations  of  soldiers  included  a  certain  quantity  of  rum  or 
whiskey.  Stimulants  were  supposed  to  be  necessary  to  fortify  the 
soldier  against  fatigue  and  hardship,  to  aid  him  on  his  tedious  marches, 
and  especially  to  give  him  courage  in  battle.  In  our  day,  science  has 
demonstrated  that  alcohol  does  none  of  these  things,  that  its  effects  are 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  very  opposite.  Alcohol  no  longer  is  served  to  soldiers,  and  every 
effort  is  made  to  prevent  them  from  using  it. 

WHAT  SAY  THE  PAPERS? 

The  successful  enforcement  of  Prohibition  will  reduce  the  amount 
of  drunken  driving.  Look  at  any  issue  of  the  Deseret  News,  the 
Tribune,  the  Telegram ;  observe  how  much  space  is  devoted  to  drunken 
driving,  to  the  accidents  resulting  from  it,  and  to  court  proceedings 
arising  out  of  it.  i 

A  recent  editorial  in  the  Salt  Lake  Telegram  criticizes  drunken 
drivers  and  also  those  public  officials  who  permit  these  offenders  to 
settle  their  cases  out  of  court.  It  scores  those  "who  cast  their  deadly 
menace  across  traffic,  thus  threatening  lives  and  property,  but  who, 
through  a  streak  of  good  luck,  escape  a  crash." 

In  an  editorial  dated  September  27,  the  Tribune  says  Utah  is 
bound  to  recognize  the  serious  problem  of  drunken  driving  and  fruitless 
prosecutions.  The  public,  the  police,  the  prosecutors,  and  the  courts 
have  been  held  intermittently  to  blame. 

"The  public  contributes  witnesses  who  refuse  to  testify,  *  *  *  provides  the 
friendly  influence  which  seeks  to  tamper  with  officials  charged  with  enforcement ; 
places  selfish  interests  'above  public  welfare;  and  contributes  the  juror  who 
does  not  take  seriously  his  responsibility." 

WHAT  ACCOUNTS  FOR  SUCCESS? 

We  live  in  an  age  of  keen  competition.  There  may  be  but  little 
difference  between  the  work  of  individuals,  yet  one  succeeds  while 
another  fails.  He  wins  who  works  a  little  faster,  a  little  more  accurately, 
a  little  more  efficiently.  Intoxicants,  even  in  small  quantities,  produce 
that  little  difference  which  changes  work — changes  a  life — from  success 
to  failure.  This  poison,  alcohol,  if  used  in  only  small  quantities, 
decreases  efficiency. 

DO  PUBLIC  OFFICIALS  BREAK  TFIE  LAW  ? 

Do  public  officials  or  other  leading  citizens  violate  the  law  in  your 
presence  ? 

Some  maintain  that  there  is  no  moral  turpitude  in  breaking  a 
traffic  law,  for  example ;  but  that  stealing  horses  or  robbing  banks  is  a 
very  different  and  much  more  serious  offense. 

Those  who  steal  cattle  or  rob  banks  are  taking  only  that  which 
can  be  measured  with  money.  But  when  prominent  and  influential 
citizens,  by  their  example,  lead  young  folks  into  a  temptation  that  has 
wrecked  so  many  human  lives,  they  are  taking  from  young  men  and 
women,  from  their  fathers  and  mothers,  and  from  the  Republic,  some- 
thing that  dollars  cannot  measure,  that  money  cannot  replace. 

WILL  LEADERS  LEAD? 

Social  and  business  leaders,  being  strong  characters,  are  able  to 
resist  temptation ;  to  them  I  make  special  appeal.    The  success  of  our 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


21 


youth  demands  that  leading  citizens  live  the  law  and  set  examples  they 
desire  to  have  young  folks  follow.  Will  they  not  aid  the  youth  to 
acquire  those  sterling  qualities  which  mean  success — honesty,  honor, 
dependability,  and  sobriety?  For  these  the  world  is  always  looking, 
and  for  these  the  world  stands  always  ready  to  pay. 

WHAT   CAN   EXAMPLE  DO? 

In  the  days  of  the  saloon  it  was  continuously  demonstrated  that 
many  have  not  the  ability  to  resist  its  temptations.  So  by  the  example 
of  those  who  are  older,  the  younger  generation  is  led  into  a  temptation 
that  may  mean  ruin;  to  their  parents  it  will  mean  disgrace.  To  the 
nation,  if  the  _great  mass  of  the  youth  become  drinkers,  it  will  mean 
decay. 

Imagine  the  condition  where  a  law-breaker  has  an  associate  law- 
breaker for  an  arresting  officer,  another  such  associate  as  a  prosecuting 
attorney,  and  a  third  on  the  bench  as  the  presiding  judge.  What  must 
be  the  Verdict  when  the  law-breaker  is  looking  into  the  faces  of 
members  of  the  jury  who  are  equally  guilty  of  breaking  the  law? 
Heaven  preserve  us  from  such  a  situation.  Under  such  conditions  the 
life  of  any  nation  would  be  short.  Ruin  would  be  certain ;  the  end  of 
the  country  would  be  near. 

Nor  does  it  take  a  great  stretch  of  the  imagination  to  see  such 
conditions  actually  existing  in  our  own  country. 

"At  Milton,  N.  H.,  one  night  last  week,  ("Time",  September  28,  1931)  an 
automobile  careened  down  the  street  and  smashed  into  a  telephone  pole.  Police 
approached  the  darkened  car,  peered  in  at  a  bald  man,  pronounced  him  drunk, 
took  him  to  the  station  house.  When  they  got  him  under  a  light  and  saw  who 
he  was  they  immediately  released  him,  preferred  no  charges.  He  was  Judge 
Eri  C.  Oakes,  42,  of  the  State  Superior  Court. 

"Ironically,  one  of  the  first  cases  on  his  docket  the  next  morning  was  the 
trial  of  a  drunken  driver.  A  jury  found  the  man  guilty ;  Judge  Oakes  sentenced 
him  to  jail  for  90  idays,  but  did  not  impose  fine  or  costs,  suspended  sentence 
until  the  man  could  harvest  his  crops.  *  *  *  The  following  day  he  presided 
at  the  trial  of  a  hit-and-run  driver.  As  the  trial  got  under  way,  a  court 
attendant  tiptoed  up,  whispered  to  Judge  Oakes  that  an  assistant  attorney-general 
of  the  state  wanted  to  See  him. 

"With  a  tragic,  white  face  Judge  Oakes  returned  from  his  conference. 
'I  am  obliged  to  call  this  a  mistrial,'  he  said.  Court  attendants  flocked  around 
him  sympathetically,  watched  him  walk  slowly  out  of  the  courtroom.  When  he 
got  home  he  sent  his  motherless  14-year-old  daughter  away,  climbed  into  bed, 
*  *  *  and  shot  himself  through  the  head." 

For  our  present,  serious  wide-spread  disrespect  for  law,  many 
of  our  well-to-do  social  and  'business  leaders  are  in  part  to  blame.  To 
their  patriotism  I  appeal,  and  urge  that  they  obey  the  law  and  support 
the  Constitution.  If  bootleggers  were  patronized  only  by  the  vicious 
and  the  wicked,  their  profits  and  business  would  soon  disappear. 

WHAT  IS  OUR  ANSWER? 

If  you  are  undecided  about  whether  or  not  to  obey  the  law,  or 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


uncertain  as  to  whether  or  not  it  will  be  wise  to  participate  in  no 
functions  where  the  Prohibition  law  is  broken,  ask  yourselves  (Oral 
Hygiene,  July,  1931): 

1.  Does  it  improve  young  men  and  women  morally,  socially, 
or  financially,  to  be  drinkers  of  liquor?  I 

2.  Can  you  name  well-known  manufacturers  who  hire  men  who 
drink  in  preference  to  those  who  do  not? 

3.  Can  affidavits  be  produced  from  citizens  who  drink  to  prove 
it  beneficial  to  their  health  and  occupation? 

4.  Can  evidence  be  produced  from  bankers  that  their  deposits 
fell  off  when  the  sale  of  liquor  was  discontinued? 

5.  Will  manufacturers  testify  that  it  is  an  advantage  to  have 
saloons  near  their  plants? 

6.  Do  charitable  organizations  have  more  families  among  non- 
drinkers  that  require  assistance  than  among  those  who  drink? 

7.  Do  statistics  show  that  a  man  who  drinks  is  a  better  citizen 
than  one  who  does  not? 

8.  Can  letters  be  produced  from  wives  or  mothers  who  pray  for 
saloons  or  government  depositories,  that  their  husbands  and  sons  may 
have  places  in  which  to  spend  their  time  and  money? 

9.  Do  we  desire  railroad  engineers,  chauffeurs,  and  those  who 
drive  air-planes  to  drink?  ! 

In  civilized  and  modern  America  we  must  preserve  the  young 
people  of  our  nation  from  drunkenness.  Even  in  Russia  "tremendous 
educational  efforts  are  being  made  to  eliminate  drinking  from  the  life 
of  the  peasant  and  worker.  Everywhere,  in  every  station,  hotel,  and 
factory,  one  sees  posters  depicting  some  phase  of  the  drink  evil.  Most 
of  the  younger  generation  won't  touch  alcohol  in  any  form,  and  I 
have  seen  the  Young  Pioneers  (the  Communist  Boy  Scouts  of  Russia) 
many  times  attempting  to  restrain  grown-ups  from  overindulgence." 
(The  Nation,  June  3  and  17,  1931.) 

WHY  NOT  DECIDE  WISELY? 

I  appeal  to  you  as  citizens  of  our  nation,  to  decide  whether  you 
are  ready  to  follow  the  dignified  and  glorious  example  of  our  Pilgrim 
fathers,  who  went  to  Church  carrying  their  Bibles ;  or  whether  you 
will  follow  the  leadership  of  the  few  of  our  American  Legion  who 
recently  rode  through  the  streets  of  Detroit  swinging  their  bottles  and 
shouting  for  beer. 

I  am  not  speaking  of  the  great  patriotic  body  of  the  Legion  or 
of  its  high-minded,  law-abiding  leaders.  I  refer  only  to  the  drunken 
few.  For  the  American  Legion  I  have  the  highest  regard.  For  the 
men  who  stood  ready  and  willing  to  give  their  lives  for  the  liberty 
of  the  world,  I  have  real  reverence.  But  in  these  days,  when  the  great- 
est problem  before  America  is  lawlessness,  I  cannot  countenance  the 
breaking  of  the  law  by  even  a  few  members  of  the  American  Legion, 
or  a  few  of  any  other  organization. 

I  have  before  made  a  solemn  pledge,  and  in  conclusion  I  make 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


23 


it  here.  Fellow  churchmen,  fellow  countrymen — all  who  are  living 
in  the  land  of  Lincoln,  to  you  I  appeal  to  save  our  country  from 
destruction  because  of  lawlessness  and  disrespect  for  law.  This  is 
the  covenant  I  have  made :  iGod  helping  me,  I  promise  not  to  participate 
in  any  function,  social  or  otherwise,  where  the  law  is  broken ;  and 
that  I  will  not  cast  my  vote  for  any  candidate  on  any  ticket  unless 

1  have  reasonable  assurance  that  the  man  himself  lives  in  accordance 
with  the  law. 

The  hymn,  "O  ye  mountains  high,"  was  sung  by  the  congregation. 
Elder  Peter  J.  Ricks,  President  of  the  Fremont  Stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

The  Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

FIRST  DAY 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  second  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  promptly  at 

2  o'clock  p.  m. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  and  announced  that  the  congre- 
gation would  sing  the  hymn,  "Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  Salva- 
tion." 

After  the  singing  of  this  hymn,  Elder  Hyrum  B.  Calder,  President 
of  the  Uintah  Stake,  offered  the  invocation. 

The  congregation  sang  "How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of  the 
Lord." 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

First  Counselor  in  the  "Presiding  Bishopric 

I  am  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  with  you  here  this 
morning  and  to  listen  to  the  remarks  that  have  (been  made.  As  a 
member  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  much  of  my  time  during  the  last 
year  has  been  taken  by  those  who  find  themselves  distressed.  In  an 
effort  to  discover  the  reason  for  such  distress  I  find  that  a  large 
majority  have  brought  that  condition  upon  themselves  through  their 
own  actions.    May  I  give  you  an  example? 

One  laboring  man  seeking  employment  was  put  to  work  at  a 
nominal  salary  and  he  understood  that  he  was  to  be  employed  only  a 
few  days  and  then  would  be  replaced  by  someone  else.  After  a  week 
he  received  his  check.  He  stated  that  he  had  purchased  a  radio,  had 
paid  five  dollars  down  and  agreed  to  pay  a  dollar  a  week,  and  would 
lose  his  radio  unless  he  continued  in  employment. 

An  aged  brother,  past  the  fruitful  age  of  life,  who  some  years 
ago  owned  clear  a  very  choice  farm,  had  sufficient  means  to  spend  his 
winters  in  California.  He  now  finds  himself  without  a  farm,  too  old 
to.find  employment,  wondering  what  he  is  going  to  do.    It  seems  that 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


he  was  not  satisfied  with  the  land  he  had  and  felt  that  he  should  have 
more.  To  secure  more  it  was  necessary  to  mortgage  that  which  he- 
had.  Prices  did  inot  continue  as  they  were.  His  land  did  not  produce 
crops  as  it  had  been  producing  and  he  soon  found  that  he  could  not 
keep  up  his  payments  on  principal  and  interest  and  taxes.  He  thus 
lost  his  inheritance  to  those  who  held  the  mortgage. 

On  the  other  hand,  one  of  our  ibishops  called  at  the  office  to  ask 
advice.  He  had  money  in  the  bank  and  desired  to  know  where  he 
could  put  that  money  to  make  it  safe.  I  inquired  how  this  money 
had  come  to  him  ?   His  answer  was  : 

"When  I  came  from  the  old  country  I  heard  your  father  deliver  a  sermon 
in  the  tabernacle  in  which  he  told  the  people  to  keep  out  of  debt,  to  get  a 
little  piece  of  land,  just  enough  upon  which  to  make  a,  home,  and  then  save. 
When  enough  money  is  accumulated  to  buy  more,  buy  it,  but  do  not  go  into 
debt.  Live  within  your  means.  Do  without  some  things  you  would  like,  with 
the  hope  that  in  time  you  will  enjoy  those  things  without  being  in  bondage 
during  the  time  of  enjoyment.  I  remembered  that  and  secured  a  small  piece 
of  ground,  a  neighbor  loaned  me  his  team  and  plow  to  do  the  first  plowing. 

"I  had  a  little  means  with  which  to  build  a  modest  little  one-room  house, 
and  since  that  time  I  have  added  to  my  holdings."  He  said :  "I  have  always 
produced  enough  on  my  farm  to  pay  my  tithing  and  my  taxes  and  then  have 
sufficient  left  to  keep  myself  and  my  family  in  comfort,  and  I  have  never  been 
in  debt." 

A  few  weeks  ago  while  attending  a  conference  I  was  taken  to 
the  home  of  a  bishop,  a  modest,  comfortable  little  home.  There  were 
eight  children  in  the  family.  He  had  a  small  farm  of  about  thirty 
acres.  i 

I  asked  about  conditions  in  his  ward.    He  answered : 

"We  are  not  suffering,  at  least  those  of  us  who  have  not  contracted 
debts.  Some  are  suffering;  those  who  have  gone  into  debt  for  things  they  could 
do  without  are  finding  this  to  be  a  real  hard  time.  I  will  not  suffer.  The  Lord 
has  been  good  to  me.  I  have  harvested  my  wheat  crop — turned  it  into  the  mill 
and  taken  flour — I  have  enough  flour  put  away  to  last  me  during  the  coming  year. 
My  potato  crop  is  promising,  and  my  other  vegetables  also.  We  will  have  sufficient 
food  to  carry  us  through  the  winter  and  I  have  enough  money  to  pay  my  taxes 
and  to  fill  my  bin  with  coal  sufficient  to  keep  us  warm." 

I  have  given  you  two  sides  of  a  great  story  which  is  at  the  present 
time  a  problem  world-wide — what  are  we  to  do  during  these  times 
of  depression?  A  year  after  the  close  of  the  (World  War  I  attended 
a  convention  in  the  East.  One  of  the  speakers  in  that  convention 
among  other  sayings  made  the  following  statement : 

"Our  experience  with  the  army  has  taught  us  that  today  the  people  have 
no  love  for  the  old  conventional  religion.  Instead,  there  are  selfishness  and 
pettiness.  We  must  do  away  with  the  false  social  distinction  and  create  a  new 
church  ideal  for  our  present  needs,  one  with  social  aims  worth  fighting  for,  not 
a  mere  selfish  gospel  of  safety.  Let  them  lift  up  the  better  faith  of  the 
Christian  life.  Let  them  practice  as  well  as  preach  fraternity  and  draw  together 
in  one  common  cause." 

We  may  well  recall  that  from  the  very  beginning  of  the  world 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


25 


the  Lord  has  used  two  methods  of  calling  forcibly  to  the  attention 
of  his  children  the  fact  that  they  owe  qbedience  to  him  and  his  laws. 
One  is  that  of  war,  destruction  by  the  sword ;  the  other  is  that  of  famine 
through  which  he  brings  us  face  to  face  with  his  power.  It  seems 
that  under  the  conditions  of  poverty  we  are  more  apt  to  turn  to  God 
than  we  are  when  facing  the  cannon  or  the  sword.  The  last  war 
developed  the  fact  that  men  were  turning  from  God.  Mammon  was 
made  their  God.  They  seemed  to  console  themselves  in  the  thought 
that  man  is  not  acutally  created  in  the  image  of  God,  that  he  is  a 
spirit,  a  IGod  of  love,  who  dwells  in  the  heart  of  man,  which  it  seems 
to  me  makes  of  man  an  infidel,  for  under  such  conditions  one  can  create 
his  own  God  and  worship  in  his  own  manner.  At  the  present  time  we 
find  ourselves  in  a  condition  that  has  followed  such  periods  from  the 
very  beginning,  and  the  Lord  has  found  it  necessary  to  remind  us,  as 
he  has  others  in  ages  'past,  that  he  will  not  be  mocked  and  that  it  is  our 
duty  to  turn  again  to  him,  to  meet  our  obligations  to  him,  and  serve 
him  in  faith.  To  do  this  is  not  only  a  duty  but  a  privilege  with  a 
promise  of  blessings. 

President  Grant  has  again  urged  us  to  pay  our  tithing  and  fast 
offerings.  How  many  of  us  are  paying  an  honest  tithe  and  fast  offer- 
ing? I  shall  not  mention  at  this  time  the  average  amount  paid,  but 
suggest  that  when  we  go  home  we  look  over  our  tithing  and  fast  offering 
record,  study  it  carefully,  and  I  think  many  will  find  that  although 
they  feel  they  are  doing  a  wonderful  work  they  are  only  paying  a 
mere  pittance.  Many  of  us  feel  that  we  are  faithfully  serving  the  Lord, 
and  many  are.  The  (Lord  has  said  that  we  have  many  things  to  do  and 
many  things  to  repent  of,  and  that  we  are  not  pardoned  because  we 
seek  to  counsel  in  our  own  way. 

As  I  travel  through  this  Church  I  find  many  men  of  integrity  and 
faith  who  are  willing  to  give  up  all  in  the  world  they  have  in  an  effort  to 
serve  God.  I  am  not  belittling  in  the  least  their  work,  but  there  are 
many  of  us  who  should  be  following,  who  are  leaving  them  to  carry 
the  load.  We  are  not  measuring  up,  and  because  of  those  who  fail 
to  keep  the  commandments  of  God  many  who  are  striving  to  serve 
him  are  required  to  pay  the  penalty  with  them. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  think  of  these  things  seriously 
and  in  the  spirit  of  faith  and  humbly.  Time  will  not  permit  me  to  go 
into  more  detail.  Let  us  study  our  own  conditions  and  our  own  affairs, 
not  forgetting  our  neighbors,  plead  with  the  Lord  that  he  will  help 
us  overcome  these  conditions  which  are  so  distressing  at  this  time. 
He  has  shown  the  way  and  given  his  promise.  Have  we  faith  in  him  ? 
Have  we  faith  in  his  servants  whom  we  sustain  as  our  leaders  ?  If  so, 
we  shall  not  be  long  in  finding  the  way  out. 

May  his  blessings  be  upon  us.  May  we  have  wisdom  antl  judg- 
ment and  love  to  guide  us  in  all  that  we  do,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 

Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church 

I  am  very  grateful  to  be  present  on  /this  occasion,  and  trust  that 
I  may  enjoy  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  while  I  stand  before  you  this 
afternoon.  I  enjoyed  this  morning's  session  very  much,  and  testify 
that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  was  present  in  goodly  portion.  1 

I  desire  to  express  my  appreciation  and  gratitude  for  the  prayers 
of  the  Saints,  in  my  behalf,  and  I  acknowledge  the  hand  of  the  Lord 
in  his  blessings,  that  I  am  able  to  |be  present  upon  this  occasion. 

PEOPLE  DISTURBED  OVER  FINANCIAL  CONDITIONS 

A  great  many  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  been  somewhat 
disturbed  in  their  feelings  as  to  how  they  are  going  to  take  care  of 
themselves  financially,  or  how  they  are  going  to  support  their  families. 
Among  the  chief  visitors  at  my  office  seeking  comfort  are  those  having 
had  employment  and  lost  it.  I  have  learned  of  their  sympathy  and  their 
faith,  which  are  pure  and  sacred,  and  their  testimonies  are  of  great 
value  to  them. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  support  that  has  come  to  me  through  answer 
to  prayer,  for  I  know  that  the  Lord  has  blessed  Us,  both  as  a  people 
and  as  individuals.  >  i 

FAITH   IN  THE  CHURCH  AND  ITS  LEADERS 

I  am  not  discouraged  or  downhearted.  ;My  faith  has  not  wavered. 
I  still  have  faith  in  the  work,  and  know  that  it  is  true.  I  have  faith 
in  the  leaders  of  the  Church,  and  know  that  they  are  worthy  servants, 
that  they  are  humble  and  devoted  to  the  work  of  the  Lord,  some  of 
them  going  beyond  their  natural  strength  in  order  to  perform  their 
wonderful  tasks  or  to  fulfil  their  appointments.  Our  missionaries,  too, 
have  been  wonderfully  blessed  and  preserved  They  have  been  attended 
by  the  Spirit  and  power  of  the  Lord.  They  have  made  many  friends, 
and  their  teachings  have  brought  conviction  to  many  honest-hearted 
souls. 

VISITORS  FROM   MANY  STATES  [AND  COUNTRIES 

During  the  summer  months  a  great  many  tourists,  both  members 
and  non-members,  have  visited  my  office,  people  who  have  come  from 
the  States,  and  in  many  cases  those  who  have  come  from  the  countries 
of  the  world  and  from  the  islands  of  the  sea.  Automobiles  and  good 
roads  make  these  conditions  possible.  These  friendly  visits  from 
the  people  both  far  and  near  are  doing  much  to  spread  and  establish 
the  truth.  / 

Many  who  come  to  my  office  are  filled  with  some  degree  of 
anxiety  »over  their  conditions  and  their  circumstances,  and  as  a  rule 
when  people  are  out  of  work  and  do  not  know  from  where  their  needs 
are  to  be  supplied,  they  are  very  humble,  so  that  I  have  been  instru- 
mental, in  a  way,   in  trying  to  cheer  and    comfort  those  who  are 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 


27 


tried      their  feelings  and  in  their  conditions  and  circumstances. 

I  bear  testimony  that  the  Lord  has  been  very  gracious  to  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  and  that  he  has  further  promises  and  blessings 
in  store  for  them. 

DISCERNING  BETWEEN   GOOD  AND   EVIL  SPIRITS 

I  should  like  also  to  add  my  testimony  to  the  testimonies  of  my 
brethren  who  spoke  this  morning,  concerning  the  spirits  that  are 
with  us  to  guide,  inspire,  and  protect  us.  Many  people  have  said  to 
me :  "Brother  Smith,  how  can  you  tell  the  difference  between  the 
promptings  of  the  Lord,  or  his  agencies,  and  the  promptings  of  the 
adversary  or  his  agencies  ?"  They  say  they  are  unable,  in  most  respects, 
to  discern  the  difference  between  those  promptings.  I  have  said : 
"After  earnest  and  sincere  prayer  follow  your  first  impression,  and 
you  will  always  go  right."  Then  they  say:  "Well,  how  can  I  tell 
which  is  my  first  impression?  They  are  usually  so  close  to  each  other 
it  is  difficult  to  even  tell  which  is  the  first  impression."  Then  I  say : 
"The  impression  made  by  the  Spirit  that  is  for  our  guide  in  safety  in 
the  Church  is  always  from  a  good  spirit,  the  Spirit  that  proclaims  and 
announces  the  truth,  and  the  truth  doesn't  need  an  alibi  or  crutches 
to  support  it."  So  if  you  go  back  and  knock  down  all  the  crutches, 
all  the  alibis,  all  the  excuses,  the  ifs  and  ands  and  buts  that  attempt 
to  support  it,  that  crowd  and  urge  us — because,  as  a  rule,  I  have 
discovered  that  the  adversary's  agencies,  in  their  promptings,  are  usually 
of  an  urging,  crowding,  hurrying  nature,  while  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
and  his  agencies  are  always  of  a  quiet,  sweet,  peaceful  and  convincing 
character, — so  that  after  we  have  done  away  with  all  the  excuses, 
all  the  alibis  that  usually  support  our  experiences,  we  can  discover 
which  is  the  right  spirit.  The  spirit  of  conviction,  of  peace  and  of 
charity,  which  is  the  love  of  the  Lord  and  his  work,  is  not  in  a  hurry, 
but  has  time  to  decide,  time  to  weigh,  time  to  consider;  does  not  act 
in  haste,  but  in  calm  deliberation.  ,We  learn  then  the  truth,  and  we 
have  a  guide  which  is  a  companion  to  every  member  of  the  Church 
who  is  faithful  and  true,  so  that  we  are  able,  through  the  blessings 
of  the  Lord,  to  receive  that  comfort  and  consolation  which  will  support 
us,  even  in  time  of  distress. 

I  bear  my  testimony,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Lord  does 
give  lis  this  guide  and  this  support,  if  we  (are  faithful  and  true  to  him. 

BLESSINGS  THROUGH  DEVOTION 

I  desire  to  extend  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  all  the  Church 
the  blessings  of  the  Lord,  and  as  .his  humble  servant  I  pray  that 
peace  and  comfort  and  consolation  from  the  Lord  may  come  to  every 
member  of  the  Church.  I  am  sure  in  my  feelings  that  the  Lord  will 
continue  to  bless  and  support  us,  but  I  think  he  is  also  giving  us  a 
splendid  lesson  for  service,  while  he  is  giving  a  greater  lesson  to  the 
world,  who  know  him  not.  He  is  giving  us  a  splendid  opportunity  to 
show  our  faith  and  our  works.   None  of  us  has  suffered  in  want.  We 


28 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


have  been  supplied,  comforted,  and  sustained.  We  have  had  many 
blessings  of  the  land  and  of  the  things  that  are  produced  upon  it.  Our 
comfortable  and  happy  homes  and  our  conditions  in  life  all  proclaim 
the  graciousness  of  the  Lord  to  his  people.  W,e  can  retain  these  bless- 
ings through  our  devotion  to  the  Lord. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  continue  to  remember  us,  and  especially 
those  who  have  made  sacred  covenants  in  sacred  places,  and  those 
who  have  been  magnified  with  the  power  of  the  priesthood,  which 
is  a  great  honor  to  bear.  It  always  brings  a  distressful  feeling  to  me 
to  see  members  of  the  Church  careless  and  indifferent  and  slight 
their  covenants  and  their  privileges.  I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  help 
us,  that  we  may  not  slight  our  privileges,  that  we  may  be  true  to  our 
covenants  and  hold  them  sacred  always.  I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless 
our  young  people  when  they  start  out  in  life,  that  they  may  have 
strength  and  faith  sufficient  to  retain  their  companionship  and  asso- 
ciation, and  be  true  and  faithful  to  their  responsibilities  in  the  Church. 

I  desire  to  bless  you  all,  and  I  pray  the  favors  of  the  Lord  upon 
you,  upon  the  officers  and  members  of  the  Church,  the  missionaries, 
and  all  who  are  laboring  for  the  truth ;  and  I  declare  these  testimonies 
and  pray  God's  blessings  upon  you  all  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 

i 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

President  of  the  Central  States  Mission 

I  feel  very  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  in  attendance  at 
this  conference  and  I  appreciate  the  opportunity  of  meeting  and  visiting 
with  the  Saints  of  God  at  this  time. 

Yesterday,  when  President  Grant  was  speaking,  the  thought  came 
to  my  mind,  What  does  it  profit  a  person  to  pray  to  our  Heavenly 
Father  for  guidance  and  for  spiritual  strength  and  wisdom  if  at  the 
same  time  that  person  does  not  reverence  God's  authority  here  in  the 
earth?  It  seems  to  me  that  men  could  not  help  but  recognize  that  it 
would  be  futile  to  ask  God  for  favors  and  at  the  same  time  disregard 
the  council  of  the  Authority  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  here  in  the 
earth.  The  Authorities  of  this  Church  are  our  Eternal  Father's  repre- 
sentatives here  in  the  earth  and  if  men  will  not  abide  by  their  instruc- 
tions, how  can  they  expect  to  receive  instruction  from  God,  our  Father ; 
and,  yet,  we  do  find  some  people  who  will  not  recognize  the  council  of 
the  Lord's  Authority  here  in  the  earth,  but,  they  feel  that  they  can  go 
over  the  heads  of  the  Authority  of  God  and  get  what  they  want  direct 
from  the  Father. 

I  have  never  found  in  my  life  where  the  Lord  ever  allowed  an 
angel  even  to  overstep  God's  Authority  in  the  earth.  He  did  not  do  it 
himself  while  he  sojourned  in  the  earth  and  he  most  certainly  has  not 
changed  for  he  is  the  same  yesterday,  today  and  forever.  He  changes 
not,  neither  does  he  change  his  principles  for  they  are  eternal  truths. 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 


29 


These  principles  have  ibeen  revealed  to  us  anew  in  this  day  for  our 
guidance  and  for  our  salvation. 

I  bring  you  good  tidings  from  your  sons  and  daughters  who  are 
laboring  in  the  mission  field  of  the  Central  States.  A  fine  lot  of  young 
men  and  women,  and  they  are  laboring  earnestly,  and  zealously  and  in 
a  creditable  way  for  the  building  up  of  the  (Church  and  Kingdom 
of  God  in  the  earth.  There  seems  never  to  have  been  a  time  when 
there  was  a  better  opportunity  to  do  missionary  work  than  at  the  present 
time.  People  are  paying  more  attention  to  the  calls  made^by  missionaries 
and  they  are  received  ibetter.  People  have  more  time,  and  I  have  con- 
cluded it  is  partly  because  of  the  unemployment,  a  situation  that 
exists  almost  everywhere  at  the  present  time.  When  people  are  busy 
and  when  their  time  is  employed  in  the  making  of  a  living, and  in  the 
acquiring  of  money  they  do  not  have  time  to  listen  to  the  Gospel  plan 
for  their  soul's  salvation,  but  now,  while  many  of  them  are  not  em- 
ployed they  do  have  time  and  they  are  more  open  to  conviction  and  give 
better  entertainment  than  they  usually  do.  As  a  result,  more  converts 
are  obtained  than  we  ordinarily  average  in  our  mission.  Environment 
has  much  to  do  with  the  progress  of  men  generally,  and  where  men 
are  surrounded  by  Jbusiness  activities  they  are,  of  course,  influenced  by 
that  activity,  but  when  they  are  not  surrounded  -by  business  engage- 
ments and  have  time  to  devote,  then  they  are  more  inclined  to  listen, 
and  especially  is  this  true  when  times  of  depression  exist  such  as  we 
are  now  witnessing. 

It  is  the  natural  intent  of  most  men  and  women  to  worship  God, 
and  they  are  generally  found  to  be  associated  with  different  organiza- 
tions or  religious  sects.  Men  and  women  come  into  this  world  with 
a  desire  to  reverence  God  and  that  desire  continues  with  them  unless 
they  destroy  their  possibilities  through  Jiving  wickedly  and  through 
lack  of  proper  respect  for  our  Father  in  heaven. 

I  sincerely  hope  and  pray  that  the  spirit  of  this  conference  may 
continue  to  abide  with  us  as  a  people.  We  have  here  representative 
men  and  women  from  all  over  the  Church  who  have  come  here  to  get 
instructions  and  advice  and  counsel.  We  ought  to  he  a  good  people. 
We  ought  to  be  a  better  people.  (We  ought  to  grow  better,  and  I 
believe  that  we  are  growing  better  and  that  we  do  take  advantage,  to  a 
great  extent,  of  the  opportunities  these  conferences  offer  us,  as  we 
are  able  to  listen  to  the  advice  and  counsel  of  our  leaders,  who  are 
inspired  men  of  God  and  men  who  are  appointed  to  represent  the  work 
of  God  in  the  earth.  President  Grant,  who  stands  at  the  head  of  this 
organization,  is  the  representative  of  God  in  the  earth,  and  those  who 
are  associated  with  him  are  also  appointed  to  act  under  his  direction. 
Men  who  attempt  to  reach  God  and  ignore  his  Authority  in  the  earth 
are  making  a  mistake. 

May  the  Lord  continue  to  enlighten  and  bless  us  with  his  Spirit, 
and  may  we  yield  obedience  to  the  impressions  of  that  Spirit,  I  humbly 
pray. 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  MILES  L.  JONES 

President  of  the  East  Central  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  exceedingly  in  the  opportunity 
of  meeting  with  you  upon  this  occasion.  While  I  would  much  rather 
have  remained  on  my  seat  and  listened  to  others,  yet  I  realize  that  when 
we  are  called  upon  we  should  respond  and  give  utterance  to  such  words 
as  may  be  dictated  to  us  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

I  am  happy  in  the  work  in  which  I  am  engaged,  the  missionary 
work  in  the  East  Central  States.  It  is  opening  up  wonderfully.  During 
the  past  summer  the  missionaries  have  gone  out  into  the  country 
districts,  especially  in  the  county  seats,  and  there  on  the  county  court- 
house grounds  and  on  the  streets  have  held  meetings  and  presented 
the  Gospel  teachings  to  those  people.  We  have  been  instrumental  in 
making  many  friends.  In  fact,  it  seems  that  there  is  scarcely  any 
opposition  wherever  we  go,  and  the  foundation  is  being  laid  so  that  in 
time  to  come  a  harvest  may  be  reaped  by  those  who  may  follow  after 
the  ones  who  have  been  there  this  season. 

It  may  be  well  for  me  to  refer  to  one  particular  occasion.  Many  of 
you  recall  that  years  ago  the  Saints  living  upon  what  is  known  as 
Harker's  Island,  in  North  Carolina,  ibuilt  a  chapel,  which,  about  the 
time  that  it  was  completed,  was  burned  down  iby  their  enemies.  A  few 
of  our  Saints  have  been  faithful  there  up  to  the  present  time,  and 
occasionally  the  Elders  have  visited  that  locality  and  encouraged  those 
few  people.  Some  time  ago,  when  those  who  were  engaged  in  delivering 
Book  of  Mormon  lectures  and  exhibiting  pictures  in  connection  there- 
with visited  the  island,  a  young  Elder,  J.  Hopkins  Smith,  followed  these 
lectures  with  a  Gospel  discourse,  taking  the  entire  evening,  giving  a  good 
outline  of  Mormonism  and  showing  just  what  we  believe.  They^  had 
wonderful  success  in  these  meetings.  Before  these  brethren  arrived 
upon  the  island  one  of  the, leading  ministers  there  tried  by  every  possible 
means  to  prevent  them  from  exhibiting  these  views  and  giving  these 
lectures,  but  there  was  sufficient  influence  brought  to  bear  that  they 
were  permitted  to  go  ahead  with  their  meetings.  After  they  had  com- 
pleted them  this  divine  vilified  them  through  the  press,  and  the  Elders 
answered  him.  The  editor  was  kind  enough  to  say  that  it  was  an  open 
forum  and  that  they  were  entitled  to  the  same  space  as  was  the  reverend 
gentleman.  So  they  answered  his  accusations.  If  I  recall  aright  two 
articles  were  answered. 

Recently  I  have  had  this  young  Elder  visit  various  parts  of  the 
mission.  He  has  been  in  the  field  now  28  months,  and  he  desires  to 
remain  until  after  the  conference  that  we  are  holding  at  Roanoke  in 
October.  He  is  now  going  from  one  district  to  another,  and  he  desired 
very  much,  in  connection  with  the  president  of  that  district,  to  visit 
this  island  again.  They  announced  ahead  of  time  that  they  would 
be  there  and  hold  four  meetings.  At  the  first  meeting  there  were  about 
five  hundred  people  in  attendance,  and  this  same  reverend  gentleman 
attended  the  services.    He  brought  with  him  a  nice  easy  chair,  seated 


ELDER  MILES  L.  JONES 


31 


himself  directly  in  front  of  the  stand,  and  was  there  at  every  session. 
At  the  closing  session  there  were  more  than  seven  hundred  people  in 
attendance.  After  the  services  had  closed  this  gentleman  came  up, 
shook  hands  with  the  Elders,  and  said :  "God  bless  you,  gentlemen. 
You  have  the  truth." 

That  shows  the  change  in  sentiment  in  that  locality,  and  we  find 
the  same  condition,  with  very  few  exceptions,  in  practically  every  place 
that  we  go.  I  have  met  with  a  number  of  the  prominent  men  in  the 
city  of  -Louisville  and  other  places,  and  have  had  the  privilege  of 
conversing  upon  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  with  them.  It  is  really 
pleasing  to  me  to  hear  of  their  expressions,  even  in  public,  after  our 
conversations.  So  I  can  say  that  the  foundation  is  being  laid  for  a 
wonderful  growth  in  the  Church  in  the  states  in  which  I  have  the 
privilege  of  laboring  at  the  present  time. 

I  rejoice  in  having  the  privilege  of  going  into  the  world,  even 
again,  and  assisting  in  this  great  latter-day  work.  I  am  thankful  to 
my  Heavenly  Father  for  the  blessing  that  I  enjoy  in  the  way  of  health. 
I  have  never  enjoyed  better  health  in  my  life  than  I  have  had  while  in 
that  locality,  and  I  am  happy  to  say  also  that  Sister  Jones  is  enjoying 
good  health  and  enjoying  the  work  along  with  me.  Your  sons  and 
your  daughters  are  laboring  energetically  and  earnestly  in  spreading 
this  work.  I  am  glad  to  meet  those  who  have  been  released  and  who 
have  returned  home.  I  have  met  a  number  today,  and  without  a  single 
exception  I  have  heard  them  say  that  they  would  be  glad  to  come  back 
into  the  field  again  and  take  up  the  work  just  where  they  left  it  off. 
That  is  the  proper  spirit  for  them  to  maintain,  and  I  am  happy  to  find 
them  feeling  "that  way. 

I  rejoice  in  this  work.  I  know  as  I  know  that  I  live  that  it  is  the 
work  of  the  Lord,  that  the  Gospel  has  been  restored  to  the  earth  in 
this  day  and  age  of  the  world. 

Just  a  week  ago  last  Monday  a  prominent  minister  came  into  my 
office,  and  we  had  a  nice  conversation  which  lasted  for  an  hour  or 
so.  He  said :  "I  can't  understand  how  it  is  that  you  people  have  pros- 
pered and  grown  in  spite  of  the  opposition  you  have  had  to  contend 
with  from  the  very  organization  of  your  church."  It  didn't  take  very 
long  to  explain  that,  and  I  went  on  a  little  further  and  told  him  that 
when  the  Gospel  was  upon  the  earth,  Christ  said  unto  Peter :  "I  will 
give  unto  thee  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  and  whatsoever  thou 
shalt  bind  on  earth  shall  be  bound  in  heaven ;  and  whatsoever  thou  shalt 
loose  on  earth  shall  be  loosed  in  heaven."  When  'Peter  and  his  associates 
were  killed,  that  same  power  was  taken  from  the  earth.  And  when 
the  Gospel  was  restored  in  these  last  days  who  should  come  but  Peter, 
James  and  John  to  restore  that  power.  I  want  to  say,  as  I  said  to  that 
reverend  gentleman  and  bore  testimony  to  him,  that  Peter,  James  and 
John  have  come  to  the  earth  and  restored  the  Melchizedek  priesthood. 
This  minister  turned  to  me  and  he  said :  "Do  you  believe  that?"  I  said : 
"No,  I  don't  believe  it;  I  know,  it."  When  Jesus  said:  "If  any  man  will 
do  his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God,  or 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


whether  I  speak  of  myself,"  they  were  no  idle  words,  and  they  apply 
today. 

I  want  to  say  to  you,  that  a  testimony  of  the  Gospel  is  one  of 
the  greatest  hlessings  that  one  can  enjoy  today.  God  bless  you,  my 
brethren  and  my  sisters.  Encourage  your  sons  and  your  daughters  that 
are  in  the  mission  field.  Encourage  others  to  come  out  and  assist  in  this 
great  latter-day  work,  and  blessings  will  come  to  you.  I  pray  that  God 
will  continue  to  bless  you  with  every  needful  blessing,  and  I  ask  it  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  am  filled  with  gratitude  for  the  privilege  of  being  here  today 
in  this  conference  assembly.  This  conference  has  given  me  encourage- 
ment, and  we  all  need  encouragement  sometimes.  Above  all,  I  am 
filled  with  thankfulness  to  my  Heavenly  Father  for  the  testimony 
which  I  enjoy  and  the  knowledge  of  the  Gospel  that  has  come  to  me. 

I  desire  to  testify  that  I  know  this  work  is  the  work  of  the  Lord, 
it  is  the  plan  of  salvation,  and  by  living  its  precepts  we  can  return 
to  our  Father  in  heaven.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of 
God,  who  came  in  this  last  dispensation  for  the  purpose  of  establishing 
the  Gospel,  and  this  is  another  reason  that  my  heart  is  filled  with 
thankfulness. 

This  morning  I  desire  to  refer  to  an  incident  in  the  life  of  the 
Master  which  has  impressed  me  very  much.  On  the  Tuesday  before 
his  crucifixion  Christ  was  in  the  temple.  Here  certain  Pharisees 
questioned  him  on  doctrine,  hoping  to  catch  him  in  his  words,  and 
make  him  an  offender  of  the  law.  Mark  tells  us  that  during  this  day 
a  scribe  came  to  him  and  perceiving!  that  Jesus  answered  them  well,  he 
asked  him:  "Which  is  the  first  commandment  of  all?"  Jesus  answered 
him  in  this  manner : 

"Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy 
soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind,  and  with  all  thy  strength  :  this  is  the  first  com- 
mandment. 

"And  the  second  is  like,  namely  this,  thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself. 
There  is  none  other  commandment  greater  than  these. 

"And  the  scribe  said  unto  him,  Well,  Master,  thou  hast  said  the  truth :  for 
there  is  one  God ;  and  there  is  none  other  but  he : 

"And  to  love  him  with  all  the  heart,  and  with  all  the  understanding,  and 
with  all  the  soul,  and  with  all  the  strength,  and  to  love  his  neighbor  as  himself, 
is  more  than  all  whole  burnt  offerings  and  sacrifices. 

"And  when  Jesus  saw  that  he  answered  discreetly,  he  said  unto  him,  Thou  art 
not  far  from  the  kingdom  of  God." 

The  present  business  and  financial  depression  has  brought  with 
it  many  problems  that  were  unthought  of  even  a  few  years  ago.  Many 
Latter-day  Saints  who  have  been  proud  of  the  fact  that  they  have 
always  been  givers  to  the  Church  through  its  various  organizations  are 
now  in  poverty  themselves,  and  the  outlook  for  the  immediate  future 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


33 


is  far  from  being  bright.  At  this  time  of  the  year,  when  families 
need  fuel,  food,  clothing,  etc.,  the  bishoprics  of  this  Church  are  faced 
with  a  serious  problem.  They  need  more  funds.  The  Church  is 
expending  large  sums  for  benevolent  and  charitable  purposes,  and  the 
tithes  of  the  Church  are  being  heavily  drawn  on,  in  response  to  urgent 
calls  from  members  of  wards  who  are  unemployed.  The  bishops  need 
more  funds,  more  fast  offerings,  more  donations  from  the  members  of 
the  wards,  as  well  as  the  splendid  assistance  of  the  Relief  Societies. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  finding  similar  conditions  prevailing 
in  Kirtland,  appointed  the  first  Thursday  of  each  month  as  a  day  of 
fasting  and  prayer.  The  Saints  were  notified  to  come  to  the  meetings 
and  bring  with  them  foodstuffs  of  all  kinds  which  were  distributed  to 
the  poor.  After  that  time  it  became  a  fixed  routine  of  the  Church  to 
hold  the  fast-day  meeting  on  the  first  Thursday  of  each  month,  for 
the  purpose  of  bearing  testimony  and  putting  in  practice  the  teachings 
of  the  Master  concerning  our  fellow  men,  by  donating  funds  for  the 
poor  to  be  distributed  by  the  bishops.  Later,  the  day  was  changed  to 
the  first  Sunday  of  each  month. 

There  is  need  in  this  Church  for  a  revival  of  the  old  fast-day  habit, 
that  is,  the  habit  of  fasting  and  prayer  on  the  first  Sunday  of  each 
month.  On  this  day  we  should  all  attend  our  meetings  and  bring  our 
offerings  for  the  poor,  which  should  be  equivalent  to  the  value  of 
two  meals  for  each  member  of  the  family.  This  will  provide  a  steady 
fund  for  the  Bishops  to  use  for  the  support  of  the  worthy  poor.  We 
have  in  the  Church  certain  proved  methods  of  gathering  and  disbursing 
the  fast  offerings,  without  expense,  and  the  plan  has  worked  well  since 
the  institution  of  fast-day. 

President  Brigham  Young  requested  that  not  only  should  fathers 
and  mothers  come  to  fast  meeting,  but  their  children  also.  Attendance 
at  fast  meeting  will  develop  in  our  children  the  habit  of  giving,  a  habit 
which  is  slowly  drifting  away  from  us.  We  can  show  no  better  appre- 
ciation to  our  Master  than  by  getting  back  to  the  habit  of  giving  some- 
thing every  fast-day,  in  order  that  the  Lord's  storehouse  may  be  proper- 
ly provided.  ,  J 

Every  bishop  should  see  that  no  member  of  his  ward  suffers  be- 
cause of  the  lack  of  the  necessities  of  life.  He  should  call  to  his  aid 
the  Relief  Society  of  his  ward  and  they,  at  his  request,  should  in- 
vestigate cases  of  want  and  suffering  and  recommend  to  the  bishop 
what,  in  their  judgment,  would  be  the  proper  course  to  pursue  in  each 
individual  case  or  family. 

Those  Latter-day  Saints  who  have  previously  been  in  the  habit 
of  giving  and  who  are  now  unemployed  and  nearing  poverty,  should 
have  the  special  consideration  of  the  bishops  in  these  trying  times.  If 
there  is  anyone  who  should  have  special  consideration,  it  is  the  faithful 
tithe-payer  and  his  family  who  are  now  without  employment  and  in  need 
of  assistance. 

Certainly,  the  meals  for  an  ordinary  person  are  worth  10c  each. 
If  only  the  cost  of  one  meal  were  saved  and  the  five  hundred  thousand 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


members  of  this  Church  paid  10c  per  person  on  fast  day,  there  would 
be  $50,000.00  per  month  available,  which  is  ample  to  provide  ade- 
quately' for  the  worthy  poor  among  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Those 
who  are  able  to  pay  more  should  follow  the  old  rule,  that  is,  the  equiva- 
lent of  the  cost  of  two  meals  per  person. 

Benevolence  is  founded  on  love  for  our  fellow  men.  It  is  more 
far-reaching  than  charity.  Is  it  not  inconsistent  for  us  Latter-day 
Saints  to  say  that  we  love  God  whom  we  have  not  seen,  and  love  not 
our  brother  whom  we  have  seen?  It  is  one  of  the  outstanding  char- 
acteristics of  our  Church  to  take  care  of  our  worthy  poor,  and  our 
part  in  this  benevolent  duty  should  not  be  neglected.  All  help  should 
be  given  in  the  spirit  of  kindness  and  love  for  our  fellow  men. 

In  many  wards  of  the  Church  the  deacons  are  sent  to  the  homes 
of  the  Saints  with  an  envelope  containing  a  fast  offering  card.  The 
family  places  in  the  envelope  the  amount  they  desire  to  pay  for  the 
support  of  the  worthy  poor  and  then  bring  the  envelope  to  fast  meeting. 
Those  who  do  not  attend  this  meeting  are  visited  by  the  deacons  the 
same  day  and  given  an  opportunity  to  contribute.  Fast  offerings  are 
also  accepted  by  the  bishop  at  the  meeting  house  on  fast-day. 

A  Latter-day  Saint  who  observes  the  fast-day  in  its  spirit  and 
meaning  will  add  to  his  humility,  will  develop  in  his  soul  a  deep  heartfelt 
sympathy  and  love  for  his  fellow  men  ;  he  will  increase  his  spirituality 
and  his  brotherly  kindness,  and  he  will  be  kept  in  tune  with  this  great 
latter-day  work.  If  we  would  win  eternal  life  we  cannot  afford  to 
neglect  our  duty  to  our  fellow  men. 

May  we,  as  brothers  and  sisters  in  this  Church,  broaden  our  sym- 
pathies and  during  these  times  of  stress  be  more  diligent,  attend  our 
fast  meetings,  get  the  spirit  of  the  occasion,  the  spirit  of  testimony. 
May  we  donate  more  liberally  for  the  poor,  so  that  there  will  be  enough 
in  the  Lord's  storehouse,  or  in  the  possession  of  the  bishops,  to  feed 
the  hungry,  clothe  the  naked,  and  care  for  the  widow  and  the  orphan, 
so  that  cries  of  the  distressed  shall  not  ascend  unto  heaven  unan- 
swered. 

Let  us  demonstrate  to  the  Lord  by  our  works  that  we  are  keeping 
the  two  great  commandments,  to  love  him  and  to  love  our  neighbor. 
May  his  blessings  attend  us,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Brethren  and  sisters,  since  I  have  been  occupying  the  position  of 
Commissioner  of  Education  in  the  Church,  and  at  these  conferences, 
sitting  on  the  back  row  of  these  front  seats,  I  have  learned  that  there 
are  many  anxious  seats  up  this  way.  Particularly  did  I  observe  this 
last  April  when  not  until  the  last  session  were  most  of  the  mission 
presidents  called  up,  Sunday  afternoon.  They  sat  through  the  preced- 
ing sessions,  not  knowing  when  they  would  be  called.  This  morning 
one  member  of  the  Council  of  Twelve  said :  "Brother  Merrill,  you  need 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


35 


not  be  worried.  You  will  not  be  called  until  Sunday  afternoon,  after 
your  name  has  been  presented  for  the  sustaining  vote  of  the  conference." 

A  POSITION  OF  HIGH  HONOR 

May  I  say,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  a  very  high  honor  has  come 
to  me  in  the  nomination  I  have  received  at  the  hands  of  the  Presidency 
and  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.,  to  be  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve.  I  regard  this  as  the  highest  honor  that  can  come  to  any  man. 
Members  of  this  ,Council  are  called  by  divine  inspiration  to  a  position 
in  the  Church  that  requires  them  to  be  special  witnesses  of  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  the  highest  calling  that  any  of  us  can  receive.  But,  of 
course,  before  I  can  be  ordained  I  must  receive  your  sustaining  vote. 
I  say  in  all  humility  this  is  a  wonderful  honor.  I  am  overwhelmed  with 
it.  I  cannot  fulfil  the  expectations  of  the  position  without  hard  work, 
without  fervent  prayer,  the  sustaining  confidence  and  vote  of  the  mem- 
bership of  the  Church,  and  the  companionship  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 

A   KEY  TO  SUCCESS 

My  experience  has  taught  me  from  my  boyhood,  that  service  in 
this  Church  cannot  be  acceptably  rendered  except  with  the  help  of 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  that  this  Spirit  is  given  only  to  the  worthy. 
All  my  life  I  have  been  taught  that  the  Lord  helps  him  who  helps 
himself.  Inasmuch  as  he  has  given  us  intelligence  he  expects  us, 
when  any  duty  is  assigned  us,  to  do  the  very  best  we  can  to  discharge 
that  duty,  seeking  his  help  in  the  meantime.  I  believe  that  my  experi- 
ence teaches  me  also  that  that  help  may  not  be  received,  no  matter  how 
fervent  the  prayer,  unless  the  prayer  is  worthily  made.  That  is  to  say, 
I  must  work  if  I  am  going  to  succeed.  I  must  pray,  if  I  am  going  to 
succeed.  All  my  life  I  have  been  taught,  and  I  have  experienced  the 
fact,  that  the  Lord  does  answer  the  prayer  of  the  worthy.  Whenever  I 
have  prayed  worthily  I  have  never  been  disappointed.  So  I  believe  in 
prayer.  I  know  that  prayer  is  a  source  of  strength  and  of  help.  I  have 
proved  this  many,  many  times. 

MEN  OF  DEVOTION 

May  I  say  that  this  honor  that  has  come  to  me  is  very  great, 
because  the  nomination  that  I  have  received  expresses  a  confidence  in 
me  of  what  I  have  come  to  regard  as  the  finest  body  of  men  that  live. 
My  work  the  last  three  or  four  years  has  brought  me  more  or  less  into 
intimate  contact  with  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church.  I  have 
learned  that  they  are  not  only  capable  men,  but  they  are  very  much 
devoted  to  their  work;  that  they  are  very  anxious  that  this  work  shall 
go  forward  as  the  Lord  has  intended  it  should  go  forward.  So  their 
lives  and  their  energies  are  wholly  devoted  to  it.  They  are  also  men 
of  deep  sympathies  and  great  love  for  their  fellowmen. 

I  have  often  remarked  that  in  the  position  I  have  been  occupying 
since  coming  to  the  Church  Office  Building,  nearly  four  years  ago,  that 
I  have  experienced  the  greatest  joys  of  my  life,  because  I  have  been 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


contacting  with  and  laboring  with  people  who  look  at  the  work  from 
one  point  of  view  only,  the  point  o£  view  of  what  is  best  for  the  whole, 
what  is  best  for  the  Church.  I  have  not  seen  a  single  instance  where 
selfishness  or  selfish  interest  could  be  observed  at  all.  These  brethren, 
the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  are  wholly  devoted  to  your 
interests,  to  the  saving  of  the  souls  of  men.  I  love  them.  I  have  come 
to  regard  them  as  God's  men.  So  I  feel  wholly  incapable,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  of  being  one  of  their  number,  because  of  my  unworthiness 
and  because  of  my  inability.  But  I  have  been  honored  with  the  nomina- 
tion. If  I  am  sustained  in  the  position  I  shall  try,  as  hard  as  I  know 
how  to  try,  to  fulfil  its  obligations.  I  have  no  other  interests.  All  my 
time  will  be  devoted  to  the  cause  of  this  Church,  forwarding  its  interests 
and  those  of  the  people  as  best  I  can. 

HONORED  OF  GOD 

I  spoke  of  being  nominated  by  the  First  Presidency  and  the  Council 
of  Twelve.  I  would  not  have  you  think  for  a  moment,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  this  is  all  there  js  to  jit.  If  this  were  an  honor  given 
by  men  only  I  would  not  feel  so  much  overwhelmed  by  it  But  it  is  an 
honor  that  comes  from  God.  These  brethren  are  only  his  agents,  his 
instruments  in  the  call  that  has  come  to  me.  This  is  a  fact  that  no 
member  of  the  Church  will  question  who  has  received  a  testimony 
of  the  divinity  bf  this  work.  These  men  are  jGod's  servants.  They 
are  his  prophets  and  they  enjoy  the  spirit  of  their  calling.  I  have  had 
so  many  evidences  and  so  many  testimonies  of  it  that  I  know  it  to  be 
a  fact.  And  in  humility  and  all  sincerity  I  testify  to  you  that  it  is  a 
truth. 

THE  YOUNG  PEOPLE 

For  several  years  there  has  been  growing  in  me  a  feeling  that  we 
ought  to  be  more  and  more  diligent  in  our  work,  particularly  with  our 
young  people.  I  have  been  laboring  for  many  years  with  young  people, 
many  of  whom  have  been  more  or  less  critical,  many  of  whom  have 
grown  indifferent  to  the  Church ;  some  of  whom  have  left  the  Church. 
I  have  felt  that  if  there  is  anything  possible  that  I  can  do,  that  we  can 
do  for  them,  to  save  them,  it  ought  to  be  done,  because  in  their  veins 
flows  the  blood  of  Israel.  But  if  they  are  to  be  saved  they  must 
save  themselves,  through  our  help  and  through  the  guidance  that  we 
can  give  them.    No  one  can  save  another.    He  must  save  himself. 

TESTIMONY  THROUGH  SERVICE 

Now  then,  we  have  been  taught,  as  Brother  Wells  has  said,  that 
this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  and  the  strength  of  the  Church  lies  in  the 
fact  that  hundreds  and  thousands  upon  thousands  of  members  of  the 
Church  know  that  it  is  the  work  of  the  Lord.  How  do  they  know  it  ? 
Not  perhaps  by  some  wonderful  manifestation,  some  great  miracle. 
They  know  it  because  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  has  come  into  their  souls, 
as  a  result  of  their  worthiness  and  their  service.    If  we  do  the  will  of 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


37 


God  we  shall  know  of  the  doctrine.  I  testify,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  I  know  that  this  statement  is  true,  and  you  know  it  is  true,  and 
you  have  gotten  that  knowledge  because  of  the  service  that  you  have 
rendered.  I  care  not  in -what  position  in  the  Church  service  may  be 
rendered.  Service  in  any  position,  no  matter  how  humble,  if  faithfully 
rendered,  brings  us  a  testimony,  the  witness  of  the  Spirit  that  this 
great  work  is  divine. 

I  was  in  a  meetng  last  Sunday  morning  with  a  group  that  was 
called  to  do  block  teaching  in  the  ward  where  I  live,  and  I  recalled  that 
among  my  earliest  experiences  in  the  Church  was  that  of  a  block 
teacher.  When  a  boy  of  seventeen,  I  recall  that  when  I  went  out  with 
my  older  brother  (not  a  brother  by  blood,  but  a  brother  in  the  Church) 
and  tried  to  do  my  duty,  I  returned  home  feeling  an  uplift  that 
was  truly  remarkable  in  the  joy  and  satisfaction  that  it  brought  to  me. 
I  don't  know,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  have  ever  rendered  any 
service  in  the  Church  that  I  enjoyed  more,  in  which  I  experienced  more 
joy  and  satisfaction,  than  I  did  in  trying  to  do  my  duty  as  a  block 
teacher  in  the  Church. 

So  it  is  all  the  way  along  the  line.  It  makes  no  difference,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  whether  we  are  called  to  this  stand,  or  whether  we 
are  serving  in  the  humblest  position  in  the  Church.  If  we  do  our 
duty,  if  we  serve  the  Lord  and  keep  his  commandments,  as  we  have 
the  privilege  and  the  opportunity  of  doing,  we  shall  for  ourselves  know 
that  we  are  engaged  in  the  work  of  the  Lord.  It  is  that  satisfaction  that 
gives  strength  to  the  Church  and  that  makes  us  a  body  of  men  and 
women  that  does  not  have  to  rely  for  direction  only  upon  the  General 
Authorities,  because  if  we  enjoy  the  companionship  of  the  Spirit  we 
are  directed  in  our  own  duties,  labors  and  responsibilities. 

KEEP  YOUNG  PEOPLE  IN  SCHOOL 

Now,  my  brethren -and  sisters,  may  I  say  that  we  are  living  in  more 
or  less  distressing  times.  There  is  a  lot  of  unemployment.  I  have  been 
engaged  primarily  in  the  work  with  the  young  people.  We  are  very 
much  concerned  with  this  condition  of  idleness,  particularly  with  the 
young,  and  so  we  feel  that  if  we  can  keep  these  young  people  employed 
in  school  during  these  times  of  unemployment,  we  shall  be  rendering 
a  splendid  service  to  them.  So  I  feel  to  encourage  you  parents,  who 
are  straining  every  nerve  and  calling  upon  every  resource  that  you 
can  command  to  keep  your  boys  and  girls  in  school,  to  continue  doing 
it,  for  their  good.    Perhaps  enough  on  that  particular  point. 

BY  KEEPING  PHYSICALLY  FIT 

It  was  said  this  morning  that  we  are  trying  to  keep  the  Word  of 
Wisdom.  We  have  a  wonderful  course  of  study  this  year  in  the  adult 
department  of  the  Mutual  Improvement  Association,  because  it  is  the 
study  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  a  study  of  one  of  the  requirements  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

To  render  service  we  must  keep  ourselves  physically  fit.    It  is 


3N 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


incumbent,  therefore,  upon  every  member  of  the  Church  who  would 
serve,  to  try  to  keep  physically  as  well  as  mentally,  morally  and  spirit- 
ually fit,  and  that  can  be  done  only  by  right  living.  God  has  endowed 
us  with  intelligence.  Let  us  use  it,  that  we  «may  know  better  how  to 
live,  that  we  may  know  better  how  to  serve. 

SECURELY  ANCHORED 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  talked  long  enough.  May  I 
say  that  I  do  hope  that, I  can  function  at  least  in  some  degree  to  your 
satisfaction,  but  may  T  repeat  that  if  I  do,  I  know  it  will  be  because  I 
make  myself  worthy  of  the  sustaining  power  and  help  of  God.  I  want 
to  testify  to  you  in  all  sincerity  that  I  know  that  this  is  the  work  of 
God.  Elder  McKay  spoke  this  morning  of  being  anchored  in  the  faith, 
in  the  Church.  I  have  felt  securely  anchored  since  I  was  a  boy  of 
nineteen  years.  There  came  to  me  at  that  time,  as  a  result  of  fervent 
prayer,  of  many  prayers  uttered  through  a  number  of  long  years,  a 
wonderful  manifestation  that  I  have  believed  has  been  a  savior  to  me. 
T  didn't  know  it  at  the  time,  but  within  three  months  I  was  to  leave  home 
to  go  to  school,  and  during  the  succeeding  ten  years  of  my  life  I  was  en- 
gaged in  college  and  university  work.  I  felt  that  the  manifestation  I  re- 
ceived at  that  time  was  to  me  an  absolute  anchor.  I  cared  nothing  what 
the  teachings  of  men  were,  if  opposed  to  the  doctrines  of  the  Church,  for 
I  knew,  and  have  known  from  that  time  to  this,  that  the  Lord  God  lives  ; 
that  he  does  answer  prayer ;  that  he  will  sustain  those  who  are  worthy 
of  being  sustained.  And  this  sustenance  comes,  of  course,  as  a  result 
of  right  living  and  of  sincere  service  in  his  cause. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  be  true  to  our  covenants.  May  the  Lord 
help  us  to  keep  our  eyes  upon  these  leaders — men  of  God,  I  testify  to 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  whose  whole  hearts  are  given  to  the 
fulfilment  completely  of  the  obligations  that  the  Lord  God  has  placed 
upon  their  shoulders  in  the  call  that  he  has  made  of  them.  May 
the  Lord  help  us  to  honor  our  callings  and  our  positions,  whatever 
they  may  be  in  the  Church,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JAMES  H.  MOYLE 

President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 

I  am  pleased  to  say  that  in  the  Eastern  States  mission  our 
missionaries  are  enjoying  exceptionally  good  health  and  that  the  work 
is  progressing,  I  believe  favorably,  and  I  know  that  prejudice  is 
being  removed  and  that  we  are  making  many  friends. 

In  addition  to  the  usual  missionary  activities  we  have  endeavored 
to  use  modern  methods  of  reaching  the  public,  with  marked,  if  not 
remarkable,  success.  Many  addresses  have  been  broadcast  and  hun- 
dreds more  would  have  been  delivered  if  we  only  had  more  fairly 
good  singers.  To  my  mind,  one  of  the  marvelous  things  that  has 
occurred  in  this  work  is  the  fact  that  all  of  the  329  sermons  broadcast 
over  the  radio  in  our  mission  in  less  than  eighteen  months  were  written 


ELDER  JAMES  H.  MOYLE 


39 


and  read  by  very  young  and  inexperienced  boys  and  girls.  Every  one 
of  them  was  written  by  your  sons  and  daughters,  with  comparatively 
little  editing,  to  the  enlightenment  and  enjoyment  of  many  thousands 
of  people. 

Our  missionary  system  is  commanding  the  attention  and  admira- 
tion of  the  world.  It  is  a  wonderful  means  of  educating  your  children, 
developing  their  initiative,  broadening  their  understanding,  and  giving 
them  a  better  conception  of  their  possibilities.  It  is  sad  to  hear  some 
of  our  missionaries  say  that  they  have  been  praying  and  praying  that 
they  might  be  permitted  to  complete  their  missions,  but  finally  are 
compelled  to  return  home  for  the  want  of  money.  It  is  a  sad  mistake 
for  a  ward  or  a  stake  or  quorum  or  wealthy  members  of  the  ward  to 
permit  such  missionaries  to  prematurely  end  their  missions,  and  especial- 
ly when  they  have  beccfme  somewhat  efficient  and  are  so  anxious  to 
remain.  They  are  doing  a  glorious  work  for  themselves  as  well  as 
others. 

We  are  also  exhibiting  the  fruits  as  well  as  principles  of  the  Gospel 
in  fairs  and  expositions,  and  these  young  inexperienced  missionaries 
are  decorating  and  equipping  attractive  booths  from  which  they  dis- 
tribute in  a  day  thousands  of  tracts  to  people  whom  they  could  not 
otherwise  reach.  We  have  been  successful  in  securing  booths  sur- 
rounded with  prominent  exhibitors,  and  thus  have  become  the  neighbors 
of  all  kinds  of  business  men  who  are  exhibiting  their  wares.  Their 
frequent  contact  with  our  missionaries  invariably  makes  them  friendly. 
Our  booths  are  so  unusual,  and  with  our  fine  young  men  and  women 
who  radiate  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel,  they  arouse  unusual  interest 
and  command  respectful  consideration.  We  thereby  reach  a  very 
different  class  of  people  from  those  who  ordinarily  receive  them  in 
tracting  and  street  meetings.  People  in  the  East,  outside  of  the  coun- 
try, largely  live  in  apartment  houses  and  hotels  where  missionaries 
cannot  enter,  and  in  better  residences  they  cannot  get  past  the  butler 
or  maid. 

Our  tracts  are  distributed  free  like  other  advertising  matter,  and 
.visitors  come  and  carry  them  away  without  solicitation.    Most  of  the 
same  people  would  close  their  doors  to  our  solicitations. 

'  Another  innovation  is  carried  on  through  our  newly  established 
publicity  department,  through  which  we  make  personal  contacts  with 
newspaper  men  and  thereby  secure  a  greatly  enlarged  publicity  of 
what  we  are  doing  and  believe,  and  the  same  is  presented  to  readers 
in  a  fair  and  respectful  way.  ,  This  makes  Mormonism  more  acceptable 
and  respected. 

In  this  activity,  as  well  as  in  the  radio  and  exposition  work,  we 
have  no  one  with  any  previous  experience  or  training  for  the  work. 
Remarkable  as  it  is,  those  upon  whom  the  responsibility  is  placed, 
however  seemingly  inadequately  equipped,  are  undaunted  and  go 
at  the  work  in  faith  with  a  will,  relying  on  the  Lord  rather  than 
their  own  ability,  with  the  result  that  they  are  getting  hundreds  of 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


notices  and  friendly  articles  published  which  would  otherwise  not 
have  appeared  in  the  papers. 

But,  alas,  we  have  only  two-thirds  of  the  missionaries  that  we 
formerly  had.  This  is  even  cutting  down  invaluable  opportunities  .on 
the  radio,  as  the  loss  includes  some  of  our  best  singers.  We  have  no 
professionals.  W|e  only  ask  for  young  people  who  have  fairly  good 
voices,  whether  they  have  been  trained  or  not.  Their  voices  are  more 
attractive  there  than  here  at  home. 

This  is  a  wonderful  work.  I  enjoy  it.  It  is  a  great  pleasure,  and 
nothing  have  I  enjoyed  more  than  the  uplifting  spiritual  influence 
which  accompanies  it,  to  discover  more  thoroughly  and  fully  the  depths 
of  the  truth  and  philosophy  of  the  Gospel,  and  to  make  comparisons 
of  it  with  the  religious  system's  of  the  world. 

Bishop  Wells  referred  to  a  most  timely  scripture  today— the  dec- 
laration of  the  Savior  that  the  great  commandment  in  the  law  was — 

"Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy 
soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind. 

"This  is  the  first  and  great  commandment. 

"And  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself.'* 
I  call  especial  attention  to  the  next  striking  statement  of  the  Savior  : 
"On  these  two  commandments  hang  all  the  law  find  the  prophets." 

The  great  trouble  with  the  social,  industrial,  and  other  systems 
of  today  is  that  they  are  not  based  upon  ,  either  of  those  great  com- 
mandments. If  they  were  there  would  be  a  very  different  brotherhood 
of  man  existing,  which  must  ultimately  come,  as  no  other  system 
can  be  permanent. 

As  I  recently  traveled  through  the  Ohio  and  Mississippi  valleys 
I  saw  miles  of  continuous  fields  with  rich  harvests  of  wheat  in  shocks, 
and  corn  standing  as  far  as  the  eye  could  see ;  and  yet  there  is  un- 
paralleled poverty  stalking  in  the  land.  Half  of  the  gold  of  the  world 
is  in  this  nation ;  wealth  unbounded ;  granaries  bulging,  overflowing 
their  capacity ;  over-production  abounding ;  legislation  of  states  to 
prevent  the  production  of  the  prime  necessities  of  life  because  of 
super-abundance, — and  yet  unparalleled  poverty  on  every  side.  In  the 
Latin-American  republics  there  are  revolutions ;  dictators  and  revolu- 
tions in  Europe ;  dynasties  falling ;  ungodly  communism  in  Russia ; 
threatened  socialistic  revolutions  in  Germany  and  unheard  of  mutiny 
in  the  pride  and  protection  of  the  British  Isles — her  navy.  Nothing, 
practically,  but  the  dole  stands  between  peace  and  revolution  in  old 
England,  that  land  of  liberty  and  law  observance.  In  our  own  country, 
in  the  great  cities,  it  is  not  an  uncommon  sight  to  see  armored  cars 
equipped  with  machine  'guns  to  protect  the  transportation  of  wealth — 
securities  and  moneys — through  the  thickly  populated  streets  of  the 
city,  and  from  one  bank  to  another.  Revolution  is  threatening  this  very 
nation  because  of  the  unsatisfied  demand  of  the  many  for  social 
justice,  or  as  we  would  put  it,  the  lack  of  brotherly  love  that  the  Savior 


ELDER  JAMES  H.  MOYLE 


41 


advocated  when  he  said  to  the  wealthy  young  man,  "Give  unto  the 
poor  that  which  thou  hast."  Under  his  inspiration  his  followers 
established  a  Christian  socialistic  system  in  which  there  were  no  poor 
and  no  rich  but  all  things  were  held  in  common. 

That  same  system  was  revealed  anew  and  an  attempt  made  to 
establish  it  by  the  great  prophet  of  this  age,  Joseph  Smith.  Like  the 
former  day  saints  they  were  apparently  unable  to  live  it.  Then  a 
stepping  stone  to  it  was  established,  the  ancient  law  of  tithing.  My 
missionary  experience  has  revealed  to  me  that  which  I  never  fully 
appreciated  before,  namely ;  that  the  man  who  pays  tithing  is  a  Latter- 
day  Saint.  They  say  there  are  exceptions  to  all  rules,  but  I  haven't 
found  an  exception  to  this  one  yet.  I  have  discovered  that  when  one 
is  a  partial  tithe  payer  he  is  only  partially  a  Latter-day  Saint,  and 
when  he  doesn't  pay  any  tithing  at  all  he  is  not  a  Latter-day  Saint, 
because  his  faith  is  dead — it  being  without  works.  He  doesn't  under- 
stand the  philosophy  of  the  Gospel,  or  if  he  does  he  is  too  selfish  to 
yield  obedience  to  that  great  beneficent  law.  The  Lord  would  have  us 
give,  yes,  and  give  in  abundance,  and  it  is  only  thereby  that  we  are 
going  to  preserve  the  peace  of  the  world  and  this  most  powerful  of 
all  nations.  The  level  of  intelligence  of  man  is  such  that  the  extremes 
of  poverty  and  wealth  cannot  exist  beside  each  other.  The  cry  of 
the  father  and  husband  for  work  in  order  that  he  may  have  food  for 
his  family  cannot  continue  long  unanswered.  There  is  nothing  that 
brings  greater  satisfaction  than  being  of  service  to  others.  The  Chris- 
tianity of  today  must  meet  the  challenge  of  the  many  who  are  weak 
for  a  greater  brotherhood. 

Selfish  and  weak  as  we  are  I  nevertheless  maintain  that  we  are 
partially  meeting  that  challenge  and  developing  in  a  notable  way  real 
evidence  of  brotherly  love  through  our  willingness  to  render  unselfish 
service  in  going  on  missions  where  we  give  years  of  our  time,  and 
great  sums  of  money  are  spent  without  earthly  compensation. 

Again,  our  charity  system  is  notable  and  unparalleled,  for  by  it 
a  hundred  per  cent  of  that  which  is  contributed  to  charity  goes  to  the 
object  of  charity  through  the  unselfish  and  unpaid-for  services  of  our 
ward  teachers  and  bishops  and  our  splendid  woman's  Relief  Society. 
These  are  not  temporary  or  spasmodic  efforts ;  they  have  continued 
without  interruption  for  a  hundred  years,  and  the  world  is  coming 
to  give  us  credit  for  our  response  to  the  needs  of  the  poor. 

Another  clearly  unselfish  service  is  the  vicarious  work  for  the 
dead — doing  something  for  those  who  can  make  no  earthly  return. 
The  breadth  and  depth  of  that  saving  work  is  hardly  fathomable.   It  is 
an  unselfish  earthly  service,  nobly  conceived  and  unselfishly  performed. 

What  other  people  are  attempting  such  altruistic  brotherly  love 
effort? 

Can  we  not  point  with  pride  to  this  evidence  of  being  imbued 
with  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  are  we  not  an  example 
in  these  respects  at  least,  of  making  progress  in  the  accomplishment 
of  the  purposes  of  the  Lord;  to  which  might  appropriately  be  added 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  payment  of  tithing,  which  I  think  is  one  of  the  surest  tests  of 
sincerity  and  honesty. 

Another  unique  conception  and  practice  is  characteristic  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  namely,  the  Fast  Day  donation,  or  contribution  of  the 
value  of  the  morning  and  noonday  meal  on  the  first  Sunday  of  each 
month  for  the  relief  of  the  poor.  Greater  stress  could  be  appropriately 
placed  upon  its  observance,  as  fasting  is  good  for  the  body,  as  is  also 
the  giving,  for  the  soul. 

If  that  practice,  common  to  us  for  a  hundred  years,  were  followed 
by  all  in  the  United  States  at  25c  per  meal  or  50c  per  month  for  each 
individual,  it  would  eliminate  the  cry  for  bread.  Fifty  cents  a  month 
from  a  hundred  million  would  be  fifty  million  per  month  or  six  hun- 
dred million  per  year,  which  if  conserved  in  prosperous  years,  for 
years  of  scarcity,  would  remove  the  possibility  of  extreme  poverty. 

We  have  had  ever  since  the  days  of  the  children  of  Israel  in  Egypt 
years  of  plenty  and  years  of  scarcity,  and  they  will  probably  continue 
to  come,  and  suffering  will  exist  where  there  might  be  plenty,  until 
that  system  of  which  I  speak  is  established  in  the  earth,  and  which 
I  believe  is  nearer  at  hand  than  we  realize. 

Out  of  this  great  financial  distress  there  should  come  some  great 
good.  Nothing  could  be  better  than  a  greater  brotherhood,  a  better 
comprehension  of  the  responsibilities  and  duties  of  the  strong  to  the 
weak.  We  are  our  brother's  keeper,  and  those  who  are  strong  and 
able  and  more  richly  endowed  with  the  ability  to  do  good  and  to 
accomplish  the  most  in  this  life,  whether  physically,  industrially,  social- 
ly or  religiously,  must  help  those  who  are  weak.  That  is  the  greatest 
problem  that  now  confronts  the  world. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  so  live  that  we  can  enjoy  his  Spirit. 
I  never  was  happier,  I  never  enjoyed  myself  so  much  when  striving 
only  for  selfish  interests  as  I  do  now  in  working  for  the  great  cause 
of  human  redemption.  His  Spirit  has  been  with  me  in  this  great 
and  glorious  work.  It  has  enabled  me  to  solve  problems  that  I  ap- 
parently could  not  see  through  and  which  looked  dark  indeed.  I  have 
gone  to  bed  at  night  puzzled,  but  with  a  prayer  for  light  and  help, 
and  have  awakened  in  the  morning  with  an  understanding"  as  clear 
as  the  noonday  sun. 

The  Lord  is  blessing  this  work  and  those  who  give  to  its  service 
their  whole  hearts,  souls  and  minds.  May  he  help  us  to  so  live  that 
we  may  enjoy  the  companionship  of  his  Spirit  at  all  times,  and  have 
that  joy  and  peace  which  accompanies  it,  and  which  I  have  experienced 
during  the  last  two  years  and  nine  months  of  my  life,  I  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  E.  ROWAN,  JR. 

President  of  the  Texas  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  in  this  opportunity  that  I  have 
of  being  here  at  this  wonderful  conference.    Another  evidence,  to  my 


ELDER  CHARLES  E.  ROWAN,,  JR. 


43 


mind,  that  God  is  still  guiding  his  people,  is  the  nomination  of  Dr. 
Merrill  to  become  one  of  the  apostles  of  our  Church. 

I  am  happy  to  bring  greetings  to  you  people  from  the  saints 
and  missionaries  in  the  Texas  mission,  and  I  am  happy  to  say  to  you, 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  with  but  one  exception  all  of  our  missionaries 
are  enjoying  health  and  strength,  and  so  far  as  I  know,  every  missionary 
in  that  mission  is  enjoying  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  enjoying  the 
missionary  work.  I  have  had  an  opportunity  of  visiting^  with  every 
one  of  them  within  the  last  sixty  days,  and  I  rejoice,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  as  I  hear  them  bear  their  solemn  testimonies  to  the  people, 
and  hear  them  expound  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  an 
evidence  to  me  that  there  is  still  power  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  am  happy  to  say  to  you  that  we  are  making  many  friends  among 
those  who  have  prestige  and  influence.  I  find  that  it  is  an  advertise- 
ment to  announce  to  the  people  of  Texas  and  Louisiana  that  you  are 
a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  am  indeed  grateful  to  my  Heavenly  Father  for  his  many  blessings. 
If  I  should  be  called  upon  to  spend  all  the  days  of  my  life  in  the 
mission  field,  or  in  his  service,  I  would  not  be  able  to  repay  him  for 
his  kindness  to  me.  I  am  indeed  grateful  to  him,  brethren  and  sisters, 
for  the  fact  that  I  was  called  on  a  mission  twenty-eight  years  ago ; 
that  I  had  the  pleasure  of  learning  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
in  the  Southern  States,  under  President  Ben  E.  Rich ;  that  I  had  an 
opportunity  to  travel  without  purse  or  scrip,  and  that  I  had  many  things 
to  be  thankful  for.  I  am  grateful  to  my  Heavenly  Father  for  the 
testimony  that  I  received  at  that  time,  and  as  I  go  forward  now  as  a 
missionary  in  the  great  state  of  Texas,  I  find  there  is  a  different 
feeling,  a  different  attitude  among  the  people  generally,  and  that  very 
largely  because  we  are  becoming  better  understood. 

May  I  read  to  you  just  a  moment  from  the  scripture: 

"A  good  name  is  rather  to  be  chosen  than  great  riches,  and  loving  favor 
rather  than  gold  and  silver. 

"The  rich  and  the  poor  meet  together.  The  Lord  is  maker  of  them  all. 
By  humility  and  the  fear  of  the  Lord  are  riches  and  honor  and  life." 

I  have  yet  one  individual  to  meet,  who  has  been  out  in  this  country 
as  a  tourist  and  met  our  people,  that  has  not  been  friendly,  because 
they  have  discovered  that  our  people,  in  the  main,  are  honest ;  and  the 
good  name  that  you  are  establishing  is  making  it  possible  for  us  to  get 
into  the  homes  of  the  people  in  the  mission  field. 

So  I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  this  great  calling,  and 
as  I  study  the  Book  of  Mormon,  as  I  read  the  revelations  contained 
in  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  as  I  read  the  Pearl  of 
Grea.t  Price,  my  testimony  becomes  stronger,  and  I  feel  that  there  is 
abundant  evidence  to  prove  that  Joseph  Smith  was  indeed  a  prophet 
of  God.  I  am  happy  to  say  to  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  your 
boys  and  girls  are  well  and  happy;  that  I  am  trying  as  hard  as  I  can 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  protect  and  safeguard  their  health;  that  I  am  trying  to  stimulate 
them  to  see  the  possibilities  of  the  great  vision  of  life  that  is  before 
them;  and  that  I  am  trying  to  impress  upon  them  the  seriousness 
and  sacredness  of  the  call  which  they  have  received  from  the  Priest- 
hood to  proclaim  this  Gospel.  I  have  enjoyed  myself  immensely. 
Never  before  in  my  life  have  I  done  anything  that  I  have  enjoyed 
so  much  as  I  have  laboring  as  a  missionary  in  that  part  of  the  Lord's 
vineyard.  m 

I  am  happy  to  say,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  these  men  whom  we 
sustain  as  our  Authorities  are  beloved  by  our  people ;  that  they  respect 
them;  that  they  reverence  them.  -Our  people  generally  are  a  praying 
people,  and  as  they  pray  night  and  morning  they  pray  that  our  Heavenly 
Father  will  guide  and  direct  these  men  whom  we  sustain  as  our  prophets, 
seers  and  revelators ;  and  I  feel  confident  in  my  heart  that  he  is  guiding 
them.  I  hope  and  trust  that  you  people  will  recognize  the  important 
positions  that  you  occupy  here  in  Zion ;  that  you  will  live  your  religion, 
so  that  when  tourists  and  strangers  come  among  you  they  will  see  that 
you  are  indeed  a  chosen  people.  As  you  treat  them  with  honor  and 
with  respect,  and  as  your  lives  are  reflected  in  the  things  that  you  do, 
you  will  make  it  possible  for  your  sons  and  daughters  to  reach  their 
hearts. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you.  May  you  realize  the  importance  of  a 
good  name,  and  may  you  keep  alive  the  spirit  that  you  received  when 
you  were  confirmed  members  of  this  Church,  and  may  we  ultimately 
all  come  back  into  his  presence  to  live  and  grow,  is  my  prayer,  and  I 
ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  WILLIAM  R.  SLOAN 

President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission 

"Then,  say,  what  is  truth?  Tis  the  last  and  the  first, 

For  the  limits  of  time  it  steps  o'er : 
Though  the  heavens  depart,  and  the  earth's  fountains  burst, 
Truth,  the  sum  of  existence  will  weather  the  worst, 

Eternal,  unchanged,  evermore." 

We  have  been  listening  to  those  gems  of  truth  this  afternoon, 
and  my  heart  has  been  made  to  rejoice  in  the  testimonies  of  my  brethren. 

During  the  summer  just  past,  we  took  to  the  Alberta  Temple 
400  members  of  our  mission  to  enjoy  the  blessings  Of  that  holy  house, 
many  of  them  driving  as  far  as  1200  miles  distance  there  and  1200 
miles  back.  One  of  our  brethren  whose  health  was  impaired  and  who 
had  been  unable  to  work  for  years,  his  wife  prevailed  on  him  to  go  to 
the  temple.  "iWe  can't  both  go,"  she  said,  "but  you  go  and  get  a  bless- 
ing." The  malady  with  which  this  brother  was  afflicted  doctors  pro- 
nounced incurable.  He  went  to  the  temple  and  spent  two  days  with 
us.  The  third  morning  he  left  for  home,  traveling  150  miles.  They 
stopped  at  a  hotel,  and  he  said  to  one  of  our  missionary  elders:  "I 
went  all  this  distance  for  a  blessing  and  I  am  going  home  without  it." 


ELDER  WILLIAM  R.  SLOAN 


45 


The  Elder  said,  "Why  brother,  you  can't  go  home  without  it,  let  us 
drive  back  tomorrow  morning  and  get  your  blessing."  You  will  re- 
member brethren  and  sisters,  that  when  Peter  and  John  were  entering 
the  temple,  a  poor  man,  born  with  an  infirmity,  lay  at  the  gates 
pleading  for  alms;  and  as  Peter  and  John  entered  they  looked  upon 
him,  and  Peter  said :  "Silver  and  gold  have  I  none,  but  such  as  I  have 
give  I  thee :  In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Nazareth  rise  up  and  walk," 
and  he  was  made  whole.  So  this  brother  said,  "In  the  morning  we 
will  go  back." 

They  drove  back  and  they  entered  the  temple.  The  President  laid 
his  hands  upon  this  brother's  head  and  said,  "Brother,  this  malady, 
this  disease,  will  drop  from  your  body  as  a  robe  being  discarded,  and 
you  will  be  made  well." 

I  was  in  Klamath  Falls  only  a  few  weeks  ago  and  shook  hands 
with  this  good  brother  and  his  good  wife,  and  he  said:  "President 
Sloan,  I  never  was  better  physically  in  my  life,  than  I  am  today."  He 
too  was  made  whole. 

"Sacrifice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  brings  forth  blessings. 

I  bring  greetings  to  you  from  the  missionaries  in  the  Northwest 
and  from  the  far  off  land  of  Alaska.  Some  of  you  have  very  vague 
ideas  regarding  Alaska — its  climatic  condition  and  size.  If  you  could 
transport  it  and  set  it  down  in  the  United  States,  it  would  cover  almost 
the  entire  country.  That  is  the  size  of  Alaska.  As  to  climatic 
conditions,  some  call  it  Seward's  icebox,  but  our  missionaries  have 
been  holding  street  meetings  during  the  winter  months  in  Juneau, 
Ketchikan,  and  Wrangell,  with  success.  We  need  experienced  mission- 
aries in  Alaska.  You  brethren  who  can  afford  the  finances,  and  who  have 
had  experience,  here  is  a  glorious  opportunity.  Your  sons  and  daughters 
in  the  Northwest  are  marvelous  boys  and  girls;  and,  fathers  and 
mothers,  their  love  for  you  is  becoming  intensified  every  day  they  remain 
in  the  mission.    They  love  you  for  that  which  you  are  doing  for  them. 

We  released  a  splendid  lady  missionary  not  long  ago.  Her  home  is 
in  Cardston.  When  she  arrived  there  with  the  caravan,  they  drove 
to  the  temple  first,  circled  around  the  city  for  a  few  minutes,  and  then 
she  said,  "I  want  you  to  drive  me  out  to  the  cemetery."  They  did  so, 
and  there,  on  the  arm  of  her  companion,  she  stood  over  the  graves 
of  her  deceased  father  and  mother,  to  give  her  first  report  of  the 
missionary  labors  she  had  performed,  hoping  for  this  privilege,  and 
now  ready  to  go  forth  and  discharge  her  greater  responsibility. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  us  in  this  work,  to  bless  these  men  who 
preside ;  may  we  sustain  them  with  our  faith  and  prayers  and  our 
confidence  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  Amen. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  am  very  grateful  that  I  can  believe  in  spiritual  realities.  It  is  not 
difficult  for  me  now  to  accept  the  statements  of  my  brethren  and  sisters 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


as  to  their  knowledge  of  the  Gospel,  as  to  the  goodness  of  the  Lord  to 
them.  I  can  believe  that  there  are  powers  beyond  the  material  manifes- 
tations of  man's  intellect  and  his  force.  I  am  grateful  that  God  has 
made  it  possible  for  me  to  recognize  the  presence  of  his  Holy  Spirit. 
I  cannot  contemplate  complete  happiness  in  life  without  that  recogni- 
tion. 

TOLERANT  TOWARD  OTHERS 

While  I  am  grateful  for  these  blessings  to  myself,  I  am  aware  that 
there  are  many  men  in  the  world  who  do  not  have  similar  blessings. 

They  do  not  believe  in  spiritual  realities.  They  do  not  understand 
the  operation  of  the  Spirit.  Their  heart's  do  not  respond  to  impressions 
that  come  from  divine  sources.  I  regard  it  as  unfortunate  that  it 
may  be  so,  but  I  do  not  abuse  men  wh|o  have  not  such  realization. 
I  do  not  attempt  to  pass  judgment  upon  them.  I  desire  to  be  tolerant 
and  merciful  in  my  feelings  toward  them. 

INFLUENCES  THAT  PERPLEX 

It  is  in  my  heart  today  to  plead  for  tolerance.  Not  all  of  us  are 
raised  in  the  same  environment.  Not  all  of  mankind  are  subjected  to 
the  same  influences.  We  who  have  been  fortunate  enough  to  have  our 
souls  touched  with  the  testimony  of  Jesus,  ought  to  be  very  compassion- 
ate with  those  who  have  not  had  such  manifestations.  I  recognize  that 
in  the  educational  processes  of  the  day  there  are  to  be  found  many  factors 
which  militate  against  spiritual  training.  Theories  of  men — and  I  do 
not  deprecate  them,  because  they  are  often  founded  upon  the  best  investi- 
gations that  men  are  able  to  makef — are  advanced  for  the  solution  of 
life's  problems,  and  in  answer  to  questions  that  perplex  youth.  They 
who  are  subjected  to  these  educational  processes  and  to  the  teachings 
of  the  day,  are  not  altogether  to  be  blamed  because  these  teachings  appeal 
to  them ;  and  they  ultimately  come  to  place  reliance  upon  the  philoso- 
phies, the  systems  and  the  theories  which  are  advanced. 

RELIANCE  UPON  REASON 

The  youth  of  today  are  taught  to  reason.  Their  intellects  are  highly 
trained,  and  they  rely  upon  their  reason.  I  know,  and  you  know,  that 
if  their  minds  can  but  be  kept  open  to  the  reception  of  spiritual  truth,' 
such  truth  may  be  made  to  appear  reasonable  to  them ;  but  they  demand 
reason.  I  would  like  them  to  have  reason.  I  would  like  them  to  under- 
stand the  beauties  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  would  like  them  to 
come  to  feel  the  glorious  impressions  that  a  true  conception  of  the 
Gospel  brings,  but  I  know  that  I  cannot  force  them  to  these  impressions. 
I  know  that  our  work  is  not  one  of  coercion  or  of  compulsion.  I  know 
that  it  is  only  by  sympathetic,  intelligent  persuasion  that  the  minds 
of  youth,  the  intelligence,  the  reason,  the  sophisticated  minds  of  youth 
can  be  made  to  ultimately  comprehend  the  glories  of  the  revealed  truths 
of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  plead  for  some  tolerance  in  their 
treatment. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


47 


SYMPATHY  IN  TEMPTATION 

I  recognize  that  in  the  temptations  that  are  presented  to  them  they 
are  obliged  to  exercise  tremendous  resistance,  if  they  would  keep  them- 
selves clean  and  spotless  from  the  sins  of  the  world.  I  know  that 
sometimes  they  have  not  the  courage  to  resist,  and  that  unfortunately 
many  fall  victims  to  systems  of  enticement,  the  like  of  which  all  the 
world  has  never  known  before.  In  their  fall  they  have  my  sympathy, 
and  I  trust  that  they  may  have  the  sympathy  of  the  Church. 

THE  GOSPEL'S  GREATER  MISSION 

I  know  that  we  inveigh — and  rightly  soi — against  the  ills  to  which 
they  are  subject.  We  urge  that  they  do  not  use  tobacco,  tea  and  coffee, 
and  liquor.  We  point  out  in  strong  terms  the  consequences  which  ensue 
from  an  infraction  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  given  of  God.  We  en- 
gage in  a  great  campaign  to  ban  these  evils  from  the  Church,  and  it  is 
well  that  we  do  so.  But  in  our  ardor,  in  our  enthusiastic  endeavor  to 
prevent  our  youth  from  falling  into  these  sins,  God  help  us  not  to 
drive  them  out  of  the  pale  of  the  Church.  The  Lord  help  us  not  to 
ostracise  them  from  our  companionship  and  the  saving  grace  of  the 
merciful  principles  of  the  Gospel  of  our  Lord  and  our  Savior.  I  never 
want  a  youth  who  unfortunately  takes  to  the  habit  of  smoking  to  come 
to  feel  that  he  cannot  enter  with  welcome  the  doors  of  our  churches 
and  the  association  of  our  church  people.  If  there  is  ever  a  time  when 
one  needs  the  influence  of  the  Church  it  is  when,  in  the  frailty  of  his 
human  nature,  he  has  transgressed  a  law  of  God  and  fallen  from  the 
standard  of  righteousness.  I  know  that  it  might  perhaps  be  misunder- 
stood but  I  cannot  help  saying  that  I  want  the  youth  of  this  Church 
to  come  to  know  and  understand  that  this  great  system  of  righteousness, 
the  Gospel,  is  something  more  than  just  a  mere  campaign  against  tea, 
coffee  and  tobacco — important  as  is  the  abstinence  from  those  noxious 
poisons  to  the  human  family. 

Oh,  I  think  so  much  of  the  glorious  light  of  truth  that  God  has 
given,  of  the  great  exaltation  that  he  holds  out  to  us,  to  come  back  into 
his  presence  by  living  the  Gospel,  that  I  would  not  have  our  youth  miss 
the  epitome  of  it  all,  the  prime  essentials,  the  glorious  hopes,  the  rewards, 
the  promises,  that  await  those  who  live' the  truth  and  conform  their  lives 
to  the  teachings  of  the  Church.  I  would  like  them  all  to  know,  how- 
ever, that  whenever  one  fails  to  keep  a  commandment  he  cuts  himself 
off  from  so  much  of  the  glorious  blessings  which  God  has  promised 
to  the  faithful. 

TEMPERATE  IN  JUDGMENT 

This  is  a  church  of  free  agency.    Man  may  choose  for  himself.  • 
We  are  to  disseminate  the  knowledge,  that  he  may  choose  wisely.  When 
we  have  done  that  adequately  our  duty  is  performed. 

"Judge  not,  that  ye  be  not  judged,"  are  said  to  be  the  most  merciful 
words  in  all  the  world.  We  are  not  set  to  be  the  judges  of  our  brethren, 
except  in  special  cases.    God  is  their  judge.   We  are  not  always  aware 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  the  feelings  that  prompt  them.  We  do  not  always  know  the 
temptations  which  beset  them.  We  cannot  always  correctly  judge  of 
the  struggles  which  they  have.  May  we  be  temperate  in  our  judgments. 
Sometimes  I  find  myself  failing  to  distinguish  between'  resentment  at 
the  sin  and  hatred  toward  the  sinner.  There  is  a  pronounced  distinc- 
tion. We  are  not  to  compromise  with  truth.  It  has  been  given  to  us 
to  preserve  in  its  undiluted  purity  and  beauty. 

I  believe  in  the  orthodox  teachings  of  this  Church.  I  do  not 
equivocate  about  them,  nor  attempt1  to  explain  away  the  requirements 
of  the  Gospel  of  Christ.  But  I  want  the  Lord  to  give  me  sympathy 
and  mercy  and  forbearance  toward  him  who,  in  the  weaknesses  of  the 
flesh,  may  not  always  sustain  these  standards  and  principles.  So,  to  the 
leaders  of  the  Church,  the  men  and  the  women  who  guide  the  organiza- 
tions of  this  great  institution,  I  sincerely  appeal  to  you  to  be  considerate 
and  merciful  in  your  judgments,  and  to  go,  like  the  Savior,  out  to  those 
who  are  sick,  and  bring  them  in  for  treatment,  and  not  confine  the  func- 
tions and  offices  of  the  Church  only  to  those  who  are  spiritually  well. 

I  pray  that  God  will  give  us  all  wisdom  and  inspiration  to  deal  with 
our  families  as  we  should,  to  assist  in  the  salvation  of  the  families  of 
others,  and  to  ever  keep  within  our  own  hearts,  as  well  as  within  the 
portals  of  our  churches,  a  welcome  for  him  who  has  fallen,  as  well  as  for 
him  whom  God  has  blessed  with  purity  and  uprightness  of  living.  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Guide  us,  O  thou  great  Jehovah." 
Elder  Andrew  Jenson,  Assistant  Church  Historian,  pronounced 
the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  Saturday  morning,  October 
3,  1931. 


SECOND  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  Saturday  morning,  October  3,  1931,  at'  10 
o'clock. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn  "Though  Deep'ning  Trials." 
The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  David  R.  Langlois,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Burley  .Stake. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Our  mountain  home  so  dear." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

The  words  of  the  first  hymn  that  we  sang  this  morning  are  by 
Sister  Eliza  R.  Snow,  who  at  one  time  was  President  of  the  Relief 
Societies  of  the  Church.  The  music  was  composed  by  Brother 
George  Careless.  The  words  of  the  hymn  we  have  just  sung  are 
by  Sister  Emmeline  B.  Wells,  one  of  the  successors  to  Sister  Snow 
in  the  presidency  of  the  (Relief  Societies.  The  music  to  this  hymn 
was  composed  by  the  late  Evan  Stephens. 

Personally,  I  am  very  grateful  for  the  wonderful  inspiration  of 
our  brethren  and  sisters  who  have  written  the  words  and  composed 
the  music  for  so  many  of  our  inspired  hymns. 

ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

There  is  reason  for  gratification  in  finding  one's  self  a  member 
of  a  goodly  company.  We  can  say,  as  yesterday  many  said  in  their 
hearts,  and  as  it  has  been  said  aforetime,  "Lord,  it  is  good  for  us  to  be 
here." 

If  we  put  into  action  the  admonition  of  which  we  often  sing — 
count  our  many  blessings,  one  by  one — we  surely  shall  be  surprised 
at  what  the  Lord  has  done  and  is  doing  for  us.  Among  the  blessings 
for  which  we  should  be  devoutly  thankful  is  the  privilege  of  thus 
assembling  from  time  to  time,  in  local  or  in  general  capacity,  to  be 
taught,  especially  to  be  reminded,  for  we  have  been  taught  personally 
through  the  many  years  and  indirectly  by  recorded  scriptures  through 
the  centuries ;  but  we  are  apt  to  forget. 

I  note  at  these  conferences  a  striking  feature  in  the  matter  of  the 
addresses  that  are  given,  in  that  each  speaker  leaves  something  that  may 
serve  as  a  rich  text  for  those  who  follow  him ;  and  thus  the  instructions 
are  cumulative,  leading  on  step  by  step. 

SANCTITY  OF  THE  LORD'S  NAME 

The  grand  summation  of  the  whole  duty  of  man,  as  presented 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


by  the  President  in  his  opening  address,  can  not  be  too  closely  taken 
to  heart — that  we  strive  to  keep  the  commandments  of  the  ^  Lord. 
.Among  those  commandments  one  in  my  mind  at  this  moment  is  that 
written  amidst  the  awe-inspiring  glory  of  Sinai:  "Thou  shalt  not 
take  the  name  of  the  Lord  thy  God  in  vain;  for  the  Lord  will  not 
hold  him  guiltless  that  taketh  his  name  in  vain." 

The  word  translated  into  our  language  as  "vain"  is  an  interesting- 
one,  and  its  usage  is  instructive.  "In  vain"  is  about  the  only  phrase 
and' marks  .about  the  only  occurrence  in  the  English  language  in  which 
the  word  "vain"  is  used  as  a  noun.  It  is  an  adjective  in  common 
usage.  It  comes  to  us  from  a  Latin  root  and  meant,  originally,  empty 
and  void,  and  as  the  lexicographers  tell  us,  that  meaning  has  been 
maintained  through  all  its  variations. 

To  take  the  name  of  God  in  vain,  therefore,  is  to  use  that  name 
lightly,  to  use  it  emptily,  to  use  it  without  effect,  so  far  as  the  intent 
is  concerned — but  nevertheless,  with  awful  effect  upon  the  profane 
user.  We  are  apt  to  think  that  this  has  reference  to  the  speaking  of 
the  name  of  God  only,  and  in  that  particular  respect  the  commandment 
is  sufficiently  weighty  and  important  to  us.  Profanity  is  all  too  common 
in  the  world — profanity  of  speech. 

PROFANITY  IN  SPEECH 

But  beyond  this  there  is  profanity  of  action,  which  is  of  greater 
import  than  the  spoken  word,  even  as  the  prayer  of  the  heart  is  greater 
than  the  prayer  of  the  lips.  Profanity  in  this  sense  is  any  manifestation 
of  disrespect  or  irreverence  for  the  name  of  God ;  blasphemy  consists 
in  attributing  to  Deity  any  unworthy  act  or  motive,  or  in  claiming  for 
one's  self  the  distinguishing  attributes  of  Deity. 

I  listen  with  horror  to  profane  swearing.  One  can  not.  escape 
it  wholly,  go  where  one  will;  that  is  to  say,  ,as,one  has  to  meet  diverse 
associations  one  is  sure  to  encounter  it.  Of  profanity  I  have  not  yet 
heard  one  word  of  defense.  It  is  wholly  demoralizing,  wholly  base, 
to  say  nothing  of  the  sacrilege  and  blasphemy  ofttimes  associated 
in  the  linking  of  the  name  of  Deity  with  our  perverse  expressions. 

I  call  to  mind  that  Chapin  has  given  us  a  thought  in  regard  to  the 
use  of  profanity.  "Profaneness,"  he  wrote,  "is  a  brutal  vice.  He 
who  indulges  in  it  is  no  gentleman.  I  care  not  what  his  stamp  may 
be  in  society,  or  what  clothes  he  wears,  or  what  culture  he  boasts. 
Despite  all  his  refinement,  the  light  and  habitual  taking  of  God's  name 
in  vain  betrays  a  coarse  and  brutal  will." 

And  yet  another  has  said :  "Profanity  never  did  any  man  the  least 
good.  No  man  is  the  richer  or  happier  or  wiser  for  it.  It  commends 
no  one  to  society.  It  is  disgusting  to  the  refined,  abominable  to  the 
good,  insulting  to  those  with  whom  we  associate,  degrading  to  the  mind, 
unprofitable,  needless  and  injurious  to  society." 

Perhaps  some  of  you  may  think  my  remarks  are  inept  in  this 
particular  presence.    I  do  not  believe  that  the  habitual  taking  of  the 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


51 


name  of  God  in  vain  by  profane  speech  is  a  prevalent  .vice  among  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  refer  to  this  in  passing,  only,  as  one  way  in  which 
the  name  of  God  is  all  too  frequently  polluted  among  men  in  general. 
But  there  is  much  beyond  and  behind  that.  Profanity  of  the  lips,  I 
repeat,  is  not  the  only  form  in  which  this  offense  appears. 

ENORMITY  OF  FALSE  SWEARING 

The  name  of  God  is  a  means  of  power.  He  is  jealous — that  is  to 
say,  righteously  zealous  of  his  name,  because  of  that  for  which  his 
name  stands.  "And  ye  shall  not  swear  by  my  name  falsely,"  he , spoke 
through  his  prophet  of  old,  as  is  written  in  the  book  of  the  law,  "Neithev 
shalt  thou  profane  the  name  of  thy  God.   I  am  the  Lord."  (Lev.  19 :12.) 

But,  one  may  say,  those  commandments  were  given  in  the  days 
when  the  law,  as  distinguished  from  the  Gospel,  was  dominant.  Very 
true.  The  people  then  had  to  be  led  by  the  code  of  "Thou  shalt"  and 
"Thou  shalt  not,"  until  under  the  tutelage  of  the  law,  as  under  the 
direction  of  a  schoolmaster,  they  were  brought,  once  erring  children, 
to  a  state  of  preparation  for  the  reception  of  the  Gospel. 

But  the  principle  involved  is  an  eternal  one.  The  name  of  God  is 
and  will  ever  be  honored  in  the  heavens  beyond,  as  it  is  required 
that  we  honor  it  here  upon  the  earth,  and  he  honors  his  own  name  and 
rightly  demands  that  we  honor  it  also. 

But  another  phase  of  taking  the  name  of  God  in  vain  is  that 
referred  to  in  the  scripture  just  cited :  "And  ye  shall  not  swear  by  my 
name  falsely."  How  that  is  disregarded  in  the  world  we  know.  In  the 
courts  of  the  land,  yes,  I  will  say,  with  reservation,  in  the  courts  of 
justice,  the  oath  is  administered,  "So  help  you  God,"  and  we  witness 
every  day  practically,  instances  of  such  solemn  adjuration  being  disre- 
garded as  soon  as  spoken;  we  see  men  perjuring  themselves,  defiling, 
polluting  the  name  of  God  even  on  the  witness  stand.  W]e  have  come 
to  think  that  perjury  in  our  courts  is  something  to  be  condoned,  palli- 
ated, and  in  some  minds  extolled,  if  by  it  some  personal  advantage 
can  be  gained. 

USING  THE  HOLY  NAME  PRESUMTUOUSLY 

I  ask  your  attention  to  another  way  by  which  the  name  of  God  is 
taken  in  vain,  and  that  by  the  presumption  of  men  who  profess  to  speak 
in  his  name  without  authority.  The  Lord  has  been  particularly  careful 
as  to  those  whom  he  commissions  to  use  his  name,  may  I  say,  officially, 
and  having  thus  commissioned  a  man,  or  any  being,  man  or  angel,  to 
speak  in  his  name,  he,  the  Lord,  holds  himself  bound  by  what  is 
done  by  that  agent  if  it  is  done  righteously  in  his  holy  name. 

I  pray  you  call  to  mind  that  striking  instance  of  the  Lord's  word 
to  Israel  as  the  hosts  were  journeying  through  the  wilderness  of  old. 
He  told  them  what  he  had  done  for  them  and  what  he  would  continue 
to  do  for  them,  and  appointed  one  to  represent  him,  and  said  unto  Israel : 

"Behold,  I  send  an  Angel  before  thee,  to  keep  thee  in  the  way,  and  to  bring 
thee  into  the  place  which  I  have  prepared. 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"Beware  of  him,  and  obey  his  voice,  Jprovoke  him  not ;  for  he  will  not  pardon 
your  transgressions:  for  my  name  is  in  him."  (Exo.  23:20,  21.) 

Having  thus  placed  his  name  in  men  for  the  accomplishment  of 
his  purposes,  he  has  uttered  words  of  warning  time  and  again  lest  it  be 
defiled. 

"For  I  will  not  suffer  my  name  to  be  polluted,  and  I  will  not  give  my  glory 
unto  another."  (I  Nephi  20:11.) 

In  the  days  of  the  Gospel  restoration  in  the  meridian  of  time  the 
word  of  the  Lord  was  given  unto  the  people  to  regard  the  sanctity  of 
the  name  of  God.  Did  not  the  Christ  teach  in  that  prayer  of  prayers 
that  we  should  address  our  Father  with  the  words  of  praise,  "Hallowed 
be  thy  name,"  as  of  old  he  had  declared  through  the  Psalmist,  "Holy 
and  reverend  is  his  name?"  Unto  those  who  had  undertaken  to  falsely 
assume  to  speak  in  the  name  of  God  the  Lord  has  uttered  warnings  in 
ancient  times  as  in  this  age  and  dispensation.  Consider  these  words, 
given  by  the  Lord  through  his  prophet,  in  August,  1831 : 

"Behold,  I  am  Alpha  and  Omega,  even  Jesus  Christ. 

"Wherefore,  let  all  men  beware  how  they  take  my  name  in  their  lips — 

"For  behold,  verily  I  say,  that  many  there  be  who  are  under  this  condem- 
nation, who  use  the  name  of  the  Lord,  and  use  it  in  vain,  having  not  authority. 

"Wherefore,  let  the  Church  repent  of  their  sins,  and  I,  the  Lord,  will  own 
them ;  otherwise  they  shall  be  cut  off. 

"Remember  that  that  which  cometh  from  above  is  sacred,  and  mus.t  be 
spoken  with  ca;re,  and  by  constraint  of  the  Spirit;  and  in  this  there  is  no  con- 
demnation, and  ye  receive  /the  Spirit  through  prayer ;  wherefore,  without  this 
there  remaineth  condemnation."    (D.  and  C.  63:60-64.) 

Yet  in  this  day  there  are  men  who  rise  up  and  avow  as  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  that  they  have  received  his  word,  and  actually  pre- 
sume to  declare  it  unto  the  people  as  the  word  of  God  given  by  au- 
thority. But  in  the,  next  section,  sixty-four,  as  we  have  it  recorded, 
the  Lord  again  spoke: 

"For  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  the  inhabitants  of  Zion  shall  'judge  all  things 
pertaining  to  Zion. 

"And  liars  and  hypocrites  shall  be  proved  by  them,  and  they  who  are  not 
apostles  and  prophets  shall  be  known."    (D.  and  C.  64:38,  39.) 

WE  BEAR  THE  LORD'S  NAME 

And  now  there  is  yet  another  instance,  method,  way  by  which  we 
are  too  prone  to  take  the  name  of  God  in  vain  and  in  this  connection  I 
call  your  attention  to  the  thirtieth  chapter  of  Proverbs,  verses  seven  to 
nine  inclusive,  and  ask  you  to  heed  these  words,  the  words  of  Agur,  the 
son  of  Jakeh,  speaking  from  the  fulness  of  his  heart: 

"Two  things  have  I  required  of  thee;  deny  me  them  not  before  I  die: 
"Remove  far  from  me  vanity  and  lies :  give  me  neither  poverty  nor  riches ;  feed 

me  with  food  convenient  for  me : 

"Lest  I  be  full  and  deny  thee,  and  say,  Who  isf  the  Lord?  or  lest  I  be  poor, 

and  steal,  and  take  the  name  of  my  God  in  vain." 

What  association  is  there  between  the  crime  of  theft  and  that  of 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


53 


taking  the  name  of  God  in  vain,  so  closely  brought  together  here  ?  Lest 
I  steal,  and  thereby  take  the  name  of  God  in  vain — making  it  a  double 
crime.  Do  we  take  the  name  of  God  in  vain  by  stealing?  Latter-day 
Saints,  this  applies  to  us.  Is  not  the  name  of  the  Lord  written  in  our 
foreheads  ?  Where  can  a  Latter-day  Saint  go  without  bearing  the  name 
of  the  Lord  with  him?  And  if  he  steal,  he  is  stealing  before  the  Lord, 
and  with  his  name  displayed,  thus  polluting"  the  name  of  the  Lord,  for 
he  has  taken  that  name  upon  himself. 
By  way  of  summary : 

1.  We  may  take  the  name  of  God  in  vain  by  profane  speech. 

2.  We  take  it  in  vain  when  we  swear  falsely,  not  being  true  to  our 
oaths  and  promises. 

3.  We  take  it  in  vain  in  a  blasphemous  sense  when  we  presume 
to  speak  in  that  name  without  authority. 

4.  And  we  take  his  name  in  vain  whenever  we  wilfully  do  aught 
that  is  in  defiance  of  his  commandments,  since  we  have  taken  his  name 
upon  ourselves. 

Can  we  pray  that  prayer  of  Agur,  the  son  of  Jakeh:  "Give  me 
neither  poverty  nor  riches"  ?  The  first  part  of  it  I  think  we  can.  None 
of  us  welcome  poverty.  But  can  we  pray  the  prayer?  We  can  say  it, 
but  that  may  not  be  praying.  Lord,  give  me  neither  poverty  nor  riches 
beyond  my  power  to  bear.  Do  not  send  poverty  that  may  lead  me  to 
steal.  I  fear  I  can  not  bear  it.  Lord,  send  me  not  riches  that  may 
make  me  full  of  conceit  so  that  I  spurn  thee  and  say,  Who  is  the  Lord  ? 
But  feed  me  with  food  suited  to  my  condition  that  I  may  develop 
and  be  thy  son  in  very  deed. 

Latter-day  Saints  let  us  remember  the  word  of  God,  we  must  not 
take  the  name  of  the  Lord  our  God  in  vain,  for  surely  he  will  not  hold 
us  guiltless  if  we  take  his  name  in  vain. 

That  we  may  speak  and  act,  live  and  serve  in  his  name,  I  fervently 
pray.  Amen. 

ELDER  ARTHUR  WELLING 

President  of  the  North  Central  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  proud  to  be  a  missionary  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  am  very  pleased  to  be 
able  to  report  for  the  North  Central  States  mission  that  all  of  our 
missionaries  are  well  and  busy  and  happy  in  their  work. 

When  Jesus  was  asked  by  Pilate  whether  he  were  king  of  the 
Jews  a  part  of  his  answer  was : 

"For  this  cause  came  I  into  the  world,  that  I  should  bear  witness  unto  the 
truth.    Every  one  that  is  of  the  truth  heareth  my  voice." 

We  like  to  feel,  in  a  modest,  humble  way,  like  that — that  for  this 
cause  came  we  into  the  world,  that  we  might  testify  of  the  truth  that 
God,  our  Father  in  heaven,  lives  ;  that  Jesus,  our  elder  brother,  glorious- 
ly resurrected,  lives ;  that  these  two  heavenly  beings  have  condescended 
to  again  appear  in  these  last  days  to  our  Prophet,  and  have  taught 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


him  concerning  the  things  necessary  to  life  and  salvation. 

We  are  not  in  the  world  to  find  fault  with  those  who  find  it  diffi- 
cult to  believe  as  we  would  like  to  have  them  believe.  Ours  is  not  a 
message  of  criticism  nor  of  argument,  but  we  do  love  to  testify  in 
deep  humility  of  what  we  believe  to  be  the  truth. 

Like  the  brethren  who  have  reported  here,  we  find  friendship 
everywhere  taking  the  place  of  misinformation  and  prejudice  of  the 
past'.  We  rejoice  in  the  wonderfully  beneficial  effects  of  radio  broad- 
casts from  this  city  and  the  impressions  made  upon  tourists  who  visit 
here.  The  world  is  full  of  our  friends,  but,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
in  spite  of  that,  it  seems  to  me  the  work  of  carrying  the  message  of 
Mormonism  to  the  world  is  just  begun.  They  find  it  difficult  to  believe 
as  we  believe  about  the  things  which  we  regard  as  fundamental  to 
life  and  salvation.  ! 

Like  the  other  brethren,  we  too  have  been  on  the  air  a  few  times 
in  a  modest  way,  and  we  have  tried  one  small  exhibit  at  a  fair,  with 
satisfactory  results ;  but  in  the  main  we  are  plodding  along,  trying  to 
reach  the  people  personally,  individually,  in  their  homes,  in  their  cot- 
tage meetings ;  trying  to  find  an  opportunity,  where  they  have  radios 
perhaps,  to  arrange  a  little  group  meeting  in  which  they  may  listen 
to  the  Tabernacle  Organ,  or  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  or  one  of  the 
speakers  of  the  General  Authorities  here  at  home ;  and  by  such  methods 
as  that  to  reach  the  homes  and  the  hearts  of  the  people,  for  there  are 
many  who  like  to  hear  more  about  the  truth. 

I  would  like  to  tell  you  a  lot  about  things  in  our  mission,  if  time 
permitted,  but  I  know  it  does  not.  I  Would  just  like  to  say,  in  passing, 
that  if  heaven  holds  no  joy — should  we  ever  be  fortunate  enough  to 
reach  there — greater  than  the  joy  I  have  in  trying  to  preach  the  Gospel, 
or  teach  the  people  what  we  understand  the  Gospel  to  be,  I  shall  be 
perfectly  happy  and  satisfied. 

I  love  the  people  with  whom  it  is  my  privilege  and  honor  to  as- 
sociate. I  love  the  work.  It  is  the  most  satisfying  thing  I  have  ever 
yet  found. 

I  want  to  waive  that  thought,  however,  for  a  very  brief  reference, 
if  I  may,  to  what  has  been  mentioned  several  times  already — the  times 
of  stress  in  which  we  live.  There  is  a  little  angle  to  that  to  which 
I  would  like  to  devote  attention.  Blessings  of  adversity — I  like  to 
thmk  that.  Do  you  remember  the  story  of  the  marriage  feast?  I 
won't  take  time  to  repeat  it  .  but  it  seems  to  me  we  are  approaching 
conditions  like  that.  The  man  who  before  must  prove  the  oxen  which 
he  had  bought,  or  must  go  to  inspect  the  farm  which  he  had  lately 
purchased,  has  time  now,  if  we  approach  him  in  a  right  spirit,  to  listen 
to  some  of  the  things  we.  would  like  him  to  listen  to. 

Those  who  are  lovers  of  Dickens'  works  will  remember  the  lines 
with  which  he  opens  The  Tale  of  Two  Cities :  "It  was  the  best  of  times  ; 
it  was  the  worst  of  times,"  and  so  on.  And  I  submit,  my  brethren — 
particularly  those  who  preside — it  seems  to  me  we  are  facing  con- 
ditions like  that  now.    We  learned  yesterday  that  this  is  a  good  time 


ELDER  ARTHUR  WELLING 


55 


to  pursue  our  educational  work  here  at  home.  I  ask  you,  in  real 
sincerity,  if  you  do  not  think  it  may  also  'be  a  good  time  for  missionary 
work,  not  only  from  the  standpoint  of  the  people  of  the  world  who 
have  a  little  more  time  to  listen,  but  from  the  standpoint  of  the  men  to 
be  sent  out  from  Zion  to  teach  the  truth.  Most  of  us  have  to  wear 
clothes  and  eat  some  food  whatever  we  do,  and  many  of  our  young 
people  spend  a  little  money  here  and  there  one  way  and  another.  If  they 
are  not  in  school  and  if  they  are  not  wage-earners,  contributing  some- 
thing to  the  much  needed  funds  of  the  family,  would  it  be  very  much 
more  expensive  to  maintain  them  in  the  mission  field  than  here  at  home  ? 
We  are  constantly  striving  for  economy,  both  of  means  and  of  time — 
the  few  there  are  of  us,  only  fifty-one  or  fifty-two — in  the  mission 
in  which  I  serve,  and  there  are  millions  of  people  to  be  reached.  And 
so  we  believe  that  economy  of  both  time  and  means  is  a  cardinal  virtue. 
"Dost  thou  love  life,"  wrote  Franklin,  "then  do  not  squander  time;  for 
it  is  the  stuff  life  is  made  of."  And  in  these  trying  times  we  emphasize 
economy  of  means  as  well.  I  would  therefore  like  to  urge  upon  you 
consideration  of  the  question  if  this  be  not  also  a  good  time,  from  the 
standpoint  of  the  expense  involved,  for  missionary  work. 

And  now,  in  conclusion,  with  apologies  to  General  Foch.  These 
blessings  of  adversity,  of  which  there  are  plenty — drouth,  unemploy- 
ment, grass-hoppers,  and  all — we  have  experienced  them  in  the 
North  Central  States  mission;  but,  although,  as  the  Marshal  said, 
his  right  was  in  retreat,  and  his  left  was  broken,  and  his  center  was 
wavering,  and  so  on — so  it  may  be  with  us.  We  suffer  under  the  con- 
tinued depression  and  unemployment,  and  we  are  withering  under  the 
blight  of  the  drouth,  and  we  are  still,  as  is  perhaps  the  case  in  all  the 
world,  struggling  against  doubt  and  uncertainty  and  depression.  But, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  situation  is  excellent,  as  the  General  said. 
So  far  as  we  are  concerned  we  shall  attack,  not  in  criticism,  not  mili- 
tantly,  but  in  deep  humility  and  in  testimony  of  the  truth,  for  which  we 
go  into  the  world.  And  may  the  Lord  add  his  blessings  and  speed  the 
right,  we  humbly  pray  in  the- name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

A  vocal  solo,  "My  faith  in  Thee,"  was  rendered  by  Sister  Lottie 
Spencer  Davis. 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  feel  more  like  saying,  this  morning,  "Cheer  up,  the  worst  is  to 
come."  All  I  know,  brethren  and  sisters,  is  what  I  feel,  what  I  sense, 
what  I  hear  and  what  I  see.  I  know  of  no  better  way  to  make  this  clear 
to  you  than  to  relate  an  incident  that  happened  in  my  missionary 
experience,  at  the  time  I  was  appointed  to  preside  over  the  Southern 
States  mission.  I  succeeded  Elder  William  Spry.  There  was  only 
a  few  days  notice  given  me.  The  brethren  failed  to  inquire  regarding 
my  financial  condition,  my  wife  and  children,  my  physical  condition, 
or  whether  my  teeth  were  all  right,  etc. ;  they  just  appointed  me 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


without  asking  me  any  questions,  and  I  had  faith  enough  to  go.  The 
itinerary  was  made  out  by  Elder  Spry  to  visit  those  conferences  which 
occurred  only  once  a  year,  as  the  mission  covered  eleven  states.  We 
had  the  means  to  go  through  that  mission  only  once  a  year.  In 
fact,  when  Elder  Spry  turned  the  mission  over  to  me  he  handed  me 
thirty-five  dollars.  I  said:  "Is  that  all  you've  got?" 
"Yes." 

"How  do  you  get  your  money?" 

"Why,  we  go  to  the  Lord  and  ask  him." 

"Well,"  I  said,  "I  don't  think  he  is  very  liberal."  (Laughter) 

The  first  conference  appointed  was  in  West  Virginia.  I  rode  all 
day  and  all  night  on  the  train,  and  we  took  no  berths  in  those  days. 
I  arrived  at  Crow's  Nest.  It  is  the  only  place  I  remember  in  the  South, 
because  it  was  so  lonely  and  desolate.  The  Elders  who  were  to  meet 
me  had  returned  because  the  train  was  six  or  seven  hours  late,  so  I  had 
to  find  my  way  to  the  conference  as  best  I  could.  I  wasn't  very  well. 
I  climbed  the  mountain  and  stopped  with  a  coal  miner.  He  treated 
me  very  kindly.  The  next  morning  I  started  for  the  conference.  I 
had  not  then  received  the  spirit  of  my  appointment.  As  I  approached 
the  top  of  another  mountain  I  went  into  the  woods  to  pray  and  I  told 
the  Lord  all  about  it.  I  don't  think  I  have  been  able  to  pray  like  that 
since.  When  I  got  through  praying,  I  did  not  see  anything;  I  failed 
to  hear  anything,  but  there  was  something  came  over  me,  a  happiness, 
a  joy,  that  it  isn't  possible  for  mortal  man  to  express.  I  suppose  it 
was  a  heavenly  feeling;  I  was  actually  so  overjoyed  and  so  happy 
that  I  whistled.  I  haven't  whistled  since.  The  twenty  miles  that  I 
walked  was  the  happiest  time  I  have  ever  had.  That  is  how  I  felt. 
I  know  because  I  was  clothed  upon  with  the  Holy  Spirit.  I  have 
regretted  more  than  I  can  express  that  the  same  sensation  has  not 
come  to  me  with  the  same  power  since. 

I  had  another  experience.  It  was  prior  to  my  going  on  this 
mission.  We  were  involved  in  speculation.  If  we  had  had  our  way 
we  would  have  owned  a  large  holding  in  Canada.  We  got  into  that 
mess.  After  having  gone  through  that  experience  we  were  as  near  hell 
as  a  man  will  ever  get  if  he  is  honest.  An  honest  man  is  in  hell  when 
he  is  in  debt.  I  know  all  about  the  feeling.  I  went  through  the  mill  of 
the  gods,  and  it  grinds  slowly,  but  it  grinds  fine.  If  you  have  anything 
left  when  they  get  through  with  you,  you  have  had  a  happier  experience 
than  I  have  had.  s 

Well,  it  was  on  that  occasion  that  I  made  a  public  declaration  in 
the  Logan  tabernacle — foolish  it  may  have  been.  We  were  able  to  pay 
all  our  personal  obligations,  although  it  took  everything  we  had  in  the 
world — years  of  hard  work,  fifteen  years  in  Bear  Lake  pioneering — 
and  we  exchanged  it  all  for  a  320  acre  farm  in  Cache  valley.  We  had 
two  hundred  acres  of  grain  and  one  hundred  tons  of  hay,  all  ready 
for  harvest,  and  were  sold  out  at  the  court  house  door  for  thirty-eight 
hundred  dollars  and  a  thousand  dollar  judgment.  That  farm  some 
years  afterwards  was  sold  by  David  Eccles,  who  became  the  owner  of 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


57 


it,  for  thirty  thousand  dollars.  I  speak  of  this  so  that  you  will  under- 
stand the  dream. 

After  making  my  declaration  in  the  Logan  tabernacle,  that  I  would 
never  doff  my  hat  and  be  servile  to  any  man  because  of  his  money, 
that  night  I  had  a  dream.  I  am  not  a  dreamer ;  I  believe  in  dreams 
when  they  come  true,  and  I  haven't  any  use  for  them  until  they  do. 
It  was  very  vivid.  I  haven't  forgotten  it,  and  it  has  been  nearly  forty 
years  since  it  occurred.  I  have  not  repeated  it  but  a  few  times.  The 
devil  appeared  to  me  at  the  northeast  corner  of  the  Temple  block. 
I  was  not  very  well  acquainted  with  the  devil.  Brother  Maeser  used 
to  tell  us  he  was  a  great  general ;  the  man  that  I  saw,  and  I  seemed 
to  know  he  was  Satan,  was  of  great  personality  in  appearance,  in 
height  and  bigness ;  he  was  dark  and  swarthy  and  seemed  to  be  a  real 
man.  When  he  looked  at  me  with  those  black  eyes  they  pierced  me  to 
the  soul.  I  trembled  as  I  did  in  the  woods  when  I  was  filled  with  the 
Holy  Spirit  of  God.  I  trembled  from  head  to  heels  with  fear.  He 
repeated  what  I  had  said  at  the  Logan  tabernacle.  The  Spirit  of  God 
came  on  me  and  thrilled  me  from  crown  to  toe.  I  told  him  I  would 
not  bow  to  man.  I  then  became  frightened  and  ran  like  a  coward. 
I  was  arrested  and  put  in  jail  for  four  years.  I  saw  myself  come  out 
of  jail.  My  clothes  were  threadbare.  I  was  thinner  than  I  am  now,  if  such 
a  thing  can  be  possible ;  but  I  was  free.  In  four  years  from  that  time 
our  creditors  stripped  us  to  the  skin",  and  that  dream  came  true.  I  do 
not  want  any  more  dreams  of  that  kind. 

I  am  in  sympathy  with  the  people.  I  know  we  have  all  been 
foolish.  I  am  foolish.  I  don't  think  there  is  a  bigger  fool  than  an 
old  fool.  A  man  who  has  had  experience  ought  to  know  better.  One 
of  my  brethren  said  to  me — and  he  is  a  man  so  kind  and  gentle  that 
I  had  every  reason  to  believe  he  would  extend  to  me  a  little  sympathy — 
I  told  him  of  one  of  my  last  speculations  and  he  said :  "If  you  are  as 
big  a  sucker  as  that  you  ought  to  take  your  medicine."  I  said :  "I 
am  taking  it,  and  it  is  not  sugar-coated  either."  (Laughter) 

I  met  a  banker  a  few  weeks  ago — we  were  very  friendly.  Thank 
the  Lord,  I  do  not  owe  that  bank  anything,  but  I  owe  another  bank. 
(Laughter)  I  said:  "How  are  things  going?" 

"Well,  we  are  taking  everything  but  their  suspenders." 

I  thought  afterwards  that  I  should  have  said  to  him:  If  that  bank 
hasn't  got  any  more  elasticity  than  my  suspenders,  I  will  throw  them 
in.  (Laughter) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  in  a  few  words  I  desire  to  say  to  you 
that  I  think  the  things  of  the  world  are  better  advertised  than  the 
things  of  God.  When  I  hear  those  beautiful  voices  over  the  radio, 
advertising  the  things  of  the  world,  I  am  wonderstruck.  If  there  is 
anything  under  heaven  they  do  not  advertise,  and  give  it  away  at  a 
dollar  a  week,  I  do  not  know  what  it  is.  By  the  time  they  get  through 
with  us — the  "Lucky  Strike"  puts  over  their  wonderful  music— no 
wonder  smokers'  mouths  watet  after  hearing  it.  Men,  boys,  and  girls 
who  form  the  habit  and  have  the  appetite,  I  do  not  believe  it  is  in  our 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


power  to  sympathize  with  them,  as  foolish  as  it  is  to  form  a  habit  of 
that  kind  and  then  try  to  overcome  it  of  themselves.  They  can  not 
do  it.  God  has  to  help  them.  They  have  to  go  to  the  Lord.  We  are 
up  against  those  things.  I  don't  feel  like  it  is  right  when  a  man  is  in 
hell,  to  stand  over  him  and  say:  "Well,  son,  you  are  in  hell.  Get  out 
as  best  you  can.  Sweat  it  out ;  swim  or  drown."  It  does  not  sound 
Christ-like  to  me. 

I  pray  God  to  soften  the  hearts  of  the  people.  They  are  doing- 
wonderful  things  and  they  are  going  to  do  wonderful  things.  We 
have  the  organization.  We  have  the  inspiration.  We  have  the  knowl- 
edge. We  know  how  to  take  care  of  people,  if  the  Lord  will  soften 
our  hearts  and  help  us  to  give  and  keep  giving.  I  pray  the  Lord,  while 
the  people  are  giving,  that  he  will  soften  the  hearts  of  bankers.  As 
long  as  you  can  pay  your  interest  and  pay  your  taxes  you  are  safe, 
but  I  want  to  tell  you  if  you  don't  pay  it  they  will  foreclose  to  protect 
the  bank  and  its  depositors.  As  I  was  once  told :  "Business  is  busi- 
ness, believe  it  or  not."  I  am  thankful  to  the  bottom  of  my  heart. 
At  my  age,  I  would  be  as  helpless  and  dependent  as  a  child  if  it  wasn't 
for  the  Church  and  its  protecting  care  over  me. 

God  bless  the  Church.  God  bless  his  servants  and  help  them  to 
see  and  understand,  and  above  all,  help  us,  O  God,  to  understand 
people,  that  we  may  be  patient,  that  We  may  be  long-suffering,  that 
we  may  be  gentle,  that  we  may  not  listen  to  things  that  are  told  us, 
until  they  are  proven  to  be  true.    God  bless  you.  Amen. 

The  congregation  then  arose  and  sang  the  first  two  verses  of  the 
hymn,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Temple  Block 

Mission 

The  lovely  lessons  that  have  been  given  to  us  at  this  session  of  our 
conference  will  find  lodgment  in  our  hearts.  Elder  Talmage's  thought 
that  we  should  cultivate  a  deeper  reverence  for  God  will  find  in  us  a 
ready  response;  and  Elder  Welling's  message  that  adversity  should  in- 
spire us  with  greater  faith  in  divine  providence  is  a  fine  truth.  Elder 
Kimball  says  that  we  should  seek  the  Spirit  of  God  as  we  travel  the  road 
of  life,  that  we  may  be  able  to  meet  the  battles  and  to  overcome  weak- 
nesses.  What  would  we  do,  if  we  did  not  have  the  Lord  to  help  us? 

Not  long  ago  we  had  the  pleasure  of  entertaining  a  Chinese  priest 
of  the  religion  of  Buddha.  He  came  to  Salt  Lake  City  with  a  letter 
of  introduction  from  a  noted  scholar  of  the  University  of  Tokyo,  who 
had  also  visited  our  city.  After  a  very  delightful  time  at  our  home,  I 
brought  the  distinguished  guest  to  these  grounds  to  see  the  buildings  and 
to  hear  the  great  organ.  As  we  stood  before  the  west  door  of  this 
old  building,  he  asked  if  it  were  a  place  for  worship.  I  replied  that  it 
is,  and  with  that,  he  removed  his  hat  and  asked  that  his  companion 
remove  his.    Said  he  in  Chinese :    "We  are  entering  a  holy  temple  of 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


59 


the  God  of  the  Christians."  We  entered  the  building,  and  I  made  no 
explanation  of  its  history  and  use,  but  with  my  guests,  kept  silence,  for 
I  could  see  that  the  Chinese  visitor  and  his  companion  wished  to'  say 
nothing.  Something  of  the  spirit  of  beauty  and  prayer  came  over  us  all, 
and  I  felt  that  we  were  worshiping. 

I  feel  that  we  do  not  reverence  our  sacred  buildings  enough ;  that 
in  our  meetings  there  is  often  too  much  noise  and  confusion.  To  this 
tabernacle  and  to  all  our  tabernacles,  we  come  to  hear  the  word  of  God, 
for  every  building  we  erect  and  dedicate  to  God,  is  a  building  for  holy 
worship.  The  old  tabernacle  of  the  ancient  Jews  had  an  altar  which 
was  sacred.  From  these  emanated  the  Spirit  and  word  of  God.  So 
from  this  altar  goes  forth  the  word  of  God  to  all  who  will  listen.  It  is 
a^  house  of  prayer  and  every  meeting  house  built  by  the  Latter-day 
Saints  is  a  house  of  prayer. 

In  attending  our  Sunday  evening  sacrament  meetings  I  sometimes 
wonder  if  we  really  carry  with  us  from  our  homes  the  desire  to  lift 
our  thoughts  to  God  during  an  hour  of  service.  A  part  of  the  service 
is  the  administering  of  the  sacrament  or  the  Lord's  Supper.  There  we 
enter  into  a  covenant  with  our  Father  in  heaven.  In  our  act  of  par- 
taking of  the  sacrament  is  there  the  spirit  of  reverence  and  worship? 
And  during  the  entire  meeting,  are  our  thoughts  given  in  thanksgiving 
and  praise  for  the  blessings  we  have  from  God  who  loves  us  all?  This 
is  an  important  question  for  you  and  me  to  answer. 

I  recently  read  a  book  entitled  "The  Story  of  St.  Michele."  At  the 
close  of  one  of  the  chapters  are  these  words:  "What  we  keep,  we 
lose ;  what  we  give  away,  we  ,keep  forever."  These  words  express  a 
divine  truth,  for  as  we  give  to  God  in  thought  and  deed,  the  gift  comes 
back  to  us  ten-fold,  yea,  one  hundred  fold.   So  it  is  in  all  life. 

We  should  cultivate  reverence  for  the  things  of  God,  and  remember 
that  every  human  being  is  a  child  of  God  and  is,  therefore,  naturally 
a  divine  spirit.  We  should  speak  to  our  fellow  men  with  reverent 
thought  and  expression ;  we  should  carry  into  the  houses  of  the  Lord 
a  reverence  which  comes  from  the  true  spirit  of  worship.  A  beautiful 
lesson  of  reverence  is  conveyed  in  the  teachings  of  Jesus  as  found  in 
twenty-fourth  chapter  of  St.  Luke.    I -will  read  it: 

"And  they  said  one  to  another,  Did  not  our  heart  burn  within  us,  while  he 
talked  with  us  by  the  way,  and  while  he  opened  to  us  the  scriptures  ? 

"And  they  rose  up  the  same  hour,  and  returned  to  Jerusalem,  and  found 
the  eleven  gathered  together,  and  them  that  were  with  them,  _ 

"Saying,  The  Lord  is  risen  indeed,  and  hath  appeared  to  Simon. 

"And  they  were  told  what  things  were  done  in  the  way,  and  how  he  was 
known  of  them  in  breaking  of  bread. 

"And  as  they  thus  spake,  Jesus  himself  stood  in  the  midst  of  them,  and 
saith  unto  them,  Peace  be  unto  you. 

"But  they  were  terrified  and  affrighted,  and  supposed  they  had  seen  a 
spirit. 

"And  he  said  unto  them,  Why  are  ye  troubled?  and  why  do  thoughts  arise 
in  your  hearts  ? 

"Behold  my  hands  and  my  feet,  that  it  is  I  myself  :  handle  me,  and  see ;  for 
a  spirit  hath  not  flesh  and  bones,  as  ye  see  me  have. 

"And  when  he  had  thus  spoken,  he  shewed  them  his  hands  and  his  feet. 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"And  while  the  yet  believed  not  for  joy,  and  wondered,  he  said  unto  them, 
Have  ye  here  any  meat? 

"And  they  gave  him  a  piece  of  broiled  fish,  and  of  an  honeycomb. 
"And  he  took  it,  and  did  eat  before  them. 

"And  he  said  unto  them,  These  are  the  words  which  I  spake  unto  you,  while 
I  was  yet  with  you,  that  all  things  must  be  fulfilled,  which  were  written  in  the 
law  of  Moses,  and  in  the  prophets,  and  in  the  psalms,  concerning  me. 

"Then  opened  he  their  understanding,  that  they  might  understand  the 
scriptures. 

"And  said  unto  them,  Thus  it  is  written,  and  thus  it  behoved  Christ  to  suffer, 
and  to  rise  from  the  dead  the  third  day : 

"And  that  repentance  and  remission  of  sins  should  be  preached  in  his  name 
among  all  nations,  beginning  at  Jerusalem. 

"And  ye  are  witnesses  of  these  things. 

"And,  behold,  I  send  the  promise  of  my  .Father  upon  you :  but  tarry  ye  in 
the  city  of  Jerusalem,  until  ye  be  endued  with  power  from  on  high. 

"And  he  Jed  them  out  as  far  as  to  Bethany,  and  he  lifted  up  his  hands,  and 
blessed  them. 

"And  it  came  to  pass,  while  he  blessed  them,  he  was  parted  from  them,  and 
carried  up  into  heaven. 

"And  they  worshipped  him,  and  returned  to  Jerusalem  with  great  joy: 
"And  were  continually  in  the  temple,  praising  and  blessing  God." 

These  words  express  the  eternal  truth  that  Christ  our  Lord  has 
risen,  and  has  sent  you  and  me  forth  to  proclaim  the  fact  unto  the 
world.  He  has  endowed  you  and  me  with  power  from  on  high,  and 
the  expression  of  this  will  of  God,  this  power  of  God,  comes  in  holy 
reverence  for  God's  name  and  house ;  for  God's  home  and  children. 
May  we  grow  in  this  spirit  and  remember  the  words  of  Paul  to  Tim- 
othy : . 

"Wherefore  I  put  thee  in  remembrance  that  thou  stir  up  the  gift  of  God, 
which  is  in  /thee  by  the,  putting  on  of  my  hands. 

"For  God  hath  not  given  us  the  spirit  of  fear ;  but  of  power,  and  of  love, 
and  of  a  sound  mind." 

May  we  be  blessed  to  this  end  and  go  forth  with  that  joy  and  hap- 
piness that  comes  from  within  when  we  reverence  and  bless  his  holy 
name,  Amen. 

ELDER  CLARENCE  H.  TINGEY 

Recently  returned  from  presiding  over  the  Australian  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  almost  overwhelmed  in  my  attempt 
to  respond  to  this  call,  and  yet  one  could  scarcely  feel  insecure  and 
uncomfortable,  surrounded  by  such  a  vast  concourse  of  friends. 

As  President  Grant  announced,  Sister  Tingey  and  I  have  just 
returned  from  the  Australian  mission.  Those  of  you  who  have  had 
missionary  experience  know  that  all  of  our  audiences  in  the  mission 
fields  are  not  friendly  nor  sympathetic.  I  have  enjoyed  immensely  my 
labors  in  the  Australian  mission,  and  delight  now  in  representing  the 
good  people  of  that  land  in  this  conference  session. 

iWe  have  some  very  splendid  Saints  throughout  Australia,  and  they 
are  working  zealously  and  faithfully  in  the  performance  of  their  labors. 
I  think  in  all  of  my  association  I  have  not  met  better  men  and  better 


ELDER  CLARENCE  H.  TIN  GEY  . 


61 


women  than  some  of  those  who  are  holding  positions  of  responsibility 
in  the  Church  in  that  mission. 

I  have  enjoyed  also,  far  beyond  my  power  to  express,  the  com- 
panionship I  have  had  with  the  young  men  who  have  been  sent  to  us 
as  missionaries — beautiful  specimens  of  manhood,  deeply  endowed  with 
the  spirit  of  their  callings.  They  are  accomplishing  a  wonderful  work 
in  proclaiming  the  message  of  peace  in  that  land. 

Australia  is  a  large  country.  Many  people,  when  reference  is 
made  to  it,  look  upon  it  as  merely  one  of  the  islands  of  the  sea;  but 
quite  contrary  to  that,  it  is  a  great  continent.  I  was  interested  in 
President  Sloan's  reference  yesterday,  comparing  the  size  of  Alaska 
with  that  of  the  United  States,  wherein  he  stated  that  were  Alaska 
placed  over  the  United  States,  it  would  cover  all  of  that  portion  west 
of  Washington.  If  Australia  were  placed  over  the  United  States 
you  would  not  be  able  to  see  the  United  States.  We  have  one  branch 
in  our  mission  which  is  twenty-seven  hundred  and  fifty  miles  from 
our  mission  headquarters.  We  have  another  branch  one  thousand 
miles  north  of  our  mission  headquarters;  and  still  another  one  thou- 
sand miles  south. 

To  keep  a  group  of  men  laboring  in  unison,  and  to  keep  a  body  of 
Saints  in  harmony,  extending  over  a  vast  country  of  that  sort,  requires 
considerable  help  on  the  part  of  the  Lord,  and  I  am  grateful  to  ac- 
knowledge here  before  you  that  we  have  had  that  help,  and  the  work 
in  that  land  is  growing  and  progressing  rapidly. 

Unfortunately,  Australia  has  experienced  conditions  which  are  not 
pleasant,  financially  and  industrially,  far  greater  than  we  are  seeing 
here ;  and  I  hope  we  never  see  the  conditions  in  the  United  States  that 
we  now  have  in  that  land.  But  the  astonishing  thing  about  it  all,  to  me, 
is  that  while  some  of  our  people  have  been  affected  by  it,  they  have 
stood  unquestionably  above  the  vast  majority  of  the  people  of  that  land. 
Our  tithes  have  fallen  somewhat,  but  not  in  keeping  with  the  exact 
reduction  in  the  actual  wage  earnings  of  the  people.  There  has  been  a 
definite  reduction  of  more  than  fifteen  per  cent  in  the  wages  of  the 
people.  The  tithing  of  our  Saints  has  not  fallen  that  much.  I  think 
it  is  a  fulfilment  of  the  promise  given  of  the  Lord  that  he  would  preserve 
his  people,  and  I  know  that  he  is  doing  it  in  that  land. 

I  hope  and  pray  that  the  conditions  which  are  now  facing  us  will 
not  be  too  severe  to  bear,  even  as  has  been  stated  by  former  speakers  in 
this  conference.  I  am  reminded  of  an  old  German  proverb  which 
says :  "The  hard  is  the  good."  We  are  facing  hard  times,  but  they 
are  good  times,  my  brethren  and  sisters — good  times  because  they  are 
making  us  think  more  soberly,  more  sincerely,  more  deeply,  into  the 
things  of  life. 

I  was  reading  an  article  in  the  Literary  Digest  just  yesterday  in 
which  this  very  thought  is  given,  and  it  is  declared  that  the  people 
of  the  United  States  are  making  a  greater  demand  for  better  literature, 
better  types  of  entertainment,  better  ways  of  spending  their  means ; 
and  all  of  this,  I  think,  speaks  for  progress  and  development. 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  believe  frankly  that  this  Church,  with  two  or  three  years  of 
meager  privation,  will  become  stronger  as  a  body,  and  its  people  will 
become  more  faithful ;  their  testimonies  will  increase  more  abundantly. 
We  need  this,  I  think,  definitely. 

I  want  to  bear  witness  before  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
my  stay  in  the  mission  field  was  the  most  enjoyable  time  of  my  life; 
that  I  return  to  you  now  with  a  more  convincing  knowledge  that  God 
lives  than  I  have  ever  had  before  in  my  life.  I  want  to  bear  testimony 
also,  and  I  have  reason  to  bear  this  witness  because  of  a  manifestation 
which  was  given  me  in  the  mission  field,  that  our  leader,  President 
I  leber  J.  Grant,  is  in  very  deed  the  one  who  is  divinely  and  rightly 
selected  to  lead  this  people.  I  know  it,  and  I  can  say  no  differently 
and  be  honorable  before  my  God.  I  thank  him  for  his  leadership,  and 
I  hope  and  pray  that  the  Lord  will  so  sustain  me  that  I  will  never 
turn  a  hand  other  than  to  give  him  aid  and  assistance. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  this  Church,  and 
particularly  its  leaders,  with  inspiration  and  revelation,  that  we  may 
grow  to  be  all  that  the  Lord  expected  that  we  should  be,  I  ask,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

"We  believe  the  Bible  to  be  the  word  of  God,  as  far  as  it  is  translated 
correctly.    We  also  believe  the  Book  of  Mormon  to  be  the  word  of  God." 

I  think  I  may  safely  add  that  we  also  believe  the  book  of  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price  to  be  the  word  of  God. 
The  scriptures  have  been  given  to  us  by  our  Heavenly  Father  for  our 
guidance,  for  our  instruction.  The  great  work  of  the  Lord  is  one 
of  educating  his  children,  and  these  are  the  text  books  from  which 
we  are  to  learn  the  ways  of  the  Lord. 

I  think  we  may  also  say  that  salvation  is  rather  synonymous  to 
the  term  education,  for  we  read  in  our  scriptures,  in  the  inspired 
words  of  the  prophets,  that  we  can  gain  salvation  no  faster  than 
we  obtain  knowledge.  It  should  be  our  purpose,  then,  to  grow  in  the 
knowledge  of  God  and  in  good  works,  day  by  day. 

The  Bible  and  these  other  scriptures  are  the  words  of  eternal 
life,  concerning  which  it  has  been  said  that  "Heaven  and  earth  may 
pass  away,  but  my  word  shall  not  pass  away."  All  shall  be  fulfilled. 
For  this  purpose  they  are  given  unto  us.  A  great  many  people,  in 
investigating  the  scriptures  and  searching  in  them,  do  it  rather  for 
the  purpose  of  wresting  them,  and  putting  upon  them  private  inter- 
pretations, or  endeavoring  to  disprove  them.  It  ought  to  be  remembered 
that  the  Bible  and  the  books  of  the  inspired  word  are  not  given  to  us 
for  the  purpose  of  teaching  us  astronomy,  geology,  chronology,  or  any 
of  these  particular  sciences.  But  they  do  have  a  specific  purpose  of 
educating  us  in  the  things  of  God.  Education  is  important  to  all 
mankind.    No  man  can  be  saved  in  his  ignorance.    How  grateful  we 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


63 


ought  to  be  for  that  army  of  men  and  women  who  are  engaged  in  our 
public  school  systems,  our  teachers,  the  teachers  of  our  children,  for 
our  professors,  for  our  scientists,  for  our  inventors  and  discoverers; 
for  these  too  are  servants  of  God,  engaged  in  the  great  task  of 
educating  mankind. 

If  we  are,  however,  to  be  educated  in  the  higher  branches  of  edu- 
cation—and by  that  I  mean  those  particular  ones  that  are  of  necessity 
excluded  from  our  public  schools  on  account  of  our  differing  opinions — 
if  we  are  to  be  educated  in  those  things  particularly  that  pertain  to 
the  things  of  God,  we  need  a  particular  kind  of  teachers.  For  this 
purpose  we  need  apostles  and  prophets.  We  need  inspired  teachers — 
men  who  speak  as  they  are  moved  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  for  "no  man 
knoweth  the  things  of  God  but  the  Spirit  of  God."  As  well  might  a 
man  try  to  teach  chemistry  or  algebra  without  knowing  them  as  to 
undertake  the  teaching  of  the  things  of  God  without  the  Spirit  of  God. 
It  cannot  be  done  in  either  case. 

The  Apostle  Peter  tells  us  something  of  the  importance  of  this 
truth.     Says  he : 

"We  have  also  a  more  sure  word  of  prophecy ;  whereunto  ye  do  well  that 
ye  take  heed,  as  unto  a  light  that  shineth  in  a  dark  place,  until  the  day  dawn, 
and  the  day  star  arise  in  your  hearts ; 

"Knowing  this  first,  that  no  prophecy  of  the  scripture  is  of  any  private 
interpretation. 

"For  the  prophecy  came  not  in  old  time  by  the  will  of  man :  but  holy  men  of 
God  spake  as  they  were  moved  by  the  Holy  Ghost." 

That  is  what  we  believe,  and  that  which  they  spoke  under  that 
divine  power  and  influence  is  the  word  of  God.  Such  should  be  our 
teaching  and  such  should  be  our  teachers  in  these  higher  .branches  of 
education. 

Education,  then,  is  the  purpose  of  the  Almighty,  and  we  are  here 
in  God's  great  school.  Our  education  did  not  begin  when  we  entered  the 
school  rooms,  neither  does  it  end  when  we  emerge  from  these  institu- 
tions of  learning.  And  as  we  come  forth  from  them  we  very  appropri- 
ately celebrate  the  affair  by  commencement  exercises,  for  it  is  another 
commencement  for  which  we  have  been  preparing  ourselves. 

When  I  speak  of  education  I  mean  that  all-round  education  which 
contemplates  the  full  development  of  all  our  faculties — physical,  mental 
and  spiritual — that  we  may  indeed  become  like  God.  It  is  for  this 
purpose  he  has  sent  us  here.  We  are  in  attendance  at  God's  Great 
School — a  school  of  experience  in  bodies  of  flesh  and  bones — the  earth 
life  school  with  all  of  its  potentialities  for  development  and  growth. 
And  when  we  emerge  from  this  great  school  and  are  called  hence,  let 
us  hope  th^t  we  will  have  so  far  advanced  in  our  education  and  train- 
ing that  we  may  receive  our  diplomas,  and  then,  that  suitable  com- 
mencement exercises  may  also  be  given ;  for  this  is  indeed  still  another 
commencement  as  we  enter  into  that  still  higher  institution  of  learning. 
God's  Great  University,  wherein  we  may  co'ntinue  to  learn  until  we  shall 
attain  to  that  perfection  which  is  contemplated  in  the  words  of  the 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Savior:  "Be  ye  therefore  perfect,  even  as  your  Father  which  is  in 
heaven  is  perfect." 

Is  this  secular  education  which  we  receive  in  our  public  schools 
an  essential  part  of  our  education?  Most  assuredly.  If  we  have 
any  rational  idea  of  God  we  must  conceive  that  he  is  a  great  scholar, 
a  scientist,  an  inventor,  a  discoverer,  with  full  knowledge  of  the  forces 
of  the  universe,  a  chemist,  a  mathematician.  He  who  framed  the 
universe  is  surely  educated  along  all  these  lines. 

Fortunately  for  us  we  have  been  formed  and  fashioned  in  his 
image,  not  only  in  his  physical  image'  but  also  in  his  divine  attributes ; 
and  these  attributes  may  be  developed  to  their  God-like  proportions. 
But  they  may  also  be  distorted  and  perverted  until  they  become  vices. 
The  attributes  that  we  have  inherited  are  all  good — there  are  no  bad 
ones,  but  we  may  pervert,  distort  and  counterfeit  them  until  they 
appear  as  vices.  The  thing  then  to  do  is  to  cultivate  the  genuine 
and  reject  the  counterfeits,  for  these  are  the  devil's  counterfeits  and 
he  has  counterfeited  every  one  of  them.  Let  me  illustrate  for  a  few 
moments. 

Economy  is  a  divine  attribute.  In  the  economy  of  God 
there  is  no  waste.  A  God-like  attribute,  but  men  have  distorted  it 
until  it  does  not  resemble  the  divine  attribute  at  all.  And  what  is  that 
distorted  form,  that  devil's  counterfeit?  It  is  stinginess.  God  isn't 
stingy  but  he  is  economical.  There  are  some  people  who  think  they 
are  economists  when  in  fact  they  are  only  stingy — too  stingy  to  educate 
their  children  and  send  them  to  places  of  learning,  places,  particularly, 
where  they  can  be  taught  the  things  of  God.  They  are  too  stingy 
sometimes  to  send  their  sons  and  daughters  out  into  the  mission  field, 
sometimes  too  stingy  to  properly  clothe  them  and  give  them  the  proper 
nourishment,  too  stingy  to  pay  their  tithes  and  their  offerings.  That  is 
not  economy.    Don't  be  stingy  but  be  economical. 

Another  thing  is  acquisitiveness,  that  quality  whereby  we  are 
enabled  to  acquire  property  and  surround  ourselves  with  the  comforts 
of  life.  What  a  splendid  thing  it  is!  Think  of  what  the  Lord  has 
acquired!  "The  earth  is  the  Lord's  and  the  fulness  thereof."  But 
this  too  may  be  perverted,  and  it  becomes,  under  the  power  of  dia- 
bolical influences,  one  of  the  greatest  vices.  And  what  is  that?  It 
is  greed,  it  is  avarice,  that  soul-cankering  vice ;  it  is  the  love  of  money, 
that  thing  which  lies  at  the  very  root  of  all  evil,  for  which  men  will  lie, 
will  cheat,  will  misrepresent,  will  steal,  will  kill.  Read  the  newspapers, 
and  you  will  find  abundant  proof  of  this.  It  is  the  leading  cause  of 
strife,  of  bloodshed  and  all  the  horrors  of  war.  Surely  "the  love  of 
money  is  indeed  the  root  of  all  evil."  And  yet,  after  all  it  is  only  a 
perversion,  distortion  or  a  counterfeit  of  the  divine  attribute — acquisi- 
tiveness, more,  commonlv  called  frugality  or  thrift. 

Again,  tear  is  a  divine  attribute.  What,  fear  a  divine  attribute? 
Yes,  indeed!  Even  God  would  fear  to  do  evil.  Burnt  children  very 
properly ^  fear  the  fire.  "The  fear  of  the  Lord  is  the  beginning  of 
wisdom."    Fear  is  that  wholesome  attribute  which  inspires  the  prayer, 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


65 


"Deliver  us  from  all  evil."  But  the  devil  has  his  counterfeit.  And 
what  is  it  ?  It  is  cowardice.  Don't  be  a  coward.  Be  not  afraid  of  the 
face  of  man  but  fear  God  and  keep  his  commandments. 

This,  however,  is  not  the  greatest  of  attributes.  The  greatest 
attribute  of  all  is  love.  Love  is  the  biggest  thing  in  the  world.  It  is 
a  panacea  for  every  ill,  a  cure  for  every  malady.  And  love  casteth 
out  fear.  Conceive  if  you  can,  the  great  love  of  God.  "God  so  loved 
the  world  that  he  gave  his  Only  Begotten  Son  that  whosoever  believeth 
in  him  should  not  perish  but  have  everlasting  life."  Think  of  that 
pure  love  of  Christ.  "Greater  love  hath  no  man  than  this,  that  a  man 
lay  down  his. life  for  his  friends."  The  nearest  approach  that  we  see 
to  this  divine  love  is,  I  think,  the  unselfish  love  of  a  mother  for  her 
children.  The  more  exalted  and  glorious  the  attribute  is,  the  more 
contemptible  and  vicious  is  its  counterfeit.  Lust  is  the  devil's  counter- 
feit, the  very  embodiment  of  everything  that  is  vile.  "And  now 
abideth  faith,  hope  and  charity,  these  three,  but  the  greatest  of  these  is 
charity."   Charity  which  is  the  pure  love  of  Christ. 

Let  us  now  consider  Faith.  A  sectarian  minister — I  don't  think 
he  was  orthodox — once  said  to  me:  "Mr.  Wells,  I  don't  like  that 
doctrine  of  yours  that  you  call  faith.  Just  think,  to  believe  everything 
you  hear.  It  is  a  positive  weakness — a  vice."  Very  true,  so  it  is; 
but  this  is  not  faith;  it's  the  devil's  counterfeit — credulity.  Where 
would  this  not  lead  us  if  we  were  to  believe  everything  we  hear?  What 
does  faith  require  ?  What  shall  we  believe  ?  The  answer  is :  "Believe 
on  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  thou  shalt  be  saved."  Believe  in  his 
Gospel  which  has  within  it  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  Believe 
the  truth.  His  Gospel  is  the  truth.  Don't  believe  liars  or  deceivers.  Faith 
is  that  inherent  divine  attribute  which  is  cultivated  by  doing  his  will 
and  which  enables  us  to  discern  the  truth.  The  Savior  tells  us  that 
his  sheep  hear  his  voice  and  follow  after  him  but  a  stranger  they 
will  not  follow.  Then  what  is  faith?  The  Apostle  Paul  tells  us  in 
his  epistle  to  the  Hebrews:  "Now  faith  is  the  substance  (or  assurance) 
of  things  hoped  for,  the  evidence  of  things  not  seen."  What  are  the 
things  we  are  hoping  for  ?  Are  we  hoping  for  the  sordid  things  of  this 
world?  .For  the  gratification  of  evil  desires?  Then  do  we  hope  in 
vain.  But  if  our  hope  is  that  inspired  by  the  teachings  of  our  Lord, 
the  hope  of  life  beyond  the  grave,  of  a  reunion  with  loved  ones  that 
have  gone  before,  a  life  of  joy  and  happiness  in  the  realms  above, 
eternal  life  in  the  presence  of  God,  then  are  our  hopes  founded  upon 
the  truth.  Faith  then  is  the  assurance  that  God  gives  us  that  our 
exalted  hopes  shall  be  realized.  It  is  one  of  those  divine  attributes 
which  we  have  inherited  with  all  the  others  from  our  divine  parents. 
It  is  a  part  of  his  image  in  which  we  were  created  and  should  therefore 
be  cultivated  but  its  counterfeit  should  be  rejected. 

Many  illustrations  of  the  divine  or  genuine  attributes  which  under 
evil  influences  are  counterfeited  and  distorted  into  vices  might  be 
elaborated  but  I  will  merely  cite  a  few  for  your  reflection : 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Pride  becomes  vanity. 
Self  esteem  becomes  egotism. 
Praise  becomes  flattery. 
Courage  becomes  foolhardiness. 

All  good  things  are  counterfeited.  Our  government  issues  currency 
as  a  legal  tender,  in  various  denominations— one,  two,  five,  ten,  twenty, 
fifty  and  hundred  dollar  bills  and  of  still  larger  denomination — but  some 
devil  will  make  counterfeits  and  endeavor,  sometimes  successfully,  to 
palm  them  off  as  genuine.  The  government  also  issues  coins  of  gold 
and  silver  from  its  mints  but  some  devil  will  take  a  baser  metal  and 
gild  it  over  with  gold  and  likewise  palm  it  off  for  genuine. 

Some  people  say  they  are  not  religious ;  they  are  riot  religiously 
inclined.  They  don't  mean  what  they  say,  they  are  thinking  of  the 
devil's  counterfeit.  Don't  despise  the  pure  gold  of  religion  because 
the  devil  makes  a  counterfeit  of  it  in  hypocrisy.  Be  religious  but 
don't  be  a  hypocrite.  Our  higher  education  consists  then  in  developing 
the  genuine,  the  divine  attributes  and  casting  out  the  false,  the  counter- 
feits. To  do  the  former  is  an  exercise  in  faith,  the  latter  is  one  in 
repentance.  That  we  might  obtain  this  education  our  first  parents 
partook  of  the  fruit  of  the  tree  of  knowledge  of  good  and  evil.  We 
are  still  partaking  of  that  forbidden  fruit  notwithstanding  the  dire 
consequences  of  earth  life,  its  trials,  its  tribulations,  its  sorrow,  its 
suffering  and  finally  death.  "For  in  the  day  that  thou  eatest  thereof 
thou  shalt  surely  die."  But  also  with  the  full  assurance  of  an  un- 
conditional redemption  from  that  fall  and  an  exaltation  predicated 
upon  our  diligence  in  this  preparatory  school  .during  the  period  of  our 
mortal  existence.  Blessed  are  we  then  if  we  have  accepted  the  good 
and  rejected  the  evil,  or,  in  other  words,  developed  the  genuine  and 
cast  out  the  counterfeits.    God  help  us  to  do  so.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission 

The  Lord  made  this  wonderful  promise  to  Isaiah : 

"So  shall  my  word  be  that  goeth  forth  out  of  my  mouth :  it,  shall  not 
return  unto  me  void,  but  it  shall  accomplish  that  which  I  please,  and  it  shall 
prosper  in  the  thing  whereto  I  sent  it."  (Isa.  55:11.) 

This  foreshadows  the  wonderful  missionary  work  that  is  being 
done  by  every  agency  in  the  Church.  Truly  the  Gospel  is  the  leaven 
that  is  "leavening  the  whole  lump."  There  is  room  and  a  congenial 
atmosphere  in  this  Church  for  spiritually-minded  people,  men  and 
women  with  most  lofty  spiritual  ideals ;  and  the  intellectually  great 
may  drink  from  the-  fountain  of  truth  until  their  souls  are  filled  with 
knowledge,  satisfying  and  soul-saving. 

Recently  there  appeared  an  editorial  in  the  New  York  Times  in 
which  the  brilliant  and  scholarly  editor  gave  an  eloquent  summary  of 
the  remarkable  achievements  of  science  during  the  year  1930,  and  he 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


67 


closed  with  these  words :  "The  science  that  not  only  has  such  practical 
application,  but  that  has  faith  in  a  continuing  creation  and  that  co- 
operates with  'a.  Creator  continually  on  the  job.'  " 

Is  this  an  echo  of  that  glorious  truth  the  Lord  revealed  unto 
Nephi,  of  old :  "For  my  work  is  not  yet  finished ;  neither  shall  it  be 
until  the  end  of  man,  neither  from  that  time  henceforth  and  forever  " 
(2  Nephi  29:9.)  And  again :  "For  behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my 
glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man." 
(Pearl  of  Great  Price,  p.  4.) 

"The  works  of  God  continue, 
And  worlds  and  lives  abound ; 
Improvement  and  progression 
Have  one  eternal  round." 

A  noted  preacher,  a  few  weeks  ago  was  asked  this  question: 
"[What  has  science  done  to  help  religion?"  He  replied:  "For  example, 
millions  of  us  .were  taught  to  believe  in  God  because  he  made  the 
universe  out  of  nothing  in  a  single  week.  Now  we  are  confronted 
by  a  large  array  of  facts  showing  that  this  particular  theory  of  creation 
is  untenable." 

Nearly  a  hundred  years  ago  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  declared, 
by  the  inspiration  of  God,  that  the  world  was  made  of  materials  that 
have  existed  eternally:  In  the  Book  of  Abraham  it  is  recorded  that 
the  Creator  said :  "We  will  go  down,  for  there  is  space  there,  and  we 
will  take  of  these  materials,  and  we  will  make  an  earth  whereon  these 
may  dwell."  (Pearl  of  Great  Price,  p.  37.) 

How  marvelous  is  the  truth  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  announced  to 
the  world ! 

"Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with  Jehovah ! 
Jesus  anointed  that  prophet  and  seer — 
Blessed  to  open  the  last  dispensation; 
Kings  shall  extol  him,  and  nations  revere." 

A  sailing  vessel,  long  from  port,  so  the  story  goes,  when  off  the 
coast  of  South  America,  ran  short  of  water,  and  the  men  were  in  sore 
straits.  Suddenly  a  sail  appeared  on  the  horizon,  and  when  the  stranger 
drew  near  this  message  was  signaled  to  her :  "Water,  we  want  water !" 
She  answered  by  saying,  "Cast  down  your  bucket  where  you  are]" 
Again  the  appeal  was  made,  "Water,  we  want  water!"  And  again 
the  answer  came,  "Cast  down  your  bucket  where  you  are!"  Once  more 
the  signal  fluttered  from  the  mast,  "Water,  we  want  water!"  And  for 
the  third  time  the  answer  was  waved  back,  "Cast  down  your  bucket 
where  you  are!"  This  the  incredulous  captain  finally  did  and  it  was 
drawn  up  filled  with  fresh  water  from  the  Amazon  river,  over  the 
mouth  of  which  they  were  then  sailing. 

In  this  Church  there  is  a  stream  of  living  water  that  flows  from 
the  throne  of  God.  Why  go  to  the  ends  of  the  earth  in  search  for  the 
truth  when  it  is  here  for  you  to  partake  of?    Why  seek  for  faith- 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


destroying  mystery?  Oh,  won't  you  drink  of  this  living  stream?  For 
if  you  will  your  souls  shall  never  thirst  again. 

I  testify  to  the  glorious  truth  of  this  heavenly  Gospel.  The  success- 
ful work  those  fine  missionaries  are  doing  is  the  best  evidence  that 
God  is  with  them  continually. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  too  that  the  leaders  of  this  Church  are 
men  of  God,  raised  up  and  consecrated  by  him  for  the  marvelous  work 
they  are  divinely  commissioned  to  do.  If  we  are  great  enough  to  be 
humble  and  diligent  we  will  live  to  see  this  grand  and  inspiring  work 
prosper  more  than  it  has  ever  done,  and  out  of  these  hard  times  there 
will  come  a  magnificent  revival  of  spirituality,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

Singing  by  the  congregation,  "Zion  stands  with  hills  surrounded." 
The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Walter  L.  Adamson, 
President  of  the  Blaine  Stake. 

The  Conference  adjourned  until  2  :00  p.  m. 

SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Promptly  at  2  :00  p.  m.  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  who  presided, 
called  the  fourth  meeting  of  the  Conference  to  order  and  announced 
the  opening  hymn  "Prayer  is  the  soul's  sincere  desire." 

After  the  singing  of  this  hymn  by  the  congregation,  the  opening 
prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Robert  I.  Burton,  President  of  the  Mount 
Ogden  Stake. 

The  congregation  then  sang  the  hymn  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints." 

ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  am  very  grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  have  this  privilege 
of  meeting  with  you  at  this  conference  and  of  mingling  my  voice  and 
testimony  with  that  of  the  brethren  in  support  of  this  great  latter-day 
cause. 

I  miss  my  associate  who  usually  sits  at  my  right  at  these  meetings, 
President  Joseph  W.  McMurrin.  I  remember  that  at  the  last  conference 
he  read,  in  full,  the  first  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  a  beauti- 
ful iand  inspirational  revelation  outlining  this  great  latter-day  work.  I 
know  of  .no  finer  preface  to  be  found  in  all  literature  than  the  preface 
to  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants. 

I  have  rejoiced  in  this  conference  from  the  opening  keynote  speech 
by  President  Grant  until  the  present  time,  including  also  the  splendid 
testimonies  by  the  mission  presidents  given  in  the  inspirational  way  they 
have  spoken  in  this  conference. 

An  editorial  from  a  secular  paper,  The  Toronto,  Ontario,  Globe, 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


69 


appeared  a  short  time  ago  mentioning  two  books  which  I  would  like 
to  mention  here.  I  inquired  of  the  librarian  upon  my  arrival  home 
but  found  neither  of  these  books  in  our  libraries.  The  librarian  has 
kindly  sent  for  and  purchased  each  one  of  these  books  and  I  have  really 
had  a  feast  in  reading  such  as  I  have  been  able  to  read  of  these  two 
volumes.  One  of  the  books  so  mentioned  is  by  Mr.  Linton,  who 
marshals  the  facts  on  the  subject  of  belief  in  the  Bible,  and  is  entitled, 
"A  Lawyer  and  the  Bible,"  by  I.  H.  Linton,  published  in  1929.  It 
does  not  equal,  I  think,  "Nelson  on  the  Cause  and  Cure  of  Infidelity," 
which  President  Grant  is  very  familiar  with,  and  parts  of  which  he 
has  presented  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  on  several  occasions.  At  least 
this  book  is  a  small  replica  of  "Nelson  on  Infidelity,"  a  book  which  I 
trust  that  each  one  of  us  will  read  who  has  not  yet  done  so.  This 
book  of  Linton  is  also  well  worth  reading. 

The  "Globe,"  published  in  Toronto,  which  has  the  custom  of 
publishing  each  week  a  religious  editorial,  says  this  of  Mr.  Linton's  book : 

"Here  is  a  statement  of  remarkable  significance  from  a  lawyer.  Mr.  Linton 
marshals  facts  showing  that  when  unbelieving  lawyers  who  really  supposed  there 
was  nothing  to  the  claims  of  Christianity  of  the  Bible,  have  honestly  examined 
the  evidence,  they  have  come  out  uncompromisingly  on  the  side  of  the  old 
faith  and  have  gladly  admitted  that  they  were  completely  convinced  by  the  facts. 
The  most  charitable,  and  the  most  reasonable  thing  one  can  infer  from  Mr. 
Darrow's  declared  atheism — " 

In  mentioning  Mr.  Darrow's  name  I  feel  the  same  charity  in 
judging  him  as  was  expressed  here  by  Brother  Stephen  L,  Richards, 
and  I  mention  his  name  only  for  the  purpose  of  presenting  some 
other  matters  that  I  have  checked  upon  and  think  worthy  of  presenting 
here. 

The  most  reasonable  thing  one  can  infer  from  Mr.  Darrow's  declared  atheism 
"is  that  he  has  never  examined  the  evidence.  For  lawyers  admittedly  much 
greater  than  he  have  been  convinced  by  a  logical,  dispassionate  study  of  the 
facts  in  the  case. 

"Simon  Greenleaf  was  one  of  these.  He  was  the  greatest  master  of  the 
legal  subject  of  Evidence  that  modern  times  have  known.  The  London  Law 
Magazine  said  of  him :  'Upon  the  existing  law  of  Evidence  (by  Greenleaf)  more 
light  has  been  shown  from  the  New  World  than  from  all  the  lawyers  who  adorn 
the  courts  of  Europe.'  His  words,  says  Linton,  'are  always  listened  to  with 
respect  in  any  court,  even  though  it  be  the  English  House  o'f  Lords  or  the 
Supreme  Court  of  the  United  States — the  two  most  august  judicial  bodies  in 
the  world.' 

"Greenleaf  applied  his  massive  intellect  to  the  study  of  the  Gospels,  and 
fortunately  his  work  has  been  preserved  for  this  generation  in  his  book, 
'Testimony  of  the  Evangelists.'  It  is  a  classic  work  in  the  realm  of  logic  and 
faith.  By  a  study  that  makes  the  reasoning  of  most  men  seem  childish  and 
ignorant  in  comparison,  Greenleaf  patiently  examines  the  available  evidence, 
subjects  it  to  unsparing  scrutiny,  and  vindicates  in  triumph  the  utter  reliability 
and  unswerving  accuracy  of  the  Writers  of  the  four  Gospels.  This  great  master 
of  evidence  expresses  his  conviction  and  conclusion  that  'every  honest  and 
impartial  man'  will  accept  the  testimony  of  the  evangelists  as  unimpeachable 
in  a  court  of  justice.  And  that  means,  in  simple  honesty  and  inescapable  logic, 
that  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God  and  the  only  Savior  of  men ;  that  he  died  for  our 
sins  and  rose  again;  and  that  all  who  believe  in  him  are  given  eternal  life." 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  book  of  Greenleaf's  entitled  "The  Testimony  of  the  Evan- 
gelists"— Matthew,  Mark,  Luke  and  John — was  a  new  book  to  me.  I 
was  surprised  that  I, could  not  find  it  in  either  of  the  law  libraries  in  this 
city,  and  upon  application  the  general  library  sent  for  it  and  bought 
it  and  I  have  since  had  the  pleasure  of  purchasing  a  copy  for  myself. 
It  is  the  most  valuable  law  book  that  I  have  ever  owned  or  read.  1 
have  not  read  it  all  yet  because  a  great  part  of  it,  some  four  hundred 
pages,  is  taken  up  with  a  very  thorough  synopsis  of  the  harmony  of  the 
Gospels.  The  closing  testimony  of  Dr.  Simon  Greenleaf  is  a  wonderful 
eulogy  to  Christianity. 

I  cannot  understand  in  thinking  about  it  how  it  could  happen 
that  such  a  valuable  book  on  the  Evangelists  should  have  escaped  my 
attention  for  so  many  years.  It  has  really  been  a  very  great  treat  to 
me  to  read  the  work  that  he  has  so  well  done  for  the  Christian  religion 
in  just  presenting  the  testimony  of  the  Evangelists  together  in  a  way 
that  makes  so  strong  a  case. 

The  work  is  dedicated  to  the  members  of  the  legal  profession  in 
such  striking  language.     He  says : 

"The  things  related  by  the  Evangelists  are  certainly  of  the  most  momentous 
character,  affecting  the  principles  of  our  conduct  here,  and  our  happiness  forever. 
*  *  *  These  are  no  ordinary  claims  and  it  seems  hardly  possible  for  a  rational 
being  to  regard  them  with  even  ,a  subdued  interest,  much  less  to  treat  them 
with  mere  indifference  and  contempt." 

I  am  going  to  read  the  closing  testimony  which  Dr.  Greenleaf  gives 
to  Christianity : 

"Lastly,  the  great  character  they  have  portrayed  is  perfect — "  meaning  of 
course  the  Savior  and  speaking  of  the  evangelists — "It  is  the  character  of  a 
sinless  being;  of  one  supremely  wise  and  supremely  good.  It  exhibits  no  error, 
no  sinister  intention^  no  imprudence,  no  ignorance,  no  evil  passion,  no  impatience ; 
in  a  word,  no  fault ;  but  all  is  perfect  uprightness ;  innocence,  wisdom,  goodness 
and  truth.  The  mind  of  man  has  never  conceived  the  idea  of  such  a  character, 
even  for  his  gods ;  nor  has  history  or  poetry  shadowed  it  forth.  The  doctrines 
and  precepts  of  Jesus  are  in  strict  accordance  with  the  attributes  of  God, 
agreeable  to  the  most  exalted  idea  which  we  can  form  of  them,  either  from 
reason  of  from  revelation.  They  are  strikingly  adapted  to  the  capacity  of 
mankind,  and  yet  are  delivered  with  a  simplicity  and  majesty  wholly  divine. 
He  spake  as  man  never  spake.  He  spake  with  authority;  yet  addressed  himself 
to  the  reason  and  the  understanding  of  men;  and  he  spake  with  wisdom,  for 
men  could  neither  gainsay  nor  resist.  In  his  private  life  he  exhibits  a  character 
not  -  merely  of  strict  justice,  but  of  overflowing  benignity.  He  is  temperate, 
without  austerity ;  his  meekness  and  humility  are  signal ;  his  patience  is  in- 
vincible ;  truth  and  sincerity  illustrate  his  whole  conduct ;  every  one  of  his 
virtues  is  regulated  by  consummate  prudence ;  and  he  both  wins  the  love  of  his 
friends,  and  extorts  the  wonder  and  admiration  of  his  enemies.  He  is  repre- 
sented in  every  variety  of  situation  in  life,  from  the  height  of  worldly  grandeur, 
amid  the  acclamations  of  an  admiring  multitude,  to  the  deepest  abyss  of  human 
degradation  and  woe,  apparently  deserted  of  God  and  man.  Yet  everywhere  he 
is  the  same ;  displaying  a  character  of  unearthly  perf ectionj  symmetrical  in  all 
its  proportions,  and  encircled  with  splendor  more  than  human.  Either  the  men 
of  Galilee  were  men  of  superlative  wisdom  and  extensive  knowledge  and  ex- 
perience, and  of  deeper  skill  in  the  arts  of  deception  than  any  and  all  others,  before 
or  after  them,  or  they  have  truly  stated  the  astonishing  things  which  they  saw 
and  heard. 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


71 


The  narratives  of  the  evangelists  are  now  submitted  to  the  reader's  perusal 
and  examination,  upon  the  principle  and  by  the  rules  already  stated  For  this 
purpose,  and  for  the  sake  of  more  ready  and  close  comparison  they  arc 
arranged  in  juxtapositon,  after  the  general  order  of  the  latest  and  most  approved 
harmonies. 

How  this  remarkable  book  could  have  existed  so  long  and  the 
legal  profession  not  be  in  possession  of  it  and  not  to  be  found  in  the 
law  libraries  here  I  cannot  understand. 

"The  question  is  not  upon  the  strict  propriety  of  the  arrangement,  but  the 
veracity  of  the  witnesses  and  the  credibility  of  their  narratives.  With  tbe 
relative  merits  of  modern  harmonists,  and  with  points  of  controversy  among 
theologians,  the  writer  has  no  concern.  His  business  is  that  of  a  lawyer, 
examining  the  testimony  of  witnesses  by  tbe  rules  of  his  profession,  in  order 
to  ascertain  whether,  if  they  had  thus  testified  on  oath,  in  a  court  of  justice, 
they  would  be  entitled  to  credit;  and  whether  their  narratives  as  we  now  have 
them,  would  be  received  as  ancient  documents  coming  from  tbe  proper  custody. 
If  so,  then  it  is  believed  that  every  honest  and  impartial  man  will  act  con- 
sistently with  that  result  by  receiving  their  testimony  in  all  tbe  extent  of  its 
import.  To  write  out  a  full  commentary  or  argument  upon  tbe  text,  would  be 
a  useless  addition  to  the  bulk  of  the  volume;  but  a  few  notes  have  been  added 
for  illustration  of  the  narratives,  and  for  the  clearing  up  of  apparent  discrepancies, 
as  being  all  that  members  of  the  legal  profession  would  desire." 

I  have  been  instructed  and  thrilled  with  the  work  the  author  has 
done.  It  indicates  much  patience  and  interest  on  the  part  of  this 
great  jurist  in  placing  and  elucidating  the  testimony  of  the  Evangelists 
and  giving  explanatory  notes  of  some  supposed  contradictions  which 
are  not  really  such  when  they  are  carefully  examined  and  considered 
in  the  light  of  rules  of  civil  evidence  as  pointed  out  by  a  master  mind 
and  eminent  authority  such  as  Mr.  Simon  Greenleaf  possesses. 

There  is  much  in  reference  to  the  rules  of  evidence  that  has  been 
presented  from  time  to  time,  and  in  fact  at  our  Centennial  Conference 
some  of  those  rules  to  weigh  and  measure  evidence  were  presented  and 
it  would  be  useless  or  unnecessary  to  repeat  them  further  now. 

I  appreciate  the  kindness  of  my  brethren,  President  Grant  and 
the  brethren  who  surround  him,  and  the  kindness  of  my  friends  and 
my  people,  and  I  am  glad  that  I  am  regaining  my  strength  and  that  I 
am  able  to  appear  before  you  and  talk  to  you  on  this  occasion. 

My  testimony  corroborates  the  testimony  given  by  Dr.  Greenleaf 
in  this  wonderful  work  of  his,  a  powerful  one  from  a  legal  standpoint. 
I  give  my  testimony  after  an  experience  in  this  Church  of  more  than 
a  quarter  of  a  century,  and  after  working  with  these  my  brethren,  and 
I  bear  this  confirmation  of  the  testimony  just  read,  in  the  name  of 
Jesns  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Mex  ican  Mission 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I  believe  that  this  is  the  greatest 
occasion  of  my  life.  In  all  my  experience  I  have  never  had  the  privilege 
of  addressing  such  a  vast  and  intelligent  audience  as  this  should  be.  It 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


is  only  the  realization  of  the  fact  that  you  are  all  friends  and  brethren 
that  makes  it  possible  for  me  to  stand  here  at  this  time  and  mingle 
my  testimony  with  the  testimonies  that  have  already  been  borne. 

In  standing  here  I  bring  to  you  the  greetings  of  people  of  a 
different  race  and  a  different  hue  from  those  into  whose  faces  I  am 
looking  at  this  time.  I  bring  you  the  greetings  of  about  thirteen  thou- 
sand people  of  the  Pacific  Isles.  Every  one  of  them  would  like  to  be 
here  and  greet  you  personally,  to  sit  and  listen  to  the  words  of  exhorta- 
tion that  are  given  from  this  stand.  This,  on  my  part,  is  an  unofficial 
greeting,  but  it  is  sincere  nevertheless,  for  I  know  that  those  people 
with  whom  I  have  been  laboring  for  the  past  ten  years,  each  and 
every  one,  have  the  welfare  of  this  work  at  heart. 

I  bring  you  also  the  greetings  of  not  quite  so  many,  but  a  kindred 
people  who  are  living  nearer  to  us,  the  Mexican  people.  There  are 
quite  a  number  of  them  in  the  Church,  and  they  are  faithful  and 
sincere  and  reasonably  energetic  in  the  performance  of  their  duties. 

The  work  with  that  people  was  begun  in  the  year  1875,  when  my 
father,  as  a  junior  companion  with  a  party  of  half  a  dozen  or  more, 
rode  his  horse  from  St.  George  as  far  as  the  city  of  Chihuahua,  in  the 
State  of  Chihuahua  and  the  Republic  of  Mexico,  returning  by  the 
same  means  of  transportation.  Since  that  time  various  vicissitudes  have 
befallen  that  mission.  Men  have  gone  and  opened  up  the  mission, 
then  returned,  and  the  mission  has  lapsed,  and  that  has  been  repeated 
time  and  again.  But  every  time  that  mission  has  been  reopened  people 
have  been  found  who  were  willing  to  listen  to  the  Gospel,  people 
who  had  attempted,  through  all  of  the  years  of  silence,  to  retain  their 
faith  in  the  Gospel.    From  those  people  I  bring  you  greetings. 

It  is  going  to  be  a  difficult  problem,  I  realize,  to  shoulder  the 
burden  that  has  fallen  upon  me  with  the  death  of  President  Pratt. 
He  was  a  noble  and  valiant  man.  He  labored  with  all  the  power, 
zeal  and  energy  that  God  gave  him  ,to  further  the  work  among 
that  people.  He  had  their  interest  at  heart,  and  he  won  their  love 
and  their  respect.  I  pray  that  with  the  aid  of  your  faith  and  prayers, 
with  the  power  of  God  to  back  me  up,  I  may  have  humility  and  faith 
sufficient  to  carry  on  the  work  that  he  so  well  and  faithfully  performed  ; 
that  the  work  may  not  falter,  but  that  it  may  go  forward. 

Now,  if  this  is  done  it  will  have  to  be  done  through  the  aid  of 
your  boys  and  girls.  We  have  in  that  mission  at  the  present  time 
forty-one  of  them,  all  faithful  and  energetic  and  lovable,  all  of  them 
that  I  have  met.  It  has  not  been  my  good  fortune  to  meet  them  all, 
but  I  hope  that  within  a  few  short  weeks  I  shall  have  been  through 
that  mission  and  met  every  boy  and  girl  that  is  laboring  there. 

It  seems  that  the  people  of  the  Church  are  not  entirely  clear  as  to 
what  the  Mexican  mission  at  present  consists  of.  You  will  remember, 
those  of  you  who  have  read  the  papers,  that  certain  laws  have  recently 
been  passed  by  the  Mexican  government,  which  forbid  the  entry  into 
Mexico  of  priests  and  ministers  of  foreign  birth ;  so  that  our  own 
Elders  were  forced  to  leave  Mexico  under  this  rule.    We  have  in 


ELDER  AN  TO  IN  E  R.  IV  INS 


73 


Mexico,  laboring,  as  an  ordained  missionary,  only  one  person  at  this 
time,  and  he  is  a  Mexican  boy.  He  is  laboring  in  the  vicinity  of 
Monterey  and  is  doing  a  very  excellent  work.  All  of  the  other  work 
that  is  being  done  by  missionaries  is  being  done  in  the  United  States. 
Our  mission  covers  a  length  of  two  thousand  miles,  from  Los  Angeles 
to  Brownsville,  Texas.  In  addition  to  that  we  have  a  very  "thrifty 
and  vigorous  branch  in  this  city,  and  we  have  organized  branches 
that  are  laboring  under  the  guidance  of  native  branch  presidents  in 
various  cities  in  and  around  the  valley  of  Mexico. 

I  was  very  much  surprised  when  I  first  learned,  years  ago,  of  the 
work  that  was  being  done  among  the  Mexicans  in  the  United  States, 
but  when  you  look  into  the  matter  it  seems  a  logical  field,  for  in  the 
city  of  Los  Angeles  alone  there  are  said  to  be  no  less  than  one  hundred 
and  fifty  thousand  Mexicans.  We  are  attempting  to  make  contact  with 
those  people.  We  are  trying  to  do  it  with  six  persons — -four  boys  and 
two  young  ladies.  They  are  accomplishing  a  wonderful  work,  but  they 
are  limited,  naturally,  by  their  number,  and  as  much  as  might  be  ac- 
complished with  more  people  is  not  being  realized.  We  have  there  a 
very  fine  congregation,  however.  They  are  diligent,  energetic  and 
faithful. 

From  there  our  labor  extends,  as  I  have  said,  clear  to  Browns- 
ville, and  we  have  some  of  the  finest  young  men  and  young  ladies  in 
the  Church  working  with  those  people.  We  hope  that  you  who  are 
here  and  who  are  bearing  the  burden  of  that  labor  will  have  the  where- 
withal to  supply  them.  Some  of  those  boys  right  now  are  wondering 
how  long  they  will  be  able  to  stay — iwhen  their  missions  may  be  ter- 
minated by  the  lack  of  funds.  I  hope  that  they  will  be  able  to  stay  until 
they  qare  to  return,  for  it  is  an  unfortunate  thing  when  a  missionary 
from  that  field  has  to  quit  his  work  prematurely.  It  takes  the  first 
half  of  his  period  to  learn  the" language,  and  then  if  he  has  to  go  home 
we  miss  the  great  accomplishments  that  he  is  capable  of  during  the 
latter  part  of  the  missionary  period.  I  trust  that  you  will  be  able  to 
stand  the  burden,  that  you  will  sacrifice  willingly  in  their  behalf,  for 
every  one  of  them  is  interested.;  every  one  of  them  is  laboring  with 
diligence  and  energy.  Most  of  them  are  enjoying  good  health,  and 
you  have  to  worry  little  over  that.  However,  they  are  in  a  warm 
country ;  they  have  differences  of  food  to  contend  with,  and  occasionally 
some  of  them  suffer  because  of  that.  Right  now  we  have  two  or 
three  boys  concerning  whom  we  have  to  be  very  careful,  because  they  are 
suffering  from  the  changes  of  food  that  they  have  had  to  meet. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  us,  that  he  will  give  us  power  to 
endure,  for  the  power  to  endure  is  the  genius  of  this  Gospel.  If  we 
cannot  endure,  the  Lord  pity  us.  These  times  are  trying,  but  if  we 
will  round  up  our  shoulders  I  am  sure  that  the  Lord  will  come  to 
our  rescue,  that  we  will  be  able  to  carry  on,  and  that  we  will  not  be 
the  losers  because  of  these  trying  times.  The  times  of  thrift  and 
prosperity  are  the  ones  that  we  should  be  afraid  of,  not  the  times  of 
adversity. 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  this  is  the  greatest  work  in  the 
world  that  we  are  interested  in.  I  hope  the  Lord  will  bless  me  with 
power  to  carry  on,  and  with  strength  to  continue  to  the  end,  and  I  do 
it  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  Amen. 

A  vocal  duet,  "I  would  not  part  the  curtain,"  was  rendered  by 
Martha  Smith  Jenson  and  Donna  Cox  Gunderson. 

ELDER  JOHN  W.  HART 

Of  the  Church  Auditing  Committee 

This  is  one  time  in  my  life  that  I  was  really  surprised.  I  was 
sitting  very  comfortably  in  the  audience,  with  some  of  my  friends, 
enjoying  the  services,  as  I  usually  do.  However,  being  called  upon 
I  feel  under  obligation  to  respond.  I  never  did,  to  my  knowledge, 
refuse  anything  that  was  required  of  me  by  those  who  presided  over  me. 
I  am  very  sorry  that  I  missed  the  services  yesterday.  I  was  out  in  the 
state  of  Montana,  and  came  directly  from  there  this  morning.  I  am  very 
happy  to  get  here  for  the  second  day's  services. 

I  hope  and  pray  that  the  Lord  will  sustain  me  this  afternoon 
for  the  few  minutes  that  I  occupy  this  position.  I  know  that  he  comes 
to  the  rescue  of  those  who  are  called  upon  to  perform  service  in 
the  Church. 

I  was  interested  in  the  remarks  of  Brother  Ivins  this  afternoon, 
as  it  was  only  last  May  that  I  had  the  privilege  of  visiting  him  in  the 
Hawaiian  Islands,  and  I  was  very  happy  to  meet  him.  I  was  very 
happy  also  to  note  the  progress  of  the  work  of  the  Lord  in  that  island. 
While  I  was  there  one  Sunday  I  had  the  privilege  of  attending  the  Sab- 
bath school.  I  never  in  all  my  life  attended  a  Sabbath  school  that  was  bet- 
ter disciplined  and  better  organized,  and  that  functioned  any  better  than 
this  Sunday  school  in  Honolulu.  There  were  practically  all  nationalities 
present.  There  were  natives,  Chinese,  Japanese,  Americans,  and  other 
people,  but  to  my  surprise,  notwithstanding  this  great  mixture  there 
was  order,  and  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  prevailed. 

I  had  the  privilege  of  attending  their  sacrament  meeting  at  night, 
it  being  Aaronic  (Priesthood'  night,  i  I  sat  there  and  listened  to  the 
natives — and  it  was  principally  natives  that  had  part  on  the  program — 
stand  up  and  deliver  their  parts  in  a  most  efficient  manner,  enjoying 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  Their  splendid  chorus  of  about  thirty-five 
singers  rendered  most  efficiently  the  hymn,  "An  angel  from  on  high."- 
It  was  wonderful!  I  was  asked  to  speak  a  few  minutes,  which  I  did. 
and  can  say  that  I  enjoyed  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  there  as  much  as  1 
ever  enjoyed  it  anywhere  in  my  life.  This  all  goes  to  show,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  wherever  we  go,  wherever  we  find  a  con- 
gregation or  an  organization  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  we  find  that 
same  splendid,  sweet  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

I  am  very  happy  that  I  am  a  member  of  this  Church.  I  have  never 
seen  the  day  that  I  have  had  to  apologize  for  being  a  member.    I  have 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  HART 


75 


always  told  my  own  family,  the  people  of  the  Rigby  stake  over  whom 
I  have  the  honor  to  preside,  and  others  with  whom  I  have  come  in 
contact,  that  the  great  thing  for  us  to  learn  as  Latter-day  Saints,  par- 
ticularly the  young  men  and  the  young  women,  is  to  find  out  God,  the 
Eternal  Father,  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  to  know  something 
about  this  great  latter-day  work ;  that  if  they  would  only  inform  them- 
selves along  these  lines  they  would  always  have  joy  and  satisfaction 
in  meeting  the  public  in  any  land,  and  discussing  with  them  the 
beauties  of  this  great  and  glorious  plan  that  has  been  entrusted  to 
our  care  as  Latter-day  Saints. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  in  strict  harmony  with  those  who 
preside  over  this  Church.  I  know  that  they  are  men  of  God.  The 
Lord  will  inspire  them  as  long  as  they  hold  these  positions,  to  direct 
the  affairs  of  this  people  in  the  manner  in  which  they  should  be 
directed.  I  am  happy  to  have  their  confidence.  I  rejoice  in  being- 
able  to  associate  with  them,  and  especially  when  they  come  to  the  Rigby 
stake  to  have  the  privilege  of  entertaining  them.  They  always  bring 
with  them  a  splendid  spirit,  and  when  they  leave  we  are  all  better  for 
their  coming. 

I  testify  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  God  the  Eternal 
Father  lives,  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God,  and  that  these 
men  who  surround  me  here  are  inspired  of  God,  and  are  the  living 
oracles.  May  God  help  us  to  understand  and  know  these  things,  and 
to  maintain  them  all  the  time,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  a  speaker  who  stands  before  a  congrega- 
tion of  this  character  very  well  understands  that  he  is  under  a  great 
burden  of  responsibility  and  is  expected  to  speak  the  truth,  and  nothing 
but  the  truth.  If  he  should  advance  false  doctrine  it  would  be  imme- 
diately detected  by  those  who  preside  in  the  conference,  and  I  think 
likely  it  would  be  detected  by  a  congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints.  No 
man  can  long  deceive  the  Latter-day  Saints.  This,  I  apprehend,  is  be- 
cause the  Spirit  of  God  rests  upon  them,  and  they  are  able  to  distinguish 
between  truth  and  error.  I  have  attended  many  conferences  in  this 
building,  and  have  never  yet  heard  a  false  doctrine  advanced  from  this 
pulpit.    I  take  some  pleasure  in  bearing  this  testimony. 

PAST  AND  PRESENT  LINKED  TOGETHER 

I  have  reflected  much  upon  conditions  that  exist.  I  think  I  am 
safe  in  saying,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  past  and  the  present 
are  connected  by  a  chain  of  divine  historical  events,  and  also  of  his- 
torical, secular  events — a  chain  that  cannot  be  broken.  This  might 
be  demonstrated  by  many  incidents.    Let  me  refer  to  one  or  two. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


THE  GOSPEL. — INDIVISIBLE  AND  EVERLASTING 

There  is  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  The  Gospel  was 
preached  in  the  beginning,  it  is  preached  to  the  world  at  the  present 
time,  it  will  be  declared  to  future  generations.  The  teachings  of  the 
Gospel  exert  a  profound  influence  upon  the  world.  The  Gospel  is  a  code 
of  principles  which  are  declared  to  be  principles  of  salvation  to  those 
who  will  receive  and  obey  them.  The  Gospel  is  complete  in  itself.  Noth- 
ing is  to  be  added  to  it.  Nothing  may  be  subtracted  from  it.  The  Gos- 
pel cannot  be  divided  up  into  sectional  parts,  and  if  it  were  these 
sectional  parts  could  not  be  safely  treated  separately.  The  Gospel  must 
be  taken  as  a  whole.  It  is  everlasting  in  its  nature.  It  existed  before, 
it  exists  now,  and  it  will  exist  hereafter. 

AN  INCIDENT  FROM  THE  DISTANT  PAST 

Let  me  draw  your  attention  briefly  for  a  moment  to  another  inci- 
dent, taken  from  the  distant  past.  Let  us  go  back  to  the  Garden  of 
Eden,  which  is  sometimes  designated  as  the  beginning.  When  Adam, 
who  is  referred  to<  by  divine  revelation  as  the  first  man,  as  "the  ancient 
of  days,"  as  the  father  of  the  human  family, — when  he  partook  of  the 
forbidden  fruit  of  the  tree  of  knowledge  of  good  and  evil,  mortality  and 
death  were  introduced  into  the  world,  which  has  profoundly  influenced 
the  children  of  men  from  that  distant  day  to  the  present  time  and  will 
influence  the  world  of  men  to  the  very  end  of  time.  Thus  the  past 
is  connected  with  the  present  and  will  also  have  a  direct  bearing  upon 
the  future. 

A  DREADFUL  DAY 

Perhaps  I  may  be  pardoned  if  I  particularize  just  a  little  further. 
One  hears  a  voice  coming  out  of  the  past.  It  is  the  voice  of  a  humble 
servant  of  God,  a  prophet,  and  the  words  that  issued  from  his  mouth 
were  also  recorded  in  sacred  writ  and  took  the  form  of  a  prophecy  which, 
if  it  shall  be  fulfilled,  will  influence  the  world  of  men  very  greatly.  The 
prophet  said:  "A  day  is  coming,  a  dreadful  day  will  come  upon  the 
world."  I  fancy  I  hear  some  one  say :  "A  dreadful  day,  Brother 
Clawson?  We  have  had  many  dreadful  days."  Yes,  we  have  had  many 
dreadful  days,  when  news  came  of  earthquakes,  destruction  by  fire  and 
smoke,  and  waves  of  the  ocean  heaving  themselves  beyond  their  bounds, 
also  cyclones  and  hurricanes  sweeping  over  the  earth.  Yes,  brother, 
these  were  dreadful  days,  but  this  particular  day  referred  to  by  the 
prophet  is  somewhat  different.  It  presents  rather  a  different  view.  This 
day  is  called  the  "great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord,") — quite  different 
from  these  other  days.  And  then  we  are  told  in  a  prophecy  that  before 
the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord  shall  come  there  must  occur 
a  very  important  circumstance,  and  it  surely  must  precede  the  dreadful 
day  of  the  Lord.  Let  us  read  the  words  of  the  prophecy,  which  is  found 
in  Malachi,  the  fourth  chapter : 

"For,  behold,  the  day  cometh,  that  shall  burn  as  an  oven ;  and  iall  the  proud, 
yea,  and  all  that  do  wickedly,  shall  be  stubble ;  and  the  day  that  cometh  shall  burn 
them  up,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  that  it  shall  leave  them  neither  root  nor  branch." 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


77 


DESTRUCTION  OF  WICKED 

That  is  a  dreadful  day,  and  yet  in  connection  with  it,  and  some- 
what related  to  it,  is  shown  forth  the  mercy  of  God,  for  the  record  says : 

•'But  unto  you  'that  fear  my  name  shall  the  Sun  of  righteousness  arise  with 
healing  in  his  wings ;  and  ye  shall  go  forth,  and  grow  up  as  calves  of  the  stall. 

"And  ye  shall  tread  down  the  wicked;  for  they  shall  be  ashes  under  tthe 
soles  of  your  feet  in  the  day  that  I  shall  do  this,  saith  the  Lord  )of  hosts." 

It  would  seem  from  this  that  the  wicked  are  to  be  destroyed  ab- 
solutely, root  and  branch,  because  of  their  wickedness,  of  which  they 
will  not  repent,  and  hence  a  just  judgment  comes  upon  them. 

"Remember  ye  the  law  of  Moses,  my  servant,  which  I  commanded  unto  him 
in  Horeb  for  Sail  Israel,  with  the  statutes  and  judgments." 

MARVELOUS  MANIFESTATIONS 

•Now  comes  a  very  singular  and  wonderful  part  of  this  great  proph- 
ecy that  was  uttered  in  the  long  distant  past : 

"Behold,  I  will  send  you  Elijah  the  prophet  before  the  coming  of  the  great 
and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord: 

"And  he  shall  turn.(the  heart  of  the  fathers  to  the  children,  and  the  heart 
of  the  children  to  their  fathers,  lest  I  come  and  smite  the  earth  with  a  curse." 

.  That  is  the.  prophecy,  brethren  and  sisters,  and  I  doubt  not  that 
it  is  greatly  misunderstood  by  the  people  of  the  world  generally.  It  is 
quite  easily  comprehended  by  the  people  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  be- 
cause, as  a  matter  of  fact,  this  great  prophecy  has  been  fulfilled,  fulfilled 
in  the  present  age.  I  refer  you  to  our  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
section  110,  relating  to  certain  visions  and  manifestation  given  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  the  Kirtland  Temple.  Those  were  very 
remarkable  visions ;  nothing  quite  like  them  in  this  age  of  the  world ; 
nothing  quite  like  them  in  any  other  age,  except  the  manifestation  given 
to  Paul,  the  apostle,  when  he  was  caught  up  into  heaven  and  beheld  un- 
utterable things. 

In  this  manifestation  the  Savior  appeared  and  stood  upon  the 
pulpit  of  the  temple,  and  spoke  to  his  servant,  the  Prophet,  and  to  Oliver 
Cowdery,  expressing  his  approval  of  the  work  that  had  been  done  in  the 
building  of  that  temple,  and  referring  to  the  blessings  that  would  result 
therefrom.    Other  glorious  manifestations  were  given. 

THE  COMING  OF  ELIJAH 

Finally,  it  was  also  said  in  section  110: 

"After  this  vision  had  closed,  another  great  and  glorious  vision  burst  upon 
us;  for  Elijah  ithe  jprophet,  who  was  taken  to  heaven  without  tasting  dea;th, 
stood  before  us,  and  said : 

"Behold,  the  time  has  fully  come,  which  was  spoken  of  by  the  mouth  of. 
Malachi— testifying  that  he  (Elijah)  should  be  sent,  before  the  great  aind 
dreadful  day  of  the  Lord  come — 

"To  turn  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children,  and  the  children  to  the 
fathers,  lest  the  whole  earth  be  smitten  with  a  curse — 

"Therefore,  the  keys  of  this  dispensation  are  committed  into  your  hands ;  and 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


by  this  ye  may  know  that  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of-  the  Lord  is  near,  even  at 
the  doors." 

So  this  important  prophecy,  that  comes  out  of  the  past,  has  been 
fulfilled  in  the  present,  and  in  a  manner  connecting  the  past  with  the 
present.  We  cannot,  my' brethren  and  sisters,  as  a  people,  neither  can 
the  children  of  men,  separate  and  detach  absolutely  the  past  from  the 
present. 

THE  WORD  "TURN" 

Now,  in  respect  to  this  word  "turn,"  we  do  not  understand  that 
that  means  that  the  fathers  should  simply  assume  a  sympathetic  attitude 
toward  their  children,  that  the  children  should  have  a  sympathetic  at- 
titude toward  their  fathers,  their  fathers  being  dead.  It  means,_  if 
we  may  rely  upon  the  word  of  the  latter-day  prophet,  Joseph  Smith, 
that  the  word  "turn"  should  be  translated  "bind  or  seal,"  and  if  that  be 
the  case  what  a  flood  of  light  is  thrown  upon  this  important  matter !  It 
signifies  that  a  work  must  be  done  for  the  dead  and  that  we  are  to 
manifest  our  faith  in  the  Gospel  and  in  the  prediction  that  has  been 
made,  by  our  work.  Perhaps  I  might  read  a  word  or  two  from  the 
history  of  the  Church  by  the  Prophet: 

"Now  the  word  'turn'  here  should  be  translated  'bind  or  seal'.  But  what  is 
the  object  of  this  important  mission,  or  how  is  it  to  be  fulfilled?  The_  key& 
are  to  be  delivered;  the  spirit  of  Elijah  is  to  come;  the  Gospel  to  be  established; 
the  Saints  of  God  gathered;  Zion  built  up;  and  the  Saints  to  come  up  as  saviors 
upon  Mount  Zion.  But  how  lare  they  to  become  saviors  on  Mount  Zion?  By 
building  their  temples,  erecting  their  baptismal  fonts,  land  going  forth  and 
receiving  all  the  ordinances,  baptisms,  confirmations,  washings,  anointings, 
ordinations  and  sealing  powers,  upon  their  heads,  in  behalf  of  lall  !their  progen- 
itors who  are  dead,  and  redeem  them,  that  they  might  come  forth  in  the  first 
resurrection  and  be  exalted  to  thrones  of  glory  with  them,  and  herein  is  'the 
chain  that  binds  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children  and  the  children  to 
the  fathers,  which  fulfils  the  mission  of  Elijah." 

WORK  FOR  THE  DEAD 

Possibly  some  one  will  say :  "Well,  are  we  really  required  then 
to  do  work  for  the  dead?"  Yes,  surely  to  do  a  great  work.-  Is  that  not 
indicated  in  the  scriptures,  that  a  work  should  be  done  for  the  dead, 
when  the  Apostle  Paul  said :  "Else  what  shall  they  do  which  are 
baptized  for  the  dead,  if  the  dead  rise  not  at  all?  Why  are  they  then 
baptized  for  the  dead?"  So  you  see  that  Paul,  the  Apostle,  understood 
this  principle  of  baptism  for  the  dead. 

BY  PROXY 

The  question  will  naturally  arise :  "Well,  how  is  it  possible  for  one 
to  stand  for  another  in  respect  to  this  matter,  one  on  the  earth  being 
baptized  for  one  who  is  dead?  It  is  done  through  the  principle  of 
proxy,  a  principle  which  is  well  established  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  He,  himself,  the  Savior  of  the  world,  stood  as  proxy  for  the 
children  of  men,  as  set  forth  by  the  great  principle  of  atonement.  This 
work  for  the  dead  is  to  be  done  in  a  temple  and,  I  may  here  say  that 
wherever  the  people  of  God  are  to  be  found  upon  the  earth,  you  will 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 


79 


find  a  temple-building  people,  and  even  now  we  are  sitting  under  the 
eaves,  as  it  were,  of  the  temple  of  God — the  temple,  doubtless,  that 
Isaiah  saw  in  visioni— the  mountain  of  the  Lord's  house  that  was 'to  be 
established  in  the  tops  of  the  mountains.  I  believe  that  the  temple  seen 
by  Isaiah  is  the  temple  that  stands  adjacent  to  the  tabernacle  in  which 
we  are  now  assembled,  and  let  me  add  we  have  other  temples,  some 
six  in  number. 

THE  CONNECTING  LINK 

We  are  permitted,  under  the  gracious  mercy  of  the  Lord,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  to  go  into  these  temples  if  we  are  worthy,  and  to  do  a 
work  for  the  dead.  We  should  be  wide  awake  to  the  importance  of  this 
matter,  because  we  are  told  that  they,  the  dead,  without  us  cannot  be 
made  perfect,  and  that  we  without  our  dead  cannot  be  made  perfect. 
Temple  work  is  the  link  that  connects  us  with  our  progenitors  in  the 
spirit  world.  Will  the  Gospel  be  preached  to  them?  Surely  it  will  be 
preached  in  the  spirit  world  to  them  who  had  not  the  privilege  of  hear- 
ing it  in  this  world.   We  are  told  in  the  epistle  of  Peter: 

"For  this  cause  was  the  Gospel  preached  also  to  them  that  are  dead,  that  they 
may  be  judged  according  to  men  in  the  flesh,  but  live  'according  to  God  in  the 
spirit." 

Oh,  the  beauty  of  the  justice  and  mercy  of  God,  who  is  no  respecter 
of  persons !  And  let  it  be  remembered  that  what  it  takes  to  save  one  who 
is  living,  it  takes  just  that  much  to  save  one  who  is  dead.  Therefore, 
brethren  and  sisters,  look  well  to  this  matter,  and  let  your  hearts  be 
turned  toward  the  dead,  and  avail  yourselves  of  the  opportunity  of 
sealing  them  to  the  living. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us.  May  the  Lord  bestow  upon  us  the  spirit, 
the  desire  and  the  determination  to  hunt  up  and  secure  a  record  of  our 
forefathers,  and  then  to  go  forth  and  perform  this  important  labor  in 
their  behalf. 

I  know  that  this  is  the  Church  of  God.  I  testify  to  you  in  all 
solemnity  that  I  do  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  and  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  and  is  a  true  prophet  of  God. 

The  great  truth  that  I  have  emphasized  here  today  came  through 
this  modern  prophet,  and  surely  there  were  few  greater  prophets  than 
he.  God's  blessings  I  invoke  upon  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

The  congregation  arose  and  sang  the  first  two  verses  of  the  hymn, 
"Do  what  is  right." 

ELDER  ELIAS  S.  WOODRUFF 

President  of  the  Western  States  Mission 

The  opening  song  of  the  conference  was  "We  thank  thee,  O  God, 
for  a  prophet."  President  Grant  said  in  his  opening  remarks  that 
when  he  sang  that  song  he  thought  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Many  times  recently  I  have  sung  that  song  with  great  pleasure,  and  I 
have  thought  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  and  his  counselors,  and  of 
the  Twelve,  and  of  those  brethren  who  are  appointed  with  them  to  be 
prophets,  seers  and  revelators  to  this  people.  Without  reservation  I 
have  been  able  to  sing  it  with  great  joy  and  thanksgiving  because  we 
do  have  these  men  to  "guide  us  in  these  latter  days."  It  is  a  great 
anchor  to  this  people.  We  go  out  among  other  people  who  are  not 
thus  blessed,  who  are  trying  to  find  out  something  about  God,  and 
they  are  groping  in  darkness.  They  may  be  following  the  rules  of 
logic  and  reason  to  the  best  of  their  ability,  but  they  are  not  guided  by 
inspiration  as  we  are. 

In  the  Western  States  mission  we  have  nearly  seven  thousand 
members  of  the  Church.  Any  of  them  would  be  delighted  to  be  present 
here  today,  as  a  few  of  them  are,  to  listen  to  the  inspired  words  of 
God's  servants  and  to  enjoy  the  spirit  of  this  remarkable  gathering. 
When  I  think  of  the  greatness  of  this  conference,  as  shown  by  the 
numbers  of  those  who  attend,  I  sometimes  think  that  if  all  the  members 
of  the  Church  in  the  Western  States  mission  were  gathered  in  this 
tabernacle,  it  would  be  quite  comfortably  filled ;  and  yet  they  are  only 
a  handful,  as  compared  to  the  Church.  Our  Church  is  becoming 
numerous,  and  it  is  spread  over  every  portion  of  the  earth.  The  Gospel 
has  been  carried  to  nearly  every  part  of  the  earth,  and  men  and  women 
have  received  it  with  joy  and  gladness. 

I  wonder  sometimes  if  when  we  think  of  our  missionary  work  we 
do  not  think  of  it  as  wholly  missionary  work;  but  quite  an  important 
part  of  our  labors  consists  in  looking  after  the  interests  of  the  saints 
who  are  organized  in  small  branches  throughout  our  missions.  The 
time  is  coming,  and  coming  with  great  speed,  when  the  larger  of  our 
branches  will  assume  something  of  the  perfectness  of  the  wards 
of  the  Church.  We  are  beginning  to  do  things,  in  some  of  the  branches, 
as  they  do  them  in  the  wards.  Our  auxiliary  organization  are  following 
the  splendid  lead  given  to  them  by  those  who  head  these  auxiliary 
organizations.  Our  manuals  and  our  Church  magazines  are  informative 
and  helpful  to  them.  Our  people  read  them  with  joy  and  gladness  and 
follow  their  instructions — so  much  so  that  the  branches  are  becoming  a 
little  more  proficient  all  the  time  in  the  work  of  teaching  each  other. 

The  spirit  and  genius  of  this  Church  is  that  we  help  each  other. 
Sometimes  members  of  the  Church  get  the  impression  that  those  who 
are  unworthy  or  unfit  should  be  cast  out,  and  not  permitted  to  enter 
into  the  house  of  worship.  We  welcome  them  that  they  may  grow  with 
us  from  a  degree  of  weakness  to  a  degree  of  strength.  The 
Church  was  intended  to  be  an  organization  for  mutual  helpfulness,  and 
so  Latter-day  Saints  are  expected,  and  it  is  their  duty,  to  help  each 
other,  to  labor  together  for  the  improvement  of  each  other. 

Our  branches  are  doing  those  things  with  some  degree  of  excel- 
lence. The  missionaries  are  carrying  on  satisfactory  work.  We  are 
doing  our  best,  with  the  few  that  we  have,  to  reach  the  people,  to  carry 


ELDER  ELI  AS  S.  WOODRUFF 


81 


the  message  of  the  Gospel  to  them,  trying  to  find  better  means  all  the 
time  of  engaging  the  attention  of  the  people. 

Last  night,  when  I  read  that  our  Station  K-S-L  was  to  become 
a  fifty  thousand  watt  station,  my  heart  rejoiced,  because  I  realized  that 
it  would  be  possible,  at  least  in  the  Western  States  mission,  and  I  am 
sure  in  many  other  missions,  to  hear  not  only  the  Tabernacle  Organ 
concerts,  which  are  now  nationally  broadcast,  but  to  hear  the  sermons 
that  our  brethren  preach,  with  some  degree  of  certainty  and  clearness. 
Sometimes  we  hear  them ;  sometimes  we  do  not.  If  we  could  depend 
upon  them — and  I  am  sure  we  will  be  able  to  do  so  with  that  powerful 
station  operating — it  would  be  a  simple  matter  for  us  to  organize 
cottage  meetings  on  Sunday  evenings,  and  have  small  groups,  directed 
by  Elders  or  sisters,  meet  together  to  hear  the  sermon,  and  then  perhaps 
continue  the  service  by  bearing  testimonies  and  singing  the  songs  of 
Zion,  and  thus  increase  in  the  hearts  of  people  faith  in  God. 

Many  of  our  friends  who  are  not  members  of  the  Church  listen  in 
on  the  radio  and  are  delighted  with  the  organ  recitals  and  with  the 
sermons  when  they  are  able  to  hear  them.  Truly  the  Lord  is  utilizing, 
through  his  servants,  the  wonderful  instruments  of  this  great  day  for 
publishing  the  Gospel. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  you.  I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  those 
whose  children  are  on  missions,  and  who  are  making  the  struggle 
that  they  must  of  necessity  make  to  care  for  them.  I  appeal  to  you 
fathers  and  mothers  of  missionaries — and  I  think  you  will  hear  this 
appeal — don't  send  them  too  much  money.  In  spite  of  the  hard  times 
we  do  have  a  few  parents  who  insist  on  sending  their  missionaries 
more  than  they  need.  They  would  be  ever  so  much  better  missionaries 
if  you  limited  them  to  forty  dollars  a  month,  or  a  little  less  than 
that,  than  they  will  be  if  you  send  them  fifty.  At  least  I  am  speaking 
for  the  Western  States.  I  would  rather  know  that  our  missionaries 
could  have  only  forty  dollars  a  month,  than  to  know  that  they  could 
have  more.  That  should  not  be  hard  advice  to  take  these  days,  and 
yet  I  know  of  some  parents  who  say :  "Well,  my  son  or  my  daughter 
must  not  be  deprived.  We  are  willing  tp  deprive  ourselves  but  they 
must  have  what  they  need."  I  want  to  testify  to  you  that  they  will 
do  much  better  if  you  will  accept  this  advice.  I  know  one  young  man 
whose  parents  sent  him  so  much  money  that  it  almost  ruined  his 
mission.  Finally  the  father  and  mother  came  out  to  see  him.  They 
were  convinced  that  they  had  been  making  a  mistake.  They  rectified 
the  mistake,  and  tloday  the  boy  is  humble  and  sweet  in  his  spirit,  as 
energetic  as  he  can  be,  filling  a  splendid  mission,  and  happy  to  know 
that  his  source  of  revenue  has  been  cut  off,  so  that  he  has  to  depend 
upon  his  own  efforts  for  his  blessings. 

I  want  to  say,  with  gratitude,  that  we  are  all  well,  with  the  ex- 
ception of  one  Elder,  and  we  think  he  is  in  no  danger.  We  are  grateful 
for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord,  grateful  for  his  watch-care  and  his  favor 
over  us.  I  testify  to  you  that  he  does  bless  us,  that  God  lives,  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  this  is  his  true  work.  Amen. 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  JOHN  V.  BLUTH 

President  of  the  Canadian  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  a  matter  of  delight  to  be  able  to 
meet  with  you  in  conference.  When  I  look  over  this  congregation  I 
feel  comforted  by  the  assurance  that  I  can  say:  "Brethren  and  sisters ;" 
that  your  spirits  are  in  harmony,  that  you  have  come  here  to  worship, 
that  in  your  hearts  there  is  a  prayer  for  the  speaker  and  for  yourselves, 
that  the  speaker  may  be  inspired  in  his  utterances,  that  your  hearts 
may  be  receptive,  and  that  you  may  receive  strength  and  benefit  from 
that  which  is  spoken. 

I  bring  you  greetings  from  the  Saints,  the  Elders  and  sisters  laboring 
in  the  Canadian  mission.  Wle  have  a  glorious  clay  for  our  conference, 
and  we  have  had  practically  this  kind  of  glorious  weather  during  the 
entire  summer  in  the  Canadian  mission — only  a  few  hot,  sultry  days ; 
nothing  like  that  which  our  people  have  experienced  in  the  western 
part  of  Canada  and  here.  We  rejoice  in  the  delightful  climate  and  the 
delightful  country  in  which  we  have  to  labor.  Eastern  Canada,  to  me, 
is  a  glorious  land,  a  land  of  forest,  lake  and  stream.  The  province 
of  Ontario  alone  has  a  hundred  and  fifty  thousand  square  miles  of 
forest,  and  as  the  country  is  a  rolling  country  it  lends  itself  to  a  myriad 
of  lakes  and  streams  that  are  delightful  to  the  eye.  It  is  a  paradise  to 
the  tourist,  one  who  desires  to  see  nature  and  to  rest  himself  for  a  few 
weeks  or  months,  as  the  case  might  be  and  his  time  permits,  in  that  land. 
We  rejoice  in  that  glorious  country,  in  the  privilege  of  being  there,  and 
of  drinking  in  its  beauty  and  having  it  enter  into  our  souls. 

Recently  we  have  completed  our  third  missionary  trip  since  we 
went  up  to  Canada  in  January — my  wife  and  I  and  the  secretary  of 
the  mission  covering  thirty-two  hundred  miles  in  making  the  circuit, 
which  represented  the  eastern  part  of  the  mission,  the  western  having 
already  been  covered.  We  held  thirty-five  meetings,  and  mingled  with 
the  Saints.  We  took  three  weeks  for  the  trip.  Brother  Ballard  visited 
it  in  June  in  shorter  time.  He  visited  the  same  part  in  twelve  days, 
but  it  was  holding  meeting  and  catching  train,  holding  meeting  and 
catching  train ;  very  little  opportunity  to  get  very  close  to  the  people 
themselves  ;  and  for  that  reason  we  took  a  little  more  time. 

In  our  meetings  we  have  devoted  about  one-half  of  the  time  in 
defense  of  the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  answering  attacks  upon  the 
doctrines  of  the  Church.  The  other  half  we  have  devoted  to  the  one 
thing  that  we  think  very  essential:  We  feel  that  we  are  sent  into  the 
world  to  warn  the  people  and  to  give  them  the  message  of  the  Gospel. 
When  we  have  done  this  we  must  depend  upon  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
to  enter  into  their  hearts,  convert  them  to  the  Gospel,  and  bring  them 
into  the  fold. 

We  also  feel  that  our  duty  lies  with  those  who  have  already  ac- 
cepted the  Gospel,  and  that  time  must  be  given  to  hold  them  in  the 
faith  and  to  point  out  to  them  that  which  many  of  them  cannot  under- 
stand.   In  the  world  a  great  many  people  feel  that  they  are  "saved," 


ELDER  JOHN  V.  BLUTH 


S3 


that  by  confessing  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  they  have  already,  at  a 
certain  hour,  on  a. certain  date,  in  a  certain  place,  become  saved,  and 
therefore  they  need  not  investigate  the  truth  anywhere  else.  [Some  of 
our  Saints,  after  having  entered  into  baptism,  received  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  and  become  members  of  the  Church,  feel  that  by  attending 
only  a  few  meetings  they  are  doing  their  full  duty.  To  my  mind  it 
seems  that  they  have  only  advanced  a  istep  ahead  of  those  who  are 
still  outside  of  the  pale  of  the  Church,  and  their  entire  journey  still 
lies  before  them,_  the  straight  and  the  narrow  |way,  the  continual  re- 
pentance from  things  that  are  evil  in  their  nature,  bringing  themselves 
nearer  unto  God.  We  have  devoted  a  great  deal  of  time  in  an  en- 
deavor to  convince  them  that  their  mission  is  not  finished,  that  their 
salvation  is  not  secure,  unless  they  continue  -faithful  in  the  keeping  of 
the  commandments  of  God.  We  have  told  them  that  blessings  come 
through  obedience,  that  our  Father  has  said :  "I,  the  Lord,  am  bound 
when  ye  do  what  I  say,  but  when  ye  do  not  what  I  say  ye  have  no 
promise."  i  1  , 

We  call  their  attention  to  the  necessity  of  prayer,  of  living  close 
to  God,  citing  them  the  fact  that  in  the  early  days  the  saints  were 
afflicted  because  they  did  not  keep  the  laws  of  God,  did  not  seek  him 
closely.  I  remember  that  the  Lord  has  said,  in  one  of  the  sections  of 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  that  "in  the  day  of  their  peace  they 
esteemed  lightly  my  counsel ;  but,  in  the  day  of  their  trouble,  of 
necessity  they  feel  after  me." 

We  seek  to  teach  them  that  they  should  so  live  that  when  adversity 
comes  they  can  go  to  God  with  an  assurance  in  their  hearts  that  because 
they  have  sought  to  live  his  commandments,  because  they  have  been 
in  touch  with  him  in  the  days  of  their  prosperity,  he  will  answer 
their  prayers ;  that  they  may  not  be  like  the  man  who,  when  in  a 
dangerous  position,  knelt  and  prayed  to  God  to  save  him,  and,  to  make 
sure  of  an  answer,  said :  "O  Father,  I  have  never  troubled  you  before. 
Help  me  now." 

Our  idea  is  to  be  in  touch  with  him  continuously,  seeking  his 
heip  and  his  assistance,  and  giving  unto  him  our  praises,  our  rejoicing 
in  the  many  blessings  he  has  given  unto  us. 

I  rejoiced  here  today,  while  listening  to  the  opening  hymn  of  this 
afternoon's  session : 

"Come,  come,  ye  Saints,  no  toil  nor  labor  fear, 
But  with  joy  wend  your  way." 
Compare  the  condition  of  the  Saints  some  eighty-five  years  ago, 
when '  that  was  written,  with  the  conditions  under  which  we  wor- 
ship here!  I  think  of  them  plodding  over  the  rain-sodden  plains 
of  Iowa,  some  four  hundred  miles,  in  order  to  reach  the  Missouri 
river,  half -clad,  starved,  weary.  That  song  was  written  to  cheer 
their  souls  while  they  surrounded  the  camp  fires,  and  to  give  them 
new  courage  for  their  labors  of  the  following  day,  knowing  that 
when  thev  reached  the  Missouri  river  they  still  had  another  thousand 
miles  of  land  travel  before  them,  and  that  in  hostile  country.  Compare 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  with  the  conditions  under  which  we  worship  here,  and  then  talk 
about  adversity  and  depression ! 

There  are  so  many  things  which  of  late  have  become  necessities 
that  at  one  time  werg  luxuries,  and  a  few  years  earlier  were  not  even 
heard  of.  If  we  really  thought  so,  we  could  dispense  with  them  today, 
and  thereby  lessen  the  depression  we  now  suffer. 

Brother  McKay,  in  an  earlier  meeting,  spoke  of  testing  the  spirits ; 
and  in  our  missionary  meeting  held  on  Wednesday  there  were  many 
reports  of  the  wonderful  assistance  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  as  mani- 
fested in  healings,  in  guidance  under  difficult  circumstances,  in  pro- 
viding for  the  missionaries  on  the  highway,  in  their  meetings,  and  in 
other  capacities,  showing  that  the  Lord  was  with  them  and  helping 
them ;  that  there  was  power  in  the  Gospel,  and  that  the  gifts  and  bless- 
ings follow  the  believers. 

An  interesting  incident  occurred  in  our  mission,  in  which  the 
blessing  of  God  followed  even  a  non-member,  but  the  blessing  did 
not  benefit  him.  A  man  studying  for  the  Baptist  ministry  became 
interested  in  the  teaching's  of  the  Elders.  He  listened  to  them  and  de- 
clared his  belief  in  what  was  stated  as  the  truth.  He  learned  that  they 
had  the  gifts  and  blessings  in  the  Church.  He  was  afflicted  with 
cancer,  and  his  life  despaired  of.  He  lost  all  appetite  and  was  unable 
to  move  about  or  to  do  anything  much  for  himself.  He  asked  the 
Elders — two  of  them — a  young  brother  from  Ogden  and  one  from 
Salt  Lake,  to  come  and  administer  unto  him.  After  questioning 
him,  feeling  of  his  spirit,  probing  his  .sincerity,  they  decided  to 
administer  to  him.  They  did  so  and  he  was  healed  completely.  Later 
on  he  was  able  to  attend  to  his  work,  restored  fully  to  his  health, 
vitality,  and  the  life  that  had  been  despaired  of.  A  few  weeks  later, 
after  having  further  investigated  the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  he  asked 
for  baptism,  and  was  baptized.  Several  weeks  later  he  fell  out  over 
some  little  money  matter  with  a  member  of  the  Church,  became  pos- 
sessed of  an  unforgiving  spirit,  and  absolutely  refused  to  make  matters 
right.  From  that  time  until  this  he  has  become  so  possessed  of  the 
evil  power  that  he  will  walk  the  streets  where  street  meetings  are  held, 
and  laugh  and  deride  and  make  fun  of  the  Elders.  He  has  threatened 
them  with  violence,  telling  them  that  if  they  came  near  him  he  would 
mark  them  for  life.  He  says  that  he  does  not  believe  in  them  and 
that  the  members  of  the  Church  are  all  liars  and  hypcrites.  That 
spirit  has  so  taken  possession  of  him  that  he  is  far  worse  than  he  was 
before  the  time  when  he  received  this  wonderful  manifestation  from 
God,  and  from  what  I  learned  in  the  conference  held  two  weeks  ago 
the  affliction  is  coming  back  upon  him.  That  is  testing  another  kind  of 
spirit  than  that  of  which  we  have  heard  today. 

I  pray  God  that  he  may  bless  us,  that  we  may  be  faithful,  keep  our 
covenants  with  God,  do  everything  that  he  desires,  be  ready  to  respond 
to  every  call  and  serve  him  so  faithfully  that  when  we  have  finished 
our  work  here  upon  the  earth  we  may  be  counted  worthy  to  dwell  in 
his  presence,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen, 


ELDER  GEORGE  S.  ROMNEY 


85 


ELDER  GEORGE  S.  ROMNEY 

President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission 

I  have  the  privilege  of  representing  seventy-four  young  men  and 
women  who  are  preaching  the  Gospel  in  the  Northern  States  mission, 
also  more  than  seven  thousand  Latter-day  Saints  who  are  there  I 
should  like  to  tell  you,  if  I  can,  something  about  the  way  these  mis- 
sionaries are  meeting  the  great  social  problems  which  are  confronting 
the  people  there. 

Just  a  few  days  ago,  a  man  from  Toledo,  Ohio,  who  claims  a 
membership  in  the  Church,  came  to  my  office  to  ask  for  some  help.  He 
said  that  he  and  his  wife  had  been  hunting  over  the  city  of  Chicago  for 
many  days  for  work.  I  asked  him  the  condition  of  the  many  men  whom 
we  see  sitting  on  the  park  benches  and  other  places,  idle,  in  the  city 
of  Chicago.  He  said :  "Come  and  go  with  me  tonight,  and  I  will  take 
you  down  on  the  lake  front  and  show  you  twenty-five  thousand  men 
or  more — men  who  are  willing  to  work  and  want  work,  and  men  who 
have  nothing  to  eat."  I  went  down  through  the  subway  under  Michigan 
Avenue,  and  there  I  saw  men  in  crowds,  lying  on  the  ground,  with 
just  a  newspaper  under  them,  keeping  warm  by  the  fires  that  they  made 
from  boxes  that  they  had  gathered  from  the  stores. 

This  man  said  to  me  that  he  had  made  all  the  efforts  that  he  could, 
and  if  it  came  to  the  worst,  he  had  told  his  wife  the  day  before  that  he 
would  get  a  gun  and  go  down-town  and  get  food  for  her  to  eat.  There 
are  many  of  the  larger  steel  mills,  automobile  factories  and  others,  that 
are  only  employing  now  from  forty  to  sixty  percent  of  their  men. 

These  social  problems  produce  a  feeling  of  unrest,  and  the  think- 
ing people  are  facing  these  problems  and  wondering  how  to  meet  them. 

The  feeling  is  growing,  in  the  colleges  and  in  the  universities, 
that  our  problems  must  be  solved,  not  by  legislation,  but  by  estab- 
lishing character  in  the  youth  as  they  grow  up,  and  in  the  people. 

A  minister  of  the  Presbyterian  church  recently  invited  me  to 
speak  to  his  congregation.  I  asked  him  to  suggest  a  subject  and  he 
said :  "Tell  us  how  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  meeting  the  social  and 
economic  problems  which  the  world  is  facing  at  the  present  time."  I  had 
the  privilege  of  explaining  to  them  something  about  the  law  of  tithing, 
and  fast  donations,  and  the  way  we  take  care  of  our  poor  through  the 
wards  and  the  Relief  Societies.  I  also  explained  to  them  something 
of  the  character  of  the  education  which  we  give  in  our  Sunday  Schools, 
and  Mutual  Improvement,  and  other  auxiliary  organizations.  After 
the  meeting  was  over,  the  way  that  group  of  people  gathered  around 
and  asked  their  questions  indicated  the  interest  which  people  are  taking 
in  these  social  problems. 

Recently  one  of  the  boys  (missionaries)  wrote  me  that  he  had  been 
traveling  on  the  highway,  and  was  picked  up  by  the  vice-president  of 
one  of  the  railroads.  This  Elder  and  his  companion  were  invited  to 
the  home  of  this  gentleman  and  had  a  long  conversation.  This  official 
of  the  railroad  expressed  himself,  as  the  boys  were  leaving,  that  he 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


considered  the  type  of  work  that  they  were  doing  was  of  the  very 
highest  nature.  He  said  that  if  they  could  carry  that  spirit  among  the 
people,  and  get  others  to  feel  as  they  felt,  (that  they  were  willing  to 
spend  their  time  in  teaching  principles  of  such  value)  that  it  would 
help  to  solve  the  problems. 

We  have  many  other  incidents  which  I  thought  I  would  tell  you,  but 
cannot,  of  men  who  have  expressed  themselves  in  a  similar  way.  That 
is,  that  the  teaching,  by  example,  of  young  men  and  women  who  are 
willing  to  spend  their  time,  sustaining  themselves  while  they  are  doing 
it,  makes  an  impression.  It  is  an  object  lesson  that  impresses  the  people 
of  the  world. 

Thinking  men,  so  far  as  intellectuality  is  concerned,  appreciate 
the  work  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

But  there  is  another  way  by  which  men  and  women  are  impressed 
by  the  work  of  the  missionaries  that  is  in  addition  to  and  I  think  far 
greater  than  this  intellectual  way.  It  is  illustrated  by  a  gentleman  with 
whom  I  rode  a  few  days  ago,  who  is  now  a  member  of  the  Church. 
For  a  long  time  his  wife  was  a  member  of  the  Church,  and  had  been 
actively  working,  but  he  was  in  opposition.  He  was  a  user  of  tobacco. 
There  was  scarcely  an  hour  or  minute  that  he  did  not  have  tobacco 
in  some  form  in  his  mouth.  He  said  to  me  that  he  used  foul  language, 
that  he  was  in  opposition  to  the  Church  and  felt  that  he  treated  his 
wife  all  the  time  in  a  very  undesirable  way.  He  went  to  a  Relief  Society 
meeting  with  his  wife,  not  at  her  request,  but  just  through  a  suggestion 
of  his  own.  He  sat  and  listened  to  the  testimonies^ — because  it  was  a 
testimony  meeting — of  some  of  the  sisters,  and  he  expressed  himself 
something  like  this : 

"While  I  was  sitting  there  listening  to  them,  a  feeling  came  over 
me  that  passed  through  me  from  my  head  to  my  feet.  I  can't  describe 
it,  but  it  was  such  a  feeling  that  it  made  the  tears  stream  from  my 
eyes.  I  felt  myself  crying.  I  felt  ashamed.  I  did  not  know  what  was 
the  matter  with  me."  He  said :  "I  went  home.  I  threw  my  tobacco 
away,  and  from  that  day  to  this  I  have  never  touched  it.  I  have 
treated  my  wife  as  I  should  do."  He  is  now  a  president  of  the  Mutual 
Improvement  organization,  and  is  a  very  fine  man. 

It  is  that  type  of  thing,  wherein  men  and  women  change  their 
lives,  because  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  comes  over  them,  that  will  solve 
our  social  problems. 

I  am  appreciative  of  the  work  I  am  doing,  and  testify  to  you  that 
I  know  that  the  Lord  does  inspire  the  hearts  of  people  through  his 
Spirit.  I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  us,  that  we  may  all  have  the  spirit  of 
missionary  work,  and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Lord  dismiss  us  with  Thv 
blessing." 

After  the  benediction,  which  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Edward  C. 
Rich,  President  of  the  Montpelier  Stake,  the  Conference  adjourned 
until  10:00  o'clock  Sunday  morning,  October  4,  1931. 


THIRD  DAY 

MORNING  MEETING 

The  Conference  reconvened  Sunday  morning,  October  4,  1931  at 
10  o'clock. 

The  great  tabernacle  auditorium  and  galleries  were  filled  to  capacity 
every  seat  being  taken  and  all  available  space  in  the  aisles  and  doorways 
being  occupied  by  people  who  were  unable  to  find  seats.  Thousands 
who  could  not  be  accommodated  in  the  tabernacle  congregated  in  the 
large  Assembly  Hall  directly  south  of  the  tabernacle  and  on  the  taber- 
nacle grounds,  where  they  listened  to  the  Conference  proceedings  as  they 
were  broadcast  by  radio. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

As  an  opening  number  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  congregation 
sang  the  hymn,  "Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with  Jehovah." 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder  S.  Norman  Lee,  President 
of  the  Box  Elder  Stake. 

"An  angel  from  on  high,"  duet  and  chorus,  was  rendered  by  Cyril 
Martin  and  Ida  Hepworth  and  the  Choir. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  stand  before  you  this  morning  in  humility 
and  humbly  ask  that  during  the  few  moments  of  time  I  expect  to  occupy 
I  may  have  your  sympathy,  the  support  of  your  faith,  and  the  help  of 
the  Lord,  that  I  may  clearly  outline  to  you  the  thoughts  which  I  have 
in  my  mind. 

I  am  going  to  read  from  the  Book  of  Isaiah,  19th  chapter,  19th 
and  20th  verses :  ! 

"In  that  clay  shall  there  be  an  altar  to  the  Lord  in  the  midst  of  the  land 
of  Egypt,  and  a  pillar  at  the  border  thereof  to  the  Lord. 

"And  it  shall  be  for  a  sign  and  for  a  witness  unto  the  Lord  of  hosts  in  the 
land  of  Egypt:  for  they  shall  cry  unto  the  Lord  because  of  the  oppressors,  and 
he  shall  send  them  a  savior,  and  a  great  one,  and  he  shall  deliver  them." 

REFERS  TO  BOOK 

I  have  read  this  scripture,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  as  a  basis  for 
the  brief  remarks  that  I  expect  to  make  in  regard  to  a  matter  that  has 
caused  more  or  less  discussion  among  members  of  the  Church  because 
of  the  recent  publication  of  this  small  book  which  I  hold  in  my  hand. 
The  title  of  the  book  is  "Our  Bible  in  Stone."  The  author  is  Francis 
M.  Darter  of  Los  Angeles,  a  member  of  the  Church,  in  good  standing, 
an  experienced  engineer  and  a  mathematician  of  ability. 

It  treats  principally  the  erection,  symbolism  and  prophetic  char- 
acter of  the  pyramid  of  Gizeh,  or  in  Greek,  Cheops.    Various  other 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


applications  so  far  as  the  name  is  concerned  have  been  applied  to  this 
structure.  Because  of  its  superiority  over  all  other  like  structures  it 
has  come  to  be  known  and  referred  to  as  the  Great  Pyramid  of  Gizeh. 

SITUATED  IN  EGYPT 

The  Great  Pyramid  of  Gizeh  is  situated  in  Egypt,  about  ten  miles 
west  of  the  city  of  Cairo,  and  one  hundred  and  twenty-five  miles  south 
from  the  city  of  Alexandria,  which  was  founded  by  Alexander  the 
Great  332  B.  C.  It  is  bounded  on  the  west  by  the  Libyan  desert,  and 
is  therefore  in  the  borders  of  the  land.  It  is  one  of  a  group  of  nine 
other  similar  structures,  which  are  known  as  the  Pyramids  of  Gizeh. 

It  is  a  noteworthy  fact  that  while  many  pyramids  are  found  in 
Egypt,  none  is  known  to  exist  in  other  parts  of  the  world  except  in 
America,  where  many  such  structures  are  known  to  have  been  erected, 
but  no  other  pyramids  can  be  compared  with  the  unusual  structure  to 
which  my  remarks  are  to  be  confined. 

The  orientation  of  the  great  pile,  as  it  applies  to  the  points  of  the 
compass,  and  the  accuracy  with  which  its  proportions  are  related  one 
to  the  other,  are  a  marvel  to  those  who  have  made  a  study  of  it. 

GOVERNED  BY  STARS 

The  relationship  of  the  Pyramid  to  modern  mathematics,  by  which 
scholars  have  endeavored  to  fix  the  date  of  its  construction,  indicates 
that  in  its  erection  the  builders  were  familiar  with  and  governed  largely 
by  the  movement  of  the  heavenly  bodies,  which  science  the  moderns 
refer  to  as  astronomy. 

Sir  John  Herschel,  from  astronomical  calculation,  places  the  con- 
struction of  the  Pyramid  at  2160  B.  C.,  and  Professor  Piazza  Smyth 
at  2170  B.  C.  Basil  Stewart,  in  his  recently  published  book,  "The 
Witness  of  the  Great  Pyramid,"  after  a  careful  study  of  the  application 
of  astronomy  in  its  construction,  says : 

"The  Great  Pyramid  therefore  may  be  considered  the  earliest  known  record 
in  existence  wherein  is  embodied  the  fact  of  the  immense  cycle  known  as 
the  precession  of  the  equinoxes." 

OF  GREAT  MAGNITUDE 

The  magnitude  of  the  structure  may  be  best  understood  by  comparing 
it  with  something  with  which  we  are  familiar.  The  area  covered  by 
the  base  of  the  structure  is  in  excess  of  thirteen  acres,  or  three  acres 
larger  than  the  block  upon  which  this  building  stands,  which  is  ten 
acres.  The  height  of  the  Pyramid  is  485  feet  above  the  base,  or  more 
than  twice  the  height  of  the  temple  to  the  east  of  us.  The  bulk  of 
the  building  is  more  than  ninety  million  cubic  feet,  and  sufficient  stone 
was  used  in  its  construction  to  build  a  wall  four  feet  high  and  two 
teet  thick,  twenty-two  hundred  miles  in  length,  or  which  would  reach 
from  Chicago  to  San  Francisco. 

THE  BUILDERS 

Who  were  the  builders  of  the  Pyramid  no  one  knows.  Khufu 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS 


89 


(Cheops,  in  Greek)  is  given  credit  for  having  been  the  builder.  This- 
personage  has  been  identified  by  some  students  as  Seth,  the  son  of 
Adam;  others  give  Enoch,  the  son  of  Jared,  credit  for  having  been 
the  builder ;  others  Shem,  the  Son  of  Noah ;  while  some  believe  that 
Melchizedek,  that  mysterious  personage  to  whom  Abraham  paid  tithes, 
and  whom  some  of  these  scholars  identify  as  the  Patriarch  Job,  was 
the  person  who  constructed  it. 

Herodotus,  who  lived  nearly  five  hundred  years  before  the  birth 
of  Christ,  and  who  is  referred  to  as  the  father  of  history,  knew  of  the 
existence  of  the  Great  Pyramid,  and  wrote  concerning  it.  He  says 
that  the  Egyptians  detested  the  memory  of  the  kings  who  caused  their 
fathers  to  erect  these  structures,  and  besides  compelled  them  to  close 
their  own  temples,  and  for  this  reason  they  were  not  willing  to  mention 
their  names,  but  called  the  two  first  pyramids  erected  after  Philition, 
a  shepherd  who  fed  his  cattle  about  the  place. 

Manetho,  himself  an  Egyptian,  wrote  as  follows: 

"There  came  from  the  east,  in  a  strange  manner,  men  of  an  ignoble  race, 
who  had  the  confidence  to  invade  our  country,  and  easily  subdued  it  by  their 
power  without  a  battle.  All  this  invading  nation  was  styled  Hyksos,  that  is, 
'Shepherd  Kings'." 

He  then  relates  how  they  departed  for  Judea  and  built  a  city 
there  named  Jerusalem.  This  he  says  was  long  before  the  exodus  of 
the  Israelitish  people  from  Egypt  under  Moses. 

OLD  THEORY  CHALLENGED 

It  is  known  that  Hyksos,  or  Shepherd  Kings,  dominated  Egypt 
at  the  time  that  Jacob  and  his  family  went  into  that  country,  during 
the  period  when  Joseph  ruled  as  vice  regent  of  the  reigning  Pharaoh, 
and  it  was  among  this  people  that  Joseph  chose  his  wife,  Asenath, 
who  became  the  mother  of  his  sons  Ephraim  and  Manasseh. 

The  first  definite  suggestion  that  the  Great  Pyramid  was  other 
than  the  tomb  of  a  king,  or  other  merely  temporal  monument,  was  in 
a  work  written  by  John  Taylor  in  London  in  1859.  He  conceived 
the  idea  that  it  was  a  divinely  planned  and  constructed  monument, 
designed  to  be  a  witness  to  the  human  race,  showing  in  advance  the 
history  of  mankind  from  the  creation  to  the  period  of  the  second 
coming  of  our  Lord,  who  would  establish  dominion  over  the  earth 
upon  which  we  dwell  and  usher  in  a  reign  of  righteousness  and  peace. 

At  a  later  date  C.  Piazza  Smyth,  astronomer  royal  of  Scotland, 
wrote  upon  the  subject,  agreeing  with  the  conclusions  reached  by  Taylor. 
Sir  W.  M.  Flinders  Petrie,  Professor  John  Edgar,  D.  Davidson,  Joseph 
A.  Seiss,  Sir  John  Herschel,  Basil  Stewart  and  many  other  scholarly 
men,  after  making  a  study  of  the  subject,  became  advocates  of  the 
theory  advanced  by  Taylor,  that  the  Great  Pyramid  has  something 
more  than  human  in  its  construction  and  symbolism. 

THE  INTERIOR 

For  ages  after  its  construction  the  interior  of  the  Great  Pyramid 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


remained  a  sealed  mystery.  Obsessed  with  the  belief  that  within  the 
great  pile  hordes  of  treasure  had  been  concealed,  men  finally  determined 
to  penetrate  and  explore  it.  A  tunnel  was  driven  into  the  structure  far 
towards  the  center,  but  the  work  was  so  difficult  that  it  was  about  to 
be  discontinued  when  the  workmen  unexpectedly  broke  into  the  passage- 
way, and  the  mystery  was  solved. 

Nothing  was  found  to  indicate  that  the  Pyramid  had  been  con- 
structed to  be  the  tomb  of  a  king,  as  was  usually  the  case  with  the 
smaller  structures  of  like  architecture.  It  was  discovered  that  the 
original  builders  had  constructed  a  series  of  passages  or  galleries  in 
the  interior  of  the  Pyramid,  the  entrance  to  which  had  been  concealed 
and  so  strongly  closed  that  it  became  necessary  to  blast  around  it  in 
order  that  entrance  might  be  made  possible.  This  entrance  is  on  the 
north  side  of  the  structure,  and  the  first  gallery  or  passage  descends 
from  the  opening  at  an  angle  of  about  twenty-six  degrees  to  a  point 
far  below  the  floor  of  the  Pyramid  into  the  solid  rock  upon  which  it 
stands,  where  it  terminates  in  a  chamber  which  is  called  the  Pit. 

A  short  distance  from  the  entrance,  at  the  same  angle,  another 
passageway  leads  upward  and  communicates  with  two  other  chambers, 
one  referred  to  as  the  Queen's  Chamber,  near  the  center,  and  the  other, 
higher  up,  as  the  King's  Chamber. 

CONCLUSIONS  OF  SCHOLARS 

It  is  the  accuracy  with  which  these  galleries  are  constructed  and 
certain  markings  and  steps  which  are  placed  at  intervals  along  the 
way,  that  have  convinced  scholars  who  have  made  careful  study  of  the 
subject  that  the  Pyramid  was  intended  by  its  builders  to  represent  the 
history  of  our  race,  as  has  been  stated,  from  the  remote  past  to  the 
time  of  the  second  coming  of  our  Lord. 

Discussion  of  the  symbolism  of  the  Great  Pyramid  is  not  a  new 
thing  in  the  Church.  I  well  remember  that  Orson  Pratt,  during  his 
lifetime,  lectured  on  the  subject  and  made  mathematical  calculations 
by  which  he  reached  the  conclusion  that  certain  measurements  of  the 
galleries  and  markings  which  were  upon  them  had  reference  to  the 
opening  of  the  Gospel  dispensation  in  which  we  live,  and  the  final 
consummation  of  the  purposes  of  our  Father  in  heaven,  by  which  peace 
would  come  to  the  world  and  happiness  to  mankind. 

I  remember  also  that  his  calculations  brought  conclusions  which 
differed  from  others  who  had  made  a  study  of  the  subject,  but  were 
in  the  main  the  same.  Soon  after  the  World  War  students  of  the 
Pyramid  announced  that  according  to  their  theory,  and  it  is  only  a 
theory,  the  year  1928  would  witness  the  beginning  of  a  period  of 
tribulation  which  would  continue  with  increasing  intensity  until  1936, 
and  would  bring  sorrow  and  mourning  to  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth. 
At  that  date  their  symbols  and  measurements  bring  us  to  the  King's 
Chamber,  and  the  record  of  the  Pyramid,  if  it  has  a  record,  will  cease 
with  the  advent  of  our  Lord  and  the  establishment  of  a  period  of  peace, 
happiness  and  good  will  among  men. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS 


91 


QUESTIONS  CONCLUSIONS 

The  Church  has  not  at  any  time,  nor  does  it  now,  accept  the  conclu- 
sions of  pyramid  students  to  be  definitely  correct.  In  fact  there  is 
great  doubt  that  the  arbitrary  basis  upon  which  their  calculations  and 
conclusions  are  founded  is  correct-. 

I  do  not  wish  to  be  understood  to  say  that  they  are  in  error.  Neither 
do  I  say  that  they  are  correct.  But  this  much  I  desire  to  declare  to 
this  congregation :  While  I  have  not  given  profound  study  to  the  theories 
of  men  regarding  the  origin  and  symbolism  of  this  miracle  in  stone,  I 
have  read  and  studied  it  in  a  general  way  and  have  found  nothing  in  it 
to  convince  me  that  the  record  of  the  Great  Pyramid  definitely  forecasts 
coming  events. 

OTHER  SOURCES 

The  Church  does  not  depend  upon  Pyramids  of  Gizeh  nor  the 
conclusions  of  scientific  investigators,  however  helpful  they  may  some- 
times be  in  the  study  of  these  questions,  for  an  interpretation  of  the 
scripture  which  refers  to  the  return  of  Christ  our  Lord  to  earth  and 
the  millennium  of  peace  and  good-will  which  is  to  be  enjoyed  under  his 
personal  administration. 

We  believe  in  the  literal  gathering  of  the  house  of  Israel,  that 
Judah  and  Benjamin  will  be  united  with  Ephraim  and  the  ten  tribes 
from  whom  they  have  been  separated  since  the  reign  of  Rehoboam,  the 
son  of  Solomon ;  that  Zion  will  be  built  upon  this  continent ;  that  Christ 
our  Lord  will  reign  personally  among  his  people;  and  that  the  earth 
will  be  restored  to  its  paradisaical  glory. 

This  declaration  of  our  faith  is  based  upon  the  words  of  our 
Lord  as  they  are  contained  in  the  Bible,  and  have  come  to  us  through 
modern  revelation. 

PRECEDING  HIS  SECOND  COMING 

As  Jesus  sat  upon  the  Mount  of  Olives  the  disciples  came  to 
him  privately,  saying: 

"Tell  us,  when  shall  these  things  be?  and  what  shall  be  the  sign  of  thy 
coming,  and  of  the  end  of  the  world?" 

Our  Lord  warned  them  to  take  heed  lest  they  be  deceived.  He 
told  them  that  preceding  the  time  of  his  coming  there  would  be  a 
period  when  war  would  prevail  throughout  the  world;  that  nation 
would  rise  against  nation,  and  kingdom  against  kingdom,  and  that 
there  would  be  famine  and  pestilences  and  earthquakes  in  divers  places ; 
that  those  who  believed  in  him  would  suffer  persecution,  and  that 
tribulation  such  as  had  never  before  been  known  would  be  experienced. 
But  he  assured  them  that  those  who  had  faith  to  endure  to  the  end 
would  be  saved. 

He  told  them  that  before  his  coming  the  Gospel  which  he  taught 
would  be  restored  to  earth  and  preached  among  all  people,  as  a  witness, 
before  the  end  should  come.    And  then  he  said,  "shall  appear  the 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


sign  of  the  Son  of  man  in  heaven  *  *  *  and  they  shall  see  the  Son  of 
man  coming  in  the  clouds  of  heaven  with  power  and  great  glory." 

At  the  time  of  his  ascension,  when  the  cloud  received  him,  as 
his  disciples  gazed  in  wonder  and  astonishment,  two  men  in  white 
apparel  appeared  and  said : 

"Ye  men  of  Galilee,  why  stand  ye  gazing  np  into  heaven?  this  same  Jesus, 
which  is  taken  up  from  you  into  heaven,  shall  so  come  in  like  manner  as  ye  have 
seen  him  go  into  heaven." 

The  affirmation  of  the  crucifixion  and  resurrection  of  Christ 
and  the  further  fact  that  he  would  at  a  subsequent  period  of  time  return 
to  earth  to  assume  control  over  its  affairs  and  usher  in  a  millennium 
of  peace  are  so  definitely  attested  that  no  real  believer  in  the  Bible  can 
deny  them. 

EXACT  TIME  NOT  REVEALED 

Conditions  which  would  prevail  prior  to  his  glorious  appearance 
are  definitely  stated,  but  the  exact  time  when  he  shall  appear  has  not 
been  revealed.  He  himself  says,  referring  to  the  time  of  his  glorious 
appearance :  "But  of  that  day  and  that  hour  knoweth  no  man,  no,  not 
the  angels  which  are  in  heaven,  neither  the  Son,  but  the  Father." 

He  does  tell  us  that  he  will  come  in  an  hour  when  we  expect 
him  not  and  warns  us  that  we  must  always  be  prepared  to  meet  him. 
He  warns  us  further  that  if  at  that  time  we  are  found  oppressing  our 
brethren  and  eating  and  drinking  with  the  drunken  he  will  cut  us  off, 
root,  and  branch,  which  will  cause  weeping  and  wailing  and  gnashing 
of  teeth. 

THE  AUTHOR'S  OWN  VIEWS 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  referred  to  this  little  book 
and  its  contents  as  I  desire  that  you  might  understand.  It  will  un- 
doubtedly go  into  the  mission  field  and  our  Elders  may  make  use  of  it. 
I  simply  want  to  warn  you  against  sensationalism  of  any  kind. 

While  the  author,  as  I  have  stated,  is  a  member  of  the  Church  in 
full  standing,  this  work  goes  out  as  his  own  views.  I  do  not  wish 
to  deprecate  the  amount  of  work  he  must  have  applied  in  the  prepara- 
tion of  this  book,  in  the  study  of  the  scriptures,  and  in  the  preparation 
of  the  charts  which  are  contained  in  it.  I  do  not  say  that  his  conclu- 
sions are  wrong,  but  I  do  say  that  they  do  not  come  to  us  as  the  voice 
of  the  Church,  nor  are  they  to  be  accepted  as  such. 

TROUBLES  FORECAST 

Brother  J.  Golden  Kimball  told  us  yesterday  that  he  was  a  great 
believer  in  dreams  that  come  true.  I  am  reminded  of  the  fact  that  im- 
mediately after  the  close  of  the  World  War  these  students  of  the 
Pyramids  announced  and  published  it  that  according  to  their  measure- 
ments and  calculations  there  would  begin  in  the  year  1928  a  period 
which  would  bring  tribulation  and  sorrow  to  the  people  of  the  world ; 
that  they  would  be  required  to  humble  themselves  before  the  Lord,  and 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  jV.  IVINS 


93 


that  that  period  of  tribulation  would  continue  until  the  year  1936. 
This  was  based  entirely  upon  the  measurement  of  the  galleries  and 
the  steps  that  are  in  the  Pyramids. 

We  all  know  that  a  part  of  this  dream  at  least  has  come  true.  Men 
come  to  us  and  tell  us  that  there  is  no  depression;  that  it  is  only  our 
imagination.  It  is  true  that  we  are  surrounded  by  plenty,  but  in  the 
midst  of  plenty  many  are  in  want.  Such  talk  to  me  is  sheer  nonsense. 
My  father-in-law,  Erastus  Snow,  used  to  say  that  such  statements 
reminded  him  of  a  man  trying  to  hold  himself  up  by  his  own  boot- 
straps. When  Great  Britain  who  has  stood  in  the  ages  past  as  a 
financial  master  of  the  world  sends  out  cries  for  financial  help;  when 
Germany  who  stands  in  the  very  forefront  of  the  nations  of  the  world 
in  intellectual  development  ,in  music,  in  chemistry,  in  mechanism,  sends 
out  calls  for  help,  and  is  on  the  very  verge  of  dissolution  and  anarchy, 
it  is  obvious  that  there  is  somethng  wrong. 

TRIBULATIONS  EVIDENT 

When  our  own  government  is  wrestling  with  problems  which  they 
hardly  know  how  to  control,  but  are  doing  their  very  best  to  meet  them  ; 
when  banking  establishments  are  going  down  like  block-houses,  and 
hundreds  of  millions  of  dollars  of  the  savings  of  poor  people  are  being 
lost  to  them  because  of  these  failures,  it  appears  obvious  to  me  that 
we  are  passing  through  a  time  of  tribulation.  I  believe  it  is  better 
at  any  rate  that  we  should  think  so.  I  agree  with  the  Governor  of 
our  state  in  his  declaration  that  we  are  in  a  period  which  requires 
our  most  careful  attention  and  our  best  efforts  to  avert.  If  there 
are  those  who  do  not  believe  it  they  will  find  it  out  before  we  are 
through  with  it. 

DEFENDS  BANKS 

While  I  am  on  my  feet  I  want  to  say  one  thing:  This  condition 
naturally  brings  trouble  to  banking  institutions,  and  men  are  referring 
to  banks  as  heartless  usurers.  Banks  are  not  money-lenders  alone, 
they  are  the  custodians  of  the  funds  of  the  people.  They  do  not  lend 
their  own  money,  they  lend  the  money  of  the  widow  and  the  orphan 
and  the  fatherless  which  has  been  entrusted  to  them.  They  make 
investment  of  it  that  it  may  bring  returns  to  these  people  who  so  greatly 
need  it,  and  it  is  their  sacred  duty  to  preserve  those  funds  to  save  them 
from  loss.  When  men  go  to  banks  and  borrow  money  they  must  do 
it  with  the  expectation  that  they  are  to  pay  it  back.  It  is  not  their 
money,  it  is  not  the  money  of  the  bank ;  it  is  the  money  of  the  people. 
And  so  when  banks  are  careful  to  preserve  their  resources  and  to  keep 
them  liquid,  so  they  can  meet  the  demands  that  are  made  upon  them, 
they  should  be  complimented  and  not  found  fault  with. 

This  brings  me  right  back  to  another  thing  that  the  Redeemer  said. 
He  told  us,  you  know,  that  there  would  be  weeping  and  wailing  among 
the  merchants — or  the  prophet  told  us  that — because  there  would  be 
no  one  to  buy  their  merchandise.    We  have  very  nearly  lived  to  see 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that.  He  told  us  that  it  will  be  the  same  with  the  giver  of  usury  as  it  is 
with  the  taker  of  usury  from  him.  This  is  not  a  condition  which 
affects  one  class  of  our  citizens  only,  it  affects  men  from  the  wealthy 
of  our  country  to  those  who  are  in  the  most  humble  circumstances. 
Well,  now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  what  about  it  all  ? 

TRUST  THE  LORD 

Just  be  calm  and  turn  to  the  Lord.  It  is  not  the  result  of  any 
occurrence  of  the  immediate  past.  We  have  been  gradually  drifting 
toward  it  for  years  and  years,  and  personally  I  have  known  that  it 
would  come,  and  I  bore  witness  of  it  from  this  stand  to  the  people 
a  year  ago.  I  applied  it  to  my  own  affairs.  I  pleaded  with  the  people 
to  put  their  houses  in  order  and  get  out  of  debt,  for  I  knew  this  was 
coming,  because  God  himself  through  his  Only  Begotten  Son  had 
declared  it. 

There  is  nothing  that  men  can  do,  nothing  that  we  can  do  that  will 
avert  the  fulfilment  of  those  sayings,  and  it  is  not  the  design  of  our 
Father  in  heaven  at  all  either.  It  is  simply  the  result  of  our  own  lack 
of  wisdom,  of  our  own  disposition  to  be  selfish,  of  the  accumulation  of 
the  wealth  of  the  country  in  the  hands  of  a  few  men,  which  prevents 
its  equal  distribution  among  the  masses. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  if  the  Church  has  anything  to  say 
to  you  it  will  come  from  them  direct  and  not  from  the  writings  of  other 
men.  It  will  come  to  you  in  a  manner  that  you  will  understand  it.  It 
will  not  be  speculative.  It  will  come  to  you  philosophically,  truthfully 
and  governed  by  common  sense. 

God  bless  you,  is  my  humble  prayer,  through  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

This  is  a  wonderful  gathering,  wonderful  from  many  angles,  and 
from  every  point  of  view  outstanding  and  remarkable. 

I  enjoy  working  in  the  ministry  and  always  have  done  from  my 
youth  up.  I  have  enjoyed  working  for  the  Church,  but  I  must  confess 
that  of  all  the  work  I  have  to  do  and  of  all  the  duties  I  am  called 
upon  to  perform  I  always  approach  this  duty  with  fear  and  trembling. 
I  pray  that  you  will  assist  me  with  your  faith  and  your  sympathy,  and 
that  I  may  have  the  blessing  of  the  Lord  and  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to 
season  my  remarks. 

OMINOUS  SIGNS 

We  have  fallen  upon  strange  times,  as  have  been  outlined  by 
President  Ivins,  and  the  end  is  not  yet.  The  distress  of  nations,  not 
this  nation  alone,  this  people  alone,  but  the  distress  of  nations  and  the 
perplexity  of  nations  is  here  now  at  the  present  time.  There  are  signs 
about  us  that  are  ominous,  in  some  ways  almost  terrible. 

President  Moyle  yesterday  pointed  out  to  us  some  of  the  difficulties, 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  II'.  NIBLEY 


95 


some  of  the  obvious  reasons  that  go  to  show  how  dreadful,  and 
ominous,  some  of  the  signs  of  the  times  are.  There  is  unemployment 
by  the  millions,  men  who  would  like  to  work,  not  the  idler,  but  men 
who  want  to  work  and  are  able  to  work  and  can  find  no  work. 

Nearly  one  hundred  and  fifty  years  ago  the  great  Scottish  poet 
sang  in  a  doleful  refrain  of  this  very  condition  in  his  day : 

"See  yonder  poor  o'er-labored  wight, 
So  abject,  mean  and  vile. 
Who  begs  a  brother  of  the  earth 
To  give  him  leave  to  toil. 
And  see  his  lordly  fellow-worm 
The  poor  petition  spurn. 

Unmindful,  though  a  weeping  wife 
And  helpless  children  mourn." 

Then  he  passes  on  to  say : 

"Man's  inhumanity  to  man 
Makes  countless  thousands  mourn." 

TO  ALLEVIATE  DISTRESS. 

And  so  we  have  that  condition  today.  Committees  are  appointed, 
and  well  appointed,  in  every  state,  and  the  very  head  of  the  nation, 
the  president,  has  appointed  his  committee,  able  men,  the  ablest  men 
who  can  be  found — good  men,  men  who  are  desirous  of  the  good  of 
the  people — to  see  if  something  cannot  be  done  to  mitigate  these  hard 
conditions.  In  our  own  state  we  have  committees  appointed  by  the 
governor  and  the  mayor,  and  in  small  towns  and  villages  of  the  country 
committees  are  at  work  to  see  if  they  cannot  help  out  in  this  present 
situation.  The  work  of  these  committees  is  to  see  that  those  who  have, 
give  up  and  contribute  to  those  who  are  in  need.  That  is  the  sum 
and  substance  of  it  all.  We  have  heard  that  labor  organizations  are 
rather  threatening. 

England's  navy 

We  have  heard  of  one  of  the  most  ominous  signs  of  the  time  that 
has  occurred  in  England.  President  Moyle,  I  think  it  was,  said  that 
the  dole  alone,  in  England,  stands  between  that  country  and  anarchy; 
and  one  of  the  worst  signs  we  have  had  in  the  last  few  weeks  is  a 
mutiny  in  the  English  navy.  The  chancellor  of  the  exchequer,  Philip 
Snowden,  in  paring  down  expenses,  taxing  to  the  last  degree — twenty- 
five  per  cent  of  all  the  income  of  the  people,  and  large  incomes  taxed 
much  higher  than  that — trying  to  make  ends  meet,  trying  to  get  enough 
to  stabilize  the  English  pound  and  carry  on  with  the  government,  and 
everybody  is  making  sacrifices — in  doing  this  he  pared  down  a  little 
on  the  English  navy's  sailors'  compensation  and  the  result  was  mutiny 
in  the  navy — in  England's  navy — something  unheard  of,  unbelievable. 
Hardly  can  we  conceive  that  such  a  thing  would  transpire.  That 
doesn't  have  a  good  look,  because  it  has  been  the  English  navy  that  has 
done  more  for  the  world  than  any  one  can  imagine.    From  the  days 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  the  Armada  of  Spain  came  up  the  channel  to  overthrow  England 
and  take  possession  of  the  country,  in  1588,  when  Drake  and  Hawkins 
and  a  few  of  the  bravest  sailors  and  leaders  ever  known  came  out  to 
defend  their  country,  and  did  defend  it,  and  in  the  goodness  of  the 
Almighty  a  strong  wind  was  sent  to  blow  that  Armada  up  the  channel 
and  help  out  the  weak  English  contingent.  The  outcome  of  it  was 
that  the  British  navy  from  that  day  took  possession  of  the  seas,  and 
from  that  day  to  this  has  held  that  possession.  It  made  Elizabeth,  who 
was  then  queen,  mistress  of  the  seas.  Spain  became  a  second  rate 
or  a  third  rate  power  a  little  later  on. 

And  now,  after  such  a  wonderful  record,  a  record  that  when  the 
Wlorld  War  broke  out  seventeen  years  ago  this  summer  the  one  instru- 
ment of  war  that  was  ready  and  right  on  the  spot  was  the  English 
navy,  this  thing  has  happened.  These  things  do  not  have  a  good 
look.  That  matter  of  mutiny  was  just  patched  up.  We  have  not  heard 
of  anybody  being  thrown  into  chains  or  prison. 

THE  LORD'S  PLAN 

Well,  now,  in  all  this  distress  are  we  left  without  the  word  of 
the  Lord  ?  Has  the  Lord  not  provided  a  way  out  ?  I  think  he  has.  A 
hundred  years  ago  last  March  a  revelation  was  given  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.    I  read  from  Section  49,  19th  and  20th  verses : 

"For,  behold,  the  beasts  of  the  field  and  the  fowls  of  the  air,  and  that  which 
cometh  of  the  earth — " 

"I  wish  you  to  get  that  in  your  minds :  "that  which  cometh  of  the 
earth,"  for  when  we  come  to  think  about  it  everything  in  the  world 
that  we  have  "cometh  of  the  earth."  We  have  not  had  anything  of  a 
material  nature  handed  down  from  any  other  planet.  And  so  this 
revelation  says :  i 

— "and  that  which  cometh  of  the  earth  is  ordained  for  the  use  of  man  for 
food,  for  raiment,  and  that  he  might  have  in  abundance. 

"But  it  is  not  given  that  one  man  should  possess  that  which  is  above  another, 
wherefore  the  world  lieth  in  sin." 

The  revelation  on  the  United  Order  had  not  yet  been  given.  This 
revelation  was  given  one  hundred  years  ago  last  March,  and  has  been 
in  print  for  about  a  hundred  years,  and  we  have  taken  practically 
little  note  of  it.  We  go  on  in  the  same  old  way.  Of  course,  we  do  in 
some  respects  try  to  do  a  little  more,  I  think,  for  our  poor  than  many 
other  people  do.  Some  of  us  pay  our  tithes,  and  that  tithing  is  ad- 
ministered for  the  good  of  the  whole  Church,  every  cent  of  it.  We  go 
on  missions,  our  sons  and  daughters  go,  and  they  spend  two  or  more 
years,  I  may  say,  working  as  in  the  United  Order,  working  without 
money  and  without  price  for  the  benefit  and  salvation  of  others.  And 
everyone  who  works  faithfully  at  his  mission  comes  back  testifying,  as 
I  testify  regarding  my  own  case,  that  never  in  all  the  experiences  of 
life  was  there  a  happier  time  than  the  missionary  time. 

I  have  wondered  if  I  would  not  be  much  happier,  sleep  better  of 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 


97 


nights,  without  trouble  to  a  great  extent,  if  I  knew  my  family  were 
provided  for,  just  sufficient,  not  with  riches,  but  sweet  content,  with 
enough.  If  that  were  the  case  why  should  I  not  give  my  whole  time 
to  the  Church? 

IN  MOSES'  TIME 

In  the  days  of  ancient  Israel,  in  the  time  of  Moses,  we  find  that 
the  land,  which  we  now  mortgage  and  buy  and  sell,  could  not  be 
alienated  from  the  family  to  which  it  belonged,  those  who  were  born  on 
it,  so  to  speak.  It  belonged  not  only  to  those  who  were  alive,  but  to 
the  unborn  generations  as  well.  This  is  the  law  of  Moses  that  I  will 
read  from  Leviticus,  chapter  twenty-five: 

"The  land  shall  not  be  sold  forever :  for  the  land  is  mine ;  for  ye  are  strangers 
and  sojourners  with  me. 

"And  in  all  the  land  of  your  possession  ye  shall  grant  a  redemption  for  the 
land. 

"If  thy  brother  be  waxen  poor,  and  hath  sold  away  some  of  his  possession, 
and  if  any  of  his  kin  come  to  redeem  it,  then  shall  he  redeem  that  which  his 
brother  sold. 

"And  if  the  man  have  none  to  redeem  it,  and  himself  be  able  to  redeem  it : 
"Then  let  him  count  the  years  of  the  sale  thereof,  and  restore  the  overplus 
unto  the  man  to  whom  he  sold  it ;  that  he  may  return  unto  hs  possession. 

"But  if  he  be  not  able  to  restore  it  to  him,  then  that  which  is  sold  shall 
remain  in  the  hand  of  him  that  hath  bought  it,  until  the  year  of  jubilee:  and  in 
the  jubilee  it  shall  go  out,  and  he  shall  return  unto  his  possession." 

That  was  the  law  in  olden  times.  People  could  not  be  dispossessed 
of  their  land.  They  did  allow  it  to  be  sold,  it  seems,  but  there  was  a 
cloud  on  the  title — it  would  revert  back  to  the  original  possessor. 

EQUAL  POSSESSIONS 

The  Lord,  in  the  revelation  that  I  have  read,  given  over  a  hun- 
dred years  ago,  states  that  it  is  not  given  that  one  man  should  possess 
that  which  is  above  another.  I  do  not  think  that  means  that  every 
man  should  have  the  same  quantity  of  ground  allotted  to  him.  Every 
man  shall  be  appointed  to  labor,  just  as  our  missionaries  are  now 
appointed  to  labor.  The  Presidency  appoint  presidents  of  missions, 
select  the  best  men  they  can  find  who  are  qualified  and  who  are  willing 
and  obedient,  that  is  to  say,  obedient  to  righteous  law,  to  take  charge 
here  and  there.  And  so  it  would  be  if  we  had  great,  extensive  opera- 
tions. Every  man  could  be  called  to  the  work  which  he  is  most  fitted 
to  do,  and  he  could  do  it,  and  the  proceeds,  the  surplus,  should  remain 
with  the  Church,  not  the  individual. 

NOT  DESTRUCTIVE  OF  INITIATIVE 

I  know  that  some  will  say,  Well  that  destroys  initiative.  Nothing 
of  the  kind.  I  was  on  a  mission  in  the  Liverpool  office  for  two  years 
on  my  last  mission  and  I  labored  with  Wiilliam  Budge  and  John 
Nicholson,  two  outstanding  men.  I  labored  under  their  direction. 
They  had  great  initiative.  They  were  men  of  ability  and  capacity 
far  more  than  I  because  I  was  younger,  only  twenty-eight  years  of  age. 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


while  they  had  had  much  experience.  In  their  minds  they  were  planning 
and  praying  to  know  how  to  extend  this  work,  in  this  direction  and  in 
the  other.  They  were  full  of  initiative,  and  yet  I  got  just  as  much 
as  they  got.  They  got  their  board  and  clothes,  what  clothes  were 
necessary,  and  I  got  the  same.  It  was  not  given  to  them  to  possess  that 
which  was  above  me,  and  all  were  happy.  We  worked  together  and 
were  like  a  happy  family.  It  has  been  done;  and  with  the  tithing, 
as  I  say,  and  our  fast  offerings,  expended  for  the  benefit  of  the  whole 
Church,  we  are  ten  per  cent  in  the  United  Order.  We  should  pay  our 
tithes.  Why  could  we  not  be  twenty  per  cent,  forty  per  cent,  or  all? 
Why  couldn't  I,  I  say  again,  if  my  family  were  cared  for,  work  con- 
tinually, helping  for  the  benefit  of  others  ? 

REGARD  FOR  OTHERS 

Here  is  something  more  that  was  given  to  us  January  2nd,  1831 
(Doctrine  and  Covenants,  section  thirty-eight)  : 

"And  let  every  man  esteem  his  brother  as  himself — "  That  is  pretty  hard, 
I  suppose,  but  there  it  is  and  it  has  been  there  for  over  a  hundred  years : 
— "and  practice  virtue  and  holiness  before  me. 

"And  again  I  say  unto  you,  let  every  man  esteem  his  brother  as  himself. 

"For  what  man  among  you  having  twelve  sons,  and  is  no  respecter  of  them, 
and  they  serve  him  obediently,  and  he  saith  unto  the  one :  Be  thou  clothed  in  robes 
and  sit  thou  here ;  and  to  the  other :  Be  thou  clothed  in  rags  and  sit  thou  there — 
and  looketh  upon  his  sons  and  saith  I  am  just? 

"Behold,  this  I  have  given  unto  you  as  a  parable,  and  it  is  even  as  I  am. 
I  say  unto  you,  be  one ;  and  if  ye  are  not  one  ye  are  not  mine." 

SELFISHNESS   MUST  BE  OVERCOME 

1  do  not  know,  I  haven't  the  wisdom  to  understand,  how  we  can 
take  people  who  are  still  so  selfish  that  they  cannot  part  with  ten  per 
cent  and  make  them  so  that  they  will  part  with  all,  being  assured  that 
they  will  share  equally  with  all.  We  ought  not  to  ask  anything  better 
than  that,  if  we  have  assurance  of  that.  What,  justice  would  there 
be  in  our  asking  for  more  than  that?  And  that  could  be  done.  Just 
how  to  do  it  and  when  it  will  be  done  I  do  not  know,  but  I  do  believe 
this  that  for  many  years  past,  for  all  the  years  past,  I  may  say — J  do 
not  believe  that  while  times  were  prosperous  it  would  have  been  possible 
to  organize  the  Saints  into  the  United  Order.  If  we  did  accept  it,  if 
we  did  go  ahead  and  become  powerful  and  great  and  rich  I  am  sure 
it  would  be  taken  that  we  were  a  menace  to  the  country,  too  powerful, 
too  rich,  too  much  of  oneness.  "And  if  ye  are  not  one  ye  are  not  mine." 
Wjell,  then,  we  were  not  his  up  to  that  point,  and  up  to  this  point. 

IF  CONDITIONS  MEND 

But  now,  things  are  coming  about  so  that  we  ask,  What  are  we 
to  do  ?  We  are  waiting  until  things  mend.  How  can  they  do  so  unless 
the  farmers  and  working  people  get  money  to  spend?  If  we  go  on  in 
the  old  way,  if  we  go  on  producing  just  as  we  have  produced,  in  mass 
production,  and  if  our  labor-saving  machinery  that  has  been  invented 
for  the  blessing  of  mankind,  and  which  should  shorten  the  hours  of 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 


99 


labor,  shorten  the  work  of  the  laborer,  goes  on  producing  and  producing 
just  as  it  has  in  the  past  two  or  three  years,  we  will  be  flooded  again 
and  will  be  in  the  same  old  condition.  I  do  not  see  any  other  outcome, 
even  if  times  change  so  that  we  can  go  on  a  little  way  with  the  hire  and 
salary  method,  and  begging  for  a  job  to  work.  In  the  phraseology  of 
the  streets,  we  are  right  up  against  it.   We  really  don't  know  what  to  do. 

THE  WAY  OF  THE  LORD 

I  have  only  time  to  quote  from  another  revelation  that  the  Lord 
has  given  on  this  same  subject.  (Section  eighty-two  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants)  This  was  given  in  April,  1832 — one  hundred  years 
ago  next  April: 

"For  Zion  must  increase  in  beauty,  and  in  holiness;  her  borders  must 
be  enlarged;  her  stakes  must  be  strengthened;  yea,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  Zion 
must  arise  and  put  on  her  beautiful  garments. 

"Therefore  I  give  unto  you  this  commandment,  that  ye  bind  yourselves  by 
this  covenant,  and  it  shall  be  done  according  to  the  laws  of  the  Lord. 

"Behold,  here  is  wisdom  also  in  me  for  your  good. 

"And  you  are  to  be  equal,  or  in  other  words,  you  are  to  have  equal  claims 
on  the  properties,  for  the  benefit  of  managing  the  concerns  of  your  stewardships, 
every  man  according  to  his  wants  and  his  needs,  inasmuch  as  his  wants  are  just — 

"And  all  this  for  the  benefit  of  the  church  of  the  living  God,  that  every 
man  may  improve  upon  his  talent,  that  every  man  may  gain  other  talents, 
yea,  even  an  hundred  fold,  to  be  cast  into  the  Lord's  storehouse,  to  become 
the  common  property  of  the  whole  church — 

"Every  man  seeking  the  interest  of  his  neighbor,  and  doing  all  things  with 
an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God. 

"This  order  I  have  appointed  to  be  an  everlasting  order  unto  you,  and  unto 
your  successors,  inasmuch  as  you  sin  not." 

The  Lord  has  provided  a  way  out.  People  all  over  the  world  are 
groping  for  a  way  out.  I  do  not  know  anything  that  quite  equals 
this  that  was  given  a  hundred  years  ago  for  the  benefit  of  this  Church 
and  the  revelations  tell  us  that  the  center  stake  of  Zion  cannot  be  built 
up  on  any  other  principle. 

I  see  that  my  time  has  expired.  The  Lord  bless  you,,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  you  faithful  workers  in  the  cause  of  Christ.  O,  how  my 
heart  and  soul  go  out  to  you !  You  are  the  salt  of  the  earth.  The 
Church  depends  on  you.    God  bless  you.  Amen. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  arose  and  sang  the  hymn,  "God  moves 
in  a  mysterious  way." 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  appreciate  very  much  the  honor  and  privilege  of  expressing 
my  feelings  on  this  auspicious  occasion  when  many  thousands  of 
people  are  assembled  and  many  thousands  of  others  no  doubt 
are  listening  in  on  the  radio  to  the  proceedings  of  this  confer- 
ence.      While  I  appreciate  this  opportunity  T  want  to  say  that 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


there  is  no  other  labor  I  have  to  perform  in  connection  with  my 
ministry  that  gives  me  so  much  anxiety  and  concern  as  that  of  an- 
ticipating a  call  to  speak  in  the  General  Conferences  of  the  Church. 
Notwithstanding  the  anxiety  I  have  had  I  have  enjoyed  this  conference 
exceedingly  and  I  feel  in  my  soul  that  it  is  one  of  the  best  we  have 
ever  had. 

I  think  that  in  considering  the  character  of  this  vast  audience 
I  might  conclude  that  there  are  present  Latter-day  Saints  of  every 
degree  of  faith  and  faithfulness,  and  others,  good  men  and  women, 
who  have  not  identified  themselves  with  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  desire  with  all  my  heart  to  be  able  to  say 
something  that  will  be  of  interest  and  profit  to  my  listeners,  and  to  this 
end  I  trust  that  the  Lord  will  help  me  to  bring  forth  some  of  the 
reflections  which  I  have  had  while  sitting  here  upon  the  stand. 

"We  believe  the  Bible  to  be  the  word  of  God  as  far  as  it  is  translated 
correctly;  we  also  believe  the  Book  of  Mormon  to  be  the  word  of  God." 

This,  without  any  qualification  or  apology. 

MORONl's  EXHORTATION 

I  want  to  read  to  you  a  few  verses  from  the  10th  chapter  of  the 
Book  of  Moroni  in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  It  was  Moroni  who  had 
the  responsibility  of  hiding  up  in  the  Hill  Cumorah,  many  centuries 
ago,  the  plates  from  which  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  translated ;  and 
he  had  the  responsibility  of  delivering  those  plates  to  Joseph  Smith,  and 
after  they  had  been  translated  by  the  gift  and  power  of  God,  received 
them  back  at  the  hands  of  the  Prophet  Joseph. 

Speaking  of  the  time  when  this  work  should  come  forth  he  said : 

"Behold,  I  would  exhort  you  that  when  ye  shall  read  these  things,  if  it 
be  wisdom  in  God  that  ye  should  read  them,  that  ye  would  remember  how 
merciful  the  Lord  hath  been  unto  the  children  of  men,  from  the  creation  of 
Adam  even  down  until  the  time  that  ye  shall  receive  these  things,  and  ponder 
it  in  your  heart. 

"And  when  ye  shall  receive  these  things,  I  would  exhort  you  that  ye  would 
ask  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  in  the  name  of  Christ,  if  these  things  are  not  true; 
and  if  ye  shall  ask  with  a  sincere  heart,  with  real  intent  having  faith  in  Christ, 
he  will  manifest  the  truth  of  it  unto  you,  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

"And  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  ye  may  know  the  truth  of  all  things." 

THE  REVEALED  WORD  OF  GOD 

We  read  in  the  scriptures  of  the  New  Testament  that  "no  prophecy 
of  the  scripture  is  of  any  private  interpretation.  For  the  prophecy 
came  not  in  old  time  by  the  will  of  men :  but  holy  men  of  God  spake 
as  they  were  moved  by  the  Holy  Ghost." 

The  things  contained  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  are  the  things  of 
God  given  to  the  children  of  men  by  the  inspiration  and  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  and  so  are  the  things  contained  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  and  in  the  Holy  Bible,  which 
books  constitute  the  standard  works  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.    If  we  can  enjoy  that  measure  of  the  Holy  Ghost 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


101 


which  was  felt  by  and  which  actuated  those  prophets  of  God  who  spoke 
the  things  contained  in  these  books,  and  wrote  them,  we  will  understand 
as  they  understood,  and  they  will  not  be  mysteries  unto  us.  Every 
Latter-day  Saint  who  is  faithful,  having  accepted  the  first  principles 
and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel,  having  had  the  Holy  Ghost  conferred 
upon  him,  if  he  is  true  to  these  things,  will  know  the  truth  when  he 
reads  it  or  when  he  hears  it  spoken. 

MEN  OF  GOD 

When  President  Heber  J.  Grant  stood  up  before  the  congregation 
in  the  first  session  of  the  conference  and  spoke,  every  true  Latter-day 
Saint  who  heard  him  knew  that  he  was  and  is  the  Lord's  anointed, 
his  mouthpiece  and  prophet  to  this  people  and  to  the  world,  as  well  as 
being  the  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
I  bear  testimony  to  you  that  I  know  that  he  is  God's  recognized  leader 
of  this  people  and  that  he  is  guided  by  inspiration  from  on  high — a 
humble  man  who  seeks  to  know  the  will  of  the  Lord  in  all  matters 
pertaining  to  his  work.  I  am  grateful  for  the  association  I  have  had 
with  President  Grant  and  his  counselors  and  with  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith  and  those  who  were  associated  with  him  and  are  associated 
now  in  the  leading  councils  of  this  Church.  I  know  that  they  are 
prophets,  seers  and  revelators  in  very  deed.  They  are  men  of  God, 
worthy  the  confidence  and  the  following  of  this  people,  and  if  the  people 
will  follow  them  they  will  walk  in  paths  which  are  straight  and  narrow 
and  which  lead  to  everlasting  life. 

THE  OFFICE  OF  THE  HOLY  GHOST 

By  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  which  we  through  righteousness 
have  a  right  to  enjoy  we  know  that  all  of  those  who  have  spoken  in 
this  conference  in  our  hearing  have  spoken  by  the  power  of  the  Lord. 
They  have  spoken  words  of  truth,  and  words  which  will  make  for 
salvation  if  we  will  receive  them  in  good  and  honest  hearts  and  live 
by  them.  This  is  the  office  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  who  is  a  personage  of 
spirit,  one  of  the  trinity  of  the  Godhead.  It  is  his  mission  and  office 
to  bear  witness  of  the  Father  and  of  the  Son  and  of  the  truth  of  all 
things.  "No  man  may  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Lord  except  by  the 
Holy  Ghost." 

A   MARVELOUS  MANIFESTATION 

I  want  to  say  something  about  these  other  personages.  I  desire 
to  call  the  attention  of  my  hearers  to  an  event  which  took  place  more 
than  a  century  ago — to  be  more  exact,  in  the  spring  of  the  year  1820 — 
when  God  the  Eternal  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  in  answer 
to  humble  but  fervent  prayer  on  the  part  of  the  boy,  Joseph  Smith, 
whom  they, had  raised  up  for  the  ushering  in  of  this  Gospel  Dispensation 
of  the  Fulness  of  Times,  appeared  to  him  in  vision.  I  would  call  your 
attention  to  and  have  you  visualize  that  wonderful  manifestation,  the 
greatest  perhaps  that  ever  did  transpire.    I  know  of  no  record  or 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


account  of  an  occasion  when  both  the  Father  and  the  Son  have  appeared 
to  any  individual  at  any  previous  time.  I  would  call  your  attention  to  the 
importance  and  necessity  of  that  wonderful  revelation.  You  have 
but  to  consider  today  the  lack  of  knowledge  on  the  part  of  religionists 
the  world  over,  pertaining  to  God  the  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ 
and  the  Holy  Ghost,  to  realize  how  necessary  it  was. 

OUR  RESPONSIBILITY 

In  1820  it  was  just  as  necessary  that  this  revelation  should  be 
given  to  the  world  as  at  any  other  time  in  the  world's  history,  I  am 
sure,  and  more  needed  because  of  the  ushering  in  of  the  Dispen- 
sation of  the  Fulness  of  Times.  We  have  had  the  revelation  now 
for  more  than  a  century,  and  as  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  which  Church  has  been  established  by  inspiration 
from  the  Lord  through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
and  those  who  have  succeeded  him,  we  have  accepted  the  Gospel  and 
with  it  the  responsibility  of  preaching  it  in  all  the  world  as  a  witness 
before  the  end  comes.  For  a  century  we  have  tried  to  present  this 
message  to  the  world,  that  God  the  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ 
have  revealed  themselves  anew  to  man  on  the  earth,  and  that  the 
children  of  men  need  no  longer  be  in  spiritual  darkness  pertaining 
to  the  personality  and  the  attributes  of  these  heavenly  beings  and 
the  relationship  which  we  sustain  to  them. 

IMMORTAL  BEINGS 

You  know  the  story  of  the  appearing  of  the  Father  and  the  Son 
to  Joseph  Smith.  Think  of  it,  as  the  Father  and  the  Son  stood  there 
we  see  them  as  men,  not  as  women,  nor  as  angels,  nor  anything  else. 
They  stood  in  the  midst  of  a  light  although  it  was  at  midday,  brighter 
than  the  noonday  sun,  and  their  countenances  shone  with  a  glory  that 
was  beyond  description,  showing  that  they  were '  something  more  than 
are  we  mortal  men.  And  what  are  they?  They  are  immortal  beings. 
And  what  are  immortal  beings?  Immortal  beings  are  those  who  have 
passed  through  the  change  by  which  there  is  a  separation  of  the  body 
and  the  spirit,  and  then  the  resurrection,  which  is  a  uniting  of  the  body 
and  the  spirit,  so  that  there  will  be  no  more  any  separation.  And  this 
inseparable  connection  of  body  and  spirit  is  necessary  in  order  that  one 
may  obtain  eternal  life.  In  these  heavenly  personages  we  see  two 
immortal  beings,  two  beings  who  are  glorified  and  exalted,  and  one 
of  them  is  the  Father,  and  the  other  the  Son — there  can  be  no  question 
about  that,  because  the  personage  speaking  said  to  the  boy,  "This  is  my 
Beloved  Son,  hear  him." 

(CONTRARY  TO  SECTARIAN  BELIEF 

Now  we  come  to  the  scriptures  to  find  out  if  that  is  in  keeping 
with  the  New  Testament,  and  we  find  that  it  is.  (Yet  the  whole  Chris- 
tian world  believe  otherwise  and  have  tried  to  disprove  this  for  more 
than  a  century,  but  they  have  signally  failed  and  they  forever  will 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


103 


fail,  for  they  cannot  prove  the  truth  a  lie.  The  Gospel  which  we  have 
received,  with  its  principles  and  ordinances,  is  just  as  foreign  to  the 
views  and  ideas  of  the  sectarian  world  as  is  the  fact  of  the  personality 
of  God  the  Father,  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  yet 
it  is  scriptural  and  true.  The  belief  that  is  almost  universal  is  that 
God  the  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  are  not  personages  having 
bodies  of  flesh  and  bones,  but  that  they  are  something  having  no  body, 
no  parts,  no  passions ;  and  that  Jesus  Christ  has  done  for  us  all  that 
is  necessary  to  be  done  except  to  believe  on  him.  I  want  to  say  that 
that  is  a  grave  and  serious  mistake.  There  has  been  a  falling  away 
from  the  true  Gospel  of  the  Master.  Ordinances  have  been  changed, 
the  laws  of  the  Gospel  have  been  transgressed,  the  Everlasting  (Cove- 
nant has  been  broken,  as  it  has  been  predicted  they  would  be. 

GOSPEL  TRUTHS  REVEALED  ANEW 

The  Lord  has  revealed  anew  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  its 
fulness,  and  it  comprises  faith  in  God  the  Eternal  Father,  in  his  Son, 
Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost.  It  includes  repentance  from 
sin  and  baptism  by  immersion  in  water  by  one  having  authority,  for 
the  remission  of  sins  and  the  fulfilment  of  the  law.  It  includes  the 
laying  on  of  hands  by  those  in  authority  for  confirmation  to  member- 
ship in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  faints  and  for  the 
bestowal  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  It  includes  other  ordinances;  and  we 
have  the  holy  priesthood.  No  man  can  under  present  rulings  go 
into  the  temple  to  receive  the  ordinances  there  administered,  above  those 
of  baptism  and  confirmation,  without  bearing  the  holy  Melchizedek 
priesthood.  And  there  are  ordinances  there  administered  which  are 
absolutely  necessary  for  those  who  would  enter  into  the  celestial^  king- 
dom, which  makes  the  holding  of  and  bearing  worthily  the  Melchizedek 
priesthood,  a  conditinon  necessary  for  any  man  to  obtain  a  fulness  of 
glory  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

Do  the  world  understand  that?  They  have  not  the  priesthood; 
they  have  no  power  to  receive  it,  only  as  they  come  into  the  fold  of 
Christ  and  receive  it  at  the  hands  of  those  who  have  authority  to  confer 
it.  That  priesthood  is  conferred  upon  those  only  who  are  proven  to 
be  worthy,  if  those  who  have  the  conferring  of  it  follow  instructions 
given  and  the  established  order  of  the  Church  of  Christ. 

.MARRIAGE  FOR  ETERNITY 

There  are  other  blessings  and  ordinances  necessary  to  man's  ex- 
altation, that  the  sectarian  world  know  not  of ;  for  instance,  the  eternity 
of  the  marriage  covenant.  Those  who  attain  to  a  fulness  of  glory  m  the 
celestial  kingdom  are  to  have  an  eternal  increase  and  a  continuation 
of  the  seeds  forever.  It  is  unthinkable  and  untrue  that  that  condition 
could  exist  without  sustaining  the  marriage  relation  in  the  other  world. 
But  in  order  that  men  and  women  may  live  there  as  man  and  wite  they 
must  enter  into  most  solemn  covenants  that  they  will  be  husband  and 
wife  for  time  and  eternity,  and  there  must  be  a  solemn  ceremony  per- 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


formed  by  one  having  authority,  sealing  them  as  husband  and  wife 
for  time  and  eternity,  and  then  they  must  live  worthy  otherwise  to  enter 
into  the  celestial  kingdom. 

OTHER  REQUIREMENTS 

There  are  commandments  to  be  kept,  laws  to  be  obeyed,  and  there 
is  service  to  be  rendered.  We  have  to  engage  in  this  work  of  preaching 
the  Gospel  abroad.  We  have  to  engage  in  the  work  of  redeeming  the 
dead.  This  is  a  service  of  the  very  highest  type,  like  unto  that  which 
God  our  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  rendered  when  the  Father 
gave  the  Son,  and  the  Son  gave  himself,  to  be  the  Redeemer  and 
Savior  of  this  world.  Yes,  and  there  are  sins  to  be  avoided.  We  are 
to  learn  to  love  the  Lord  our  God  with  all  our  heart,  might,  mind 
and  strength,  and  our  neighbor  as  ourself,  and  manifest  it  in  our  life. 

Should  we  not  be  thankful,  Latter-day  Saints,  for  the  light  of 
the  everlasting  Gospel,  and  although  it  entails  sacrifice,  service,  self 
denial,  etc.,  we  know  that  in  the  end  our  reward  will  be  ample,  even 
that  of  eternal  life. 

I  am  grateful  above  all  that  I  can  express,  for  the  understanding 
I  have  of  the  Gospel,  and  of  the  Father  and  of  the  Son  and  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  and  the  testimony  I  have  of  the  truth.  I  praise  God  for 
these  things.  May  he  add  his  blessings,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

I  am  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends,  to  associate  with 
you  at  this  time  in  this  splendid  conference  and  to  partake  of  the  spirit 
of  this  gathering.    But  I  tremble"  in  the  occupancy  of  this  position. 

We  have  met  together  in  this  conference  to  consider  matters 
pertaining  to  the  welfare  and  progress  not  only  of  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
but  of  all  mankind.  The  principles  of  this  Gospel  which  we  accept,  and 
the  practices  which  we  endeavor  to  carry  forward  are,  we  consider, 
not  only  beneficial  to  us  but  to  all  the  people  of  the  earth.  We  realize 
that  this  Gospel  has  come  to  us  as  a  free  gift.  That  is,  we  have  not 
organized  it,  but  the  Lord  has  established  it,  and  we  ihave  been  offered 
the  opportunity  to  accept  it  and  enjoy  the  benefits  which  come  from 
obedience  to  it.  I  am  sure  that  all  that  has  been  said  in  this  conference 
is  profitable  to  all  men  everywhere. 

LEADERSHIP    OF  MOSES 

I  am  reminded  of  the  time  when  Moses  had  endeavored  to  lead 
the  people  of  Israel  out  of  Egypt  into  the  promised  land.  After 
they  had  rejected  his  counsels  and  instruction,  and  the  Lord  had 
declared  that  they,  as  a  people,  should  not  enter  into  the  promised  land, 
they  were  kept  in  the  wilderness  until  that  generation  had  passed  away, 
with  one  or  two  exceptions,  and  a  new  generation  had  grown  up. 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


105 


But  under  the  leadership  of  Joshua  they  were  permitted  to  go  into  the 
land  of  Canaan.  After  they  had  been  in  the  land  of  Canaan  and  had 
subdued  that  country  and  had  become  established  therein,  many  of 
them  neglected  the  observance  of  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  and 
fell  away  and  were  led  into  strange  ways  and  to  the  worship  of  strange 
gods. 

CHOOSE  WHOM  YOU  WILL  SERVE 

We  are  told  that  shortly  before  his  death  Joshua  called  the  people 
together  and  presented  these  matters  to  them.  I  should  like  to  read 
to  you  briefly  what  he  said : 

"Now  therefore  fear  the  Lord,  'and  serve  him  in  sincerity  and  in  truth : 
and  put  away  the  gods  which  your  fathers  served  on  the  other  side  of  the 
flood,  and  in  Egypt;  and  serve  ye  the  Lord. 

"And  if  it  seem  evil  unto  you  to  serve  the  Lord,  choose  you  this  day  whom 
ye  will  serve;  whether  the  gods  which  your  fathers  served  that  were  on  the 
other  side  of  the  flood,  or  the  gods  of  the  Amorites,  in  whose  land  ye  dwell : 
but  as  for  me  and  my  house,  we  will  serve  the  Lord." 

FAITH   IN   GOD  NEEDED 

It  seems  to  me  that  if  there  ever  was  a  time  in  the  history  of  the 
world  when  faith  in  the  living  God  was  necessary  it  is  the  present 
time — faith  which  will  produce  works  of  righteousness ;  faith  which 
will  enable  men  to  live  in  accordance  with  the  will  of  God  and  be 
able  to  walk  in  his  paths;  faithv  which  will  cause  them  to  desire  to  con- 
secrate themselves  to  the  advancement  of  the  purposes  of  the  Lord. 
This  will  enable  them  also  to  cultivate  the  spirit  of  repentance,  to  realize 
from  time  to  time,  their  shortcomings,  their  mistakes,  and  the  things 
which  they  are  doing  contrary  to  the  will  of  God,  and  to  endeavor  to 
overcome  those  things  and  thereby  to  develop  in  power,  righteousness 
and  truth. 

PURPOSE  OF  GOSPEL 

The  Latter-day  Saints  believe  that  the  Gospel  comprehends  the 
worship  of  the  living  God — the  Father  and  the  Son — as  has  been 
testified  to  by  Brother  Richards  who  has  just  spoken.  We  believe  that 
this  Gospel  is  intended  for  the  welfare  of  all  mankind.  It  will  enable 
all  who  accept  and  live  it  to  learn  how  to  live  together  in  unity  in  this 
life,  and  to  prepare  for  eternity.  It  comprehends  within  itself  those 
things  which  will  help  to  promote  not  only  the  spiritual  welfare  of 
mankind,  which  is  the  most  vital  thing,  but  also  their  temporal  progress. 

CONSIDERATION  FOR  OTHERS 

If  this  is  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  what  does  it  do  for  us?  It 
helps  us  first  to  improve  ourselves,  to  put  our  own  lives  in  harmony 
with  the  principles  which  the  Savior  declared  at  the  time  when  he  was 
upon  the  earth,  and  which  have  been  revealed  anew  in  these  days ;  to 
live  lives  of  fairness,  of  justice,  of  mercy,  of  sympathy  and  of  right- 
eousness.   It  enables  us  also  to  cultivate  greater  consideration  for  our 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


fellow  men  and  desire  for  their  progress  and  welfare.  Likewise,  it 
helps  men  to  cultivate  that  spirit  of  repentance  which  is  necessary  in 
order  to  be  able  to  overcome  past  mistakes,  and  to  resist  highmindedness, 
pride  and  selfishness. 

PRIESTHOOD  FOR  GUIDANCE 

So  also  is  it  important  that  all  who  have  accepted  this  Gospel 
should  be  able  to  keep  ourselves  free  from  the  worship  of  strange  gods, 
that  will  interfere  with  our  progress,  whether  it  be  that  of  wealth,  the 
desire  for  excessive  luxury,  incorrect  principles,  or  what  not.  The 
Church  has  within  itself  the  power  to  aid  greatly  in  the  solution  of 
temporal  as  well  as  spiritual  problems  that  trouble  mankind,  because  it 
has  that  inspired  leadership  which  leads  to  truth — the  basis  of  all  real 
progress.  In  this  connection  you  will  realize  that  when  Joshua  spoke 
to  the  people  of  Israel  he  spoke  as  one  who  had  been  ordained  to  lead 
the  people  by  the  authority  of  the  priesthood,  which  Moses  had  con- 
ferred upon  him.  So,  in  these  days,  we  have  those  who  are  called  to 
lead  this  people  by  the  authority  of  the  holy  priesthood  and  hold  the 
keys  of  the  authority  thereof.  They  labor  in  all  humility  and  faith, 
and  with  a  desire  to  serve  the  people  as  their  servants,  as  was  ex- 
pressed to  us  last  night  by  President  Nibley. 

DEMAND  FOR  A  MODERN  MOSES 

Recently,  in  a  number  of  magazines  and  newspapers,  articles  have 
appeared  calling  for  a  modern  Moses  to  lead  the  people  out  of  the 
temporal  depression  which  prevails  throughout  the  world.  When  such 
a  desire  is  expressed  the  question  naturally  arises  whether  the  counsels 
of  such  a  leader  would  be  given  any  more  attention  than  were  those 
of  that  prophet  by  the  people  among  whom  he  lived.  Mankind  is  always 
much  the  same,  except  as  it  may  be  imbued  with  faith  and  the  Spirit 
of  God.  You  will  remember  that  Moses  himself  -  could  not  lead  the 
people  over  whom  he  presided  out  of  the  wilderness,  because  they  re- 
fused to  accept  his  counsel,  even  though  he  spoke  to  them  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord.  They  rejected  him  and,  because  of  the  rejection  of  the 
Lord  through  his  servant,  they  failed  to  enter  the  promised  land.  But, 
in  the  thousands  of  years  that  have  elapsed  since  the  death  of  Moses, 
people  have  come  to  honor  him  as  a  prophet.  As  the  Savior  said,  they 
honor  the  dead,  but  they  stone  the  living  prophets.  It  is  probably 
natural  for  people  to  fail  to  accept  the  counsel  of  those  who  are  in  their 
midst — wise  men,  great  men — who  may  be  inspired  to  declare  what  is 
helpful  and  good  for  them. 

INSPIRED  LEADERSHIP  IN  THE  CHURCH 

The  Latter-day  Saints  have  been  blessed  in  the  leadership  of  men 
who  have  had  wisdom  and  judgment.  We  believe  not  only  in  the 
teaching  of  spiritual  things,  but  also  of  things  that  affect  the  temporal 
welfare  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  of  mankind  at  large.  The  Lord 
has  inspired  his  servants  who  lead  this  people,  to  declare  the  things  that 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


107 


are  good  for  them  in  the  midst  of  this  prevailing  depression.  I  would 
like  to  recite  to  you  some  of  the  things  that  have  been  said  by  the 
leaders  of  this  Church  today,  yesterday,  the  day  before,  and  for  a  long 
time  past,  which  affect  the  welfare  not  only  of  this  people  but  of  all 
mankind  for  good;  and  would  have  helped  them  to  relieve  themselves 
of  much  of  the  trouble  that  prevails  today,  if  they  had  accepted  and  lived 
in  accordance  with  these  things.  When  I  say  these  things  I  speak  to 
myself  as  well  as  to  you. 

Here  are  some  of  the  things  which  I  desire  to  call  briefly  to  your 
attention  because  I  think  they  are  important.  They  are  counsels  that 
have  been  given  us  that  would  save  us  from  trouble,  distress  and  tribu- 
lation : 

Live  within  your  Income :  It  is  the  only  way  to  progress,  peace  and 
prosperity.    President  Brigham  Young  declared : 

"Learn  to  do  without  that  which  you  cannot  purchase  and  pay  for;  and 
bring  your  minds  into  subjection  that  you  must  and  will  live  within  your  means." 

Cultivate  Thrift:  It  is  just  as  important  for  us  to  realize  that  we 
should  save  out  of  that  which  we  earn  for  times  of  trouble  and  distress 
as  it  was  for  Egypt  in  the  time  of  Joseph  to  save  during  the  seven 
years  of  prosperity  and  of  growing  crops,  for  the  seven  years  of  famine 
and  distress  that  would  come  after  them,  ft  has  been  said  that  capital 
represents  the  savings  of  civilization.  We  should  put  aside  our  savings 
in  the  form  of  cash  and  place  those  savings  where  they  will  be  taken 
care  of  and  where  they  will  be  secure.  That  requires  wisdom  and 
judgment. 

Get  out  of  Debt :  We  were  told  that  last  evening  by  President  Ivins, 
and  we  have  been  counseled  to  this  effect  repeatedly  in  the  past.  How 
many  of  us  have  accepted  that  advice?  All  of  us  would  be  far  better 
off  if  we  had  accepted  it  and  observed  it. 

Avoid  Speculation :  One  of  the  important  causes  of  the  present  de- 
pression and  of  every  other  panic  is  excessive  speculation  during  pros- 
perous times.  In  1929  the  fever  of  speculation  spread  everywhere. 
It  has  been  said  that  periods  of  prosperity  and  of  hard  times  will  recur 
as  long  as  the  agencies  of  production  and  exchange  are  strained  to  the 
limit  to  meet  demands  stimulated  to  extravagance  by  a  universal  passion 
of  speculation. 

Pay  as  You  Go :  We  have  been  counseled  again  and  again  not  to 
mortgage  our  futures.  We  should  not  be  misled  by  those  high  pressure 
salesmen  who  will  sell  us  continually  on  the  promise  of  our  being  able 
to  pay  during  our  lifetime.  Shall  we  profit  by  such  counsel  in  the 
future  ? 

Patronise  Home  Industry:  We  heard  the  counsel  from  President 
Grant  last  evening  to  support  local  industries,  and  we  have  heard  it 
repeatedly  from  many  other  leaders  of  the  Church.  As  stated  by  him, 
thousands,  in  fact  I  have  been  told  by  the  Manufacturers'  Association 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  in  this  State  alone  twenty  thousand  men  and  women,  could  be 
employed  in  addition  to  those  already  employed,  if  the  people  of  this 
State  were  to  buy  the  products  that  are  manufactured  here.  In  these 
intermountain  states  particularly  greater  encouragement  and  patronage 
of  home  manufactures  on  the  part  of  people  who  live  here  are  neces- 
sary for  our  mutual  welfare,  because  we  are  not  so  favorably  situated  as 
the  coast  cities  and  others  advantageously  located  for  transportation 
rates  and  markets.  But  we  have  the  raw  materials,  and  it  seems  to 
me  there  should  be  nothing  go  out  of  this  intermountain  country 
as  far  as  it  is  possible  to  avoid  that  is  not  in  manufactured  form.  There 
should  be  no  good  reason  why  the  price  and  quality  of  all  our  products 
should  not  favorably  compete  with  others. 

Watch  your  Markets — Avoid  Over-production:  The  people  have 
been  advised  by  Church  leaders  to  study  market  conditions  and  to 
avoid  excessive  production,  whether  in  farm  products  or  in  prepared 
commodities.  Agriculturists  have  been  urged  to  diversify,  and  to 
produce  for  their  own  requirements  as  far  as  possible.  President 
Brigham  Young  told  the  people :  "Learn  to  sustain  yourselves.  Produce 
everything  you  need  to  eat,  drink  or  wear."  Industries  have  been 
encouraged  to  cater  particularly  to  nearby  markets.  One  of  the  most 
powerful  causes  of  the  trouble  that  exists  today  is  because  of  the 
difference  between  production  and  consumption.  It  has  been  declared 
that  prosperity  is  a  state  of  equilibrium  between  production  and  con- 
sumption. 

Overcome  Selfishness — Avoid  Greed :  This  counsel  applies  less  to 
the  Latter-day  Saints  probably  than  to  any  other  group.  But  the 
prevalence  of  selfishness  and  greed  among  mankind  has  contributed 
greatly  to  the  present  situation.  The  free  operation  of  economic  laws 
is  interfered  with  by  selfish  human  interests.  It  has  been  said  that  the 
fundamental  cause  of  unrighteousness  is  the  desire  for  power  and  for 
wealth,  coupled  with  the  character  and  purpose  of  that  desire. 

OVERCOME  PAST  MISTAKES 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  if  we  as  a  people  had  in  past  years  ob- 
served these  instructions,  referred  to  here  very  briefly,  we  should 
hardly  have  noticed  the  depression.  It  would  scarcely  affect  us,  cer- 
tainly not  nearly  to  the  extent  that  it  has  done  up  to  the  present  time. 
If  we  will  learn  from  our  mistakes  and  repent  of  our  shortsightedness 
and  our  failure  to  observe  the  counsel  and  advice  of  these  men  who 
stand  here  to  lead  and  guide  us,  we  shall  profit  in  the  future.  And  if 
the  people  of  this  nation  and  the  world  would  generally  observe  these 
instructions  which  have  been  given  from  time  to  time  by  the  inspired 
leaders  of  the  Church,  all  would  be  far  better  off  and  there  would  not 
be  suffering  nearly  to  the  same  extent  as  that  which  has  occurred. 
Neglect  to  follow  such  rules  has  contributed  very  largely  to  produce 
the  present  unfavorable  conditions. 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


109 


CRITICAL  ATTITUDE   CAUSED  BY  ADVERSITY 

A  critical  attitude  is  prevalent  at  present  throughout  the  earth 
with  relation  to  existing  conditions.  Such  an  attitude  is  probably  to  be 
expected  because  of  the  adverse  circumstances  and  the  suffering  that 
many  people  are  going  through  for  lack  even  of  the  necessities  of  life. 
They  are  almost  desperate.  It  is,  of  course,  very  important  that  every- 
thing possible  should  be  done  through  cooperation,  by  donations  and 
every  other  available  means  to  prevent  suffering  and  assure  at  least  the 
necessities  of  life  for  people  everywhere.  It  is  vital,  also,  that  everyone, 
as  far  as  possible,  shall  be  given  opportunity  to  work. 

PANACEAS  SUGGESTED 

Many  panaceas  have  been  suggested  to  avoid  the  recurrence  of 
such  conditions  as  prevail  at  present.  Some  are  constructive ;  others  are 
destructive.  Some  proposals  are  altruistic  in  nature ;  others  are  utterly 
selfish.  There  are  those  who  would  forcibly  and  unlawfully  take  the 
property  of  others  in  violation  of  the  rights  guaranteed  to  all  citizens 
under  the  Constitution.  Naturally,  the  representatives  of  the  people 
in  Congress  can,  with  the  approval  of  the  President,  proceed  to  change 
the  laws  wherever  necessary  to  protect  the  citizens  as  a  whole  from 
improper  aggrandizement  of  property  by  a  few,  and  to  promote  the 
general  welfare.  You  cannot  legislate  righteousness  into  people,  but 
you  can  and  should  bring  about,  through  the  law-enforcing  agencies 
general  respect  for  and  observance  of  law. 

ALL  THINGS  IN  COMMON 

There  are  others  who  advocate  the  principle  of  having  all  things 
in  common.  That  is  a  very  fine  doctrine.  Any  group  that  can  subscribe 
to  it  wholeheartedly,  labor  unitedly,  wisely  and  diligently  for  the  wel- 
fare of  the  whole,  and  maintain  loyalty,  altruism  and  kindliness  con- 
stantly, can  doubtless  succeed  in  developing  a  splendid  community.  But 
it  requires  all  of  these  qualities.  There  needs  to  be  entire  banishment 
of  envy  and  greed  from  the  hearts  of  those  who  would  undertake  it.  How 
many  are  able  to  maintain  the  unselfishness  necessary  to  bring  about 
such  a  desirable  condition? 

Then,  there  is  the  doctrine  of  communism,  which  is  more  extreme. 
Under  such  a  system  the  properties  of  others  might  be  forcibly  taken 
for  its  adherents,  and  control  exercised  in  all  matters  pertaining  to 
labor,  religion,  and  social  relations.  Some  English  writer,  in  a  satirical 
mood,  has  given  the  following  definition  of  communism  in  the  extreme : 

"What  is  a  communist?    One  |who  has  yearnings 
For  an  equal  division  of  unequal  earnings  ; 
Sluggard  or  scoundrel,  or  both,  he  is  willing 
To  fork  out  his  penny  and  pocket  your  shilling." 

Such  a  description  may  not  apply  to  many  people,  but  it  does  apply 
to  some  who  are  selfish  and  covetous  in  their  desires,  and  are  not 
willing  to  do  their  part  in  helping  to  earn  and  to  promote  the  welfare  of 
the  entire  community. 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


CHURCH  STANDS  FOR  GREATER  EQUALITY 

It  is  desirable,  as  stated  by  President  Nibley  this  morning,  that, 
there  should  be  greater  equality  of  wealth,  and  greater  consideration 
on  the  part  of  those  who  have  means  in  giving  for  the  benefit  of 
those  who  are  not  so  favorably  situated.  Consideration  by  men 
for  their  fellows  must  be  ingrained  in  them  by  some  power  other 
than  politics,  and  that  must,  apparently,  be  through  religion.  The 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  taught  and  practiced  by  this  people  is,  in  my 
judgment,  the  most  effective  means  ior  the  promotion  of  greater 
mutual  interest.  The  Church  stands  for  greater  equality  and  coopera- 
tion among  mankind,  without  in  any  way  interfering  with  individual 
initiative.  Any  legislation  that  will  help  to  promote  the  mutual  welfare 
of  all,  and  control  the  aggrandizement  of  wealth  is,  in  my  judgment, 
fully  justified.  Faithful  Church  members  show  continually  their  con- 
sideration for  others  by  the  spirit  of  brotherly  kindness,  and  by  ma- 
terial contributions  for  the  temporal  and  spiritual  welfare  of  their 
fellows. 

GOSPEL  PROMOTES  SPIRIT  OF  CONSECRATION 

The  teachings  of  "Mormonism"  are  and  always  have  been  of  such 
character  as  to  stimulate  in  those  who  accept  them  the  spirit  of  con- 
secration of  their  time,  means  and  efforts  to  the  welfare  of  others 
as  well  as  themselves.  The  observance  of  the  principle  of  tithing,  of  fast- 
ing and  fast  offerings,  relief  of  those  in  need,  the  missionary  work, 
community  building,  all  help  to  promote,  through  service  to  the  Lord, 
the  interests  of  our  fellow  members. 

OBEY  THE  LAW  OF  TITHING 

We  have  been  continually  encouraged  to  obey  the  law  of  tithing. 
It  is  a  most  effective  test  of  our  faith  in  God  and  his  work.  It  helps 
to  raise  us  to  higher  standards.  It  is  a  means  for  our  temporal  as  well 
as  our  spiritual  progress.  Obedience  to  this  law  will  aid  us  to  conserve 
our  pfoperty  and  to  develop  prudence  and  foresight  in  our  affairs. 
The  prophet  Malachi  declared  anciently  that  if  the  Hebrews  would 
observe  this  principle  faithfully  they  should  be  materially  blessed  and 
the  Lord  would  rebuke  the  devourer  for  their  sakes. 

If  we  accept  the  principle  of  tithing  in  a  half-hearted  way,  fearing 
that  we  are  going  to  give  too  much  or  are  making  too  great  a  sacrifice, 
we  shall  not  enjoy  the  blessings  which  the  Lord  has  promised.  But 
if  we  give  liberally  in  the  spirit  of  that  principle  we  shall  be  blessed. 
President  Brigham  Young  declared  on  one  occasion :  "I  would  not  give 
the  ashes  of  a  rye  straw  for  the  man  who  feels  that  he  is  making 
sacrifice  for  God.  We  are  doing  this  for  our  own  happiness,  welfare 
and  exaltation,  and  Inobody's  else."  Every  principle  of  the  Gospel  is 
a  privilege  for  us.  It  is  a  means  for  our  growth  and  development,  and 
if  we  shall  observe  it  we  shall  enjoy  the  blessings  that  follow.  ■ 

CULTIVATE  CONTRITENESS  OF  SPIRIT 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  think  we  should  accept  and  observe 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


111 


the  counsels  that  are  given  to  us  by  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  and 
the  other  leaders  who  are  inspired  of  God.  In  the  spirit  of  humility 
we  should  cultivate  the  faith  and  repentance  which  is  necessary  in 
order  that  we  may  walk  uprightly  and  in  accordance  with  the  will  of 
the  Lord.  I  am  reminded  of  a  statement  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  where 
the  voice  of  the  Lord  declared  unto  the  people :  "Ye  shall  offer  for  a 
sacrifice  unto  me  a  broken  heart  and  a  contrite  spirit."  And  Kipling 
in  that  wonderful  poem,  "The  Recessional,"  after  the  great  celebration 
in  England  at  the  time  of  the  jubilee  of  Queen  Victoria,  reminded  the 
people :  _ 

"Still  stands  thine  ancient  sacrifice, 
An  humble  and  a  contrite  heart  .  .  . 
Lord  God  of  Hosts,  be  with  us  yet, 
Lest  we  forget, — lest  we  forget." 

May  the  Lord  help  each  of  us  firmly  to  resolve  in  our  hearts  and 
minds  that  "as  for  me  and  my  house  we  will  serve  the  Lord,"  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  Choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Jesus  Only." 

Elder  Milton  H.  Welling  offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

THIRD  DAY 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  closing  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  promptly  at 
2  o'clock,  Sunday  afternoon,  October  4,  1931,  the  attendance  being  sim- 
ilar to  that  at  the  previous  meeting. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "The  Spirit 
of  God  like  a  fire  is  burning." 

Elder  Thomas  E.  McKay,  President  of  the  Ogden  Stake,  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

President  Grant  announced  that  the  beautiful  flowers  on  the  stand 
in  front  of  the  great  organ  had  been  sent  in  honor  of  Brother  Evan 
Stephens,  who  led  the  Choir  for  the  last  time  one  year  ago,  he  having 
since  passed  away.  He  further  announced  that  the  Choir  would  now 
sing  the  anthem,  "God  of  Israel,"  which  anthem  Brother  Stephens  con- 
sidered one  of  his  best  compositions. 

The  Choir  then  sang  "God  of  Israel." 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

In  the  first  place,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  want  to  offer  my 
sincere  thanks  and  gratitude  to  ,my  Heavenly  Father  for  the  privilege 
I  have  of  attending  this  wonderful  conference.  I  have  never  attended 
one  in  my  life  where  I  have  felt  the  Spirit  of  the  living  God  so  strongly. 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


BLESSINGS  THROUGH   ATTENDING  CONFERENCES 

I  cannot  understand  how  any  person  could  attend  services  such 
as  we  have  had  during  this  conference  without  feeling  at  least  that 
God  was  directing  and  his  Spirit  was  present  at  every  session. 

It  is  indeed  a  privilege  to  attend  these  semi-annual  conferences, 
and  it  is  also  a  privilege  to  attend  the  conferences  in  the  different 
stakes  of  Zion.  My  duties  as  a  senator  of  the  United  States  have 
prevented  me  from  attending  many  of  them.  Since  the  war  my  calling 
has  kept  me  in  Washington  most  of  the  time  and  I  have  had  the 
privilege  only  a  few  times  of  attending  these  conferences. 

Last  night  I  saw  in  this  building  every  seat  taken  by  men  holding 
the  priesthood.  It  was  a  wonderful  sight,  and  the  instructions  and  the 
spirit  present  impressed  me  as  I  never  was  impressed  before  with  the 
duties  that  devolve  upon  the  men  holding  the  priesthood.  I  also  felt 
the  response  that  was  made  at  that  gathering  last  night.  I  could  feel 
it  in  every  word  that  was  spoken  and  the  expressions  that  followed. 
I  could  see  that  they  touched  the  hearts  of  the  men  holding  the  holy 
priesthood  in  this  Church,  in  a  way  that  the  labors  in  the  different  stakes 
from  which  they  come  would  be  carried  on  with  a  great  deal  more 
energy  and  confidence  than  they  have  been  in  the  past. 

TESTIMONY  THROUGH  PRAYER 

My  mother  taught  me  that  the  way  to  receive  a  testimony  of  this 
work,  and  the  way  to  maintain  it,  is  to  never  cease  praying;  and  she 
promised  me  as  my  mother  that  if  I  would  follow  that  course  I  should 
always  have  a  knowledge  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
and  that  this  work  is  his  work.  Brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  followed 
that  counsel,  and  notwithstanding  the  positions  to  which  I  have  been 
called  that  have  taken  me  away  from  the  body  of  the  people,  not- 
withstanding the  year  before  that  happened  my  avocation  called  me 
to  meet  men  who  actually  ridiculed  our  belief  and  the  question  of 
God  ever  revealing  himself  to  man,  as  being  unreasonable  and  in- 
defensible, thank  God  I  have  lived  through  it  all.  I  thank  God  for 
the  testimony  I  have  that  this  is  his  work  and  that  every  prediction 
made  by  any  servant  of  God  in  relation  to  it  shall  be  fulfilled. 

As  I  see  conditions  in  the  world  today  and  contemplate  them  I 
know  that  if  the  great  principles  as  taught  by  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  were  universal  in  the  world  no  such 
conditions  would  ever  exist. 

I  pray  God  to  "give  me  clean  hands,  clean  words,  and  clean 
thoughts.  Save  me  from  habits  that  harm.  Teach  me  to  work  as 
hard  and  play  as  fair  in  thy  sight  alone  as  if  all  the  world  saw. 
Forgive  me  when  I  am  unkind,  and  help  me  to  forgive  those  who  are 
unkind  to  me.  Keep  me  ready  to  serve  others  at  some  cost  to  myself. 
Send  me  chances  to  do  a  little  good  every  day,  and  so  grow  more 
like  Christ." 

If  we  all  lived  strictly  to  the  laws  of  the  Church  and  the  require- 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT  113 


ments  of  the  Church  that  prayer  would  be  answered  by  everyone  who 
offered  it.  There  are  no  people  in  the  world  that  I  know  of  who  are 
better  capable  and  more  willing  and  whose  numbers  are  such  that  the 
worthy  poor  among  them  can  be  better  cared  for. 

CONDITIONS  THROUGHOUT  THE  WORLD 

We  have  had  pictures  today  of  conditions  existing,  not  half  so 
bad  as  they  are  in  the  balance  of  the  world.  God  knows  what  will 
come  out  of  it,  but  I  believe  with  all  my  soul  that  the  times  people 
are  passing  through  today,  not  only  in  our  own  country  but  in  the 
countries  of  the  world,  will  cause  them  to  turn  their  thoughts  to  a 
supreme  power,  the  Creator  of  the  world,  the  God  we  worship. 

NOT  A  PRAYING  NATION 

I  am  afraid  that  our  America  is  not  a  praying  nation.  I  do  not 
believe  that  there  is  a  people  on  earth,  compared  by  percentages,  that 
pray  to  God  every  morning  and  night  such  as  do  the  people  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Wherever  I  go,  outside 
of  the  families  of  the  Church  and  the  conferences  that  I  attend  in 
different  places  in  which  the  Church  gathers,  there  are  few  places 
where  prayer  is  offered.  And  sometimes  when  I  hear  prayer  in  other 
places  it  is  like  a  tinkling  cymbal  and  sounding  brass.  It  goes  in  one 
ear  and  out  of  the  other.  No  power  whatever  is  back  of  it.  It  is  mere 
words  and  nothing  else. 

IN  CONGRESSIONAL  ASSEMBLIES 

I  am  thankful  to  my  Heavenly  Father  that  the  Senate  of  the 
United  States  and  the  House  of  Representatives  never  begin  a  session 
without  the  offering  of  prayer.  As  I  read  history  I  find  that  when  the 
first  session  of  our  Congress  was  held,  which  was  in  Carpenter's  Hall, 
Philadelphia,  September  5th,  1774,  the  question  then  arose  as  to 
whether  it  was  proper  to  open  that  session  with  prayer.  Thank  the 
Lord  there  was  a  majority  present  who  had  shortly  before  passed 
through  the  horror  of  war.  I  think  it  was  perhaps  for  that  reason 
there  was  a  decision  made  that  every  session  of  the  Senate  should 
be  opened  by  prayer.  That  has  continued  down  to  the  present  time, 
and  I  notice,  as  I  have  said,  that  a  majority  were  in  favor  of  it.  They 
were  such  men  as  George  Washington,  Patrick  Henry,  John  Rutledge, 
Colonel  Fulton,  Peyton  Randolph,  Richard  Henry  Lee,  John  James, 
Isaac  Law.  I  am  not  going  to  give  the  names  of  those  who  opposed  it. 
The  question  arose  as  to  whether  they  should  kneel  or  whether  they 
should  stand.  My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  thankful  to  my  Heavenly 
Father  that  that  practice  has  existed  down  to  this  day,  and  it  would 
be  a  Godless  nation  if  that  were  not  followed.  I  am  sure  that  the 
spirit  that  is  asked  for  many  times  in  the  opening  prayer  is  not  made 
manifest  a  few  minutes  after  the  word  "amen"  is  said.  But  yet  it 
has  its  influence  and  I  hope  and  trust  that  this  shall  never  be  a  Godless 
nation. 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


NOT  IN  UNCLEAN  TABERNACLES 

I  suppose  you  all  know  that  I  am  a  firm  believer  in  the  Word  of 
Wisdom.  I  have  lived  it  all  my  life,  thanks  to  the  mother  who  gave 
me  birth.  I  know,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  he  who  does  not 
abide  by  that  law,  he  or  she  who  robs  his  or  her  mind  of  good  judg- 
ment by  the  use  of  intoxicating  liquor  cannot  enjoy  the  Spirit  of 
God.  The  Spirit  of  God  never  will  live  in  an  unclean  tabernacle. 
You  cannot  tell  me  that  a  man — and  I  am  sorry  to  have  to  say,  'as  it 
has  been  quite  prevalent  in  the  world,  or  a  woman — who  imbibes  the 
damnable  stuff  can  have  the  companionship  of  the  Spirit  of  God. 

There  is  no  people,  according  to  the  numbers,  that  obey  this  law 
as  well  as  do  the  Latter-day  Saints.  But  I  want  to  say  that  we  are 
far  from  perfect,  in  fact  I  have  witnessed  since  I  have  been  home 
members  of  the  Church  who  have  forgotten  themselves  in  this  regard. 
The  prophetic  spirit  was  with  Joseph  ,|Smith  a  century  ago  when  the 
Lord  announced  through  him  his  calling,  because  of  "the  calamity 
which  should  come  upon  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,"  and  which  has 
come  and  is  coming  in  our  day.  The  "spirit  of  prophecy,"  which  is  "the 
testimony  of  Jesus,"  also  was  with  him  when  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  brought  into  existence.  It  brought 
not  a  new  religion,  but  a  restatement  of  the  old,  with  its  divine  au- 
thority, gifts  and  blessings,  "the  power  of  God  unto  salvation." 

MORE  GODLINESS  OR  MORE  GODLESSNESS? 

And  now,  what  are  we  Latter-day  Saints  going  to  do  about 
it?  Shall  we  awaken  to  a  renewed  effort  to  learn  the  word  of  God? 
Shall  we  teach  our  young  men  and  young  women  more  of  godliness 
through  actual,  intimate  knowledge  of  the  scriptures,  and  less  of  the 
godlessness  that  comes  through  men's  self-glorification  in  a  presumed 
knowledge  which  really  is  not  actual  knowledge,  but  which  holds  the 
domain  of  speculation  and  skepticism?  Shall  we  cling  more  closely 
than  ever  to  God-given  facts,  whether  in  doctrine,  in  prophecy  or  in 
history?  On  our  reply  in  practical  service  depends  our  own  salvation 
and  the  salvation  of  many  to  whom  our  precept  and  example  shall 
come. 

THE  SPIRITUAL  FACTOR 

Of  the  religious  aspect,  Sir  Hubert  Barker  writes  in  the  London 
Daily  Mail :  "The  spiritual  benightedness  of  modern  men  is  the 
paramount  evil  of  our  age.  Man  must  advance  more  swiftly  on  his 
spiritual  side.  It  is  always  the  spiritual  factor  that  determines  man's 
destiny.  If  the  churches  have  become  a  by-word  with  thinking  men, 
it  is  because  they  have  turned  from  religion  to  ecclesiasticism." 

The  wise  man  said,  Proverbs  fourth  chapter,  seventh  verse : 
"With  all  thy  getting  get  understanding."  My  suggestion  to  those 
who  would  be  instructors  is  that  they  lead  their  students  to  "get 
understanding;"  otherwise  there  comes  misunderstanding  and  unbelief. 

Another  feature  to  which  our  present  attention  may  be  called  is 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


115 


that  the  prevailing  atheistic  instruction  which  permeates  our  universities, 
and  our  schools,  and  our  social  and  other  clubs,  is  the  chief  direct  and 
potent  cause  of  the  great  crime  wave  of  which  we  hear  and  see  so 
much  in  public  discussions  today.  '  Israel's  great  Psalmist  has  said 
(Psalms  14:1  and  53:1):  "The  fool  hath  said  in  his  heart,  There  is 
no  God.    They  are  corrupt  and  have  done  abominable  works." 

The  criminals  in  our  land  today  pursue  their  vocation  in  the 
thought  that  there  is  no  God.  The  gangster  that  sometimes  takes  charge 
of  things  in  our  great  cities  and  makes  the  police  force  seem  pitiably 
helpless,  has  his  chief  potency  in  the  thought  that  there  is  no  God. 
He  may  be  caught,  serve  in  prison,  but  when  released  goes  on  in  his 
career  of  crime.  When  protested  with,  he  says :  "What  difference 
does  it  make?  No  one  can  touch  me  until  I  am  caught  at  it.  And 
I  don't  expect  to  be  caught  again."  His  thought  clearly  indicates 
by  both  word  and  act  that  there  is  no  God. 

It  is  the  mission  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  in  their  Church  designa- 
tion, that  by  thought  and  word  and  action  they  testify  to  the  world 
that  there  is  a  God  who  is  mindful  of  his  children  if  they  will  but  heed 
his  word.  Where  God  lives  in  the  souls  and  minds  of  men  there  is 
peace  and  righteousness  ;  but  otherwise  not. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  God  bless  us.  God  prepare  his  Church 
and  those  who  are  directing  the  affairs  of  it  that  it  shall  fulfil  the 
destiny  that  he  has  in  store  for  it,  whether  it  comes  in  this  decade 
or  in  decades  to  come.  It  is  the  duty,  and  I  may  say  the  pleasure,  of 
God's  people  to  bring  into  the  world  the  light,  the  life,  the  teachings  of 
the  Master,  Jesus  Christ.  This  I  pray  for,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 

ELDER  NOAH  S.  POND 

Former  President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  think  of  all  the  surprises  that  have 
come  to  me,  this  is  the  greatest  one.  I  have  rejoiced  exceedingly 
in  what  it  has  been  my  privilege  to  hear  in  the  sessions  of  this  con- 
ference. 

I  am  deeply  grateful  for  the  blessing  that  came  to  me  of  presiding 
over  the  Northern  States  mission,  and  I  have  earnestly  desired  that  I 
should  come  home  and  be  as  happily  engaged  in  the  service  of  the 
Lord  in  the  future  as  I  have  been  in  the  past.  Sister  Pond  and  our 
sons  have  likewise  enjoyed  the  blessings  of  our  missionary  experiences, 
in  the  growth  of  Relief  Society  and  other  activities." 

I  can  but  briefly  refer  to  and  give  you  a  faint  impression  of  the 
feelings  that  fill  the  heart  of  one  laboring  in  the  ministry.  I  know, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  all  of  us  at  home  are  missionaries. 
Responsibility  in  the  Church,  membership  in  the  Church,  the  accept- 
ance of  responsibility  in  the  priesthood,  constitute  us  missionaries. 
But  until  we  go  out  into  the  world  we  do  not  have  a  full  realization 
of  the  importance  of  our  testimonies. 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


It  has  been  my  privilege  to  stand  where  the  prophets  of  God 
have  stood.  I  have  been  in  those  memorable  cities  where  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  Brigham  Young,  Sidney  Rigdon,  Oliver  Cowdery,  Orson  Pratt, 
Parley  P.  Pratt  and  others  of  our  fine  leaders  in  the  early  history 
of  the  Church  have  ministered.  I  have  stood  where  President  John 
Taylor  stood  when  he  organized  the  first  branch  of  the  Church,  nearly 
a  hundred  years  ago,  in  the  city  of  Indianapolis,  Indiana,  and  I  thought 
I  could  actually  feel  the  spirit  of  that  prophet  of  God.  I  remember 
when  that  Sabbath  occurred.  I  had  referred  to  the  history  of  the 
Church  for  verification  of  time  and  place  and  to  know  that  it  was 
true  to  history. 

Early  in  this  past  year  when  Justice  Holmes  of  the  United  States 
Supreme  Court,  approaching  the  ninetieth  year  of  his  mortal  life, 
rendered  one  of  the  decisions  of  the  Supreme  Court,  indicative  of  the 
power  of  his  mentality,  and  the  statement  was  flashed  over  the  country 
that  he  bore  in  his  body  the  bullets  that  were  fired  into  it  by  Con- 
federate soldiers,  I  thought :  Well,  even  this  remarkable  incident  is 
paralleled  in  the  history  of  our  Church.  Like  Justice  Holmes,  Presi- 
dent John  Taylor,  when  he  organized  that  branch  in  Indianapolis, 
carried  within  his  body  the  bullets  that  the  assassins  had  fired  into  it, 
and  that  grand  President  of  the  Church  carried  those  assassins'  bullets 
in  his  body  to  the  grave,  and  died  in  exile.  A  beautiful  chapel  now 
stands  in  Indianapolis  where  President  Taylor  organized  the  first  branch. 
Likewise  five  other  chapels  have  been  erected  during  the  past  three  and 
one-half  years  in  Detroit,  Columbus,  Cincinnati,  Dayton  and  Chicago. 

I  have  seen  the  sons  and  daughters,  grandsons  and  granddaughters 
of  those  leaders  of  the  Church  following  in  the  footsteps  of  their 
worthy  ancestors  and  preaching  as  honestly  and  as  sincerely  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel  as  they  were  preached  fifty,  seventy-five  or  eighty 
years  ago.  I  have  stood  at  the  doorsteps  of  the  homes  of  our  leaders, 
Brigham  Young,  Heber  C.  Kimball,  Lorenzo  Snow,  John  Taylor,  the 
P'ratts,  the  Snows — those  brick  houses  are  standing  or  falling  into 
decay,  but  they  are  mute  and  silent  testimonies  of  the  substantial 
solidarity  of  the  building  of  our  people,  even  the  homes  that  they  in- 
habited. And  those  memorable  cities  of  Nauvoo,  Illinois,  and  Kirtland, 
Ohio,  where  the  Saints  erected  temples  in  the  name  and  honor  of 
God,  have  greatly  degenerated.  I  never  could  have  believed  that  the 
hand  of  God  would  be  manifested  so  powerfully,  so  positively  upon 
such  spots,  people,  sections  and  localities,  as  1  have  seen  in  these,  the 
deadest  spots  in  all  the  world — Kirtland,  Ohio,  and  Nauvoo,  Illinois — 
where  temples  of  God  were  raised  in  this  century  of  the  existence 
of  our  Church  and  which  were  so  glorious  in  the  beginning  of  our 
history. 

I  bear  you  my  humble  testimony,  and  pray  our  father's  blessings 
upon  his  servants.  They  are  as  true  and  as  fine  in  their  prophetic 
calling  and  leadership  today  as  were  those  who  were  called  at  the 
inception  of  the  Church.  This  is  my  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  in  the  name  of  our  Savior  and  Master,  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


117 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  have  called  for  several  of  the  returned  mission  presidents  a 
number  of  times,  to  come  to  the  stand  and  speak  to  us,  but  they 
have  not  been  present.  I  shall  not  call  out  again  the  names  of  those 
who  have  not  yet  spoken  here  for  fear  they  are  not  present.  But 
I  would  like  that  at  any  time  any  one  of  the  returned  mission 
presidents  is  in  conference,  who  has  not  had  the  opportunity  of 
bearing  his  testimony,  ,he  would  notify  me  so  that  he  will  not  be 
overlooked.  With  the  exception  of  two  we  have  now  heard  from 
all  returned  mission  presidents. 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  have  selected  a  text.  This  is  not  usual  with  me,  but  the 
experiences  of  this  conference  have  been  such  that  I  would  like  to 
refer  to  it  if  I  am  so  led.  ,1  feel  very  humble  to  stand  in  the  pres- 
ence of  this  great  audience  and  very  much  do  I  desire  an  interest 
in  your  faith  and  prayers,  .that  the  delightful  influences  that  have 
pervaded  our  conference,  and  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  that  has 
been  upon  those  who  have  addressed  us  may  be  with  me. 

ABSENT  ONES 

These  beautiful  flowers  are  the  offering  of  Sister  Sarah 
Daniels,  the  good  woman  who  kept  house  for  Evan  Stephens  for 
years  prior  to  his  demise.  They  were  brought  by  her  in  remem- 
brance of  Brother  Stephens  who  directed  the  Choir  in  our  confer- 
ence a  year  ago. 

I  ;have  been  lonesome  during  this  conference  for  some  of  the 
absent  brethren  who  were  here  six  months  ago.  Since  then  Elders 
Orson  F.  Whitney  and  Rey  L.  Pratt  have  passed  to  the  Great 
Beyond.  They  were  two  of  the  beloved  leaders  in  Israel  and  no- 
body can  take  their  places.  Elders  John  A.  ,Widtsoe  and  Joseph 
W.  McMurrin  are  also  absent  in  the  mission  field  rendering  service. 

LOVE  FOR  THE  BRETHREN 

My  heart  is  tender  today  and  my  feelings  are  subdued  as  I 
realize  -the  bounteous  blessings  of  the  Lord  bestowed  upon  me  and 
mine.  It  is  a  priceless  privilege  to  live  in  an  atmosphere  such  as 
we  enjoy  in  this  Church  and  to  associate  witli  good  men  and  women 
who  are  interested  in  benefiting  all  mankind.  The  companionship 
of  the  leaders  of  Israel  is  to  me  a  blessing,  the  value  of  which  can- 
not be  measured.  These  leaders  on  this  stand  are  representatives 
of  our  Heavenly  Father  and  I  love  them  as  if  they  were  my  own 
flesh  and  blood. 

As  I  associate  with  the  General  Authorities,  stake  presidents, 
high  councilors,  bishops,  and  the  leaders  in  the  various  depart- 
ments of  the  Church,  from  the  depths  of  my  soul  I  feel  grateful  for 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  opportunity  that  has  been  mine  in  life,  to  have  as  my  compan- 
ions the  kindest,  holiest  and  best  men  and  women  that  this  world 
knows  anything  about. 

In  I.  John,  3rd  Chapter  and  14th  Verse  we  read : 

"We  know  that  we  have  'passed  from  death  unto  life,  because  we  love  the 
brethren." 

What  a  wonderful  thing  it  is  to  belong  to  an  organization  that 
teaches  that  very  thing,  and  not  only  teaches  it  by  word  of  mouth, 
but  exemplifies  it  in  so  many  marvelous  ways.  How  grateful  we 
should  be  to  our  Heavenly  Father  that  .those  with  whom  we  are 
permitted  to  associate  are  dependable,  and  that  we  can  love  them 
and  have  their  companionship. 

TEACHING  THE  WORLD 

A  number  of  years  ago  I  was  riding  with  a  man  in  the  East. 
I  told  him  where  I  was  from,  that  I  was  a  member  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  he  asked :  "Is  that  church 
still  in  existence  in  Utah?"  I  replied,  "Yes,  and  growing  rapidly." 
I  thought  then:  Will  it  ever  be  possible  for  us  to  convince  the  world 
that  this  is  the  Lord's  work  ?  Although  it  .encounters  many  ob- 
stacles it  goes  forward  constantly.  It  would  seem  an  impossible 
task  to  personally  contact  and  teach  the  Gospel  to  all  people,  but 
with  the  radio  countless  thousands,  many  ,of  them  living  far  away, 
may  hear  the  servants  of  the  Lord  teach  the  truth.  I  was  recently 
in  Winnipeg,  Canada,  and  was  there  told  .that  some  of  the  finest 
programs  they  hear  are  those  from  Salt  Lake  City.  Often  they 
tune  in  on  KSL  and  hear  the  sermons  that  are  delivered  on  Sunday 
evening.  In  every  case  of  that  kind  people  have  spoken  appreci- 
atively of  what  they  are  permitted  to  enjoy. 

We  are  living  in  a  marvelous  age,  at  a  time  when  the  Lord  has 
not  only  inspired  his  children  to  do  wonderful  things  to  make  our 
existence  more  pleasant  here,  but  has  revealed  his  Gospel  anew 
and  established  his  Church  to  prepare  us  for  the  celestial  kingdom. 
It  ,is  difficult  to  bring  people  to  an  understanding  of  the  fact  that 
this  Gospel  is  not  the  work  of  man,  but  is  our  Father's  work,  given 
to  us  in  this  latter  day  for  the  blessing  of  all  mankind. 

INTEREST  IN  THE  CHURCH  GROWING 

During  the  year  I  have  visited  four  of  the  mission  fields  of  the 
United  [States,  /three  of  them  from  one  end  to  the  other,  and  in; 
every  mission  I  have  found  delightful  people  who  are  interested  in 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

In  the  Texas  mission  one  young  man,  who  was  the  religious 
editor  of  a  newspaper,  came  to  our  meetings,  and  then  asked  if  he 
might  come  to  the  hotel  and  talk  with  us.  We  visited  with  him. 
That  is  less  than  a  year  ago  now,  and  only  within  the  last  two  or 
three  days  I  have  learned  that  he  has  joined  the  Church  because 
of  the  blessing  that  he  feels  will  come  to  him  by  such  a  membership. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


119 


In  some  places  I  found  that  our  chapels  are  not  large  enough 
to  hold  the  conference  congregations.  In  several  cities  people 
came  in  such  numbers  that  we  could  not  make  them  comfortable, 
and  the  audiences,  in  many  cases,  were  composed  mostly  of  those 
who  are  not  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

The  work  of  the  Lord  is  going  forward.  The  teachings  of  our 
Redeemer  are  finding  a  lodgment  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  of 
men.  The  spirit  of  prayer  is  abroad,  and  I  would  like  to  say  that 
it  is  pleasing  to  me,  as  I  go  into  the  homes  of  non-members,  to  find 
that  many  are  anxious  to  approach  the  Lord  in  prayer,  and  the 
servants  of  the  Lord  are  asked  to  pray  with  them,  showing  their 
faith  in  the  power  and  blessing  of  prayer.  But  it  seems  strange 
that  it  is  so  difficult  for  many  people  to  understand  the  plan  of 
salvation. 

TEACHINGS  OF  THE  REDEEMER  - 

The  discourses  that  have  been  delivered  from  this  stand  during 
this  conference  have  been  delightful  to  me.  Nothing  has  been  said 
that  anybody  could  take  exception  to  or  that  anyone  would  not 
be  pleased  to  accept.  What  ,has  been  said  has  been  in  conformity 
to  the  teachings  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord.  We  believe  in  faith,  in 
repentance,  in  baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission  ,of  sins  and 
the  laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  These  are 
the  teachings  of  the  Redeemer  of  mankind,  and  he  has  called  upon 
us  in  this  latter  day  to  teach  all  people  these  glorious  truths  and 
others  that  have  been  revealed. 

When  ,1  visit  the  sons  and  daughters  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  in 
the  mission  field,  and  discover  how  they  grow  in  strength  and 
power  and  in  grace  before  the  Lord,  and  how  they  are  able  in  their 
humble  ,way  to  explain  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  to_  the  con- 
vincing of  many  of  our  Father's  children,  I  am  thankful  indeed.  I 
wonder  if  the  Latter-day  Saints  really  appreciate  what  a  contribu- 
tion they  are  offering  ,to  the  world  when  they  send  out  these  young 
men,  and  in  many  cases  young  women,  who  are  giving  their  time 
and  such  information  as  they  possess  in  order  that  others  may 
enjoy  the  blessings  of  which  we  partake. 

ALL  CANNOT  UNDERSTAND 

The  scriptures  inform  us  that  all  will  not  understand  the 
Gospel.    (See  I  Cor.  1:18.) 

"For  the  preaching  of  the  cross  is  to  them  that  perish  foolishness ;  but  ,irnto 
us  which  are  saved  it  is  the  power  of  God." 

Is  that  not  true?  Has  your  missionary  experience  not  brought 
to  you  that  realization,  as  it  did  to  Paul,  that  those  who  refuse 
the  truth  are  on  the  way  to  perishing?  They  do  not  comprehend, 
and  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  but  foolishness  unto  them  Many 
are  good  men  and  good  women,  but  they  cannot  understand.  To 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


you  who  have  been  baptized  into  his  Church  and  have  been  obedi- 
ent to  his  requirements  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  an  anchor  and 
brings  to  you  a  satisfaction  that  can  come  in  no  other  way. 

ANXIOUS  TO  DIVIDE  WITH  OTHERS 

As  I  read  the  scriptures,  not  only  the  Old  and  the  New  Testa- 
ments, but  the  >Book  of  Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and 
the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  I  marvel  at  the  goodness  of  the  Lord  to 
bless  those  who  accept  his  teachings,  for  we  find  more  comfort  in 
these  sacred  records  than  in  all  the  philosophies  of  the  ages,  as 
given  to  us  by  the  wisdom  of  men. 

Standing  here  as  one  of  the  weakest  and  humblest  among  you, 
I  feel  to  praise  my  Heavenly  Father  for  the  testimony  that  he  has 
given  to  me  ithat  this  is  his  Church.  Oh,  how  I  wish  that  the  good 
people  of  all  denominations  might  really  know  what  we  are  seeking 
to  divide  with  them !  I  meet  members  of  the  Catholic,  the  Pres- 
byterian, the  Baptist,  the  Methodist,  and  all  the  other  churches,  and 
I  find  in  these  men  and  women  virtues  that  are  most  beautiful  to 
me.  But  I  find  that  they  are  so  rooted  in  the  organizations  'with 
which  they  are  identified  that  when  I  try  to  explain  to  them  what 
we  are  doing,  they  seem  mystified ;  they  are  not  able  to  understand. 
One  man  said  to  me,  "Would  you  have  us  give  up  all  that  we  have 
had,  all  these  blessings  that  we  have  enjoyed,  to  join  your  church?" 
I  replied :  "Not  a  blessing,  not  one  good  thing  would  we  ask  you 
to  give  up.  But  we  do  say  to  you,  we  will  be  glad  to  divide  with 
you,  if  you  will  permit  us  so  to  do,  without  cost  to  you,  some  of  the 
blessings  of  our  Heavenly  Father  that  have  been  kept  from  you  in 
the  past  which  are  now  at  your  very  door." 

It  is  not  the  purpose  of  this  Church  to  make  statements  that 
would  hurt  the  feelings  of  those  who  do  not  understand  things. 
This  Church  is  not  one  that  goes  about  criticising  and  finding  fault 
with  others,  but  in  the  spirit  of  loving  kindness  and  the  desire  to 
be  helpful,  its  representatives  carry  the  Gospel  message  to  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth.  This  unusual  missionary  service  is  attracting 
world-wide  attention.  By  the  thousands  the  sons  of  God,  bearing 
the  priesthood,  and  some  of  his  daughters,  have  gone  to  the  utter- 
most corners  of  the  earth,  paying  their  own  .expenses,  for  the  pur- 
pose of  sharing  with  our  Father's  children  his  precious  truths  which 
would  be  so  helpful  to  them  if  they  would  but  accept  them  -and 
make  them  part  of  their  lives. 

THE  WISDOM  OF  THE  WISE 

The  scripture  that  I  last  read  is  followed  by  this  : 

"For  it  is  written,  I  will  destroy  the  wisdom  of  the  wise,  and  ,will  bring  to 
nothing  the  understanding  of  the  prudent." 

And  in  another  place  we  read : 

"The  wisdom  of  /their  wise  men  shall  perish,  and  the  understanding  of  their 
prudent  men  shall  be  hid." 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  121 


In  analyzing  the  distressed  condition  of  the  world  at  the  pres- 
ent time  and  realizing  that  the  greatest  minds  of  all  lands  in  study- 
ing our  problems  are  utterly  helpless  to  meet  the  issue,  I  am  per- 
suaded that  until  they  turn  to  him  whose  children  they  are  and 
acknowledge  the  Father  who  is  so  anxious  to  bless,  until  they  will 
give  him  an  opportunity  to  inspire  them,  they  will  continue  !to 
grope  in  uncertainty  \and  fail  to  solve  the  problems  that  afflict 
mankind.  The  difficulties  for  which  we  are  now  seeking  remedies 
are  the  result  of  forsaking  the  teachings  of  the  Lord  and  depending 
upon  the  wisdom  of  men. 

THE  PANACEA 

If  I  were  to  voice  what  is  in  my  heart  it  would  seem  egotistical 
to  some,  but  I  say  to  all  men  everywhere,  examine  the  teachings 
of  the  Gospel  of  our  Lord  as  revealed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
search  them  prayerfully,  and  you  shall  find  the  panacea  for  the  ills 
of  this  world,  and  it  will  be  discovered  in  no  other  way. 

I  believe  that,  as  I  ibelieve  that  I  live,  and  when  I  speak  thus  it 
is  with  the  fervent  desire  that  in  some  way  we  may  be  able  to  in- 
terest our  Father's  children  and  bring  them  to  an  understanding  of 
his  truth,  that  the  errors  and  mistakes  of  mankind  may  be  neutral- 
ized, that  the  power  of  evil  may  be  turned  aside,  and  that  his  chil- 
dren everywhere  may  be  induced  to  glorify  his  name. 

OUR  DUTY 

Think  of  the  great  and  good  men  who  have  taught  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  from  the  days  of  Joseph  Smith  until  the  present 
time,  and  how  often  their  words  have  fallen  upon  dull  ears  through- 
out the  world.  I  realize  that  the  time  is  coming,  however,  and  our 
Heavenly  Father  has  so  decreed,  that  all  shall  know.  But  in  the 
meantime,  it  is  your  duty  and  mine,  not  only  to  teach  the  truth 
but  to  let  our  light  so  shine,  by  our  conduct  in  life,  that  others,' 
observing  our  good  works,  may  be  constrained  to  glorify  his  name. 

It  is  your  duty  and  mine,  as  we  go  to  and  fro  among  our  com- 
panions day  by  day,  to  radiate  such  an  influence  that  they  will 
be  led  to  investigate  the  cause  of  the  peace  and  happiness  that 
dwells  with  those  who  serve  God  and  keep  his  commandments.  It 
is  not  necessary  that  we  be  called  upon  missions  for  that.  Right  here 
at  home  and  in  all  nations  there  are  hundreds  and  thousands  of 
good  men  and  women  who  are  not  yet  touched  by  the  Gospel  -of 
Jesus  Christ,  many  of  whom  did  they  but  understand  what  you 
understand,  would  be  glad  to  conform  to  the  requirements  of  our 
Heavenly  Father  and  partake  of  his  blessings.  If  in  our  homes  and 
in  our  business  affairs,  if  in  our  lives  everywhere,  we  will  go  about 
radiating  that  love  that  should  be  in  every  heart,  that  kindness  that 
should  possess  every  Latter-day  Saint,  (and  particularly  in  these 
times  when  condittions  are  so  serious  for  many)  many  men  and 
many  women  will  rise  up  to  call  us  blessed,  not  only  for  the 
creature  comforts  that  we  may  bestow,  but  because  of  the  hope  of 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


eternal  life  that  we  have  been  the  instruments  in  the  hands  of  God 
of  placing  before  them  in  a  comprehensive  way. 

Some  of  the  greatest  mission  fields  in  all  the  world  are  the 
abiding  places  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  the  towns  and  villages 
where  we  live,  and  if  we  would  but  do  what  our  Father  desires  us 
to  do,  the  beauty  of  the  Gospel  of  our  Redeemer  would  be  realized 
by  ;the  children  of  men,  and  we  would  all  be  made  happier  to  see  our 
Father's  children — every  one  of  them  dear  to  him  and  precious  in 
his  sight —  drawing  near  to  him,  that  they  might  obtain  the  bless- 
ings that  he  has  promised  those  who  serve  him  and  keep  his  com- 
mandments. 

THE  AUTHORITY  OF  THE  LORD 

I  know  that  the  authority  of  the  Lord  is  here.  I  know  that 
the  man  who  stands  at  the  head  of  this  Church  is  inspired,  and  I 
wish  that  all  of  you  might  know  of  his  willingness  to  sacrifice  for 
the.  blessing  of  those  to  whom  he  ministers.  I  wish  you  could 
all  know  of  the  faith  and  devotion  of  his  counselors,  as  they  sit  hour 
by  hour  giving  the  very  best  that  is  in  their  lives,  to  plan  for  the 
good  of  humanity,  not  only  for  us  but  for  all  mankind. 

I  wish  you  could  be  associated  as  I  have  had  the  privilege  of 
being  with  the  good  men  who  lead  the  Church,  the  First  Pres- 
idency, the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve,  the  Patriarch,  the  First  Council 
of  Seventy  and  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  these  men  whose  lives  are 
devoted  to  the  blessings  of  mankind.  I  wish  you  could  know  them 
as  I  know  them.  I  want  to  say  that  if  you  did,  no  one  would  come 
to  you  with  any  suggestion  of  wrong-doing  charged  against  them 
without  being  defended  by  you,  realizing  that  they  are  indeed  the 
servants  of  the  Lord 

.    GRATITUDE  FOR  BLESSINGS 

I  am  grateful  for  my  fellowship  in  this  Church.  I  have  never 
asked  for  positions  of  honor.  I  have  always  been  pleased  to  work 
wherever  I  have  been  called,  and  in  the  mercy  of  the  Lord  he  has 
given  me  strength,  thus  far,  to  carry  out  in  part  the  requirements 
that  have  been  made  of  me.  I  stand  here  my  heart  filled  with 
gratitude  to  him  who  rules  and  reigns  on  high,  for  the  privilege 
that  I  enjoy  at  this  moment,  being  with  this  marvelous  congrega- 
tion, and  of  talking  to  you  as  I  am  permitted  to  do,  and  I  hope  that 
his  children  who  may  be  listening  in  will  feel  the  blessing  that  we 
enjoy,  as  this  service  proceeds  under  the  direction  of  the  Prophet 
of  the  Lord. 

god's  work 

This  is  God's  work.  It  'is  not  the  work  of  any  man.  No  man 
or  set  of  men  could  have  carried  it  forward  and  made  it  successful 
in  the  face  of  the  opposition  of  the  world.  Many  times  they  have 
felt  that  the  end  of  the  Church  had  come,  and  each  tim-e  by  the 
majesty  of  his  power,  the  Lord  has  lifted  it  up,  and  it  has  gone 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  123 


forward  from  city  to  city,  from  village  to  village,  from  nation  to 
nation,  and  here  in  the  tops  of  the  everlasting  hills  he  has  fulfilled 
his  revelation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  the  people  were 
to  become  a  mighty  people  in  the  midst  of  the  Rocky  Mountains. 

Our  work  has  only  just  begun.  As  I  look  into  the  future  and 
realize  the  possibilities,  the  prayer  that  is  in  my  heart  is  Father  in 
heaven,  help  us  that  we  may  resist  evil,  that  we  may  banish  from 
our  lives  selfishness,  that  we  may  love  one  another,  and  wherever 
we  may  go,  that  those  to  whom  we  minister  may  feel  that  love' 
and  be  touched  thereby,  that  they  may  desire  to  be  members  of 
such  an  organization  as  this. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  him  who  presides  over  us  and 
bless  his  counselors,  that  they  may  live  long  to  direct  us,  that  they 
may  continue  to  labor  under  the  inspiration  of  our  HeaVenly 
Father,  for  I  know  that  they  have  labored  that  way  in  the  past. 
May  we  who  labor  under  their  direction,  we  who  serve  in  the  various 
departments  of  this  Church,  live  so  near  to  him  who  rules  and 
reigns  on  high  that  we  will  know  our  duty  when  the  word  is  spoken 
by  those  whom  he  has  called  to  preside  and  that  we  may  not  be 
swayed  by  the  fallacies,  the  foolishness  and  the  philosophies  of 
men. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  his  children  every- 
where in  the  world,  that  his  power  and  the  inspiration  of  his  Spirit, 
and  the  knowledge  of  his  truth  may  come  to  them,  that  ,this  world 
may  become  filled  with  the  glory  of  righteousness,  I  humbly  pray, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn  "Come,  let  us  anew." 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

A  hundred  years  ago  this  last  June  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  delivered 
a  message  to  the  Church  that  I  consider  most  important  and  applicable 
just  now,  and  I  desire  to  read  a  portion  of  it  from  the  fifty-sixth 
section  of  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants: 

"Wo  unto  you  rich  men,  that  will  not  give  your  substance  to  the  poor,  for 

your  riches  will  canker  your  souls;  and  this  shall  be  your  lamentation  in  the 

day  of  visitation,  and  of  judgment,  and  of  indignation:  The  harvest  is  past,  the 
summer  is  ended,  and  my  soul  is  not  saved!" 

The  only  security  that  rich  men  have  today  comes  out  of  obedience 
to  law  and  order,  and  unless  there  is  a  liberal  giving  I  am  sure  that 
great  uncertainty  may  be  experienced  by  those  of  great  wealth. 

THE   RICH    MAN'S  OBLIGATION 

What  should  a  rich  man  give?  His  tenth.  That  belongs  to  the 
Lord,  for  man  is  but  a  steward  of  it.  I  do  feel  to  rejoice  in  my  heart 
that  in  this  Church  we  do  have  men  of  means  who  give  their  tenth. 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


But,  oh,  how  difficult  it  is  for  some  to  pay  an  honest  tithing  when  they 
make  much  money!  They  can  do  it  very  well  when  their  income  is 
small,  but  when  they  get  to  the  point  of  giving  a  hundred  dollars  it 
is  about  as  far  as  many  can  go,  no  matter  what  their  income  may  be. 

I  wish  that  throughout  the  whole  length  of  the  land  today  every 
man  of  wealth  would  feel  his  obligation  to  the  Lord  Almighty  for  his 
stewardship,  and  that  he  would  give  one-tenth  at  least  of  his  income 
each  year  for  the  charity  that  is  so  necessary  to  provide  for  the  hungry. 
As  I  have  seen  in  various  sections  of  this  country  great  groups  of 
hungry  and  idle  men  who  seek  work,  it  would  seem  to  be  but  a  simple 
thing  that  they,  like  in  Russia,  would  reach  the  point  where  they  would 
take  possession  of  property  unlawfully  and  illegally.  There  is  only 
one  way  by  which  that  may  be  averted.  They  must  be  fed,  they  must 
be  cared  for. 

EVERY  MAN  A  BEGGAR 

There  may  be  an  objection,  however,  that  these  have  been  unwise 
men  and  are  suffering  for  their  own  sins.  But  nevertheless,  let  me 
read  what  the  Lord  has  to  say  on  that  subject  also,  because  the  people 
referred  to  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  I  presume,  had  times  very  much 
like  ours.    In  the  fourth  chapter  of  Mosiah  I  read  the  following: 

"And  also,  ye  yourselves  will  succor  those  that  stand  in  need  of  your  succor ; 
ye  will  administer  of  your  substance  unto  him  that  standeth  in  need ;  and  ye 
will  not  suffer  that  the  beggar  putteth  up  his  petition  to  you  in  vain,  and  turn 
him  out  to  perish. 

"Perhaps  thou  shalt  say :  The  man  has  brought  upon  himself  his  misery ; 
therefore  I  will  stay  my  hand,  and  will  not  give  unto  him  of  my  food,  nor 
impart  unto  him  of  my  substance  that  he  may  not  suffer,  for  his  punishments 
are  just — 

"But  I  say  unto  you,  O  man,  whosoever  doeth  this  the  same  hath  great 
cause  to  repent;  and  except  he  repenteth  of  that  which  he  hath  done  he  perishetb 
forever,  and  hath  no  interest  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

"For  behold,  are  we  not  all  beggars?  Do  we  not  all  depend  upon  the  same 
Being,  even  God,  for  all  the  substance  which  we  have,  for  both  food  and 
raiment,  and  for  gold,  and  for  silver,  and  for  all  the  riches  which  we  have  of 
every  kind? 

"And  behold,  even  at  this  time,  ye  have  been  calling  on  his  name,  and 
begging  for  a  remission  of  your  sins.  And  has  he  suffered  that  ye  have  begged  in 
vain?" 

Every  man  needs  the  pardon  of  God.  Every  man  is  a  beggar, 
because  he  is  pleading  for  that  which  he  does  not  have  himself,  though 
he  may  be  possessed  of  all  the  wealth  of  the  world.  One  thing  the 
Lord  has  clearly  indicated  is  that  no  matter  how  worthy  or  unworthy, 
every  one  of  his  children  should  have  food  and  shelter.  Beyond  that, 
however,  we  may  not  be  able  to  go. 

A  WORD  TO  THE  POOR 

And  now,  a  word  to  those  who  are  in  need,  the  poor.  I  am 
reading  again  from  the  fifty-sixth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, the  balance  of  that  admonition: 

"Wo  unto  you  poor  men,  whose  hearts  are  not  broken,  whose  spirits  are 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


125 


not  contrite,  and  whose  bellies  are  not  satisfied,  and  whose  hands  are  not  stayed 
from  laying  hold  upon  other  men's  goods,  whose  eyes  are  full  of  greediness, 
and  who  will  not  labor  with  your  own  hands !" 

Their  attitude  is  equally  as  objectionable  in  the  sight  of  the  Lord 
as  that  of  the  stingy  rich.  Let  the  poor,  therefore,  not  be  possessed 
of  the  spirit  of  Bolshevism  that  would  unlawfully  take  possession  of 
that  which  does  not  belong  to  them. 

I  am  pleading  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  will  respond  to  the 
appeals  that  are  made.  Last  night  the  Presiding  Bishop  of  our  Church 
informed  the  brethren  that  every  bishop  in  a  ward  where  Latter-day 
Saints  are  in  a  majority  should  care  for  the  hungry  and  see  that  none 
goes  without  food  or  shelter,  whether  he  belongs  to  this  Church  or  not ; 
and  that  is  why  we  need  the  support  of  your  tithes  and  offerings,  that 
the  poor  may  not  lift  up  their  appeals  in  vain.  And  the  poor  who  re- 
ceive these  blessings  must  be  patient.  This  is  not  the  time  for  them 
to  be  possessed  of  other  men's  goods.  They  must  be  wise  and  prudent 
in  the  future,  to  store  up  against  such  a  day  as  this,  and  consider  them- 
selves fortunate  that  they  are  provided  with  food  and  shelter  during 
these  trying  times.  They  should  not  become  envious  and  jealous  and 
full  of  the  spirit  of  anarchy.    That  is  not  the  spirit  of  the  Christ. 

THE  LORD'S  PROMISE 

"But  blessed  are  the  poor,"  the  Lord  continues — and  I  would  add,  and  I  feel 
sure  it  is  in  harmony  with  the  spirit  of  this  text — blessed  are  the  rich  too — 
"who  are  pure  in  heart,  whose  hearts  are  broken,  and  whose  spirits  are  contrite, 
for  they  shall  see  the  kingdom  of  God  coming  in  power  and  great  glory  unto 
their  deliverance ;  for  the  fatness  of  the  earth  shall  be  theirs. 

"For  behold,  the  Lord  shall  ,come,  and  his  recompense  shall  be  with 
him,  and  he  shall  reward  every  man,  and  the  poor  shall  rejoice; 

"And  their  generations  shall  inherit  the  earth  from  generation  to  generation, 
forever  and  ever."  ; 

Such  a  promise  will  be  realized  and  that  through  the  coming  of 
the  kingdom  of  God. 

DEVELOPMENT  IN  ADVERSITY 

I  believe  that  these  experiences  through  which  we  are  now  passing 
all  have  their  lesson.  What  is  the  lesson  the  Latter-day  Saints  should 
learn  from  the  experiences  of  today?  But  three  or  four  years  ago, 
in  the  midst  of  our  greatest  prosperity,  I  was  attracted  by  a  question 
propounded  to  Mr.  C.  W.  Barron,  who  owned  the  Wall  Street  Journal— 
I  think  he  has  since  passed  away— one  of  the  greatest  financiers  of  our 
country.  Some  man  had  declared  that  there  would  be  a  hundred 
years  of  uninterrupted  prosperity  in  the  United  States,  and  to  that 
proposition  Mr.  Barron  answered: 

"Will  there  be  a  hundred  years  of  uninterrupted  prosperity?"  I  asked.  He 
shook  his  head. 

"Why  not?"  , .       .        .  . 

"I  expected  him  to  show  me  a  chart  or  say  something  about  the  business 
cycle,'  or  'economic  fundamentals,'  or  to  use  some  of  the  other  well-worn 
phrases.    But  to  my  relief  he  took  an  entirely  different  approach. 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"There  will  not  be  a  century  of  uninterrupted  good  times,  because  the  universe 
is  not  arranged  on  that  basis,"  he  said.  "What  is  taking  place  on  this  earth  is 
a  great  experiment  in  the  development  of  human  character.  (The  Creator 
is  not  interested  in  money  or  markets,  but  in  more  enduring  men. 

"Such  men  are  not  developed  when  everything  is  easy.  They  never  come 
out  of  the  countries  where  the  sun  shines  every  day.  Trials  develop  them ; 
problems  develop  them ;  suffering  develops  them.  As  long  as  the  present 
Divine  plans  continue  to  operate,  we  shall  continue  to  have  enough  setbacks  to 
keep  the  race  from  growing  altogether  soft.  Years  ago,  Roger  Babson  made  a 
chart  on  which  one  wavy  line  represented  national  prosperity  and  the  other 
wavy  line  showed  church  membership.  It  was  decidedly  interesting.  When 
money  rolls  in  too  easily  and  too  long,  men  drift  away,  not  only  from  their 
churches,  but  from  hard  work  and  simple  living ;  they  form  extravagant  tastes ; 
they  take  long  chances. 

"Then  came  the  panic.  Their  easy  wealth  evaporates.  They  clear  their 
lives  of  rubbish  and  start  in  again  on  the  sound  basis  of  economy,  worship  and 
work.  Sometime  the  race  may  develop  to  a  point  where  it  can  stand  prosperity 
all  the  time,  but  in  our  present  state  hard  times  still  have  their  needed  work 
to  do." 

god's  plan  to  be  established 

Yes,  I  believe  there  will  come  a  time  when  we  can  stand  prosperity 
all  the  time,  and  that  time  will  be  when  that  order  which  God  established 
in  the  heavens  before  man  lived  upon  the  earth,  is  set  up. 

Upon  various  occasions  in  the  past  the  Lord  has  endeavored  to 
establish  that  order — in  the  days  of  Enoch,  as  referred  to  by  President 
Nibley  this  morning,  and  in  the  days  of  Christ  himself  while  he  min- 
istered among  men  upon  the  eastern  hemisphere  and  upon  the  western 
hemisphere  also.  He  has  revealed  to  this  Church  his  plan  for  the 
equitable  distribution  of  the  wealth  of  the  world,  which  is  his.  We 
have  gone  forward  marvelously  in  mass  production;  and  now,  brethren 
and  sisters,  it  is  essential  that  we  shall  have  mass  distribution.  We 
will  have  these  recurring  periods  until  the  people  learn,  as  learn  1 
believe  they  will  in  time  through  these  experiences,  to  let  the  Lord's 
plan  become  established. 

THE  LORD'S  RENTAL 

I  am  happy  that  the  Church,  a  hundred  years  nearer  the  solution 
of  this  problem  than  anyone  else,  is  making  headway.  Sometime 
after  the  order  referred  to  was  revealed  to  the  Prophet  the  Lord  gave 
the  law  of  tithing.  That  is  the  thing  that  concerns  us  now.  It  is  the 
schoolmaster  to  prepare  us  for  this  greater,  this  bigger  thing.  The 
law  of  tithing  is  just  and  righteous.  We  need  the  blessing  of  the 
Lord  today,  of  a  material  character.  No  man  would  think  for  a 
moment  that  he  was  not  under  obligation  to  pay  rental  to  the  owner 
for  land  that  he  tilled ;  and  yet  the  owner  cannot  guarantee  that  the 
rain  shall  fall,  that  the  snow  shall  come  in  the  mountains,  that  the 
moisture  so  essential  shall  be  provided,  that  the  sun  will  shine,  that  the 
grain  will  germinate,  that  the  harvest  will  come.  Someone  else  must 
provide  these  essentials  without  which  your  farm  is  of  little  more 
value  than  an  ash  heap. 

Who  provides  these  other  important  blessings?    The  Lord  Al- 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


127 


mighty.  Is  he  entitled  to  recognition  and  rental?  Yes.  The  earth 
is  the  Lord's.  It  belongs  to  him,  and  we  are  but  tenants.  We  owe 
him  a  rental,  and  he  has  enjoined  upon  us  that  a  just  rental  is  ten 
per  cent  of  that  which  we  obtain  from  the  soil  and  from  our  labor. 
You  expect,  I  am  sure,  to  live  in  an  eternal  world  with  an  eternal 
possession.  How  can  any  man  who  understands  this  law  hope  to  have 
an  eternal  inheritance  in  this  world,  celestialized  by  the  power  of  Christ, 
unless  he  has  paid  his  tithing?  It  is  the  law  of  inheritance.  He  will 
establish  a  right  to  an  eternal  inheritance  if  he  has  paid  his  rental. 

CHURCH  GROWTH 

The  Lord's  work,  however,  is  making  progress.  It  is  going  for- 
ward. I  am  not  disturbed  by  the  things  that  are  now  occurring.  In 
the  beginning  of  this  Church  he  declared  that  the  time  had  come 
when  everything  would  be  shaken  that  could  be  shaken  and  that  that 
which  he  had  established  would  stand.  The  Lord  has  been  shaking 
to  the  very  foundation  the  fortresses  of  evil,  of  error,  of  darkness, 
of  skepticism,  and  of  apostasy.  The  Lord  has  been  building  up  the 
truth  by  the  same  process.  Just  a  slight  reference  to  it :  A  recent 
report  of  the  census  of  the  United  States  reveals  the  fact  that  in  the 
last  decade,  of  the  twenty-three  religious  denominations  of  the  United 
States  six  of  them  show  a  loss  of  membership.  This  Church  is  one 
of  the  twenty-three,  but  there  is  not  another  one  in  the  group  whose 
percentage  of  growth  is  equal  to  the  growth  of  this  Church. 

The  Christian  Herald  of  recent  issue  calls  attention  to  the  fact  that 
last  year.  1930,  the  one  hundredth  anniversary  of  the  birth  of  this 
Church,  for  the  first  time  in  one  hundred  years  the  Methodist  Church  of 
the  United  States  lost  membership.  Its  loss  was  42,211  souls.  The 
Presbyterian  Church's  loss  was  22,763  souls,  while  the  great  Catholic 
Church,  the  largest  Christian  religion  in  the  United  States,  had  a  growth 
of  only  17,526  souls,  a  growth  that  this  Church  exceeded  last  year. 
The  growth  of  total  membership  in  the  year  1928  in  the  United  States 
was  a  million  souls,  the  next  year  it  dropped  to  242,000,  and  the 
following  year,  last  year,  it  was  88,000.  The  Lord  Almighty  is  shaking 
the  foundations  of  error  and  man-made  institutions,  while  this,  his 
work,  stands  all  the  tests  that  have  been  applied  to  it,  the  test  of  mob 
violence,  the  test  of  persecution,  and  now  I  am  sure  it  will  stand 
whatever  test  the  future  holds  for  we  are  founded  upon  the  truth. 

PROPHESIES  GOOD  FOR  ZION 

God  help  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  see  our  glorious  oppor- 
tunity, to  adhere  more  closely  than  ever  before  to  these  Gospel  principles. 
Don't  you  brethren  become  discouraged.  Don't  you  leave  your  farms. 
This  is  no  time  to  sell  your  land,  no  time  to  desert  your  flocks  and 
herds.  I  prophesy  good  for  Zion  if  the  Latter-day  Saints  will  only 
serve  God  and  keep  his  commandments.  You  shah  be  delivered 
financially,  delivered  from  that  which  oppresses  you,  but  among  the 
wicked  there  shall  be  times  of  trouble.    The  devil  is  in  the  earth  to 


128 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


try  to  reclaim  his  kingdom.  God  is  here  to  help  the  progress  of  his 
work,  for  that  glorious  day  of  the  coming  of  his  Son  must  arrive,  and 
the  Lord  Almighty  is  at  work  to  that  end. 

The  Lord  help  us  to  be  wise  and  learn  the  lessons  out  of  the  present 
and  profit  by  them  in  the  future,  and  listen  to  the  counsels  of  this 
glorious  conference,  for  I  bear  witness  that  the  Lord  is  here,  the  light 
is  in  the  ship.  It  is  with  the  leaders  of  this  Church.  I  know  it. 
You  have  had  witness  of  it  this  day  and  during  the  other  sessions  of 
this  conference  that  shall  remain  with  you  forever  and  ever.  God  grant 
it,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  regret  exceedingly  that  we  have  not  had  the  pleasure  of  hearing 
from  President  B.  H.  Roberts  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  and  from 
Brother  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  both  of  whom  have,  for  many  years  at 
the  various  conferences  that  I  have  attended,  lifted  their  voices  in 
testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged. 

The  General  Authorities  and  Officers  of  the  Church  and  the 
Auxiliary  Officers  and  Boards  were  then  presented,  and  by  unanimous 
vote  of  those  assembled  were  sustained  in  their  various  offices  and 
callings  as  follows : 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthony  W.  Ivins,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Charles  W.  Nibley,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  James  E.  Talmage 

Reed  Smoot  Stephen  L.  Richards 

George  Albert  Smith  Richard  R.  Lyman 

George  F.  Richards  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

David  O.  McKay  John  A.  Widtsoe 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Inasmuch  as  some  people  say  that  we  always  present  the  name  of 
the  person  nominated  to  fill  a  vacancy  in  the  leading  councils  of  the 
Church,  in  a  group  with  those  previously  chosen  and  ordained,  so  that 
the  people  do  not  have  an  opportunity  to  vote  against  him,  I  shall  put 
this  separate  motion :  All  those  in  favor  of  sustaining  Brother  Joseph 
F.  Merrill  as  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  filling  the 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


129 


vacancy  in  that  Council  caused  by  the  death  of  Elder  Orson  F.  Whitney, 

will  manifest  it  by  raising  their  right  hands. 
(All  present  raised  their  right  hands) 
The  vote  is  unanimous  in  favor  of  Brother  Merrill. 


PRESIDING  PATRIARCH 


Hyrum  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles 
and  the  Presiding  Patriarch  as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 


TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 


Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 


FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

Brigham  H.  Roberts  Joseph  W.  McMurrin 

Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Charles  H.  Hart 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Levi  Edgar  Young 

It  is  moved  and  seconded  that  we  sustain  Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins 
as  a  member  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.  All  in  favor  manifest 
it  by  raising  their  right  hands.  (All  present  raised  their  right  hands) 
Contrary,  if  there  be  any,  indicate  it  in  the  same  manner.  (No  hands 
were  raised) 

The  vote  in  favor  of  Brother  Ivins  is  unanimous  in  the  affirmative. 


PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH   HISTORIAN   AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants:  Andrew 
Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  and  A.  William  Lund. 

CHURCH  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Anthony  W.  Ivins  David  O.  McKay 

Charles  W.  Nibley  Stephen  L.  Richards 

Willard  Young  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Rudger  Clawson  John  A.  Widtsoe 

Joseph  F.  Merrill  Adam  S.  Bennion 
Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


COMMISSIONER  OF  EDUCATION 

Joseph  F.  Merrill 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Henry  H.  Rolapp  Orval  W.  Adams  John  W.  Hart 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor ;  B.  Cecil  Gates,  Asst.  Conductor;  David 
A.  Smith,  President. 

ORGANISTS 

Edward  P.  Kimball  Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

CLERK  OF  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Joseph  Anderson 
GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Louise  Y.  Robison,  President 
Amy  Brown  Lyman,  First  Counselor 
Julia  A.  Child,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

David  O.  McKay,  General  Superintendent 
Stephen  L.  Richards,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
George  D.  Pyper,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  MEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

George  Albert  Smith,  General  Superintendent 
Richard  R.  Lyman,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
Melvin  J.  Ballard,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  LADIES'  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Ruth  May  Fox,  President 
Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  First  Counselor 
Clarissa  A.  Beesley,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Anderson,  Superintendent 
Isabelle  S.  Ross,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
Edna  Harker  Thomas,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


131 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

In  case  any  person  fails  to  fully  appreciate  the  plain  statement 
of  President  Ivins  that  the  book  to  which  he  referred  is  to  be  con- 
sidered as  the  personal  opinion  of  the  author  and  not  as  having 
been  approved  by  the  Church,  I  wish  all  the  members  of  the  Church 
to  know  that  when  any  book  has  the  approval  of  the  Church  St 
will  have  the  stamp  of  approval  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church. 
Therefore,  no  agent  selling  any  books  is  justified  in  quoting  the 
Church  as  approving  a  book  that  does  not  carry  the  stamp  of  . 
approval  in  it. 

I  believe  that  for  the  first  and  only  time  since  I  became  the 
President  of  the  Church  it  is  not  four  o'clock  when  the  time  has 
arrived  to  call  upon  the  choir  to  sing  and  for  the  final  benediction 
to  be  pronounced. 

It  has  fallen  to  my  lot  on  more  than  one  occasion  to  make  a  few 
remarks  after  four  o'clock.  We  are  all  willing  to  stay  here  after 
four  o'clock,  I  am  sure,  to  hear  the  choir  in  the  closing  anthem. 
Therefore,  there  are  ten  full  minutes  left  for  me,  for  which  I  am 
grateful. 

GRATEFUL  FOR  CONFERENCE 

First,  I  am  thankful  for  this  wonderful  conference.  I  believe 
sincerely  that  today  we  have  had  as  many  if  not  more  in  attendance 
than  is  usual  at  our  Sunday  morning  and  afternoon  meetings.  It 
seemed  to  me  that  we  were  more  crowded  this  morning  than  at 
any  other  time  I  can  remember. 

I  am  grateful  that  what  to  me  was  the  most  marvelous  sight 
I  have  looked  upon  -in  this  building  was  that  which  I  witnessed  last 
night  when  the  building  was  nearly  filled  with  members  holding 
the  priesthood  of  the  living  God.  Let  me  say  that  with  all  ,our 
faults  and  failings  I  believe  we  are  the  best  people  in  the  world. 
It  'Sounds  a  little  egotistical,  but  I  believe  every  word  of  it,  and  I 
believe  firmly  that  our  sisters  are  better  than  the  brethren,  t, 
haven't  any  doubt  of  this,  none  whatever.  There  was  a  magnifi- 
cent showing  here  last  night  of  the  priesthood,  and  from  the 
bottom  of  my  heart  and  in  the  authority  of  the  priesthood  of  the 
living  God  that  I  hold  I  have  great  pleasure  in  blessing  the  men 
who  hold  the  priesthood  of  God,  the  power  from  heaven,  and  in 
blessing  our  wives  who,  on  an  average,  have  been  more  devoted,  I  am 
sure,  to  the  work  of  the  living  God  than  we  have  been. 

LOYALTY  TO  PRESIDENT  HOOVER  AND  ASSOCIATES 

I  rejoice  in  the  splendid  work  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  de- 
sire and  $ee\  to  pray  for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  to  be  and  abide 
with  the  President  of  the  United  States  and  his  cabinet  in  this  time 
of  great  trouble,  in  a  time  when  we  should  be  loyal.  "We  believe 
in  being  subject  to  kings,  presidents,  rulers  and  magistrates."  Let 
us  be  loyal  to  those  who  in  the  providences  of  the  Lord  stand  at 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  head  of  our  nation  at  the  present  time,  in  this  great  time  of 
trouble..  I  am  >sure  nobody  will  accuse  me,  seeing-  I  am  counted 
as  a  Democrat,  of  being  guilty  of  mixing  politics  with  religion 
here ;  but  I  believe  that  no  truer,  better,  finer  man  has  ever  sat  in 
the  presidential  chair  than  the  man  who  is  sitting  there  today. 
That  is  my  opinion  of  President  Hoover. 

A  STRAW  VOTE 

Some  years  ago  for  the  first  and  only  time  in  my  life  I  paid 
some  attention  /to  a  straw  vote.  I  do  not  think  such  votes  amount 
to  a  straw;  that  is  my  opinion  of  them.  I  think  that  if  there  is 
ever  any  "stuffing"  in  ballot  boxes  it  is  when  a  straw  vote  is  being 
taken.  I  think  it  is  properly  named  "straw  vote."  It  is  as  weak  as 
a  straw.  But  I  could  not  resist  the  temptation  way  back  many 
years  ago,  when  the  Literary  Digest  asked  for  a  straw  vote,  and  lo 
and  behold,  I  voted  for  Hoover.  That  was  my  opinion  of  the  man 
who  had  >done  so  much,  such  magnificent  and  wonderful  work 
during  the  war,  in  feeding  the  people  in  Europe.  I  believe  that  he  is 
absolutely  honest  and  conscientious  and  that  his  heart  is  as  firmly 
set  upon  doing  the  right  thing  for  the  people  of  this  country,  as  the 
hearts  of  the  Jeaders  of  this  Church  are  set  upon  doing  the  right 
thing  for  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  am  happy  indeed  in  a  knowledge  of  the  divinity  of  the  work 
you  and  /I  are  engaged  in.  I  humbly  pray  for  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord  to  be  with  each  and  all  of  you,  with  the  Latter-day  Saints 
the  world  over,  and  the  honest  in  every  land  and  every  clime.  God 
bless  you,  Amen. 

As  a  closing  anthem  the  Choir  sang  the  Hallelujah  Chorus,  by 
Handel. 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Taylor  Nelson,  President 
of  the  Oneida  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 

Prof.  Anthony  C.  Lund,  assisted  by  B.  Cecil  Gates,  conducted  the 
singing  of  the  Choir  and  congregation  at  the  Conference  meetings.  Ac- 
companiments and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played  by  Edward 
P.  Kimball  and  Frank  W.  Asper. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Authorities  Present   

Authorities,  Presentation  of 
Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J.  .  . 


128 
123 


1 


The  rich  man's  obligation,  123 — Every  man  a  beggar,  124 — A  word 
to  the  poor,  124 — The  Lord's  promise,  125 — Development  in  adversity, 
125 — God's  plan  to  be  established,  126 — The  Lord's  rental  126-1- 
Church  growth,  127 — Prophecies  good  for  Zion,  127. 


Leadership  of  Moses,  104 — Choose  whom  you  will  serve,  105 — Faith 
in  God  needed,  105 — Purpose  of  Gospel,  105 — Consideration  for 
others,  105 — Priesthood  for  guidance,  106 — Demand  for  a  modern 
Moses,  106 — Inspired  leadership  in  the  Church,  106 — Overcome  past 
mistakes,  108 — Critical  attitude  caused  by  adversity,  109 — Panaceas 
suggested,  109 — All  things  in  common,  109 — Church  stands  for 
greater  equality,  110 — Gospel  promotes  spirit  of  consecration,  1 10 — 
Obey  the  law  of  tithing,  110 — Cultivate  contriteness  of  spirit,  110. 

Clawson,  President  Rudger   75 

Past  and  present  linked  together,  75 — The  Gospel — indivisible  and 
everlasting,  76 — An  incident  from  the  distant  past,  76 — A  dreadful 
day,  76 — Destruction  of  wicked,  77 — Marvelous  manifestations,  77 — 
The  coming  of  Elijah,  77— The  word  "Turn",— Work  for  the 
dead,  78 — By  proxy,  78 — The  connecting  link,  79. 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting    2 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   .  23 

General  Authorities  Present    1 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  128 

General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church  130 


Work  progresses,  2 — No  need  to  worry,  2 — Falsehoods  being  cir- 
culated, 3 — Money  loaned  to  Sugar  Company,  3 — Penalized  for  loy- 
alty, 4 — Personal  profit  denied,  4 — Satisfied  with  status,  4 — True 
Latter-day  Saints,  5 — Changes  among  General  Authorities,  5 — 
Changes  in  Stake  and  Mission  officers  since  last  April  Conference, 
5— Stake  presidents  appointed,  5 — New  mission  presidents,  6 — New 
temple  president,  6 — New  wards  organized,  6— Stake  president  who 
has  passed  away,  6 — Bishops  who  have  passed  away,  6 — The  founda- 


Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  O. 

Bluth,  Elder  John  V  

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A.  . 
Cannon,  Elder  Sylvester  Q 


28 
82 
66 
104 


General  Officers  of  the  Church 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  


129 
2 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


tion  of  the  Church,  6 — Truth  evidenced,  7 — Puzzles  writer,  7 — 
Superiority  admitted,  8 — A  mighty  people,  8 — During  the  past  one 
hundred  years,  8 — Example  quoted,  9 — Defies  statement,  9. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   49 

Composers  of  inspired  hymns,  49. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  117 

Returned  mission  presidents,  117. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  128 

General  Authorities  sustained,  128 — General  Officers  of  the  Church 
sustained,  129 — General  Auxiliary  officers  of  the  Church  sustained, 
130. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  131 

Grateful   for  conference,   131 — Loyalty  to   President   Hoover  and 
associates,  131 — A  straw  vote,  132. 

Hart,  Elder  Charles  H   68 

Hart,  Elder  John  W.   74 

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W   87 

Refers  to  book,  87 — Situated  in  Egypt,  88 — Governed  by  stars,  88 — 
Of  great  magnitude,  88 — The  builders,  88 — Old  theory  challenged, 
89 — The  interior,  89- — Conclusions  of  scholars,  90 — Questions  con- 
clusions, 91 — Other  sources,  91 — Preceding  his  second  coming,  91 — 
Exact  time  not  revealed,  92 — The  author's  own  views,  92 — Troubles 
forecast,  92 — Tribulations  evident,  93 — Defends  banks,  93 — Trust  the 
Lord,  94. 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R   71 

Jones,  Elder  Miles  L   30 

Kimball,  Eldler  J.  Golden   55 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R   18 

What  says  the  law?  18 — What  says  Lincoln?  18 — -What  says  science? 
18 — What  say  we?  19— What  say  the  doctors?  19- — What  says  the 
Church  ?  19 — What  say  the  papers  ?  20 — What  accounts  for  success  ? 
20— Do  public  officials  break  the  law?  20— Will  leaders  lead?  20— 
What  can  example  do?  21 — What  is  our  answer?  21 — Why  not  de- 
cide wisely?  22. 

McKay,  Elder  David  0   10 

Try  the  spirits,  10 — An  experience  in  the  mission  field,  10 — The  spirit 
.   of  slander,  11 — George  Washington's  experience,  11— An  impressive 
instance  in  Church  history,  12 — The  man  of  Galilee,  13 — The  triumph 
of  truth,  13. 

Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F   34 

A  position  of  high  honor,  35 — A  key  to  success,  35 — Men  of  devotion, 
35 — Honored  of  God,  36 — The  young  people,  36 — Testimony  through 
service,  36 — Keep  young  people  in  school,  37 — By  keeping  physically 
fit,  37 — Securely  anchored,  38. 
Moyle,  Elder  James  H   38 


INDEX 


135 


Nibley,  President  Charles  W   94 

Ominous  signs,  94 — To  alleviate  distress,  95 — England's  navy,  95 — 
The  Lord's  plan,  96 — In  Moses'  time,  97 — Equal  possessions,  97 — 
Not  destructive  of  initiative,  97 — Regard  for  others,  98 — Selfishness 
must  be  overcome,  98 — If  conditions  mend,  98 — The  way  of  the 
Lord,  99. 

Pond,  Elder  Noah  S  115 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   99 

Moroni's  exhortation,  100 — The  revealed  word  of  God,  100 — Men  of 
God,  101 — The  office  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  101 — A  marvelous  mani- 
festation, 101 — Our  responsibility,  102 — Immortal  beings,  102 — Con- 
trary to  sectarian  belief,  102 — Gospel  truths  revealed  anew,  103 — 
Marriage  for  eternity,  103 — Other  requirements,  104. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L   45 

Tolerant  toward  others,  46 — Influences  that  perplex,  46 — Reliance 
upon  reason,  46 — Sympathy  in  temptation,  47 — The  Gospel's  greater 
mission,  47 — Temperate  in  judgment,  47. 

Romney,  Elder  George  S   85 

Rowan,  Elder  Charles  E.,  Jr   42 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   68 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting    49 

Sloan,  Elder  William  R   44 

Smith,  Elder  David  A   23 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert   117 

Absent  ones,  117 — Love  for  the  brethren,  117 — Teaching  the  world, 
118 — Interest  in  the  Church  growing,  118 — Teachings  of  the  Re- 
deemer, 119 — All  cannot  understand,  119 — Anxious  to  divide  with 
others,  120 — The  wisdom  of  the  wise,  120 — The  panacea,  121 — Our 
duty,  121 — The  authority  of  the  Lord,  122 — Gratitude  for  blessings, 
122 — God's  work,  122. 

Smith,  Elder  Hyrum  G   26 

People  disturbed  over  financial  conditions,  26 — Faith  in  the  Church 
and  its  leaders,  26 — Visitors  from  many  states  and  countries,  26 — 
Discerning  between  good  and  evil  spirits,  27 — Blessings  through 
devotion,  27. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   14 

Testimony  concerning  great  truths,  14 — That  we  may  not  be  deceived, 

15 —  Unto  all  men,  15 — Here  or  hereafter,  16 — The  Lord's  purpose, 

16 —  Search  these  things,  17 — "Whoso  treasureth  up  my  word,"  17. 

Smoot,  Elder  Reed   Ill 

Blessings  through  attending  conferences,  1 12 — Testimony  through 
prayer,  112 — Conditions  throughout  the  world,  113 — Not  a  praying 
nation,  113 — In  congressional  assemblies,  113 — Not  in  unclean  taber- 
nacles, 114 — More  Godliness  or  more  Godlessness?  114 — The  Spirit- 
ual factor,  114. 


136 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Talmage,  Elder  James  E   49 

Sanctity  of  the  Lord's  name,  49 — Profanity  in  speech,  50 — Enormity 
of  false  swearing,  51 — Using  the  holy  name  presumptuously,  51 — 
We  bear  the  Lord's  name,  52. 

Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting  Ill 

Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting   87 

Tingey,  Elder  Clarence  H   60 

Welling,  Elder  Arthur   53 

Wells,  Elder  John    32 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S   62 

Woodruff,  Elder  Elias  S   79 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar    58 


All  Students  oi  the  Book  of 
Mormon 

WILL  FIND  THE  BOOK 

An  Introduction  to  the  Study  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon 

By  J.  M.  SJODAHL 

To  be  mighty  interesting  and  illuminating 

"Some  of  the  contents  of  the  book  has  appeared  in  the  IMPROVEMENT 
ERA  and  other  Church  publications  during  the  last  ten  years,  and  friends 
have  been  good  enough  to  say,  repeatedly,  that  they  would  be  glad  to  have 
those  contributions  in  some  form  more  convenient  for  reference.  Acting 
on  their  suggestion,  I  have  collected  some  papers  previously  published  and 
others  that  now  appear  for  the  first  time,  and  respectfully  submit  them  in 
this  form  to  the  public.  In  doing  so,  it  is  my  sincere  prayer  that  the  testi- 
mony here  offered  may  be  of  benefit  to  the  reader,  and  especially  to  honest 
seekers  after  the  truth." 

Price  $3.50 


Sunday  Night  Talks 
by  Radio 

In  answer  to  an  insistent  demand  the  1930  series  of  L.  D.  S.  Radio 
Addresses  given  by  Dr.  James  E.  Talmage  has  now  been  issued  in  regular 
book  form  under  the  title  of  "Sunday  Night  Talks  By  Radio."  It  is 
printed  on  a  good  grade  of  book  paper  from  type  especially  set  for  this 
edition,  and  durably  bound  in  beautiful  marblex  cloth. 

This  book  will  make  a  beautiful  as  well  as  practical  and  useful  ad- 
dition to  the  library  of  any  member  of  the  Church.  It  will  be  especially 
valuable  to  missionaries  or  prospective  missionaries. 

Price  $1.50  Postpaid 

Send  your  order  now  to  the 

Deseret  Book  Company 

"The  Home  of  Good  Books" 


44  East  on  South  Temple  Street 


Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


A  veritable  epic  of  empire-building 

The  Life  Story  of 
Brigham  Young 

By  SUSA  YOUNG  GATES  AND  LEAH  D.  WIDTSOE 
WITH  A  FOREWORD  BY  HONORABLE  REED  SMOOT 

"This  book  presents  the  life  story  of  a  New  England  cabinet-maker, 
who,  well  into  his  thirties,  entered  npon  a  career  that  made  him  an  empire* 
builder  of  the  West;  the  founder  of  a  hundred  cities;  the  governor  of  one 
of  the  territories  of  the  United  States;  and  one  of  the  outstanding  figures 
of  the  nineteenth  century." 

Thus  does  Senator  Smoot  begin  his  enthusiastic  foreword  to  this  notable 
biography.  "A  graphic,  gripping  story,"  he  terms  it,  and  every  reader 
undoubtedly  will  agree  with  his  definition  of  this  life  of  the  indefatigable, 
indomitable  Brigham  Young,  which  was  written  by  one  of  his  daughters 
and  her  daughter.  The  entire  record  of  the  great  Mormon  leader  is  un- 
folded from  his  birth  in  a  little  Vermont  town  to  his  death  at  the  age  of 
seventy-seven  as  head  of  the  church,  the  success  of  which  was  due  to  his 
courageous  and  arduous  leadership. 

A  Special  Edition.   Beautifully  and  Substantially  Bound  in  Cloth. 

Only  $2.50  Postpaid 

The  New  Lesson  Course 
For  Genealogical  Workers 

IS  ENTITLED 

'The  Way  to  Perfection" 

By  ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Price  $1.25 

Descret  Book  Company 

44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Printed  in  the  United  States  of  America,  By  The  Deseret  News  Press 


