ONE  HUNDRED  THIRTY-NINTH 
SEMI-ANNUAL 


CONFERENCE 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

HELD  IN  THE  TABERNACLE 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

OCTOBER  3,  4,  5,  1969 

WITH  REPORT  OF  DISCOURSES 

Published  by 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


OFFICIAL  REPORT 
of  the 

ONE  HUNDRED  THIRTY-NINTH 
SEMI-ANNUAL  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

of 

THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


held  in  the 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square 
in 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
October  3,  4,  5, 1969 


Published  by 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Thirty-Ninth  Semi -Annual 
Conference  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Thirty-ninth 
Semi-Annual  Conference  of  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 
Friday,  October  3,  1969  at  10  o'clock 
a.m. 

The  general  sessions  of  the  confer- 
ence were  held  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00 
p.m.  Friday,  October  3,  Saturday,  Octo- 
ber 4,  and  Sunday,  October  5.  The 
General  Priesthood  meeting  was  held 
on  Saturday,  October  4,  at  7:00  p.m. 

President  David  O.  McKay  was  not 
present  at  any  of  the  meetings  of  the 
conference.  Under  orders  of  his  doctors 
he  remained  at  home  during  the  con- 
ference sessions,  where  he  received  the 
proceedings  of  the  conference  by  direct 
wire  television.  Under  the  direction  of 
President  McKay,  his  counselors,  Presi- 
dents Hugh  B.  Brown,  N.  Eldon 
Tanner,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and 
Alvin  R.  Dyer,  conducted  the  services 
assigned  to  each  of  them. 

Elder  Robert  R.  McKay,  son  of  Presi- 
dent McKay  read  the  President's  ad- 
dresses to  the  conference  in  the  opening 
session  on  Friday  and  in  the  closing 
session  on  Sunday  afternoon.  His  son, 
Elder  David  Lawrence  McKay,  read 
President  McKay's  message  in  the  Gen- 
eral Priesthood  meeting  on  Saturday 
evening. 

The  proceedings  of  all  sessions  of  the 
conference  were  given  extensive  cover- 
age in  the  United  States  and  Canada 
over  many  television  and  radio  stations, 
coast  to  coast,  originating  with  KSL 
Radio  and  Television  in  Salt  Lake  City. 
Countries  in  Europe,  South  and  Central 
America,  Africa  and  parts  of  Asia  re- 
ceived broadcasts  of  the  proceedings 
over  international   short-wave  Radio 


Station  WNYW,  with  studios  in  New- 
York.  Audio  tape  and  sound  on  film 
recordings  of  this  conference  were 
translated  into  twelve  different  lan- 
guages and  sent  to  the  countries  of 
Europe,  South  and  Central  America, 
and  the  Far  East. 

Re-broadcasts  of  all  sessions  of  the 
conference  were  sent  over  KSL  Radio, 
KIRO  Radio  at  Seattle,  KMBZ  Radio 
at  Kansas  City,  Missouri,  WRFM  in 
New  York  City,  and  WNYW  over  in- 
ternational short  wave,  beginning  at 
midnight  on  Friday,  Saturday  and  Sun- 
day, and  were  heard  in  many  parts 
of  the  United  States  and  the  world. 

The  General  Priesthood  meeting  held 
on  Saturday  evening  was  transmitted 
over  closed  circuit  from  the  Salt  Lake 
Tabernacle  to  approximately  150,000 
men  of  the  priesthood  assembled  in  500 
buildings  throughout  the  United  States 
and  Canada. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
Present 

The  First  Presidency:  Hugh  B. 
Brown,  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner,  Joseph 
Fielding  Smith,  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson, 
and  Alvin  R.  Dyer. 

The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  1  Spencer  W. 
Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson,  Mark  E. 
Petersen,  Delbert  L.  Stapley,  Marion 
G.  Romney,  LeGrand  Richards,  Rich- 
ard L.  Evans,  Howard  W.  Hunter, 
Gordon  B.  Hinckley,  and  Thomas  S. 
Monson. 

Patriarch  to  the  Church:  Eldred  G. 
Smith. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve:  Alma 
Sonne,    ElRay    L.    Christiansen,  2 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sterling  W.  Sill,  Henry  D.  Taylor, 
Franklin  D.  Richards,  Theodore  M. 
Burton,  Boyd  K.  Packer,  Bernard  P. 
Brockbank,  James  A.  Cullimore,  Marion 
D.  Hanks,  and  Marvin  J.  Ashton.  3 

The  First  Council  of  Seventy:  Sey- 
mour Dilworth  Young,  Milton  R. 
Hunter,  Bruce  R.  McConkie,  A.  Theo- 
dore Tuttle,  Paul  H.  Dunn,  Hartman 
Rector,  Jr.,  and  Loren  C.  Dunn. 

The  Presiding  Bishopric:  John  H. 
Vandenberg,  Robert  L.  Simpson  and 
Victor  L.  Brown. 

General  Officers  and  Other 
Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  Wil- 


liam Lund  and  Earl  E.  Olson,  assis- 
tants. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of 
Education,  Church  educational  authori- 
ties and  supervisors. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their 
counselors,  Presidents  of  Temples. 
Patriarchs,  bishoprics  of  wards  and 
presidencies  and  members  of  Melchize- 
dek  and  Aaronic  Priesthood  quorums. 

Auxiliary  officers,  general,  stake  and 
ward,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 


'Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  absent  on  account  of  illness. 

2Elder  John  Longden,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve, 
passed  away  on  August  30,  1969. 

3Elder  Marvin  J.  Ashton  was  sustained  as  an  As- 
sistant to  the  Twelve  at  this  conference. 


FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


FIRST  SESSION 

The  opening  session  of  the  confer- 
ence convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City  on 
Friday  morning,  October  3,  at  10 
o'clock  a.m.  Because  of  illness  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay  was  unable  to 
be  present.  President  Hugh  B.  Brown, 
first  counselor  in  the  First  Presidency, 
conducted  the  services. 

The  Brigham  Young  University 
Combined  Choruses,  under  the  direc- 
tion of  Ralph  Woodward,  furnished 
the  choral  music  for  this  session.  Robert 
Cundick  was  at  the  organ  console. 

President  Brown  made  the  following 
remarks  at  the  opening  of  the  con- 
ference: 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

We  extend  to  all  a  hearty  and  cordial 
greeting  on  this  beautiful  morning  as 
we  assemble  in  this  opening  session  of 
the  139th  Semi-Annual  Conference  of 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  We  are  convened  in  the 
historic  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  on  Tem- 
ple Square. 

We  are  happy  to  announce  that 
President  David  O.  McKay  is  presiding 
at  all  the  sessions  of  this  conference. 
He  has  asked  me  to  conduct  the  meet- 
ing this  morning. 

This  is  President  McKay's  36th  con- 
ference since  becoming  President  of  the 
Church,  and  the  126th  since  becoming 
an  Apostle  in  1906.  He  has  attended  all 
the  general  conferences  with  the  excep- 
tion of  those  held  in  1921  when  he  was 
on  a  world  tour,  and  those  held  during 
the  time  he  was  presiding  over  the 
European  Mission. 

His  doctors  have  advised  that  he 
with  his  wife,  Sister  McKay,  remain 
home  this  morning  and  watch  these 
proceedings  by  a  closed  wire  circuit 
directly  from  this  building. 

We  congratulate  President  McKay 


on  reaching  his  96th  Birthday  on  Sep- 
tember 8th. 

During  the  past  two  days  the  officers 
and  teachers  of  the  Relief  Society  have 
been  in  conference.  We  are  grateful 
to  those  sisters  for  their  service,  for  the 
wonderful  work  they  are  doing  for  the 
women  of  the  Church,  and  for  the 
Church  itself.  May  God's  choicest  bless- 
ings be  with  them. 

All  of  the  General  Authorities  are  in 
attendance  this  morning  excepting 
Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  who  is  ill  and  on 
his  doctor's  instruction  is  remaining 
at  home. 

We  miss  the  presence  here  this 
morning  of  Elder  John  Longden,  As- 
sistant to  the  Twelve,  who  passed  away 
on  August  30.  He  was  an  energetic, 
devoted  worker,  and  the  loss  of  his 
assistance  and  companionship  will  be 
keenly  felt  by  all  of  us. 

I  have  been  asked  to  announce  that 
overflow  facilities  have  been  provided 
during  all  the  sessions  of  this  confer- 
ence in  the  Assembly  Hall  on  Temple 
Square,  and  in  the  assembly  room  in 
the  new  Salt  Palace,  where  television 
facilities  are  provided.  This  room 
will  accommodate  approximately  2500 
people.  There  are  also  overflow  meet- 
ings in  the  Salt  Palace  in  three  separate 
rooms  where  simultaneous  translations 
will  be  provided  in  German,  Norwegian 
and  Samoan. 

We  are  pleased  to  announce  that  the 
proceedings  of  this  conference  will  be 
given  extensive  coverage  in  the  United 
States  and  Canada  over  many  television 
and  radio  stations,  coast-to-coast,  origi- 
nating with  KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

Also  by  the  marvelous  means  of 
satellite  transmission,  sessions  of  this 
conference  will  be  heard  over  radio 
stations  in  countries  of  South  America, 
Australia  and  Japan. 

Countries  in  Europe,  South  and 
Central  America,  Africa,  and  parts  of 
Asia,  totaling  nearly  two-thirds  of  the 
world,  will  be  able  to  receive  broadcasts 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  3 

of  these  proceedings  over  the  Church- 
owned  International  Short-wave  Radio 
Station  WNYW,  with  studios  in  New 
York. 

Re-broadcasts  of  all  sessions  of  the 
conference  will  be  received  over  Station 
KSL  and  other  stations  beginning  at 
midnight  tonight,  and  on  Saturday  and 
Sunday,  and  can  be  heard  in  many 
parts  of  the  United  States,  Canada, 
Alaska,  Europe,  Central  and  South 
America,  and  in  the  islands  of  the 
Pacific. 

Audio  tape  and  sound  on  film  rec- 
ords of  this  conference  will  be  trans- 
lated into  twelve  different  languages 
and  sent  to  countries  in  Europe,  South 
and  Central  America  and  the  Far  East. 

We  deeply  appreciate  and  thank  the 
owners  and  operators  of  the  radio  and 
television  stations  for  their  cooperation 
in  making  possible  such  an  extensive 
coverage  of  the  proceedings  of  this 
great  conference. 

We  are  pleased  to  welcome  to  this 
conference  as  visitors  and  guests  mem- 
bers of  the  Council  of  Apostles  and 
their  wives  of  the  Church  of  Christ 
Temple  Lot  from  Independence,  Mis- 
souri. We  hope  they  will  enjoy  their 
visit  with  us. 

We  should  like  to  express  warm  ap- 
preciation for  the  lovely  flowers  on  the 
rostrum.  These  were  arranged  by  the 
church  gardeners  under  the  supervision 
of  Irvin  T.  Nelson. 

Following  are  announcements  of 
meetings  to  be  held: 

A  meeting  for  all  Stake  Patriarchs 
from  throughout  the  Church  will  be 
held  this  evening  in  the  Assembly  Hall 
at  7  o'clock.  Stake  presidents  or  their 
representatives  and  General  Authorities 
are  asked  to  attend. 

The  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 
meeting  will  be  held  this  evening  also 
at  7  o'clock  in  the  Salt  Lake  Taber- 
nacle. All  Sunday  School  officers  and 
teachers  are  invited  to  attend. 

Under  the  direction  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency there  will  be  a  Welfare-Agri- 


First  Day 

cultural  meeting  held  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  tomorrow,  Saturday  morning  at 
7:30  o'clock.  It  is  hoped  you  will  make 
note  of  that. 

We  are  pleased  to  welcome  this 
morning  the  Brigham  Young  University 
Combined  Choruses,  who  will  furnish 
the  music  for  this  session  of  conference. 
Brother  Ralph  Woodward  will  conduct, 
and  Robert  Cundick  is  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  now  begin  this  session  by 
the  Combined  Choruses  rendering,  "We 
Believe  That  Thou  Shalt  Come." 

Following,  the  invocation  will  be  of- 
fered by  Elder  Harold  F.  Rogers,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Reseda  Stake. 


The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  sang  "We  Believe  That 
Thou  Shalt  Come,"  directed  by  Elder 
Ralph  Woodward. 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
President  Harold  F.  Rogers  of  the 
Reseda  Stake. 


President  Brown 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  will  now  favor  us  with 
"Though  Deepening  Trials  Throng 
Your  Way." 


The  Combined  Choruses  sang  the 
hymn,  "Though  Deepening  Trials." 


President  Brown 

I  am  sure  you  will  all  be  interested 
to  know  that  President  McKay  al- 
though unable  to  be  present  personally 
has  prepared  a  message  for  this  great 
conference,  and  it  will  now  be  read  at 
his  request  by  his  son  Robert. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


5 


PRESIDENT  Dl 

(Read  by  his  son 

•  My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters : 

It  is  a  glorious  but  humbling  experi- 
ence to  have  the  privilege  of  participat- 
ing in  another  general  conference  with 
you.  My  gratitude  and  thanksgiving  to 
you  for  your  prayers  and  loyal  support 
know  no  bounds.  To  partake  of  the 
spirit  of  faith  and  activity  in  the 
Church  is  inspiring.  Membership  there- 
in is  at  once  a  privilege  and  a  blessing. 

Era  of  great  progress 

Looking  around  us,  we  are  convinced 
that  we  are  living  in  an  era  of  great 
progress,  embracing  wonderful  inven- 
tions and  scientific  discoveries.  Man's 
search  for  the  unknown  has  led  him 
out  of  the  world  literally  into  the  realm 
of  space.  Many  of  the  theories  and 
even  the  imaginations  of  Jules  Verne 
are  now  commonplace  realities.  Walk- 
ing on  the  moon  is  an  achievement 
that  was  witnessed  with  great  interest 
and  excitement  by  most  of  the  in- 
habitants of  this  earth.  One-fourth  of 
the  peoples  of  the  world,  however, 
were  denied  that  privilege  by  their 
governments. 

The  solar  system  and  our  ventures 
into  space  always  have  been  of  great 
interest.  In  June  1965,  we  watched 
with  fascination  the  launching  of 
Gemini  4  with  Astronauts  James  Mc- 
Divitt  and  Edward  White.  I  was  espe- 
cially interested  in  the  space  walk  of 
Edward  White,  who  had  personally 
visited  me  on  July  18,  1963.  At  that 
time  I  quoted  to  Astronaut  White  the 
lines  of  our  hymn  "If  You  Could  Hie 
to  Kolob,"  which  tells  of  the  grandeur 
and  eternity  of  God's  creations  in  space. 
Major  White  was  so  interested  in  the 
poem  that  he  asked  for  a  copy  of  it  so 
that  he  could  read  and  study  it  when 
he  reached  his  home. 

Message  from  Apollo  8 

On  Christmas  Eve,  December  24, 
1968,  we  were  all  again  thrilled  when 
Colonel  Frank  Borman,  Major  William 
A.  Anders,  and  Captain  James  A. 
Lovell,  Jr.,  who  were  encircling  the 
moon  in  the  Apollo  8,  beamed  the 


/ID  0.  McKAY 

obert  R.  McKay) 

following  message  to  the  earth:  "For 
all  the  people  back  on  earth,  the  crew 
of  Apollo  8  has  a  message  that  we 
would  like  to  send  to  you."  And  these 
three  astronauts,  gazing  down  on  the 
earth  from  the  vastness  of  outer  space, 
read  to  the  world  from  the  Bible  these 
simple  but  majestic  words  regarding 
the  creation  of  the  heaven  and  the 
earth:  "In  the  beginning  God  created 
the  heaven  and  the  earth. 

"And  the  earth  was  without  form, 
and  void;  and  darkness  was  upon  the 
face  of  the  deep.  And  the  Spirit  of 
God  moved  upon  the  face  of  the  waters. 

"And  God  said,  Let  there  be  light: 
and  there  was  light. 

"And  God  saw  the  light,  that  it  was 
good:  and  God  divided  the  light  from 
the  darkness. 

".  .  .  and  God  saw  that  it  was  good." 
(Gen.  1:1-4,  10.) 

For  the  first  time  in  history  man 
viewed  the  earth  from  outer  space,  and 
he  saw  that  it  was  a  bright,  beautiful 
earth  where  he  was  privileged  to  dwell 
with  his  brothers.  Man  knows  that  our 
solar  system  is  merely  one  tiny  part 
of  our  Milky  Way  galaxy,  and  that  our 
sun  is  but  an  average  star  among  a 
spiral  of  one  hundred  billion  other 
stars  of  varying  sizes — all  are  in  our 
galaxy,  which  is  only  one  of  billions  in 
the  universe. 

Man  walks  on  moon 

On  July  20,  1969,  we  witnessed  on 
television  one  of  the  greatest  dramas 
in  the  history  of  man — Apollo  11 
Astronauts  Neil  A.  Armstrong  and  Ed- 
win E.  Aldrin,  Jr.,  actually  walking  on 
the  moon  while  Astronaut  Michael 
Collins  hovered  over  the  moon  in 
readiness  to  rendezvous  the  spaceship 
Columbia  so  that  he  could  pick  up  his 
fellow  astronauts  when  they  had 
achieved  their  assignments  on  the  lunar 
surface. 

Men  all  over  the  world  were  hushed 
with  awe,  and  world-renowned  tele- 
vision commentators  were  speechless  as 
they  watched  and  tried  to  explain  the 
activities  and  easy  strides  of  the  astro- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

First  Day 


6 

Friday,  October  3 

nauts  on  the  lunar  surface.  Millions 
said,  "I  cannot  believe  it!"  "Fantastic!" 
"Impossible!"  One  commentator  on 
television  said,  "How  can  young  people 
withdraw  from  a  world  of  this  kind!" 
Others  exclaimed,  "This  is  the  biggest 
day  in  history  since  man  learned  to 
talk!"  "It  is  the  greatest  drama  in  the 
history  of  man!"  Then  we  heard  the 
first  words  from  Astronaut  Armstrong: 
"Tranquility  Base  here:  The  'Eagle' 
has  just  landed."  And  as  he  stepped 
down  on  the  moon's  surface,  he  said: 
"That's  one  small  step  for  a  man,  one 
giant  leap  for  mankind,"  and  immor- 
talized a  great  moment  in  history. 

Then  as  the  Apollo  11  and  its  crew 
were  returning  to  the  good  earth  on 
Tuesday,  July  22,  1969,  Astronaut 
Aldrin  beamed  back  the  words  of  David 
as  recorded  in  the  Bible:  "When  I  con- 
sider thy  heavens,  the  work  of  thy 
fingers,  the  moon  and  the  stars,  which 
thou  hast  ordained; 

"What  is  man,  that  thou  art  mind- 
ful of  him?  and  the  son  of  man,  that 
thou  visitest  him? 

"For  thou  hast  made  him  a  little 
lower  than  the  angels,  and  hast 
crowned  him  with  glory  and  honour." 
(Ps.  8:3-5.) 

Numberless  creations  of  God 

Members  of  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  always 
have  known  through  revelation  of  the 
numberless  creations  of  God.  They 
are  taught  that  somewhere  out  in  that 
great  expanse  of  space  is  the  great  star 
Kolob  that  we  sing  about  in  the  hymn 
"If  You  Could  Hie  to  Kolob."  Abra- 
ham of  old  was  shown  in  vision  these 
kingdoms,  and  he  said:  "And  I  saw  the 
stars,  that  they  were  very  great,  and 
that  one  of  them  was  nearest  unto 
the  throne  of  God;  and  there  were 
many  great  ones  which  were  near  unto 

it; 

"And  the  Lord  said  unto  me:  These 
are  the  governing  ones;  and  the  name 
of  the  great  one  is  Kolob,  because  it  is 
near  unto  me,  for  I  am  the  Lord  thy 
God:  I  have  set  this  one  to  govern  all 
those  which  belong  to  the  same  order 
as  that  upon  which  thou  standest." 
(Abr.  3:2-3.) 


Moses'  great  vision 

The  following  verses  tell  us  further 
of  Moses'  great  vision:  "And  .  .  .  Moses 
cast  his  eyes  and  beheld  the  earth,  yea, 
even  all  of  it;  and  there  was  not  a 
particle  of  it  which  he  did  not  behold, 
discerning  it  by  the  spirit  of  God." 
(Moses  1:27.)  And  Moses  heard  the 
voice  of  God  continuing:  "And  worlds 
without  number  have  I  created.  .  .  . 

"But  only  an  account  of  this  earth, 
and  the  inhabitants  thereof,  give  I 
unto  you.  For  behold,  there  are  many 
worlds  that  have  passed  away  by  the 
word  of  my  power.  And  there  are 
many  that  now  stand,  and  innumer- 
able are  they  unto  man;  but  all  things 
are  numbered  unto  me,  for  they  are 
mine  and  I  know  them.  .  .  . 

".  .  .  The  heavens,  they  are  many, 
and  they  cannot  be  numbered  unto 
man;  but  they  are  numbered  unto  me, 
for  they  are  mine. 

"And  as  one  earth  shall  pass  away, 
and  the  heavens  thereof  even  so  shall 
another  come;  and  there  is  no  end  to 
my  works,  neither  to  my  words." 
(Moses  1:33-38.) 

After  seeing  only  a  portion  of  the 
numberless  creations  of  God,  Moses 
cried  out  in  awe  and  complete  humil- 
ity, "Tell  me  .  .  .  why  these  things  are 
so,  and  by  what  thou  madest  them?" 
(Moses  1:30.)  After  witnessing  the 
recent  accomplishments  by  our  astro- 
nauts in  walking  on  the  moon,  we 
feel  as  Moses  did  and  marvel  at  God's 
creations;  and  ask  again,  "What  is 
man,  that  thou  art  mindful  of  him?" 

We  find  the  answer  to  our  question, 
as  Moses  did  to  his,  when  the  Lord 
said,  "For  mine  own  purpose  have  I 
made  these  things.  .  .  .  And  by  the  word 
of  my  power,  have  I  created  them.  .  .  . 
For  behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my 
glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality 
and  eternal  life  of  man."  (Moses 
1:31-32,  39.) 

Man,  the  jewel  of  God 

Therefore,  although  God  has  cre- 
ated the  universe  and  all  therein,  "man 
is  the  jewel  of  God."  This  is  just  an- 
other way  of  saying  that  the  earth  was 
created  for  man  and  not  man  for  the 
earth.  God  gave  to  man  part  of  his 
divinity.    He  gave  man  the  power  of 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


7 


choice,  and  no  other  creature  in  the 
world  has  it.  So  he  placed  upon  the 
individual  the  obligation  of  conduct- 
ing himself  as  an  eternal  being.  You 
cannot  think  of  any  greater  gift  that 
could  come  to  a  man  or  woman  than 
the  freedom  of  choice.  You  alone  are 
responsible,  and  by  wielding  and  ex- 
ercising that  freedom  of  choice,  you 
grow  in  character,  you  grow  in  intelli- 
gence, you  approach  divinity,  and 
eventually  you  may  achieve  that  high 
exaltation.  That  is  a  great  obligation. 
Very  few  people  appreciate  it.  The 
roads  are  clearly  marked — one  offering 
animal  existence,  the  other  life  abun- 
dant. Yet,  God's  greatest  creation — 
man — often  is  content  to  grovel  on  the 
animal  plane. 

Present-day  turmoil 

We  cannot  close  our  eyes  to  the  fact 
that  the  world  is  ripening  in  iniquity. 
The  present-day  turmoil  and  bitter 
strivings  threaten  to  undermine  the 
basic  foundations  of  Christian  rela- 
tionship. Liberty,  freedom  of  speech, 
self-government,  faith  in  God,  and, 
particularly,  faith  in  the  efficacy  of  the 
restored  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  are  fac- 
ing a  bombardment  from  the  ranks  of 
error  such  as  the  world  has  seldom  if 
ever  witnessed.  This  is  evident  when 
we  take  into  account  the  following  in- 
formation. 

A  recent  Gallup  survey  on  American 
morals  gives  the  following  from  a  study 
among  college  students.  To  the  ques- 
tion "Is  premarital  sex  wrong?"  66 
percent  of  all  students  answered  "No." 
Seventy-two  percent  of  the  male  stu- 
dents answered  that  it  was  not  wrong, 
and  55  percent  of  the  girl  students  said 
it  was  not  wrong.  In  private  colleges, 
an  unbelievable  74  percent  of  all 
students  questioned  saw  no  evil  in  this 
practice.  (Church  News  Section,  Des- 
eret News,  June  21,  1969,  p.  16.) 

The  most  vicious  enemy  to  home  life 
is  immorality.  Social  workers  are 
greatly  concerned  over  the  number  of 
young  girls  between  14  and  19  who 
seem  to  have  lost  all  sense  of  decency 
and  shamelessly  sacrifice  themselves  on 
the  altar  of  lust.  This  corroding  evil  is 
just  as  demoralizing  to  the  young  man 
as  to  the  young  woman.  Chastity,  not 


indulgence,  during  the  premarital 
years  is  the  source  of  harmony  and 
happiness  in  the  home,  and  is  the 
chief  contributing  factor  to  the  health 
and  perpetuity  of  the  race.  All  the 
virtues  that  make  up  a  beautiful  char- 
acter— loyalty,  dependability,  confi- 
dence, trust,  love  of  God,  and  fidelity 
to  man — are  associated  with  this  dia- 
dem in  the  crown  of  virtuous  woman- 
hood and  of  virile  manhood.  The  word 
of  the  Lord  to  his  church  is  "Keep 
yourself  unspotted  from  the  world." 
One  of  the  Ten  Commandments  from 
God  is  "Thou  shalt  not  commit 
adultery."  (Exod.  20:14.) 

Use  of  drugs  and  liquor 

"The  Gallup  survey  also  showed  that 
57  percent  of  all  students  contacted 
used  drugs  and  liquor.  It  was  of  more 
than  ordinary  interest  in  this  study  to 
note  that  67  percent  of  the  college 
demonstrators  use  narcotics.  .  .  ." 
(Church  News  Section,  Deseret  News, 
June  21,  1969,  p.  16.) 

President  Richard  Nixon  told  Con- 
gress on  Monday,  July  14,  1969,  that 
the  drug  abuse  problem  was  "a  serious 
national  threat  to  the  personal  health 
and  safety  of  millions  of  Americans." 
He  cited  an  increase  of  almost  800 
percent  in  seven  years  in  juvenile  ar- 
rests involving  use  of  drugs,  and  that 
New  York  City  alone  has  some  40,000 
heroin  addicts,  with  the  number  rising 
between  7,000  to  9,000  a  year.  "These 
official  statistics,"  said  the  President, 
"are  only  the  tip  of  an  iceberg  whose 
dimensions  we  can  only  surmise." 
(Deseret  News,  July  14,  1969,  p.  1.) 

Self-mastery  urged 

The  Church  urges  men  to  have  self- 
mastery  to  control  their  appetites,  their 
tempers,  and  their  speech.  A  man  is 
not  at  his  best  when  he  is  a  slave  to 
some  habit.  A  man  is  not  his  best 
who  lives  merely  to  gratify  his  pas- 
sions. That  is  one  reason  why  the 
Lord  has  given  the  Church  the  revela- 
tion of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  so  that, 
even  from  boyhood  and  girlhood, 
young  men  and  young  women  may 
learn  to  control  themselves.  That  is 
not  always  easy.  The  youth  today 
face  enemies — false  ideologies  and  im- 


8 

Friday,  October  3 

moral  practices  "glossed  over"  and 
"seasoned  with  a  text."  Sound  prepara- 
tion is  necessary  to  meet  and  conquer 
these  enemies.  Keep  in  mind  that 
man's  earthly  existence  is  but  a  test  as 
to  whether  he  will  concentrate  his 
efforts,  his  mind,  his  soul  upon  things 
which  contribute  to  the  comfort  and 
gratification  of  his  physical  nature,  or 
whether  he  will  make  as  his  life's 
purpose  the  acquisition  of  spiritual 
qualities. 

The  spiritual  road 

The  spiritual  road  has  Christ  as  its 
ideal — not  the  gratification  of  the 
physical — for  he  that  will  save  his  life, 
yielding  to  that  first  gratification  of  a 
seeming  need,  will  lose  his  life,  lose  his 
happiness,  the  pleasure  of  living  at  this 
present  time.  If  he  would  seek  the  real 
purpose  of  life,  the  individual  must  live 
for  something  higher  than  self.  He 
hears  the  Savior's  voice  saying,  "I  am 
the  way,  the  truth,  and  the  life.  .  .  ." 
(John  14:6.) 

Following  that  light,  man  soon 
learns  that  there  is  no  one  great  thing 
that  he  can  do  to  attain  happiness  or 
eternal  life.  He  learns  that  life  is  made 
up,  not  of  great  sacrifices  and  duties, 
but  of  little  things,  in  which  smiles 
and  kindness  and  small  obligations 
given  habitually  are  what  win  and 
preserve  the  heart  and  secure  comfort. 

Spirituality,  our  true  aim,  is  the  con- 
sciousness of  victory  over  self  and  of 
communion  with  the  Infinite.  Spiritu- 
ality impels  one  to  conquer  difficulties 
and  acquire  more  and  more  strength. 
To  feel  one's  faculties  unfolding  and 
truth  expanding  in  the  soul  is  one  of 
life's  sublimest  experiences. 

The  man  who  sets  his  heart  upon 
the  things  of  this  world,  who  does  not 
hesitate  to  cheat  his  brother,  who  will 
lie  for  gain,  who  will  steal  from  his 
neighbor,  or  who  by  slander  will  rob 
another  of  his  reputation,  lives  on  a 
low  animal  plane  of  existence  and 
either  stifles  his  spirituality  or  permits 
it  to  lie  dormant.  To  be  thus  carnally 
minded  is  to  be  spiritually  dead. 

The  worth  of  souls 

We  are  truly  living  in  an  age  of 
changing  opinions,  of  swiftly  shifting 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

human  relations.  Man's  wisdom  seems 
baffled.  In  all  our  readjustments, 
plans,  and  policies,  we  cannot  do  better 
than  keep  in  mind  the  divine  admoni- 
tion that  "the  worth  of  souls  is  great 
in  the  sight  of  God."  (D&C  18:10.) 
The  saved  individual  is  the  supreme 
end  of  the  divine  will. 

Jesus  sought  the  welfare  of  the  indi- 
vidual, and  individuals  grouped  and 
laboring  for  the  general  welfare  of  the 
whole  in  conformity  with  the  principles 
of  the  gospel  constitute  the  kingdom  of 
God.  Many  of  the  choicest  truths  of 
the  gospel  were  given  in  conversations 
with  individuals.  It  was  while  Jesus 
talked  with  Nicodemus  that  he  gave 
us  the  message  relative  to  baptism  and 
being  born  again.  From  the  conversa- 
tion with  the  woman  of  Samaria  is 
disclosed  the  truth  that  they  who  wor- 
ship God  must  worship  in  spirit  and  in 
truth.  From  that  with  Mary  and 
Martha,  we  get  the  divine  declaration: 
"I  am  the  resurrection,  and  the  life:  he 
that  believeth  in  me,  though  he  were 
dead,  yet  shall  he  live."  (John  11:25.) 
Jesus'  regard  for  personality  was  su- 
preme. When  the  Pharisees  dragged 
into  his  presence  the  woman  taken  in 
adultery,  Christ  saw  through  the  soul 
that  had  been  stained  with  sin  the 
personality  that  still  contained  the 
spark  of  hope,  which  he  kindled  into  a 
light  that  warmed  and  guided  a  per- 
sonality back  to  confidence  and  perhaps 
to  righteousness. 

Church  furthers  welfare  of  man 

To  members  of  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  the  worth 
of  the  individual  has  a  special  mean- 
ing. Quorums,  auxiliaries,  wards, 
stakes,  even  the  Church  itself  are  all 
organized  to  further  the  welfare  of  man. 
All  are  but  means  to  an  end,  and  that 
end  is  the  happiness  and  eternal  wel- 
fare of  every  child  of  God.  I  there- 
fore appeal  to  all  members  of  the 
Church,  and  particularly  to  presidents 
of  quorums  and  to  officers  of  all 
auxiliaries,  to  put  forth  a  unified  ef- 
fort to  make  sweeter  the  lives  of  men. 

Supplant  the  thought  that  domi- 
nates the  selfish  world  as  expressed  in 
the  words  "The  world  owes  me  a  liv- 
ing," by  the  nobler  prayer,  "God,  give 


BISHOP  ROBERT  L.  SIMPSON 


9 


me  power  to  lend  a  helping  hand  to 
others."  There  is  a  sound  philosophy 
in  the  paradoxical  saying:  ".  .  .  Who- 
soever will  save  his  life  shall  lose  it: 
and  whosoever  will  lose  his  life  for 
my  sake  shall  find  it."  (Matt.  16:25.) 

Perfecting  the  individual 

Keep  as  a  guiding  principle  the  con- 
sciousness that  the  ultimate  purpose  of 
life  is  the  perfecting  of  the  individual. 
This  implies  an  intelligence  directing 
creation,  and  to  me  it  implies  a  divine 
personality,  a  beneficent  Father. 

I  love  the  young  people,  and  my 
heart  goes  out  to  them.  May  God  keep 
them  true  to  the  faith  and  bless  them 
that  they  will  be  able  to  withstand 
the  temptations  that  constantly  beset 
their  paths.  To  the  youth  of  the  Church 
I  say,  go  to  your  Father  in  heaven  in 
prayer;  seek  the  advice  of  your  parents, 
your  bishops,  and  your  stake  presidents. 

To  the  members  of  the  Church  every- 
where I  say,  live  honest,  sincere  lives! 
Be  honest  with  yourselves,  honest  with 
your  brethren,  honest  with  your  fami- 
lies, honest  with  those  with  whom  you 
deal — always  honest.  The  very  founda- 
tion of  all  character  rests  upon  the 
principles  of  honesty  and  sincerity. 

Be  true  to  the  Church.  Be  true  to 
your  families — loyal  to  them!  Protect 


your  children  and  guide  them,  not  arbi- 
trarily, but  by  example. 

Eternal  truths  apply  today 

I  bear  you  my  witness  that  the  teach- 
ings of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ 
contain  the  true  philosophy  of  living. 
I  make  no  exception.  I  love  them. 
There  are  men  who  say  that  they  are 
not  applicable  to  this  day,  but  I  say 
they  are  as  applicable  today  as  they 
were  when  he  spoke  them;  and,  because 
they  contain  eternal  truths,  they  will 
be  applicable  through  all  time. 

God  help  us  to  understand  these 
eternal  truths;  and  may  he  give  us 
power  to  live  them,  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen.  O 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Thank  you,  Brother  Robert,  for  an 
impressive  reading  of  a  great  message. 

And  now,  President  McKay,  with 
one  voice  this  vast  audience  wishes 
to  say  to  you,  Thank  you  for  that  in- 
spiring message,  and  may  God's  choic- 
est blessings  be  with  you  always. 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Robert 
L.  Simpson,  first  counselor  in  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  of  the  Church,  after 
which  we  shall  have  a  congregational 
song. 


BISHOP  ROBEF 

Of  the  Presid 

•  My  dear  brethren  and  sisters:  I  feel 
great  spiritual  strength  in  the  presence 
of  these  wonderful  patriarchs  who  at- 
tend our  conference  here  this  morning. 
We  love  you,  we  appreciate  you,  and 
we  feel  confidence  in  your  wonderful 
calling. 

These  few  thoughts  that  I  share  with 
you  this  morning  are  directed  primarily 
to  a  large  group  of  men  who  are  per- 
haps beyond  the  range  of  my  voice. 
Nevertheless,  I  speak  to  them  with  all 
the  sincerity  and  fervor  of  my  soul, 
hoping  that  somehow  perhaps  a  few 
may  be  reached. 

A  satisfying  experience 

As  we  visit  the  stake  conferences 


nr  l.  simpson 

ing  Bishopric 

each  week,  few  experiences  are  more 
satisfying  than  that  little  nudge  on  the 
arm  from  the  stake  president  as  he 
points  out  some  good  brother  just  tak- 
ing his  place  on  the  third  row,  and 
then  he  whispers  a  few  choice  com- 
ments about  some  recent  changes  in 
that  man's  life.  Sometimes  it  is  about 
response  to  a  faithful  and  patient  home 
teacher;  frequently,  about  the  faith 
and  prayers  of  a  patient  wife  being  an- 
swered in  a  glorious  way.  Too  often 
the  change  has  come  about  following 
adversity.  Some  are  adversities  that 
might  have  been  avoided,  but  most  im- 
portant of  all,  he  is  back.  He  is  on 
course  again.  He  is  feeling  the  joy  of 
service  to  others,  perhaps  to  some  other 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


10 

Friday,  October  3 

wonderful  men  who  need  the  same 
kind  of  helping  hand  that  was  extended 
toward  him  at  that  right  moment. 
There  are  far  too  many  who  trod  the 
futile  path  that  leads  to  nowhere. 

Hopelessly  lost 

An  air  traffic  control  tower  recently 
established  radio  contact  with  a  plane 
that  was  streaking  across  the  radar 
scope,  obviously  not  on  proper  course. 
The  pilot  was  asked  to  report  his  situa- 
tion. The  controller's  voice  seemed 
urgent.  The  pilot  responded  to  the 
tower  with  this  classic  observation: 
"We  are  making  wonderful  time,  but 
we  are  hopelessly  lost." 

I  wonder  how  many  men  there  might 
be  in  the  world  who  are  making  won- 
derful time  but  without  direction.  Of 
what  value  is  speed  if  the  direction  is 
without  purpose?  Someone  has  written: 
"A  destination  is  a  fine  thing  to  have. 
If  a  man  does  not  know  to  what  port 
he  is  steering,  no  wind  is  favorable  to 
him;  and  if  he  doesn't  know  where  he 
is  now,  he  cannot  very  well  set  a 
course.  How  hard  he  rows,  or  how 
good  his  engine  is:  these  do  not  count 
in  his  favor  unless  he  has  a  good  defi- 
nition of  his  objective.  Hard  work  is 
often  robbed  of  its  reward  by  poor 
planning." 

A  child's  song 

I  was  touched  by  the  story  of  one 
highly  successful  business  executive 
who  recently  responded  graciously  and 
humbly  to  a  call  to  serve  in  his  elders 
quorum  presidency.  Upon  being  asked 
the  direct  question:  "What  brought 
you  back?"  he  responded,  "Well,  I 
have  never  told  anyone  before,  but  this 
is  what  happened: 

"One  morning  while  shaving,  I  over- 
heard my  six-year-old  son  singing  from 
the  next  room.  He  was  singing  a  little 
song  I  had  heard  him  sing  dozens  of 
times  before,  'I  Am  a  Child  of  God'; 
but  somehow  that  morning  when  he 
came  to  the  part  that  says,  'Lead  me, 
guide  me,  walk  beside  me,  Help  me 
find  the  way,'  I  had  the  feeling  that 
he  was  singing  directly  to  me.  I  just 
stood  there  and  listened.  Within  sec- 
onds, my  whole  life  seemed  to  pass  in 


First  Day 

review;  and  it  really  came  home  with 
full  force  that  some  changes  had  to 
be  made,  especially  when  he  came  to 
the  part,  'Teach  me  all  that  I  must  do, 
To  live  with  him  some  day.' " 

This  good  man  confesses  today  that 
these  simple  words  from  the  lips  of 
his  own  child  reached  his  heart  as  a 
personal  plea.  The  plea  was  from  a 
child  of  God  who  had  been  placed  in 
his  custody  to  be  delivered  back  some 
day  into  Heavenly  Father's  presence. 
He  concluded  his  answer  to  this  ques- 
tion by  stating  that  he  decided  then  and 
there  that  he  had  something  important 
to  do,  something  more  important  than 
anything  else  in  the  world  for  a  little 
fellow  who  still  loved  his  daddy  in 
spite  of  many  personal  failings. 

Effect  of  church  hymns 

While  on  the  subject  of  church  songs, 
let  me  tell  you  briefly  about  a  man 
who  was  attending  a  patio  party  one 
Sunday  afternoon  at  the  home  of  a  bus- 
iness associate  who  happened  to  live 
next  door  to  an  LDS  meetinghouse.  As 
the  sacrament  meeting  got  underway, 
the  strains  of  the  organ  could  be  clear- 
ly heard  over  the  back  fence  and 
seemed  to  be  somewhat  incongruous  to 
the  tinkle  of  ice  being  placed  in  the 
cocktail  glasses.  There  were  some  un- 
complimentary jokes  and  the  usual 
snide  remarks  about  religious  fanatics, 
when  all  of  a  sudden  the  strains  of  the 
opening  song  broke  the  warm  summer 
afternoon  air.  It  was  "Come,  Come 
Ye  Saints."  The  party  tempo  was 
warming  up,  and  by  now,  the  church 
music  was  all  but  unnoticed — un- 
noticed by  all  but  one,  a  man  whose 
grandmother  had  walked  across  the 
plains  pulling  a  handcart.  His  mind 
withdrew  from  the  party.  For  the  first 
time  in  many  years,  he  spent  some 
minutes  in  sincere  reflection  concern- 
ing his  birthright. 

About  ten  minutes  later,  the  sacra- 
ment song  came  drifting  across  the 
back  fence.  Unknowingly,  a  chorister, 
inspired  in  her  calling,  I  am  sure,  had 
selected,  "I  Know  That  My  Redeemer 
Lives."  And  way  down  deep,  he  knew 
it,  too,  but  it  had  been  a  long,  long 
time.    From  that  moment  on,  he  was 


BISHOP  ROBERT  L.  SIMPSON 


11 


attending  a  patio  party  in  body,  but 
mentally  and  spiritually  he  was  far 
above  and  beyond  his  environment  of 
the  moment. 

It  was  almost  an  hour  later,  just 
about  the  time  that  he  had  lapsed  back 
into  the  party  mood,  when  the  closing 
song,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For 
a  Prophet,"  reached  his  ear  and  mel- 
lowed his  heart  to  the  point  of  submis- 
sion. Isn't  it  odd  that  a  man  should 
start  his  way  back  while  attending  a 
cocktail  party?  "The  Lord  moves  in  a 
mysterious  way,  His  wonders  to  per- 
form." Incidentally,  that  man  is  prob- 
ably here  in  this  meeting  today,  a  fine 
leader  in  the  church,  doing  what  the 
Lord  would  have  him  do. 

The  road  back  has  been  described 
by  some  as  long  and  tedious  and  hard, 
but  this  is  only  as  you  stand  at  the 
starting  end  of  that  road.  Those  who 
have  made  the  journey  find  that  after 
the  first  difficult  step,  the  road  is  sweet 
and  pleasant  to  travel;  the  end  re- 
wards are  beyond  description. 

Help  of  home  teachers 

God  bless  the  home  teacher  who  goes 
the  extra  mile,  who  confirms  his  love 
for  the  families  he  teaches  with  genu- 
ine interest  and  follow-up.  May  I 
tell  you  about  a  pair  of  home  teachers 
who  felt  impressed  to  discuss  some 
recently  published  findings  on  lung 
cancer  with  a  brother  who  had  been 
plagued  with  the  cigarette  habit  all  of 
his  adult  life.  As  the  home  teachers 
said  good-night,  the  brother  expressed 
appreciation  for  their  message  and  con- 
cluded with,  "I  will  try  to  quit  again, 
starting  right  now.  I  hope  I  can  make 
it  this  time." 

These  home  teachers  could  have 
been  like  most  of  us  and  waited  until 
next  month's  visit  to  see  if  he  suc- 
ceeded, but  they  did  not.  They  came 
by  the  very  next  morning  at  6:45  a.m., 
unannounced  and  unexpected.  They  ex- 
pressed keen  interest  in  their  visit  the 
night  before  and  especially  in  his  ex- 
pressed desire  to  stop  smoking.  They 
went  on  to  tell  this  brother  that  they 
had  decided  to  fast  and  pray  for  him 
that  day.  "We  will  be  thinking  about 
you  all  day  today,  and  not  only  that, 


we  will  meet  you  here  at  your  bus  stop 
tonight  to  see  how  you  made  out." 

This  man  could  not  help  but  suc- 
ceed. "These  two  wonderful  home 
teachers  are  going  to  be  fasting  and 
praying  for  me.  They  are  going  to  be 
thinking  about  me  all  day.  Tonight 
they  are  going  to  meet  me  at  the  bus 
stop."  He  wanted  to  have  a  right 
answer  for  them.  He  did.  With  help, 
he  succeeded.  He  came  back. 

The  glorious  road  back 

Just  within  the  past  few  weeks  a  73- 
year-old  man  took  that  glorious  road 
back  after  50  long  years  of  indifference. 
There  were  many  tears  on  that  occa- 
sion, tears  of  joy — yes,  his  and  espe- 
cially those  of  a  loving  companion  who 
had  waited  those  50  long  years  for  this 
most  glorious  moment.  The  tenderness 
of  that  occasion  was  mute  evidence  to 
the  sanctification  of  that  moment  by  a 
kind  and  loving  Heavenly  Father  who 
stands  always  prepared  to  say,  "Wel- 
come back,  my  son." 

Oh,  that  thousands  might  put  aside 
their  stubborn  pride!  Oh,  that  thou- 
sands might  find  the  courage  for  that 
first  giant  step  back!  Oh,  that  thou- 
sands of  fine  upstanding  men  with 
great  potential  might  place  themselves 
in  the  hands  of  the  Lord,  for  as  he  has 
said:  ".  .  .  my  yoke  is  easy,  and  my 
burden  is  light."  We  testify  to  you  that 
it  is!  Oh,  that  thousands  might  give 
way  to  their  real,  deep-down  inner  feel- 
ings, for  as  President  J.  Reuben  Clark, 
Jr.,  has  said:  ".  .  .  God  has  placed  in 
every  man's  heart  a  divine  spark,  which 
never  wholly  goes  out;  it  may  grow 
dim,  it  may  become  hidden,  almost 
smothered  by  the  ashes  of  transgression; 
but  the  spark  still  lives  and  glows  and 
can  be  fanned  into  flame  by  faith,  if 
the  heart  is  touched." 

Those  of  you  who  sit  reluctantly  in 
the  wings,  find  your  patriarchal  bless- 
ing, dust  it  off,  and  read  it  again; 
contemplate  deeply  the  Lord's  personal 
message  given  to  you  alone  by  these 
wonderful  men  who  are  attending  this 
conference,  the  patriarchs  of  the  Lord. 
There  is  yet  time.  It's  never  too  late  to 
pick  up  the  pieces. 

I  feel  confident  that  one  of  the  Lord's 


12  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  3  first  Day 

favorite  greetings  is  "Welcome  back,  The  congregation  and  chorus  then 
my  son."  May  we  find  the  way  back  joined    in   singing   the   hymn,  "We 
where  we  belong  is  my  humble  prayer  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet." 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world.  Amen.  O  


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

The  Combined  Choruses  and  the 
congregation  will  now  join  in  singing, 
"We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a 
Prophet." 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Elder  Loren  C.  Dunn  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  will  now  address 
us,  and  he  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Alma  Sonne,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  LOREN  C.  DUNN 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


•  I  knew  an  athlete  some  years  ago 
who  had  tremendous  talent.  He  had 
almost  perfect  physical  coordination.  In 
fact,  he  was  so  good  he  would  not 
train,  yet  his  talents  still  exceeded  the 
talents  and  abilities  of  those  around 
him. 

It  was  demoralizing  sometimes  for 
those  who  had  to  follow  every  training 
rule  in  order  to  bring  themselves  to  a 
peak  of  physical  performance,  only  to 
have  him  exceed  them  because  of  his 
natural  abilities. 

But  I  happened  to  be  at  the  stadium 
one  afternoon  a  few  years  later  when 
this  athlete,  who  had  progressed  rather 
rapidly  in  a  very  promising  sports 
career,  had  what  some  might  call  his 
moment  of  truth.  He  was  playing  with 
people  who  had  talents  as  great  as  he 
did,  and  as  the  pace  of  the  game  picked 
up,  the  pressures  began  to  mount. 

He  reached  inside  himself  for  that 
great  second  effort  that  he  always  had, 
but  it  became  obvious  that  this  time 
he  could  not  marshal  all  that  he 
needed.  That  afternoon  marked  the 
beginning  of  a  gradual  decline,  which 
finally  found  him  retiring  from  the 
game  years  before  he  should  have  re- 
tired. His  original  decision  to  dis- 
regard the  rules  of  preparation  had,  in 
the  end,  cost  him  many  years  of  per- 
formance. 

Challenges  to  standards 

Many  times  we  see  people  around  us 
who  violate  the  patterns  of  living  and 
the  rules  that  we  have  been  taught  to 


live  by,  and  they  seem  to  do  it  without 
any  ill  effects.  On  the  surface  it  would 
seem  that  it  may  not  make  any  differ- 
ence whether  we  live  these  rules  or 
not,  because  those  who  violate  them 
appear  to  suffer  no  consequences.  In 
all  ages,  it  seems,  there  have  been  chal- 
lenges to  those  who  believe  in  virtue, 
honesty,  and  high  moral  standards — 
challenges  to  those  who  accept  these 
standards  as  God-given  and  that  they 
ultimately  will  carry  their  own  reward. 

"We  are  always  in  the  forge,  or  on 
the  anvil,"  said  Beecher;  "by  trials  God 
is  shaping  us  for  higher  things." 

These  challenges  come  from  many 
different  directions.  For  instance, 
there  are  those  who  expound  the  so- 
called  new  morality  and  say  that  it 
matters  not  if  a  person  participates  in 
free  love,  nor  does  the  marriage  con- 
tract mean  that  husband  and  wife 
should  be  faithful  to  each  other.  But 
those  who  believe  this  are  wrong,  and 
time,  which  is  running  out  on  them  if 
they  don't  change,  will  prove  them 
wrong. 

Self-mastery  not  indulgence 

"There  are  some  things  which  never 
grow  old-fashioned,"  says  President 
McKay.  "The  sweetness  of  a  baby  is 
one.  The  virtue  and  chastity  of  man- 
hood is  another.  Youth  is  the  time  to 
lay  the  foundation  for  our  homes.  I 
know  there  are  those  who  tell  you  that 
suppression  is  wrong,"  he  continues, 
"but  I  assure  you  that  self-mastery,  not 
indulgence,  is  the  virtue  that  con- 


ELDER  LOREN  C.  DUNN 


13 


tributes  to  the  virility  of  manhood  and 
to  the  beauty  of  womanhood."  (Man 
May  Know  for  Himself,  p.  250.) 

There  are  also  those  who  sanction 
the  use  of  drugs,  using  such  reasoning 
as  the  fact  that  the  use  of  marijuana  is 
so  widespread  that  it  should  be  ac- 
cepted and  even  condoned,  for,  they 
say,  it  creates  no  more  problems  than 
does  alcohol.  Those  who  use  this 
reasoning  fail  to  point  out,  however, 
that  alcohol  disables  over  six  and  one- 
half  million  people  each  year  and  that 
one-half  of  the  fatal  traffic  accidents 
in  the  United  States  alone  are  related 
to  excessive  drinking.  To  recommend 
the  use  of  marijuana  by  linking  it  to 
alcohol  is  like  approving  of  a  hepatitis 
epidemic  on  the  basis  that  it  probably 
won't  be  any  more  damaging  than 
tuberculosis. 

There  has  been  sharp  divergence  of 
opinion  in  the  United  States  over  the 
use  of  marijuana,  so  much  so  that  it 
prompted  the  organization  of  a  presi- 
dential task  force  to  try  to  ferret  out 
the  facts.  This  task  force  has  recently- 
made  its  initial  report,  which  states, 
according  to  an  international  news- 
paper, that  the  widespread  use  of  mari- 
juana represents  a  significant  mental 
health  problem.  Depending  on  the 
dose,  it  may  have  substantial  detri- 
mental effects  on  both  the  mental  and 
the  physical  well-being  of  the  user. 

Because  of  these  perils,  it  continues, 
every  effort  should  be  made  by  the 
federal  government  to  curb  the  im- 
port and  distribution  of  marijuana 
as  well  as  of  strong  drugs.  (Christian 
Science  Monitor,  September  15,  1969.) 

Time  on  side  of  integrity 

To  you  who  are  challenged  by 
others  because  you  believe  in  the  law 
of  chastity,  because  you  believe  that 
drugs  are  not  the  answer,  because  you 
believe  in  such  God-given  axioms  as 
"Thou  shalt  not  steal"  and  "Thou  shalt 
not  lie,"  or  because  you  have  a  simple 
and  basic  faith  in  God  the  Father  and 
in  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  and  in  your  own 
eternal  worth,  just  remember  that  time 
is  on  your  side.  Be  patient,  and  the 
same  people  who  challenge  you,  if 
they  do  not  change,  will  ultimately 
prove  to  you,  by  their  lives,  that  they 


don't  have  the  answers — either  for  you 
or  for  themselves. 

This  is  not  to  say  that  it  will  be  easy. 
Sometimes  the  desire  to  be  accepted 
by  an  individual  or  a  group  causes  a 
person  to  do  things  that  he  really 
doesn't  want  to  do;  but  if  you  can 
maintain  your  integrity,  you'll  come  to 
understand  what  Lehi  meant  when  he 
taught  that  men  are  that  they  might 
have  joy — not  fleeting  pleasure  but 
real  joy. 

Remorse  for  wrong-doing 

Beware  also  of  the  temptation  to 
violate  the  laws  of  God  with  the 
thought  in  mind  that  one  can  always 
repent  but  not  really  anticipate  any 
remorse  as  a  result  of  the  wrongdoing. 
Repentance  is  a  great  principle,  prob- 
ably the  greatest  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ;  and  thank  heaven  the  Lord 
holds  the  opportunity  of  repentance  out 
to  all. 

Yet  perhaps  it  would  do  no  damage 
to  occasionally  dwell  on  the  awful 
nature  of  sin  rather  than  relying  con- 
tinually on  the  redeeming  qualities  of 
repentance.  We  have  a  three-year-old 
daughter  whom  we  love  very  dearly. 
Not  long  ago  I  was  doing  some  studying 
at  my  desk  at  home,  and  she  was  in 
the  room  playing  with  a  glass  of  water 
that  was  on  the  desk.  As  she  picked  up 
that  large  glass  with  her  little  fingers, 
I  repeatedly  warned  her  that  she  must 
be  careful  or  she  would  drop  the  glass, 
which,  of  course,  she  finally  did.  It 
shattered  as  it  hit  the  floor,  and  splin- 
ters went  in  every  direction. 

Showing  the  patience  of  a  wise 
parent,  I  immediately  spanked  her,  ex- 
plaining to  her  that  the  spanking  was 
the  consequence  of  her  insisting  on  not 
listening  to  me  by  picking  up  the  glass 
until  it  dropped  and  was  broken.  She 
shed  some  tears  and  gave  me  a  hug, 
which  she  usually  does  when  she  knows 
she  is  in  trouble,  and  the  event  was 
quickly  forgotten. 

Since  she  often  plays  in  her  bare 
feet,  I  took  her  out  of  the  room  and 
made  every  effort  to  sweep  up  all  the 
glass  particles.  But  the  thought  came 
to  me  that  perhaps  I  hadn't  gotten  all 
the  splinters  of  glass,  and  at  some  fu- 
ture time  when  she  is  playing  in  that 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  3 

room,  those  little  feet  might  find  the 
splinters  which  went  undetected,  and 
she  would  have  to  suffer  anew  for  that 
which  she  did. 

Repentance  brings  forgiveness 

For  a  young  person  to  violate  the 
law  of  chastity  or  some  other  com- 
mandment and  then  to  later  put  his 
or  her  life  in  order,  such  action,  I  am 
sure,  will  mean  the  forgiveness  of  an 
understanding  and  loving  God.  Yet  as 
that  person  progresses  in  life  and 
reaches  a  point  where  he  or  she  enters 
into  a  marriage  contract  and  as  they 
have  children  of  their  own,  it  just 
might  be  that  a  splinter  of  a  previous 
wrongdoing  somewhere  on  the  floor  of 
his  or  her  life  might  prick  the  con- 
science. 

This  is  not  to  say  that  the  Lord 
hasn't  forgiven  them,  but  as  they  be- 
gin to  understand  the  full  meaning, 
the  full  significance  of  that  which  they 
once  did,  they  may  find  it  unfortu- 
nately difficult  to  forgive  themselves. 
And  perhaps  this  is  ultimately  the 
hardest  part  of  repentance,  being  able 
to  forgive  one's  self  in  light  of  the 
seriousness  of  the  trangression.  Cer- 
tainly in  this,  as  in  all  other  things, 
we  need  the  help  of  the  Lord. 


First  Day 

"Wickedness  never  was  happiness" 

Alma  told  the  truth  when  he  taught 
his  son,  Corianton,  that  "wickedness 
never  was  happiness."  (Al.  41:10.) 

It  is  my  testimony  that  the  teachings 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  are  for 
the  purpose  of  saving  all  mankind 
from  the  remorse  of  wrongdoing;  that 
time  is  on  the  side  of  those  who  hold 
to  these  principles  and  is  working 
against  those  who  do  otherwise. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  appreciate 
the  eternal  nature  of  the  laws  which 
he  has  given  us  and  their  purpose, 
which  is  to  bring  joy,  happiness,  and 
peace  of  mind  to  man.  And  to  this 
may  I  add  my  witness  of  the  truthful- 
ness of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I 
know  that  God  lives  and  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  his  Son.  I  know  this.  I  know 
that  this  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
and  that  it  is  led  by  revelation,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen.  O 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Thank  you,  Elder  Dunn.  We  will 
hear  from  Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve.  He  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill,  also  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


•  My  brethren  and  sisters :  The  Latter- 
day  Saints  are  a  chosen  people.  Their 
mission  is  to  teach  the  restored  gospel 
to  the  world.  They  feel  that  responsi- 
bility keenly.  Their  missionary  en- 
deavor is  evidence  of  their  sincerity 
and  determination  to  make  known 
truth. 

Relationship  to  God 

They  realize  that  the  souls  of  men 
are  precious  in  the  sight  of  God.  They 
know  their  relationship  to  God,  and 
they  are  rightfully  called  the  children 
of  God.  He  is  their  Father  and  is  vitally 
concerned  about  their  welfare.  He  will 
hear  and  answer  their  prayers.  He 
will  come  to  their  rescue  in  times  of 


need  and  he  will  sustain  them  when 
they  put  their  trust  in  him. 

Belief  in  the  prophets 

The  Latter-day  Saints  believe  in  the 
prophets,  each  one  of  whom  has  left  a 
vital  message  to  the  world.  Joseph 
Smith,  called  the  founder  of  Mormon- 
ism,  is  the  prophet  of  the  last  dispen- 
sation. Like  Moses,  the  lawgiver  of 
Israel,  he  spoke  with  God  face  to  face 
and  received  from  him  revelations  con- 
cerning man's  destiny  and  his  possi- 
bilities. He  taught  that  God  is  a 
person,  and  that  he  rules  in  the  affairs 
of  men  and  nations,  and  that  he  is  the 
Father  of  his  children  who  live  and 
have  lived  upon  the  earth. 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


15 


Religious  foundations 

Our  country  was  founded  in  a  re- 
ligious atmosphere.  The  original  colo- 
nists who  came  to  America  laid  their 
foundations  in  that  background.  They 
came  with  deep  religious  convictions. 
They  built  churches  and  schools  and 
worshiped  God  in  their  own  way.  Their 
quest  was  religious  freedom,  and  al- 
though unknown  to  them,  they  pre- 
pared the  way  for  the  restoration  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  which, 
according  to  James,  is  the  perfect  law 
of  liberty. 

I  have  found  in  most  people  a  deep 
religious  sentiment.  Many  of  them  go 
to  church  to  satisfy  their  religious 
longings.  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  is  building 
churches  and  chapels  at  a  rapid  rate. 
Most  of  them  are  crowded  with  wor- 
shipers on  Sunday,  where  the  gospel  is 
being  taught  and  righteous  living  en- 
couraged. 

Prophetic  calling  of  Joseph  Smith 

Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet,  was  the 
man  selected  to  open  a  new  dispensa- 
tion of  the  gospel.  He  announced  to 
the  world  a  restoration  of  divine  truth. 
There  are  many  incidents  in  his  life 
supported  by  eyewitnesses  who  testify 
of  his  prophetic  calling.  These  eye- 
witnesses responded  to  his  greatness 
and  his  leadership  in  a  way  to  prove 
their  loyalty.  Strong  men  like  Brigham 
Young,  John  Taylor,  and  Wilford 
Woodruff  followed  him  with  a  devo- 
tion seldom  seen  in  human  affairs. 
They  were  men  who  were  not  easily 
deceived  or  led  astray. 

Men  of  reknown  saw  in  the  Prophet 
a  force  to  be  reckoned  with  on  the 
pages  of  history. 

A  knowledge  of  Mormonism  is  neces- 
sary to  understand  this  prophet  of  the 
latter  days.  He  cannot  be  ignored  by 
the  conscientious  investigator;  neither 
can  he  be  disposed  of  by  the  old- 
fashioned  methods  of  ridicule  and 
abuse.  His  name  is  secure  in  the  his- 
tory books  already  written.  Speaking 
of  himself,  he  said:  "You  don't  know 
me;  you  never  knew  my  heart.  No  man 


knows  my  history."  (Documentary  His- 
tory of  the  Church,  Vol.  6,  p.  317.) 

Who,  for  instance,  knows  Jesus 
Christ?  No  one  except  those  who  un- 
derstand his  gospel  of  salvation.  Joseph 
Smith  came  to  prepare  the  world  for 
the  reign  of  Christ.  The  Church 
teaches  the  second  coming  of  the 
Savior,  at  which  time  he  will  appear 
in  glory  and  splendor. 

Early  history  preserved 

The  Prophet  did  not  write  his  auto- 
biography, but  the  history  of  the  early 
days  of  the  Church  is  well  preserved. 
The  Prophet,  wise  and  farseeing,  kept 
records.  "For  the  last  three  years,"  he 
said  on  one  occasion,  "I  have  a  record 
of  all  my  acts  and  proceedings,  for  I 
have  kept  several  good,  faithful,  and 
efficient  clerks  in  constant  employ; 
they  have  accompanied  me  everywhere, 
and  carefully  kept  my  history,  and  they 
have  written  down  what  I  have  done, 
where  I  have  been,  and  what  I  have 
said;  .  .  .  and  my  enemies  cannot  prove 
anything  against  me."  (DHC,  Vol.  6, 
p.  409.)  The  Prophet  believed  he  was 
a  man  of  destiny,  that  this  work  was  an 
important  event  in  history,  and  that  it 
should  be  preserved  for  future  genera- 
tions. He  had  been  told  by  an  angel 
that  his  "name  should  be  had  for 
good  and  evil  among  all  nations." 
(Joseph  Smith  2:33.)  That  prophecy 
has  been  fulfilled. 

Reliable  history  kept 

We  are  grateful  today  for  the  frag- 
mentary history  of  the  early  Christian 
church,  for  the  records  from  which  the 
four  gospels  were  assembled,  and  for 
the  teachings  and  testimonies  of  its 
early  leaders.  They  have  been  a  source 
of  inspiration  and  guidance  to  the 
generations  that  followed.  Without 
those  precious  records,  darkness  would 
have  prevailed.  The  Church  has  kept 
and  is  keeping  a  faithful  record  and  a 
reliable  history  of  its  growth,  its  de- 
velopment, and  its  expansion  since  it 
was  organized  on  the  sixth  day  of  April 
1830;  and  it  will  move  forward  in  the 
future  as  it  has  in  the  past.  I  so  testify 
sincerely,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ 
the  Lord.  Amen.  O 


16  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  3  First  Day 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown  the  Twelve,  will  now  address  us,  and 

he  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Spencer 

We  appreciate  your  message,  Elder  W.  Kimball  of  the  Council  of  the 
Sonne.  Twelve,  who  will  be  our  concluding 

Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Assistant  to  speaker. 

ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


•  If  we  were  looking  for  some  pro- 
gram to  cure  all  of  the  problems  that 
presently  beset  our  world,  we  might 
well  find  it  by  properly  observing  the 
Sabbath  day.  The  importance  of  the 
Sabbath  is  prefigured  in  the  account 
of  creation.  In  programming  the  seven 
creative  periods,  God  set  aside  the 
seventh  day  as  his  Sabbath.  And  then 
in  our  interests  he  especially  blessed 
and  hallowed  this  one  day  out  of  each 
week,  which  he  ordained  to  be  our 
Sabbath  day.  And  what  a  magnifi- 
cent day  it  is  when  it  is  used  as  he 
intended. 

It  is  probable  that  our  civilization 
would  never  have  survived  for  half  a 
century  if  it  had  not  been  for  this  one 
day  in  seven  that  we  call  Sunday.  This 
is  the  day  when  we  put  on  our  best 
clothes  and  think  our  best  thoughts 
and  read  our  best  books.  This  is  the 
day  when  we  associate  with  the  people 
that  we  like  the  most.  This  is  the  day 
for  which  we  usually  reserve  the  best 
meal  of  the  week.  This  is  the  day 
when  we  lay  aside  the  cares  that 
usually  concern  us  during  the  other  six 
days  and  go  to  the  house  of  prayer  and 
let  our  minds  reach  upward  and  try  to 
understand  the  real  purpose  for  which 
this  day  was  set  apart. 

Remember  the  Sabbath 

Some  people  have  performed  miracles 
of  accomplishment  when  over  a  period 
of  a  few  years  they  have  set  apart 
even  15  minutes  a  day  for  regular  study 
and  special  self-improvement.  And  we 
can  bring  eternal  exaltation  upon  our- 
selves by  using  the  Sabbath  day  as  the 
Creator  intended.  Some  3,460  years 
ago  God  came  down  onto  the  top  of 
Mount  Sinai  in  fire,  and  to  the  accom- 
paniment of  lightning  and  thunder 
said,  "Remember  the  sabbath  day,  to 


keep  it  holy."  (Exod.  20:8.) 

Then  in  the  meridian  of  time,  the 
Son  of  God  established  his  church 
upon  the  earth  with  the  expectation 
that  we  should  belong  to  it.  Just 
suppose  that  we  should  each  make  up  a 
thoughtful  list  of  those  things  that  we 
could  do  to  really  make  this  a  holy 
day.  The  church  of  which  we  should 
be  an  important  part  was  given  the 
responsibility  for  proclaiming  the  prin- 
ciples of  eternal  truth,  and  within  the 
framework  of  the  Church  we  are  sup- 
posed to  individually  sponsor  those 
laws  on  which  the  blessings  of  mankind 
are  predicated.  William  James  has  said, 
"That  which  holds  our  attention,  deter- 
mines our  action."  And  if  we  don't 
pay  attention,  we  lose  the  blessing. 

The  Sabbath  day  gives  us  a  time  to 
study  the  scriptures  and  to  think  about 
life's  eternal  purposes.  "The  mind  is 
made  up  by  what  it  feeds  upon."  And 
the  Sabbath  day  is  a  time  for  spiritual 
feasting,  mental  stimulation,  righteous 
activities,  ennobling  worship,  and 
pleasant  Christian  fellowship.  An- 
ciently the  followers  of  Christ  assem- 
bled themselves  together  on  the  first 
day  of  the  week  to  hear  the  gospel 
discussed,  partake  of  the  emblems  of 
his  atonement,  and  renew  their  cove- 
nants of  faithfulness.  And  in  our  own 
day  the  Lord  has  said,  "And  that  thou 
mayest  more  fully  keep  thyself  un- 
spotted from  the  world,  thou  shalt  go 
to  the  house  of  prayer  and  offer  up  thy 
sacraments  upon  my  holy  day; 

"For  verily  this  is  a  day  appointed 
unto  you  to  rest  from  your  labors,  and 
to  pay  thy  devotions  unto  the  Most 
High."  (D&C  59:9-10.) 

A  command  of  opportunity 

That  is  one  of  our  greatest  commands 
of  opportunity.  And  we  bring  all  sorts 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 


17 


of  serious  problems  upon  ourselves 
when  we  use  this  day  for  pleasure, 
worldliness,  and  evil.  We  sometimes 
make  the  Sabbath  our  least  important 
day  by  putting  on  our  most  unsightly 
clothes  and  doing  our  most  ordinary 
jobs.  As  a  consequence  of  what  we  do, 
many  of  our  churches  remain  empty 
and  the  holy  scriptures  remain  on  the 
shelf  unopened.  When  we  lose  the 
Sabbath  day  spirit,  we  are  likely  to 
build  bars  in  our  homes  instead  of 
altars.  And  sometimes  we  can  get  more 
interested  in  horse  races  and  baseball 
games  than  in  the  celestial  kingdom. 

Someone  has  said  that  the  mind  like 
the  dyer's  hand  is  colored  by  what  it 
holds.  If  I  hold  in  my  hand  a  sponge 
full  of  purple  dye,  my  hand  becomes 
purple.  And  if  I  hold  in  my  mind  and 
heart  great  ideas  of  faith  and  ambi- 
tions of  righteousness,  my  whole  person 
is  colored  accordingly. 

Paul's  prediction 

The  apostle  Paul  saw  our  day  and 
indicated  that  we  were  holding  in  our 
minds  many  of  the  wrong  kind  of 
ideas.  He  said,  ".  .  .  in  the  last  days 
perilous  times  shall  come. 

"For  men  shall  be  lovers  of  their 
own  selves,  covetous,  boasters,  proud, 
blasphemers,  disobedient  to  parents, 
unthankful,  unholy, 

'Without  natural  affection,  truce- 
breakers,  false  accusers,  incontinent, 
fierce,  despisers  of  those  that  are  good, 

"Traitors,  heady,  highminded,  lovers 
of  pleasures  more  than  lovers  of  God; 

"Having  a  form  of  godliness,  but 
denying  the  power  thereof.  .  .  ."  (2 
Tim.  3:1-5.) 

And  he  indicated  the  change  that  we 
should  make  when  he  said,  ".  .  .  be  ye 
transformed  by  the  renewing  of  your 
mind."  (See  Rom.  12:2.)  Our  whole 
lives  can  be  transformed  by  having  a 
holy  experience  on  the  Sabbath  day. 

Benefits  of  Sabbath 

The  other  day  while  walking  down 
the  street  I  met  a  good  friend  of  mine. 
We  shook  hands  and  engaged  in  a 
little  pleasant  small  talk.  We  laughed, 
visited,  joked,  and  had  a  pleasant  few 
minutes  together.  Then  as  I  went  on 
my  way  I  thought  how  much  better  I 


felt  than  I  had  previously  done.  But 
one  of  the  best  ways  to  feel  the  faith 
and  enjoy  the  friendliness  of  our  fel- 
low human  beings  is  in  church.  In 
church  the  talk  is  very  important,  and 
we  can  shake  hands,  feel  the  Spirit  of 
God,  and  be  uplifted  by  each  other 
as  we  listen,  pray,  and  sing  together 
out  of  the  depths  of  worshiping  hearts. 

The  Lord  is  pleased  when  we  honor 
him  and  bring  this  benefit  upon  our- 
selves by  keeping  the  Sabbath  day 
holy.  He  has  said,  "For  my  soul  de- 
lighteth  in  the  song  of  the  heart;  yea, 
the  song  of  the  righteous  is  a  prayer 
unto  me,  and  it  shall  be  answered  with 
a  blessing  upon  their  heads."  (D&C 
25:12.) 

Renewal  of  covenants 

It  is  also  in  the  house  of  the  Lord 
that  we  partake  of  the  sacrament  and 
renew  our  personal  covenants  to  serve 
him. 

On  that  memorable  last  evening 
of  the  Lord's  life,  the  scripture  recalls 
that  "he  took  bread,  and  gave  thanks, 
and  brake  it,  and  gave  unto  them,  say- 
ing, This  is  my  body  which  is  given  for 
you:  this  do  in  remembrance  of  me. 
Likewise  also  the  cup  after  supper, 
saying,  This  cup  is  the  new  testament 
in  my  blood,  which  is  shed  for  you." 
(Luke  22:19-20.)  And,  "For  as  often 
as  ye  eat  this  bread,  and  drink  this 
cup,  ye  do  shew  the  Lord's  death  till 
he  come."  (1  Cor.  11:26.) 

Rewarding  associations 

This  is  not  only  a  way  to  have  a 
vitalizing  spiritual  experience  with  our 
Redeemer,  but  it  is  also  a  way  that  we 
can  have  a  rewarding  association  with 
our  fellowmen.  Next  to  God,  the  most 
inspiring  creation  in  the  universe  is  a 
great  human  being  formed  in  God's 
image.  And  one  of  the  reasons  that 
we  have  been  endowed  with  his  great 
attributes  is  that  with  them  we  might 
inspire  each  other.  It  has  been  pointed 
out  that  when  the  veils  of  our  mortality 
are  drawn  aside,  the  most  ordinary 
individual  that  we  know  may  be  the 
kind  of  person  that  we  would  feel  like 
falling  down  and  worshiping  before. 
If  we  could  have  visited  with  Abraham 
as  he  herded  his  sheep  on  the  deserts  of 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


18 

Friday,  October  3 

Palestine,  we  may  not  have  been  great- 
ly impressed.  But  if  we  could  have 
been  at  his  side  as  he  stood  among 
the  noble  and  great  in  the  antemortal 
councils  of  God,  or  if  we  could  be 
with  him  now  as  he  serves  in  God's 
heavenly  kingdom,  the  experience 
would  likely  be  a  much  more  memo- 
rable one.  And  what  wonderful  people 
we  might  discover  each  Sabbath  day 
if  we  could  see  our  brothers  and  sisters 
in  the  light  of  their  real  identity  as 
children  of  God.  The  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  said  that  "if  we  could  look  into 
heaven  for  five  minutes  we  would  learn 
more  than  by  reading  all  of  the  books 
that  have  ever  been  written  on  that 
subject."  But  all  of  our  brothers  and 
sisters  were  themselves  in  heaven  just  a 
few  years  ago,  and  we  may  shortly  see 
them  there  again. 

It  is  helpful  for  us  to  remember  that 
God,  angels,  spirits,  and  men  are  all 
of  the  same  species  in  different  stages  of 
development  and  in  various  degrees 
of  righteousness.  And  the  apostle  Paul 
says  that  we  should  not  be  "forgetful 
to  entertain  strangers:  for  thereby  some 
have  entertained  angels  unawares." 
(Heb.  13:2.) 

What  is  man 

But  who  are  these  with  whom  we 
worship?  King  David  asks  a  helpful 
question  where  he  exclaims,  "What  is 
man,  that  thou  art  mindful  of  him? 
and  the  son  of  man,  that  thou  visitest 
him? 


First  Day 

"For  thou  hast  made  him  a  little 
lower  than  the  angels,  and  hast 
crowned  him  with  glory  and  honour. 

"Thou  madest  him  to  have  dominion 
over  the  works  of  thy  hands;  thou  hast 
put  all  things  under  his  feet."  (Ps. 
8:4-6.) 

One  Bible  translation  says,  "Thou 
hast  made  him  for  a  little  while  lower 
than  the  angels."  (Italics  added.)  In 
some  ways  even  Jesus  was  made  lower 
than  the  angels  temporarily.  And  what 
a  thrill  it  ought  to  be  for  us  each  week 
to  properly  honor  God  and  our  fellow 
human  beings  as  he  has  directed.  And 
we  are  sure  that  someday  when  we 
come  to  stand  before  God,  we  will  find 
that  those  who  have  effectively  kept  his 
commandments  will  be  different  kind 
of  people  than  those  who  have  ignored 
or  disobeyed  him.  And  so  in  imagina- 
tion we  might  go  again  to  stand  before 
the  fires  of  Mount  Sinai  and  hear  the 
thrilling  command  wherein  God  said, 
"Remember  the  sabbath  day,  to  keep 
it  holy."  And  may  he  help  us  so  to  do,  I 
humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen.  O 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill,  we  appre- 
ciate your  fine  contribution. 

Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  con- 
cluding speaker. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


•  President  McKay,  brethren,  brothers 
and  sisters,  and  friends: 

You  have  heard  the  impressive  mes- 
sage of  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord.  May  I 
express  the  hope  that  you  will  give  heed 
to  his  admonitions  and  follow  him  on 
the  safe  and  sure  way  to  eternal  life. 

A  stirring  challenge 

When  I  was  a  youngster,  a  stirring 
challenge  came  to  me  that  moved  me 
not  a  little.  I  cannot  remember  who 
issued  the  challenge  nor  under  what 


circumstances  it  came.  I  remember  only 
that  it  struck  me  like  a  "bolt  out  of  the 
blue  heavens."  The  unknown  voice 
postulated: 

"The  'Mormon  Church'  has  stood  its 
ground  for  the  first  two  generations — 
but  wait  till  the  third  and  fourth  and 
succeeding  generations  come  along! 
The  first  generation  fired  with  a  new 
religion  developed  a  great  enthusiasm 
for  it.  Surrounded  with  bitterness, 
calumny  of  a  hostile  world,  persecuted 
'from  pillar  to  post,'  they  were  forced 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALLL 


19 


to  huddle  together  for  survival.  There 
was  good  reason  to  expect  they  would 
live  and  die  faithful  to  their  espoused 
cause. 

"The  second  generation  came  along 
born  to  enthusiasts,  zealots,  devotees. 
They  were  born  to  men  and  women 
who  had  developed  great  faith,  were 
inured  to  hardships  and  sacrifices  for 
their  faith.  They  inherited  from  their 
parents  and  soaked  up  from  re- 
ligious homes  the  stuff  of  which  the 
faithful  are  made.  They  had  full 
reservoirs  of  strength  and  faith  upon 
which  to  draw. 

"But  wait  till  the  third  and  fourth 
generations  come  along,"  said  the  cyni- 
cal voice.  "The  fire  will  have  gone 
out — the  devotion  will  have  been  di- 
luted— the  sacrifice  will  have  been 
nullified — the  world  will  have  hovered 
over  them  and  surrounded  them  and 
eroded  them — the  faith  will  have  been 
expended  and  the  religious  fervor 
leaked  out." 

Training  makes  the  difference 

That  day  I  realized  that  I  was  a 
member  of  the  third  generation.  That 
day  I  clenched  my  growing  fists.  I 
gritted  my  teeth  and  made  a  firm  com- 
mitment to  myself  that  here  was  one 
"third  generation"  who  would  not  ful- 
fill that  dire  prediction. 

And  now,  we  are  in  the  sixth  and 
seventh  generations  from  the  original 
Church  convert,  and  we  still  find  stal- 
warts in  most  branches  of  the  family, 
hundreds  in  the  mission  fields,  numer- 
ous others  in  Church  positions  of 
responsibility.  And  I  have  come  to 
realize  that  it  is  not  the  generation 
number  which  makes  the  difference 
but  the  care  and  exactness  with  which 
parents  teach  and  train  and  fortify 
their  offspring. 

Importance  of  water 

I  grew  up  in  a  dry  country.  It  seemed 
to  me  that  hardly  ever  was  there  enough 
rain  spread  over  the  crop-growing  period 
to  carry  us  through  the  season — not 
enough  water  in  the  river  to  distribute 
between  the  many  hungry  canals  and 
the  tens  of  thousands  of  thirsty  acres, 
not  enough  to  irrigate  all  the  crops. 


We  learned  to  pray  for  rain — we  al- 
ways prayed  for  rain. 

When  I  was  still  very  small,  I  knew 
that  plants  could  not  survive  in  a  dry 
country  more  than  about  two  or  three 
weeks  without  water.  I  knew  how  to 
harness  up  the  old  mare  to  a  lizard — 
a  forked  log  on  which  a  barrel  was 
placed — and  I  drove  the  animal  to  the 
"big  ditch,"  the  Union  Canal,  which 
was  a  block  below  our  home.  With  a 
bucket,  I  scooped  up  water  from  the 
small  stream  or  the  puddles  and  filled 
the  barrel,  and  the  horse  dragged  it 
back  so  I  could  pour  bucketsful  of  the 
precious  liquid  on  the  roses,  the  violets, 
and  other  flowers  and  the  small  shrubs 
and  hedges  and  new  trees.  Water  was 
like  liquid  gold,  so  reservoirs  became 
the  warp  and  woof  of  the  fabric  of  my 
life.  Around  the  table,  we  talked  of 
water,  irrigation,  crops,  floods,  hot,  dry 
weeks,  and  cloudless  skies. 

We  used  to  look  for  clouds  somewhat 
as  did  Elijah  and  his  people  after  the 
three-year  drought. 

After  the  dramatic  experience  with 
the  prophets  of  Baal,  Elijah  had  gone 
to  the  top  of  Mt.  Carmel  and  had  said 
to  King  Ahab,  ".  .  .  there  is  a  sound  of 
abundance  of  rain."  Elijah's  servant 
had  gone  to  a  high  spot  and  looked  for 
promising  clouds.  The  first  six  times 
he  looked,  returned,  and  reported, 
"There  is  nothing,"  but  the  seventh 
time  he  reported  that  there  was  arising 
out  of  the  sea  a  little  cloud  like  a 
man's  hand.  Soon,  the  heavens  were 
black  with  heavy  pregnant  clouds  and 
"there  was  a  great  rain."  (See  1  Kings 
18.) 

Dams  and  reservoirs 

Through  the  warm  dry  summers,  we 
always  seemed  to  be  looking  for  dark, 
heavy  clouds.  And  every  year,  the 
clouds  did  amass,  and  the  thunder- 
storms did  come,  and  the  dry  washes 
did  run  for  a  few  hours,  and  the  river 
roared  down  its  channel. 

But  the  canals  were  still  empty,  and 
the  brush  and  rock  dams  were  washed 
down  the  river  by  the  first  raging  tor- 
rent. Then  came  the  call  for  the  able- 
bodied  men  to  rush  to  the  heads  of 
the  canals  to  build  new  dams,  to  get  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


20 

Friday,  October  3 

canals  full  before  the  river  water  had 
all  run  down  to  the  sea.  And 
when  working  in  the  flood,  hauling 
brush  and  trees,  rocks  and  dirt, 
horses  floundered  and  were  sometimes 
drowned  and  men  had  narrow  escapes. 

Years  later  we  built  aprons  of  con- 
crete that  were  protected  by  rock  and 
wire  sausages. 

Later  I  learned  that  even  depend- 
able diversion  dams  were  not  enough. 
A  reservoir  was  needed — a  high  dam 
that  would  impound  the  fall,  winter, 
and  spring  rains  and  keep  them  stored 
for  the  later  need. 

Many  kinds  of  reservoirs 

And  as  I  pondered,  I  came  to  realize 
that  there  were  reservoirs  of  many 
kinds — reservoirs  to  store  water,  some 
to  store  food,  as  we  do  in  our  family 
welfare  program,  some  like  the  barns 
and  bins  set  up  by  Joseph  in  the  land 
of  Egypt  in  which  to  store  the  seven 
years  of  plenty  to  carry  them  over  the 
seven  years  of  drought  and  famine. 

I  realized  that  there  should  be 
reservoirs  of  knowledge  to  meet  the 
future  needs;  reservoirs  of  courage  to 
overcome  the  floods  of  fear  that  put 
uncertainty  in  lives;  storage  of  physi- 
cal strength  to  help  us  meet  the  fre- 
quent contaminations  and  contagions; 
reservoirs  of  goodness;  reservoirs  of 
stamina;  reservoirs  of  faith.  Yes,  reser- 
voirs of  faith  so  that  when  the  world 
presses  in  upon  us,  we  stand  firm  and 
strong;  when  the  temptations  of  a  de- 
caying world  about  us  draw  on  our 
energies,  sap  our  spiritual  vitality,  and 
seek  to  pull  us  down  to  the  level  of  the 
worldly  world,  we  need  a  storage  of 
faith  that  can  carry  youth  through  the 
tantalizing  teens  and  through  the 
problems  of  later  years.  Faith  to  carry 
us  over  the  dull,  the  difficult,  the  terri- 
fying moments,  disappointments,  dis- 
illusionments,  and  years  of  adversity, 
want,  confusion,  and  frustration. 

The  work  of  parents 

And  who  are  to  build  these  reser- 
voirs? Is  this  not  the  reason  that  God 
gave  to  every  child  two  parents? 

Who  else  but  the  forebears  would 
clear  the  forests,  plow  the  land,  carve 
out  the  futures?  Who  else  would  set 


First  Day 

up  the  businesses,  dig  the  canals,  sur- 
vey the  territory?  Who  else  would 
plant  the  orchards,  start  the  vineyards, 
erect  the  homes? 

In  his  omniscience,  our  God  gave  to 
every  child  a  father  and  mother  to 
pioneer  the  way.  And  so  it  is  those 
parents  who  sired  them  and  bore  them 
who  are  expected  to  lay  foundations 
and  to  hold  the  hands  through  the 
tender  years  to  build  the  barns  and 
tanks  and  bins  and  reservoirs. 

Did  not  the  Lord,  speaking  of  par- 
ents, say,  "And  they  shall  also  teach 
their  children  to  pray,  and  to  walk 
uprightly  before  the  Lord"?  (D&C 
68:28.) 

Is  it  not  the  work  of  the  parents  to 
build  so  their  children  can  inhabit 
houses  they  did  not  build;  eat  the  fruit 
from  trees  they  did  not  plant  and 
grapes  from  vines  they  did  not  start? 
Parents  should  be  soberly  about  their 
life's  work  of  building  reservoirs  and 
helping  to  fill  them  for  the  children 
who  are  yet  too  small  to  hoe,  or  dig, 
or  plow. 

Gratitude  for  parents 

I  am  grateful  to  my  parents,  for 
they  made  reservoirs  for  my  brothers, 
my  sisters,  and  myself.  They  filled 
them  with  prayer  habits,  study,  activi- 
ties, positive  services,  and  truth  and 
righteousness.  Every  morning  and 
every  night,  we  knelt  at  our  chairs 
with  backs  to  the  table  and  prayed, 
taking  turns.  When  I  was  married, 
the  habit  persisted,  and  our  new  family 
continued  the  practice. 

Some  parents  are  casual  or  careless 
or  fail  to  do  their  duty.  These  consti- 
tute leaks  in  the  dams.  The  story  of 
Peter  with  his  thumb  in  the  dike  may 
be  a  myth,  but  the  moral  is  not  a 
myth. 

Lehi  and  Sariah 

Lehi  and  Sariah  built  and  filled 
reservoirs  for  their  children.  One  said: 

"I,  Nephi,  having  been  born  of  good- 
ly parents,  therefore  I  was  taught 
somewhat  in  all  the  learning  of  my 
father;  .  .  .  having  had  a  great  knowl- 
edge of  the  goodness  and  the  mysteries 
of  God,  therefore  I  make  a  record  of 
my  proceedings.  ..."  (1  Ne.  1:1.) 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


21 


Though  two  of  the  brothers  ignored 
those  teachings,  using  their  own  free 
agency,  yet  Nephi  and  others  of  his 
brothers  were  strongly  fortified  and  all 
their  lives  could  draw  heavily  on  the 
reservoir  built  and  filled  by  worthy 
parents. 

Abraham  built  reservoir 

Abraham  built  such  a  reservoir  for 
his  son  Isaac,  and  it  seemed  never  to 
have  leaked  dry,  for  we  find  his  son 
r;.e  of  the  patriarchs  and  always  linked 
with  the  God  of  Abraham,  the  God  of 
Isaac,  and  the  God  of  Jacob.  And  he 
seems  to  fit  the  words  of  Jeremiah: 

"For  he  shall  be  as  a  tree  planted  by 
the  waters,  and  that  spreadeth  out  her 
roots  by  the  river,  and  shall  not  see 
when  heat  cometh,  but  her  leaf  shall  be 
green;  and  shall  not  be  careful  in  the 
year  of  drought,  neither  shall  cease 
from  yielding  fruit."  (Jer.  17:8.) 

Enos's  testimony 

Jacob,  another  of  the  sons  of  Lehi, 
drew  heavily  from  the  storage  inherited 
from  his  father,  and  he  passed  the 
same  to  his  son  Enos,  who  bore  testi- 
mony of  it: 

".  .  .  I,  Enos,  knowing  my  father  that 
he  was  a  just  man — for  he  taught  me 
...  in  the  nurture  and  admonition  of 
the  Lord — and  blessed  be  the  name  of 
my  God  for  it. 

"...  I  had  often  heard  my  father 
speak  concerning  eternal  life,  and  the 
joy  of  the  saints,  sunk  deep  into  my 
heart."  (Enos  1,  3.) 

Enos  asked  how  such  a  miracle  as 
forgiveness  could  possibly  come,  and 
the  answer  came  from  the  Lord:  "Be- 
cause of  thy  faith  in  Christ,  whom 
thou  hast  never  before  heard,  nor  seen 
.  .  .  thy  faith  hath  made  thee  whole." 
(Enos  8.)  Enos  was  able  to  draw 
heavily  on  the  reservoir  of  faith  his 
parents  had  set  up  for  their  children. 

Example  of  two  families 

One  day  I  met  a  delightful  couple — 
faithful  Latter-day  Saints  with  a  splen- 
did family  and  a  successful  life.  They 
told  me  of  their  family  history.  The 
husband  was  one  of  seven  children  of 
a  family  of  active  people,  where  the 


Lord  was  center  in  their  lives.  All  but 
one  of  the  seven  had  remained  faith- 
ful, filled  honorable  missions,  married 
in  the  temple,  and  had  successful, 
happy  families,  as  had  their  parents 
before  them.  The  one  had  strayed  and 
had  marital  and  other  serious  problems. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  wife  was  one 
of  seven  children  in  a  contemporary 
family  where  the  Church  meant  little 
in  their  lives,  and  they  had  bypassed 
tithing,  prayers,  and  all  church  activi- 
ties, and  had  ignored  the  spiritual  part 
of  their  lives.  All  seven  of  the  children 
had  been  reared  in  the  same  household, 
subject  to  the  same  conditions,  and  all 
seven  of  them  but  this  one  ignored  their 
spiritual  obligations,  as  their  parents 
had  done  before  them. 

The  first  parents  had  built  and  filled 
a  high,  strong  reservoir  of  habits  and 
qualities  of  faith  for  their  children. 
Both  families  had  the  same  community 
backgrounds. 

The  second  family  built  no  reservoir 
of  spiritual  strength  but  depended  on 
the  runoff.  The  uncertain  little  dams, 
like  our  brush  and  rock  ones,  had 
washed  away  when  the  torrents 
flooded.  There  were  cracks  in  the  dam 
and  leaks  in  the  reservoir.  In  the  one 
family,  six  of  the  seven  remained  righ- 
teous; in  the  other,  six  of  the  seven 
followed  the  careless  ways  of  the  par- 
ents in  unrighteousness  and  only  one 
of  the  seven  remained  faithful. 

The  Lord  had  commanded  that  "he 
that  observeth  not  his  prayers  before 
the  Lord  in  the  season  thereof,  let  him 
be  had  in  remembrance  before  the 
judge  of  my  people."  (B&C  68:33.) 
And  the  Lord  had  also  expressed  con- 
cern and  disapproval  of  his  people  in 
Zion  who  were  idlers,  "and  their  chil- 
dren are  also  growing  up  in  wickedness; 
they  also  seek  not  earnestly  the  riches 
of  eternity,  but  their  eyes  are  full  of 
greediness."  (D&C  68:31.) 

Reservoirs  of  two  brothers 

Again,  as  I  remembered  the  so-called 
doomed  third  and  fourth  generations, 
there  were  two  brothers  of  the  second 
generation.  Both  had  large  families  now 
in  the  sixth  and  seventh  generations, 
running  into  many  hundreds  each.  The 
one  brother  became  disgruntled  and  the 


22 

Friday,  October  3 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


other  remained  faithful.  The  children 
of  the  one  in  their  third  generation 
began  to  fall  away,  as  did  their  father. 
Activity  reduced,  there  were  only  occa- 
sional temple  marriages,  and  few  went 
on  missions.  Then  in  the  fourth  gen- 
eration, there  were  no  temple  mar- 
riages, no  missions,  few  baptisms,  and 
very  little  activity  in  spiritual  things. 
The  fifth  generation  deteriorated  to 
rank  apostasy.  In  the  sixth  generation, 
with  just  an  occasional  exception,  the 
whole  tribe  was  estranged  from  the 
Church. 

The  ancestor  had  failed  to  keep  his 
reservoir  intact  and  full  for  his  pos- 
terity to  draw  upon. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  second 
brother  remained  faithful  all  his  life 
and  finally  "died  in  the  harness."  His 
third  and  fourth  and  fifth  generations 
have  also  remained  true  and  faithful 
with  a  few  exceptions.  The  majority  of 
the  posterity  of  the  one  was  out  of  the 
faith  like  the  parents,  and  the  majority 
of  the  other  followed  the  parents  into 
activity  and  faith.   Spiritual  reservoirs! 

Building  good  homes 

An  editorial  from  the  Church  Sec- 
tion of  the  Deseret  News  reads: 

"Good  homes  must  rate  high  in 
companionship  between  children  and 
parents,  in  having  a  well  ordered 
household,  with  love  between  parents 
and  between  children  and  parents. 

"They  must  build  righteous  loyalties, 
good  character,  a  willingness  to  work,  a 
spirit  of  humility,  and  an  absence  of 
unjust  pride,  and  they  must  teach  a 
deep  and  abiding  faith  in  God." 

To  this  end,  the  Lord  has  inspired 
his  church  to  place  a  great  new  and 
increased  emphasis  on  that  building 
process. 

Every  family  is  urged  to  engage  in 
regular  night  and  morning  family 
prayers  and  to  devote  at  least  one 
evening  a  week  at  home  in  the  sweet 
family  togetherness  undisturbed  by  the 
world  or  any  of  its  allurements.  They 
will  plan  to  turn  off  the  TV  and  radio, 
leave  the  telephone  unanswered,  can- 
cel all  calls  or  appointments,  and  spend 
a  warm,  homey  evening  together. 

While  one  objective  is  reached  by 
merely  being  together,  yet  the  addi- 


tional and  greater  value  can  come  from 
the  lessons  of  life.  The  father  will 
teach  the  children.  Here  they  can  learn 
integrity,  honor,  dependableness,  sac- 
rifice, and  faith  in  God.  Life's  experi- 
ences and  the  scriptures  are  the  basis 
of  the  teaching  and  this,  wrapped  up 
in  filial  and  parental  love,  makes  an 
impact  nothing  else  can  make.  Thus, 
reservoirs  of  righteousness  are  filled  to 
carry  children  through  the  dark  days  of 
temptation  and  desire,  of  drought  and 
skepticism.  As  they  grow  up,  the 
children  cooperate  in  building  this 
storage  for  themselves  and  the  family. 
And  so  we  have  the  home  evening  and 
the  family  prayers  and  the  simple 
things  that  have  been  taught  to  us  all 
our  days. 

Damaged  reservoir  mended 

One  day,  long  ago,  we  crossed  a 
boundary  into  a  distant  city  where 
walls  and  curtains  separated  people; 
and  behind  the  walls,  strange  ideologies 
were  taught  and  "pernicious  doctrines" 
promulgated  every  day  in  the  schools 
and  otherwise. 

Every  day  the  children  listened  to 
schoolteachers  with  foreign  and  strange 
doctrines,  philosophies,  and  ideals. 

Someone  said  that  "constant  dripping 
will  wear  away  the  hardest  stone."  This 
I  knew,  so  I  asked  about  the  children: 
"Do  they  retain  their  faith?  Are  they 
not  overcome  by  the  constant  pressure 
of  their  teachers?  How  can  you  be  sure 
they  will  not  leave  you  and  the  simple 
faith  in  God?" 

The  answer  was  unmistakable.  "We 
mend  the  damaged  reservoir  every 
night,"  they  said.  "We  teach  our 
children  positive  righteousness  so  that 
the  false  philosophies  do  not  take  hold, 
and  should  any  have  taken  lodgment 
in  the  day,  we  dislodge  them  at  night. 
Our  children  are  growing  up  in  faith 
and  righteousness  in  spite  of  the  over- 
whelming pressures  from  outside." 

Generally,  cracked  dams  can  be 
mended  and  saved,  and  sand  bags  can 
hold  back  the  flood;  and  reiterated 
truth,  renewed  prayer,  gospel  teachings, 
a  flood  of  love,  and  parental  interest 
can  save  the  child  and  keep  him  on 
the  right  path. 


FIRST  DAY 


23 


A  spiritual  umbrella 

I  like  to  compare  the  home  evening, 
family  prayer,  and  other  associated 
activities  of  the  Church  for  the  saving 
of  the  family,  when  they  are  con- 
scientiously carried  out,  with  an  um- 
brella. If  the  umbrella  is  not  opened 
up,  it  is  little  more  than  a  cane  and 
can  give  little  protection  from  the 
storms  of  nature.  Likewise,  God-given 
plans  are  of  little  value  unless  they  are 
used. 

The  umbrella  spread  out  makes  the 
silken  material  taut.  When  the  rain 
falls,  it  runs  off;  when  the  snow  falls, 
it  slides  off;  when  the  hail  comes,  it 
bounces  off;  when  the  wind  blows,  it  is 
diverted  around  the  umbrella.  And  in 
like  manner,  this  spiritual  umbrella 
wards  off  the  foes  of  ignorance,  super- 
stition, skepticism,  apostasy,  immoral- 
ity, and  other  forms  of  godlessness. 

It  is  my  prayer  that  we  shall  all 
spread  our  spiritual  umbrellas  for  pro- 
tection of  our  families  and  keep  our 
reservoirs  full  of  faith  and  integrity; 
and  we  can  promise  that  the  third  and 
fourth  generations  and  indeed  the  tenth 
and  the  fiftieth  will  still  be  faithful, 
worthy,  and  God-fearing. 

May  this  be  our  happy  blessing,  I 
pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen.  O 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  has  given 
us  an  inspired  closing  address. 

We  have  word  from  Korea.  The 
president  of  the  Korean  Mission,  the 
missionaries  and  all  the  members  of 
the  Church  wish  to  be  remembered, 
and  among  other  things  they  say, 
"Though  far  away  and  not  able  to  be 
in  touch  by  radio  or  television,  please 
consider  that  in  spirit  Korea  will  be  a 
part  of  your  General  Conference."  We 
thank  them  for  that  message. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  will  now  favor  us  with 
"Onward  Ye  Peoples." 

Following  the  singing,  the  benedic- 
tion will  be  offered  by  Elder  James  M. 
Hobbs,  president  of  the  Garden  Grove 
Stake,  after  which  the  conference  will 
adjourn  until  2  o'clock  this  afternoon. 


The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  sang  the  closing  song, 
"Onward  Ye  Peoples." 

The  benediction  was  offered  by 
President  James  M.  Hobbs  of  the  Gar- 
den Grove  Stake. 

The  conference  was  adjourned  until 
2  o'clock  p.m. 


FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


SECOND  SESSION 

The  second  session  of  the  conference 
convened  at  2  p.m.,  Friday,  October  3, 
1969. 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer,  counselor 
in  the  First  Presidency,  conducted  the 
services. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
from  the  Cottonwood,  Mill  Creek,  Mur- 
ray and  Wilford  Regions,  with  Ellen 
N.  Barnes  conducting,  furnished  the 
choral  music.  Alexander  Schreiner  was 
at  the  organ  console. 

President  Dyer  made  the  following 
introductory  remarks: 


President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

Members  of  the  Church  are  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  in  the  second 
general  session  of  the  One  Hundred 
Thirty-ninth  Semi-Annual  Conference 
of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

President  McKay  is  watching  the 
proceedings  of  this  session  by  television 
and  has  asked  that  I  conduct  at  this 
time.  He  is  with  us  in  spirit,  and  this 
morning  when  we  met  with  him  he 
said:  "Tell  them  all  of  my  feelings." 


24 

Friday,  October  3 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


Through  the  generous  cooperation 
of  their  owners  and  managers,  over 
300  television  and  radio  stations  will 
carry  to  practically  every  state  in  the 
Union,  including  Hawaii  and  Alaska, 
and  also  to  many  foreign  countries, 
sessions  of  this  conference.  The  names 
of  the  stations  were  identified  prior  to 
the  opening  of  this  meeting.  We  express 
our  appreciation  to  these  station  owners 
and  managers  for  broadcasting  the  pro- 
grams of  this  conference. 

Sessions  of  this  conference  are  being 
televised  in  color  in  the  United  States 
and  Canada  over  most  of  those  tele- 
vision stations  cooperating  to  provide 
the  extensive  coverage  of  this  confer- 
ence. 

A  cordial  welcome  is  extended  to  our 
television  and  radio  audience,  and  to 
all  who  are  gathered  here  in  this  his- 
toric Tabernacle. 

We  welcome  to  this  session  of 
conference  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers  from  the  Cottonwood,  Mill 
Creek,  Murray  and  Wilford  regions, 
who  will  sing  for  us,  with  Ellen  N. 
Barnes  conducting  and  Alexander 
Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by 
the  Singing  Mothers  singing  "Let  the 


Mountains  Shout  for  Joy,"  and  the 
invocation  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
George  L.  Lovell,  president  of  the  East 
Rigby  Stake. 


The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
sang  as  the  opening  number,  "Let  the 
Mountains  Shout  for  Joy,"  following 
which  the  opening  prayer  was  offered 
by  President  George  L.  Lovell  of  the 
East  Rigby  Stake. 


President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
will  now  favor  us  with  "Oh,  Lord  Most 
Holy." 


The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
sang  the  number,  "Oh,  Lord  Most 
Holy." 


President  Dyer 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown  of  the 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church  will 
now  present  the  General  Authorities, 
general  officers  and  general  auxiliary 
officers  of  the  Church  for  the  sustaining 
vote  of  this  General  Conference. 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  AND  GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  General  Authorities  and  General  Officers  of  the  Church  were  then  sus- 
tained as  follows: 

The  First  Presidency 

David  O.  McKay,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  The  Church  of 

Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Hugh  B.  Brown,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 
Nathan  Eldon  Tanner,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 
Alvin  R.  Dyer 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


25 


Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Marion  G.  Romney 

Harold  B.  Lee  LeGrand  Richards 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  Richard  L.  Evans 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  Howard  W.  Hunter 

Mark  E.  Petersen  Gordon  B.  Hinckley 

Delbert  L.  Stapley  Thomas  S.  Monson 


Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and  the 
Patriarch  to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Alma  Sonne  Boyd  K.  Packer 

EIRay  L.  Christiansen  Bernard  P.  Brockbank 

Sterling  W.  Sill  James  A.  Cullimore 

Henry  D.  Taylor  Marion  D.  Hanks 

Franklin  D.  Richards  Marvin  J.  Ashton 
Theodore  M.  Burton 


Trustee-in-Trust 
David  O.  McKay 

as  Trustee-in-Trust  for  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Seymour  Dilworth  Young  Paul  H.  Dunn 

Milton  R.  Hunter  Hartman  Rector,  Jr. 

Bruce  R.  McConkie  Loren  C.  Dunn 
Albert  Theodore  Tuttle 


The  Presiding  Bishopric 

John  H.  Vandenberg,  Presiding  Bishop 
Robert  L.  Simpson,  First  Counselor 
Victor  L.  Brown,  Second  Counselor 


Church  Historian  and  Recorder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  and  Earl  E.  Olson  as  Assistants 
Priesthood  Welfare  Committee 

John  H.  Vandenberg,  Chairman 
Henry  D.  Taylor,  Managing  Director 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


Priesthood  Home  Teaching  Committee 

Marion  G.  Romney,  Chairman 
John  H.  Vandenberg,  Vice  Chairman 
Boyd  K.  Packer,  Managing  Director 

Priesthood  Missionary  Committee 


Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Chairman  of  Executive  Committee 
Gordon  B.  Hinckl  jy  and  Thomas  S.  Monson,  Vice  Chairmen 
Bruce  R.  McConkie,  Managing  Director 


Priesthood  Genealogical  Committee 

Howard  W.  Hunter,  Chairman 
Theodore  M.  Burton,  Managing  Director 

Church  Board  of  Education 


Church  Finance  Committee 

Wilford  G.  Edling 
Harold  H.  Bennett 
Glenn  E.  Nielson 
Weston  E.  Hamilton 
O.  Leslie  Stone 


Senior  Church  Auditors 

Harold  L.  Davis 
Charles  Schmidt 


GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Relief  Society 

Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Louise  Wallace  Madsen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


David  O.  McKay 
Hugh  B.  Brown 
Nathan  Eldon  Tanner 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 
Alvin  R.  Dyer 
Harold  B.  Lee 
Spencer  W.  Kimball 
Ezra  Taft  Benson 
Mark  E.  Petersen 
Delbert  L.  Stapley 


Marion  G.  Romney 
LeGrand  Richards 
Richard  L.  Evans 
Howard  W.  Hunter 
Gordon  B.  Hinckley 
Thomas  S.  Monson 
Boyd  K.  Packer 
Marion  D.  Hanks 
Albert  Theodore  Tuttle 
Paul  H.  Dunn 
John  H.  Vandenberg 
Belle  S.  Spafford 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


27 


Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 

David  Lawrence  McKay,  General  Superintendent 
Lynn  S.  Richards,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Royden  G.  Derrick,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

W.  Jay  Eldredge,  General  Superintendent 
George  Richard  Hill,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
George  I.  Cannon,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Florence  Smith  Jacobsen,  President 
Margaret  Romney  Jackson,  First  Counselor 
Dorothy  Porter  Holt,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Primary  Association 

LaVern  Watts  Parmley,  President 
Leone  Watson  Doxey,  First  Counselor 
Lucile  Cardon  Reading,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Tabernacle  Choir 

Isaac  M.  Stewart,  President 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Conductor 
Jay  E.  Welch,  Assistant  Conductor 

Tabernacle  Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner,  Chief  Organist 
Robert  N.  Cundick 
Roy  M.  Darley 

Frank  W.  Asper,  Organist  Emeritus 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

We  thank  you,  brethren  and  sisters, 
for  your  sustaining  vote. 


President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

Elder  Marvin  Ashton,  just  sustained 
as  an  Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  will  now 
speak  to  us. 


28  GENERAL  CONEERENCE 

Friday,  October  3  First  Day 

ELDER  MARVIN  J.  ASHTON 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


•  Six  months  ago,  by  appointment 
from  the  First  Presidency,  we  attended 
a  mission-wide  conference  in  South 
Africa.  After  four  glorious  days  with 
the  wonderful  people  of  that  nation, 
and  as  we  were  leaving,  many  of  the 
members  said:  "When  you  return, 
please  give  our  best  regards  and  love 
to  our  friends  all  over  the  world."  Little 
did  they  realize,  and  little  did  I  realize 
at  that  time,  that  I  would  have  this 
kind  of  an  opportunity  of  extending 
their  love  to  their  friends  worldwide. 

"Ye  are  my  friends" 

Since  this  responsibility  has  come  to 
me,  I  have  thought  a  great  deal  about 
friends  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I 
am  reminded  in  the  84th  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  that  great 
revelation  on  priesthood,  of  how  the 
Savior  reported  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  in  verse  63,  ".  .  .  you  are 
mine  apostles,  even  God's  high  priests; 
ye  are  they  whom  my  Father  hath 
given  me;  ye  are  my  friends,"  indicat- 
ing the  importance  and  blessing  of 
being  recognized  as  a  friend  of  the 
Savior. 

May  I  leave  this  thought  with  you 
as  we  think  of  friends  and  the  part 
they  should  play  in  our  lives  as  Latter- 
day  Saints.  Perhaps  this  simple  illus- 
tration will  help  us  to  realize  the  need 
of  being  friends  in  the  home,  friends  in 
the  neighborhood,  and  friends  in  the 
community. 

Incident  of  newspaper  boy 

Some  months  ago  my  wife  and  I 
were  in  the  front  of  our  yard  when 
the  newspaper  boy  came  down  the 
street  on  his  bicycle.  His  bicycle  was 
loaded  with  papers.  About  twenty  or 
thirty  yards  in  back  of  him,  there  was 
another  boy  following  him  on  a  bi- 
cycle. I  was  not  sure  at  that  time  what 
their  relationship  was,  but  I  did  notice 
they  were  coming  down  the  street  at 
a  pretty  good  clip. 

When  the  newspaper  boy  came  to 
our  sidewalk  entry,  he  was  traveling 


too  fast  to  make  the  approach  to  our 
home,  and,  as  a  result,  he  went  one 
way,  the  bicycle  went  another  way,  and 
the  papers  went  everywhere.  Noticing 
the  boy  had  fallen  on  the  lawn  and 
was  not  hurt,  but  realizing  that  he 
would  undoubtedly  be  embarrassed 
from  the  fall  in  front  of  his  friend, 
we  moved  toward  him. 

At  the  sight  of  this  perfect  three- 
point  landing,  if  we  may  refer  to  it  as 
that,  his  companion  shouted  his 
pleasure  and  laughed  heartily  with 
complete  and  full  enjoyment  at  the 
misfortune  of  his  associate. 

Trying  to  relieve  the  embarrassment 
of  the  paper  boy,  knowing  he  didn't 
want  help  but  he  wanted  to  have  his 
pride  repaired  a  little,  I  took  a  few- 
more  steps  toward  him  and  said:  "It's 
kind  of  a  low  blow  to  have  your  friend 
laugh  when  you've  had  a  bad  spill, 
isn't  it?" 

He  went  on  picking  up  his  papers 
without  even  looking  up.  Finally,  he 
had  the  papers  back  in  place  and  got 
on  his  bicycle;  and  as  he  started  out 
away  from  our  home,  he  made  the  re- 
mark: "He  isn't  my  friend — he's  my 
brother." 

Living  as  close  friends 

His  words  have  been  ringing  through 
my  ears  with  a  great  deal  of  signifi- 
cance ever  since  then.  Brothers  and 
sisters,  I  sincerely  feel  that  one  of  the 
great  purposes  of  family  evenings  and 
home  teaching  is  to  have  family  mem- 
bers realize  that  a  brother  can  be  a 
friend,  and  that  a  sister  can  be  a  friend, 
and  that  a  father  and  a  mother  can  be 
more  than  parents,  they  can  be  friends. 

I  would  hope  and  pray  that  we  may 
catch  the  wisdom  and  the  inspiration 
of  building  a  home  so  that  our  mem- 
bers in  that  sacred  unit  can  look  upon 
a  father  and  say,  "He  is  my  best 
friend,"  or  "My  mother  is  more  than  a 
mother,  she  is  my  friend."  When  we 
realize  that  parents  and  family  mem- 
bers can  be  more  than  blood  relations 
and  are  in  very  deed  friends,  then  we 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


29 


will  have  a  glimpse  of  how  our  Heav- 
enly Father  wants  us  to  live,  not  only 
as  brothers  and  sisters  but  as  very  close 
friends. 

Appreciation  for  confidence 

I  humbly  bear  testimony  to  you  this 
day  that  this  is  our  Heavenly  Father's 
work,  and  that  I  approach  this  new 
assignment  in  all  humility,  aware  of 
the  fact  that  I  need  your  blessings  to 
carry  on  and  to  function  as  our  Master 
would  have  me  serve.  May  I  express  to 
President  David  O.  McKay  my  grati- 
tude and  appreciation  for  his  confi- 


dence in  calling  me  to  serve  with  him 
and  these  brethren,  my  friends,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen.  O 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

I  am  sure  that  we  will  all  feel  the 
effects  of  the  service  of  this  good  man  in 
this  new  calling. 

Elder  LeGrand  Richards  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  next 
speaker,  and  he  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Theodore  M.  Burton,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


•  I  should  first  like  to  extend  my  con- 
gratulations to  Elder  Ashton  on  his 
call.  He  can't  help  it,  but  I'm  his  uncle 
by  marriage  and  I  am  proud  of  him. 
Furthermore,  he  is  a  son  of  my  first 
counselor  when  I  served  as  the  Presid- 
ing Bishop  of  the  Church,  and  of  all 
the  men  who  have  been  General  Au- 
thorities in  this  church,  I  think  his 
father  was  one  of  the  most  beloved 
throughout  the  entire  Church. 

Expression  of  love 

Now  I  greet  all  of  you  brothers  and 
sisters  here  today  and  express  my  love 
for  you  and  my  appreciation  for  your 
kindness  to  me  as  I  travel  throughout 
the  Church,  and  my  congratulations 
for  your  great  contributions  in  helping 
to  build  our  Father's  kingdom.  In 
your  presence  I  would  like  to  express 
my  love  for  my  Father  in  heaven  and 
for  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  and  for  the 
holy  scriptures,  for  without  them  what 
would  we  know  about  the  love  of  our 
Father  in  heaven,  who  gave  us  his  Only 
Begotten  Son,  "that  whosoever  be- 
lieveth  in  him  should  not  perish,  but 
have  eternal  life"?  (John  3:15.)  And 
what  would  we  know  about  the  life  and 
the  labors,  the  teachings,  the  example, 
and  the  great  atoning  sacrifice  of  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world?  No  wonder 
we  love  him  and  are  proud  to  be  his 
representatives! 


Words  of  the  prophets 

I  love  the  scriptures.  I  love  the 
words  of  the  prophets,  for  the  Lord 
has  permitted  many  of  them  to  look 
down  through  the  stream  of  time  and 
behold  coming  events  of  great  im- 
portance in  this  world. 

I  think  of  the  words  of  Jesus  as  he 
walked  with  two  of  his  disciples  as 
they  were  on  their  way  to  Emmaus 
following  his  resurrection,  and  we  are 
told  that  "their  eyes  were  holden  that 
they  should  not  know  him."  (Luke 
24:16.)  When  he  heard  what  they 
had  to  say,  he  realized  that  notwith- 
standing the  time  he  had  spent  with 
them,  they  did  not  comprehend  the 
magnitude  of  his  ministry,  and  he 
said:  "O  fools,  and  slow  of  heart  to 
believe  all  that  the  prophets  have 
spoken."  (Luke  24:25.)  Commencing 
with  Moses  and  the  prophets,  he 
showed  them  how  in  all  things  the 
prophets  had  testified  of  him. 

Two  great  events  foretold 

To  me  there  are  two  great  events 
recorded  in  the  holy  scriptures  that  are 
outstanding  above  all  others,  and  one 
is  the  announcement  by  the  holy 
prophets  of  the  coming  of  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world  in  the  meridian  of 
time.  Those  prophets  were  permitted 
to  describe  his  life  and  his  ministry  in 
such  minute  detail  that  they  even  told 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


30 

Friday,  October  3 

I  low  lots  would  be  cast  for  his  clothing 
at  the  time  of  his  crucifixion.  Then  the 
next  important  event  outlined  by  the 
holy  prophets,  in  my  estimation,  is 
what  the  prophets  had  to  say  about  his 
second  coming  and  the  preparation  for 
that  coming,  and  that  is  the  mission 
of  this  great  church. 

I  think  of  the  words  of  the  apostle 
Peter.  He  said: 

"We  have  also  a  more  sure  word  of 
prophecy;  whereunto  ye  do  well  that 
ye  take  heed,  as  unto  a  light  that 
shineth  in  a  dark  place,  until  the  day 
dawn,  and  the  day  star  arise  in  your 
hearts: 

"Knowing  this  first,  that  no  prophecy 
of  the  scripture  is  of  any  private  inter- 
pretation. 

"For  the  prophecy  came  not  in  old 
time  by  the  will  of  man:  but  holy  men 
of  God  spake  as  they  were  moved  by 
the  Holy  Ghost."  (2  Pet.  1:19-21.) 

Time  of  restitution 

I  like  the  words  of  the  prophets  who 
have  declared  this  day.  I  think  of  the 
words  of  the  apostle  Peter  following  the 
day  of  Pentecost,  when  he  said  the 
heavens  must  receive  the  Christ  "until 
the  times  of  restitution  of  all  things, 
which  God  hath  spoken  by  the  mouth 
of  all  his  holy  prophets  since  the 
world  began."  (Acts  3:21.)  We  have 
that  restitution.  There  isn't  time  today 
to  go  into  the  details  of  the  ministra- 
tion of  heavenly  messengers  that  have 
been  sent  to  this  earth  in  order  to 
restore  the  gospel  and  prepare  the  way 
for  his  coming,  which  is  the  restitution 
of  all  things. 

I  like  the  statement  by  John  the 
Revelator  when  he  was  banished  upon 
the  Isle  of  Patmos  and  the  angel  of 
the  Lord  said,  "Come  up  hither,  and 
I  will  shew  thee  things  which  must  be 
hereafter."  (Rev.  4:1.)  He  was  shown 
the  great  power  that  would  be  given 
to  Satan  to  make  war  with  the  saints — 
the  saints  were  the  followers  of  the 
meek  and  lowly  Master — and  that 
Satan  would  be  given  power  over  every 
nation  and  every  kindred  and  every 
tongue  and  every  people,  but  after  he 
saw  that  great  day  of  darkness  he  also 
saw  a  day  of  light.  He  saw  "another 
angel  fly  in  the  midst  of  heaven,  hav- 


First  Day 

ing  the  everlasting  gospel  to  preacli 
unto  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth,  and 
to  every  nation,  and  kindred,  and 
tongue,  and  people."  (Rev.  14:6.)  That 
doesn't  leave  out  anybody!  We  have 
that  everlasting  gospel  that  the  Lord 
promised  to  send  to  prepare  the  way  for 
the  coming  of  the  Lord. 

Marvelous  work  and  a  wonder 

I  like  the  statement  of  Isaiah.  He 
said  the  Lord  had  declared  the  end 
from  the  beginning.  (See  Isa.  41:26.) 
It  is  all  there  in  the  holy  scriptures  if 
we  know  how  to  read  them  and  under- 
stand them  in  the  spirit  in  which  they 
were  written,  namely,  the  spirit  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  He  said:  "The  grass 
withereth,  the  flower  fadeth:  but  the 
word  of  our  God  shall  stand  for  ever." 
(Isa.  40:8.) 

I  like  the  statement  of  Isaiah,  who, 
when  he  saw  the  conditions  when  men 
would  worship  God  by  the  precepts  of 
men,  said:  "Wherefore  the  Lord  said 
.  .  .  behold,  I  will  proceed  to  do  a 
marvellous  work  among  this  people, 
even  a  marvellous  work  and  a  wonder: 
for  the  wisdom  of  their  wise  men  shall 
perish,  and  the  understanding  of  their 
prudent  men  shall  be  hid."  (Isa.  29:13- 
14.) 

We  have  that  marvelous  work  and 
a  wonder,  and  I  know  that  as  you  do, 
and  we  have  a  great  responsibility  to 
share  that  with  our  fellowmen  through- 
out the  world.  I  trust  that  those  who 
are  listening  to  this  conference  will  be 
impressed  with  the  fact  that  this 
Church  has  more  to  offer  than  any 
other  church  in  all  this  world. 

Coming  of  Elijah 

I  like  the  words  of  Malachi  the 
prophet,  when  he  saw  the  latter  days 
and  said:  "Behold,  I  will  send  you 
Elijah  the  prophet  before  the  coming 
of  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the 
Lord: 

"And  he  shall  turn  the  heart  of  the 
fathers  to  the  children,  and  the  heart 
of  the  children  to  their  fathers,  lest  I 
come  and  smite  the  earth  with  a  curse." 
(Mai.  4:5-6.) 

What  would  the  consequences  really 
have  been,  had  it  not  been  for  the 
coming  of  Elijah  the  prophet,  and 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


31 


how  could  the  kingdom  be  prepared 
for  the  coming  of  the  Master  without  all 
these  things  finding  their  fulfillment? 
All  of  this  constitutes  what  Paul  said 
when  he  said  the  Lord  had  revealed 
unto  him  the  mystery  of  his  will,  "that 
in  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of 
times  he  might  gather  together  in  one 
all  things  in  Christ,  both  which  are  in 
heaven,  and  which  are  on  earth.  .  .  ." 
(Eph.  1:10.) 

We  have  that  responsibility,  and  we 
are  the  only  church  in  the  world  that 
knows  anything  about  that  marvelous 
mystery  that  God  revealed  to  Paul  of 
this  great  work  of  uniting  that  which 
is  in  heaven  with  that  which  is  here 
upon  this  earth. 

Gathering  of  Israel 

I  like  the  statement  of  Isaiah,  which 
was  quoted  by  Moroni  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  when  he  visited  him  three  times 
in  the  night,  and  again  the  next  morn- 
ing when  Joseph  was  only  a  lad  17 
years  old.  He  quoted  the  words  of 
Isaiah  where  the  Lord  said  that  he 
would  set  his  hand  again  the  second 
time  to  gather  scattered  Israel.  (See 
Isa.  11:11.)  He  has  been  doing  that. 
Many  of  you  are  descendants  of  those 
who  have  been  gathered  from  all  over 
this  earth  in  fulfillment  of  that  predic- 
tion. He  said  he  would  bring  in  the 
dispersed  of  Judah,  and  after  2,000 
years  of  their  wanderings  and  their 
persecutions,  they  have  been  led  back 
to  their  own  land,  for  God  gave  them 
that  land  as  an  eternal  inheritance. 

Ensign  for  the  nations 

And  that  isn't  all.  He  said  he  would 
set  up  an  ensign  for  the  nations.  (Isa. 
11:12.)  Now  I  don't  know  what  you 
think  about  an  ensign.  It  seems  to 
me  that  means  he  would  do  something 
better  than  he  had  ever  done  before  or 
that  could  be  found  anywhere  else  in 
all  this  world.  That  is  what  this 
Church  really  is.  Now  if  I  should  make 
reference  to  a  few  comments  made  by 
people  who  have  come  among  us  and 
have  been  sufficiently  without  preju- 
dice that  they  could  recognize  what 
this  Church  is  doing,  I  hope  nobody 
will  think  that  I  am  boasting. 

We  had  here  in  our  midst  just  a  few 


years  ago  a  great  economist,  not  only 
of  the  United  States  but  of  the  world. 
One  of  our  banker  friends  gave  a  ban- 
quet for  him  at  the  Hotel  Utah.  There 
were  25  of  us  invited  there,  and  after 
the  governor  and  the  President  of  the 
Church  had  said  a  few  words,  they 
asked  this  man  if  he  would  like  to  say 
something.  He  stood  there  and  his  jaw 
began  to  quiver  and  the  tears  began 
to  roll  down  his  cheeks,  and  he  made 
this  statement:  "I  have  never  stood  in 
such  presence  in  my  life.  I  have  to 
come  out  here  to  these  valleys  of  the 
mountains  to  find  the  kind  of  Chris- 
tianity I  think  can  save  the  world." 
(]ust  to  Illustrate  [Bookcraft,  1961], 
p.  181.)  Now  we  are  happy  that  he 
could  recognize  that. 

We  had  a  man  here  in  our  midst  a 
short  time  ago,  a  Dr.  Polian  of  Iran. 
He  was  sent  to  the  United  States  by  his 
government  to  study  the  American 
people.  After  spending  three  days  here 
in  Salt  Lake  City,  he  made  this  state- 
ment: "I  have  been  in  the  United 
States  eleven  months  as  a  representative 
from  my  government  to  study  the 
American  people,  and  I  have  obtained 
a  more  favorable  impression  of  them 
in  the  two  days  I  have  spent  in  Salt 
Lake  City  than  in  all  the  rest  of  the 
eleven  months."  (Ibid.,  p.  129.)  Now 
there  must  be  something  that  provokes 
that  kind  of  a  statement. 

Statement  at  Washington  conference 

I  want  to  read  you  a  statement  that 
impressed  me  very  much,  and  I  apolo- 
gize to  Brother  [Marion  D.]  Hanks  for 
doing  it.  During  President  Dwight  D. 
Eisenhower's  administration,  a  youth 
conference  was  held  in  Washington. 
There  were  7,000  representatives  there 
from  all  over  the  United  States  and 
probably  from  other  countries.  Brother 
Hanks  was  asked  to  give  the  keynote 
address — not  just  to  be  one  of  the 
speakers  at  the  convention,  but  to  de- 
liver the  keynote  address.  Alter  he  had 
concluded,  the  man  who  had  conducted 
the  meeting  made  this  statement: 

"As  I  sat  here  I  reflected  that  Mr. 
Hanks  comes  from  people  that  were 
driven  from  our  region  of  the  country 
because  of  the  things  they  believed,  and 
suffered   bitter  persecution   for  their 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


32 

Friday,  October  3 

ideals,  who  went  finally  to  the  far 
reaches  of  this  country  where  they 
thought  themselves  away  from  all  this. 
Now  we  have  invited  a  leader  of  that 
people  to  come  here  to  talk  to  us  of  the 
same  ideals  and  principles  for  which 
we  drove  them  away."  (Ibid.,  p.  208.) 

It  takes  truth  a  long  while  to  travel, 
but  she  finally  gets  her  boots  on.  I 
am  reminded  of  the  fable  about  Truth 
and  Error:  they  went  out  into  the  river 
to  bathe,  and  Error  came  out  first  and 
dressed  herself  in  Truth's  clothing  and 
has  been  traveling  in  it  ever  since. 
But  because  Truth  wouldn't  dress  her- 
self in  Error's  clothing,  we  always 
speak  of  the  naked  Truth! 

Comments  of  visitors 

Just  a  few  years  ago  we  had  the 
president  of  a  college  down  in  Cali- 
fornia teach  at  the  summer  school  of 
Brigham  Young  University.  At  the 
close  of  the  summer,  in  an  interview 
with  one  of  our  reporters,  he  made  this 
significant  statement:  "It  may  well  be 
that  the  Mormon  people  have  the  key 
that  will  eventually  save  this  country." 
There  must  be  something  back  of  a 
people  and  a  program  that  would  call 
for  such  compliments  from  a  president 
of  a  college.  Incidentally,  he  was  so 
impressed  that  he  has  since  joined  the 
Church! 

Now  we  have  people  come  here  by 
the  millions  to  our  Visitors  Center. 
Some  of  them  go  away  feeling  like 
they  have  been  in  heaven,  because  the 
things  they  see  there  are  so  wonderful. 
Then  they  are  taken  to  Welfare  Square, 
and  we  have  a  book  down  there  where 
they  can  write  their  impressions  of 
what  they  see.  I'd  like  to  read  you  just 
a  few  statements.  The  book  is  full  of 
them,  but  this  is  just  typical  of  the 
impressions.  This  is  from  a  representa- 
tive from  England:  "This  has  been  an 
extraordinary  experience,  and  it  seems 
to  me  to  be  one  of  the  best  examples  of 
practical  Christianity  in  the  modern 
world." 

This  one  is  from  a  Baptist:  "It  is  a 
pattern  for  our  federal  government  to 
attempt  to  follow."  A  non-Church 
member:  "This  is  the  most  wonderful 
thing  I  have  ever  seen,  and  I  hope  to 
come  back  again."  A  Hebrew:  "This  in 


first  Day 

my  way  of  thinking  is  a  real  religion." 
A  non-Church  member:  "We  believe 
your  church  and  its  members  are  doing 
the  great  deeds  that  may  some  day 
achieve  a  true  brotherhood  of  man." 
We  knew  that.  This  is  the  greatest 
brotherhood  in  all  this  world  any- 
where. And  then  from  a  Catholic:  "A 
wonderful  project  and  something  other 
faiths  might  well  copy."  A  Methodist: 
"I'm  flabbergasted" — whatever  that 
means!  An  Episcopalian:  "Beyond 
belief." 

Hope  for  the  world 

Now  I  want  to  read  you  just  a  few 
words  from  people  who  attended  the 
New  York  Fair,  and  they  had  a  book 
there  where  these  impressions  could  be 
written  after  they  had  seen  our  dis- 
play. First,  a  Catholic  priest:  "I  think 
I  will  leave  my  priesthood  and  join 
you."  A  Lutheran  from  New  York: 
"It  is  very  difficult  and  words  cannot 
express  the  true  feeling  of  goodness 
one  gets  while  touring  your  pavilion." 
A  Catholic  from  New  York:  "There  is 
hope  for  the  world  with  people  like 
you."  A  Protestant:  "I  love  it — sounds 
great.  Please  send  me  someone."  There 
are  a  lot  more  just  like  that,  but  I 
wanted  you  to  hear  a  few. 

Now  there  must  be  something  to  this 
institution.  Isn't  that  what  Isaiah 
meant  when  he  said  that  he  would  set 
an  ensign  to  the  nations?  People  see 
that  we  are  doing  things  differently 
than  they  have  been  done  before.  We 
had  a  man  on  the  campus  at  Brigham 
Young  University  in  June  1968.  He 
said  that  he  had  been  at  that  univer- 
sity in  Provo,  Utah,  year  after  year 
since  1940,  and  then  he  added  this: 
"I  am  becoming  convinced  that  the 
only  salvation  for  the  United  States  is 
for  all  Christians  converting  to  Mor- 
monism."  They  will  be  converted  just 
as  fast  as  our  great  army  of  Mormon 
missionaries  can  reach  them;  and  if, 
in  the  words  of  Jesus,  they  truly  hunger 
and  thirst  after  righteousness,  they  shall 
be  filled. 

The  restored  gospel 

God  bless  you  all,  brothers  and  sis- 


ELDER  THEODORE  M.  BURTON 


33 


ters.  We  have  the  greatest  thing  to 
offer  in  all  this  world.  It  is  the  restored 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  It  is 
not  a  reformation.  It  came  from  heav- 
en, from  holy  messengers,  and  I  bear 
you  that  witness  because  I  know  it  as 
I  know  that  I  stand  here.  May  God 
help  us  to  share  it  with  our  neighbors 
and  our  friends  and  the  whole  world,  I 
pray,  and  ask  God  to  bless  you  all  in 


the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen.  O 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

We  have  listened  to  the  faith-pro- 
moting remarks  of  Elder  LeGrand 
Richards  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

Elder  Theodore  M.  Burton,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  will  now  speak  to  us. 


ELDER  THEODORE  M.  BURTON 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


•  My  brothers  and  sisters:  One  of  the 
most  beautiful  prayers  ever  offered  is 
found  recorded  in  the  Gospel  of  John. 
It  was  given  as  Jesus  opened  his  heart 
in  prayer  to  God  the  Eternal  Father, 
pleading  for  unity  not  only  among  the 
apostles,  but  also  asking  that  those  who 
follow  their  words  might  reach  a  state 
of  unity  such  as  that  found  in  the 
Godhead.  They  were  to  preach  a 
gospel  of  peace  and  love,  and  so  he 
said: 

Christ's  plea  for  unity 

"Neither  pray  I  for  these  [the  apos- 
tles] alone,  but  for  them  also  which 
shall  believe  on  me  through  their 
word; 

"That  they  all  might  be  one;  as  thou, 
Father,  art  in  me,  and  I  in  thee,  that 
they  also  may  be  one  in  us:  that  the 
world  may  believe  that  thou  hast  sent 
me."  (John  17:20-21.) 

Our  present  world  is  torn  by  argu- 
ment, dissension,  violence,  war,  and 
rumors  of  war,  and  because  of  the  tur- 
moil on  every  side,  men's  hearts  are 
beginning  to  fail  them.  If  men  are  to 
retain  their  sanity  and  hope,  they 
must  have  an  assurance  of  a  peaceful 
solution  for  the  ills  of  mankind.  This 
assurance  can  be  given  if  we  who  claim 
to  be  true  followers  of  Jesus  Christ 
demonstrate  that  unity  spoken  of  in 
that  great  prayer  from  which  I  have 
quoted  Christ's  plea  for  unity. 

Necessity  for  unity 

I  feel  impressed  to  stress  the  neces- 
sity for  unity  as  one  of  the  greatest 
needs  of  our  present-day  world.  Not 


only  does  it  apply  to  the  world  in  gen- 
eral, but  it  is  particularly  important 
within  the  Church  if  we  are  to  take  our 
rightful  place  in  leading  mankind  to- 
ward peace. 

In  our  generation  the  Savior  gave  us 
a  statement  so  often  used  by  the  late 
President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.:  "...  I 
say  unto  you,  be  one;  and  if  ye  are  not 
one  ye  are  not  mine."  (D&C  38:27.) 

This  doctrine  is  built  upon  true  love, 
even  the  love  of  Christ,  and  is  a  most 
important  principle  of  the  gospel. 
Without  the  love  of  one  man  for  an- 
other, how  can  justice  and  real  free- 
dom ever  be  achieved?  Unless  every 
man  esteems  his  brother  as  himself  and 
practices  virtue  and  holiness  before  the 
Lord,  how  can  that  person  hope  to 
live  in  the  presence  of  God,  where 
unity,  love,  virtue,  and  truth  abound? 
No  unrighteousness  can  exist  in  the 
presence  of  God,  and  unless  we  learn 
to  overcome  disunity  and  unrighteous- 
ness here  upon  the  earth,  we  cannot 
hope  to  be  restored  to  live  in  the 
presence  of  God  the  Eternal  Father  in 
the  resurrection  to  come. 

Causes  of  disunity 

What  causes  disunity  and  friction? 
There  are  many  reasons  for  disunity, 
but  one  of  the  principal  reasons  is  the 
ego  of  man  himself.  I  define  this  ego 
as  the  desire  to  be  acknowledged  as  a 
person  different  from  others.  This  de- 
sire is  not  evil  in  itself.  In  fact,  proper- 
ly directed,  it  can  be  a  great  virtue. 
There  is  a  certain  amount  of  faith  or 
pride  in  one's  self  that  every  successful 
and  happy  person  must  have.  Only 


34  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  October  3 

when  the  ego  develops  into  egotism 
must  we  beware.  Ego  becomes  evil 
when  a  person  becomes  obtrusive  and 
makes  excessive  reference  to  himself  as 
to  his  own  importance.  Beware  when 
a  man  or  woman  monopolizes  conver- 
sations and  shows  a  disregard  for  the 
opinions  of  others.  When  a  man  is 
not  humble  and  seeks  to  excel  and 
outdo  others,  he  is  in  a  very  dangerous 
position.  I  feel  such  a  spirit  is  born  of 
selfishness  and  a  lack  of  the  true  spirit 
of  Jesus  Christ. 

Example  of  William  W.  Phelps 

An  example  of  such  a  spirit  is  evi- 
dent in  the  case  of  William  W. 
Phelps.  Brother  Phelps  was  a  good 
man  and  a  capable  man,  but  he  be- 
came too  ambitious,  letting  pride  move 
him  to  seek  honors  to  which  he  was 
not  entitled.  The  Prophet  Joseph  loved 
that  good  man,  as  did  the  Lord  also. 
As  a  result,  he  was  given  a  warning 
against  this  fault  in  his  character.  The 
Lord  warned  him: 

"And  also  let  my  servant  William 
W.  Phelps  stand  in  the  office  to  which 
I  have  appointed  him,  and  receive  his 
inheritance  in  the  land; 

"And  also  he  hath  need  to  repent,  for 
I,  the  Lord,  am  not  well  pleased  with 
him,  for  he  seeketh  to  excel,  and  he  is 
not  sufficiently  meek  before  me."  (D&C 
58:40-41.) 

Elder  Phelps  failed  to  heed  the  warn- 
ing, and  one  thing  led  to  another  until 
he  actually  rebelled  against  the  Prophet 
Joseph.  When  he  found  himself  kick- 
ing against  the  pricks  of  conscience,  he 
repented,  humbled  himself,  and  apolo- 
gized for  his  conduct.  He  was  forgiven 
and  brought  back  into  full  church 
fellowship.  In  my  opinion  he  was  a 
great  man  of  courage  who  was  not 
ashamed  to  acknowledge  a  fault  and 
had  the  strength  to  overcome  it.  Not 
all  men  have  the  greatness  of  character 
that  William  W.  Phelps  had.  Too 
many  who  seek  to  excel  lack  humility, 
and  if  they  do  not  curb  this  fault  they 
will  lose  their  inheritance  in  the  Lord's 
kingdom. 

Gospel  a  united  whole 

I  suppose  disunity  in  the  Church 
begins  when  each  of  us  becomes  so 


First  Day 

wrapped  up  in  our  own  interests  and 
assignments  that  we  lose  the  full 
perspective  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
as  a  united  whole.  We  become  so  in- 
volved with  our  own  particular  interests 
that  we  forget  that  the  gospel  involves 
the  whole  of  life.  Sunday  School,  mis- 
sionary work,  priesthood,  genealogy, 
temple  work,  welfare,  home  teaching, 
education,  or  whatever  interest  we  have 
or  church  position  we  occupy  at  present 
is  only  part  of  the  gospel  whole.  It  is 
true  that  we  are  expected  to  push  our 
own  particular  assignment,  but  not  at 
the  expense  of  others.  It  is  most  unwise 
to  try  to  advance  the  field  in  which 
we  are  presently  interested  by  down- 
grading the  activities  of  others.  We 
should  never  push  one  organization  at 
the  expense  of  another.  An  apprecia- 
tion of  diversification  is  the  basis  of 
unity.  Though  I  strive  to  push  priest- 
hood, genealogy,  and  temple  work  with 
all  my  power,  I  should  never  resent 
any  other  gospel  organization  or  prin- 
ciple within  the  Church  structure,  or 
sow  discord  among  my  brethren. 

Appreciation  for  others 

Unity  can  come  when  I  learn  to  ap- 
preciate each  person  in  the  Church 
and  the  value  of  every  aspect  of  church 
organization.  This  is  true  of  a  deacons 
quorum,  and  it  is  true  of  the  highest 
quorum  of  the  Church,  that  of  the  First 
Presidency.  Loyalty  among  the  men 
of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
is  no  more  necessary  for  them  than 
loyalty  within  a  teachers  or  an  elders 
quorum.  When  discussions  arise  among 
strong-minded  men  and  women,  anger 
must  never  be  evident.  Men  and  women 
should  be  free  to  state  their  opinions 
without  fear,  but  they  should  do  so 
without  rancor  or  envy  or  belittling 
the  character  or  abilities  of  other  per- 
sons who  hold  differing  opinions  from 
their  own.  Only  when  we  understand 
one  another  and  appreciate  one  an- 
other can  the  Spirit  of  God  enter  our 
hearts,  draw  us  one  to  another,  and 
bring  about  unity. 

Consideration  in  discussions 

Nowhere  is  this  principle  of  con- 
sideration and  love  of  one  another  more 
needed  than  in  a  discussion  of  gospel 


ELDER  THEODORE  M.  BURTON 


35 


principles.  The  Lord  has  warned  us 
not  to  preach  tenets  or  opinions: 

"And  of  tenets  thou  shalt  not  talk, 
but  thou  shalt  declare  repentance  and 
faith  on  the  Savior,  and  remission  of 
sins  by  baptism,  and  by  fire,  yea,  even 
the  Holy  Ghost."  (D&C  19:31.) 

Tenets  are  the  dogmas  or  principles 
generally  accepted  by  a  majority  as 
true,  whether  those  principles  are 
factual  or  not.  Thus  we  should  not 
dispute  with  others  about  such  matters, 
nor  pursue  discussions  among  ourselves 
about  such  matters  that  can  cause 
feelings  to  be  hurt  or  cause  disputations 
to  arise. 

We  should  rather  preach  the  first 
principles  of  the  gospel,  which  are 
so  necessary  for  our  full  growth  and 
development.  When  we  understand 
the  basics  or  true  fundamental  princi- 
ples of  the  gospel,  we  will  not  be 
buffeted  by  the  doctrines  and  beliefs 
of  men  that  so  often  lead  to  quarrels 
and  misunderstandings.  That  is  why 
the  Lord  went  on  to  advise  us: 

"Behold,  this  is  a  great  and  the  last 
commandment  which  I  shall  give  you 
concerning  this  matter;  for  this  shall 
suffice  for  thy  daily  walk,  even  unto 
the  end  of  thy  life. 

"And  misery  thou  shalt  receive  if 
thou  wilt  slight  these  counsels,  yea, 
even  the  destruction  of  thyself  and 
property."  (D&C  19:32-33.) 

Role  of  peacemakers 

We  live  in  a  world  full  of  discord 
and  disunity.  We  need  not  and  must 
not  become  a  party  to  that  worldly  way 
of  living.  Our  role  is  that  of  peace- 
makers. As  the  Latter-day  Saints  of 
our  Lord  and  Master,  Jesus  Christ,  we 
must  "therefore,  renounce  war  and 
proclaim  peace,  and  seek  diligently  to 
turn  the  hearts  of  the  children  to  their 
fathers,  and  the  hearts  of  the  fathers 
to  the  children."  (D&C  98:16.) 

The  need  within  the  Church  for  a 
spirit  of  unity  and  loyalty  and  love 
is  reflected  in  these  words  of  the  Savior 
from  the  Book  of  Mormon: 

".  .  .  And  there  shall  be  no  disputa- 
tions among  you,  as  there  have  hitherto 
been;  neither  shall  there  be  disputa- 
tions among  you  concerning  the  points 


of  my  doctrine,  as  there  have  hitherto 
been. 

"For  verily,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  he 
that  hath  the  spirit  of  contention  is  not 
of  me,  but  is  of  the  devil,  who  is  the 
father  of  contention,  and  he  stirreth  up 
the  hearts  of  men  to  contend  with 
anger,  one  with  another. 

"Behold,  this  is  not  my  doctrine,  to 
stir  up  the  hearts  of  men  with  anger, 
one  against  another;  but  this  is  my 
doctrine,  that  such  things  should  be 
done  away."  (3  Ne.  11:28-30.) 

Plea  for  unity 

When  we  hear  our  voices  rise  in 
speaking  with  one  another,  when  we 
feel  our  faces  getting  flushed  and  red, 
when  our  muscles  tense  and  we  get 
warm  under  the  collar,  these  are  dan- 
ger signals.  It  is  time  to  repent  and 
change  whatever  we  are  saying  or 
doing.  I  plead  for  unity  and  considera- 
tion among  us  who  claim  to  be  sons 
and  daughters  of  God.  I  pray  for  that 
love  and  affection  which  characterizes 
the  true  disciples  of  Jesus  Christ.  May 
God  bless  us  all  to  know  with  such  a 
surety  of  heart  that  this  is  the  true 
church  and  kingdom  of  Jesus  Christ, 
that  we  will  have  character  enough  to 
practice  those  principles  which  we 
espouse. 

I  pray  for  this  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen.  O 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

The  congregation  and  chorus  will 
now  join  in  singing:  "Oh  Say,  What  Is 
Truth."  After  the  singing  Elder  Boyd 
K.  Packer  will  speak  to  us. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn, 
"Oh  Say,  What  Is  Truth." 


President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

Elder  Boyd  K.  Packer,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  will  now  speak  to  us,  and 
he  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Eldred  G. 
Smith,  Patriarch  to  the  Church. 


36  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  3  First  Day 

ELDER  BOYD  K.  PACKER 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


•  Recently  two  unusual  gatherings  of 
young  people  have  caught  the  attention 
of  the  world.  At  White  Lake,  New 
York,  nearly  half  a  million  young 
people  gathered. 

Later  a  similar  gathering  was  held 
on  the  Isle  of  Wight.  They  came  from 
all  countries,  from  all  levels  of  society. 

These  meetings  were  billed  as  music 
festivals.  Certainly  they  did  not  come 
to  hear  the  music — they  came  to  be 
there. 

These  gatherings,  so  appealing  to  our 
youth,  are  unique  in  history,  and  they 
mean  something. 

Some  suppose  that  the  youth  re- 
sponded to  political  or  philosophical 
motivation.  It  is  not  so.  It  would  be 
a  mistake  to  so  conclude,  even  though 
they  are  deeply  entangled  in  the  politi- 
cal and  social  issues  of  today. 

Unquenched  spiritual  desire 

Frantically  youth  clings  to  whatever 
social  issue  is  foremost  at  the  moment, 
not  realizing  perhaps  that  it  is  not  so 
much  the  cause  that  ignites  them;  it 
is  rather  having  a  cause  that  satisfies 
their  need.  Neither  is  it  an  intel- 
lectual movement,  although  it  has 
many  of  the  attributes.  Nor  is  it  a 
cultural  one,  though  they  have  de- 
veloped their  own  style  of  music,  a 
vocabulary,  art  forms,  and  poetry.  It 
is  spiritual  motivation  that  brings  these 
young  people  together. 

They  may  not  know  it,  but  a  whole 
generation  of  youth  is  athirst  with  an 
unquenched  spiritual  desire.  As  has 
been  foretold: 

"Behold,  the  days  come,  saith  the 
Lord  God,  that  I  will  send  a  famine 
in  the  land,  not  a  famine  of  bread,  nor 
a  thirst  for  water,  but  of  hearing  the 
words  of  the  Lord: 

"And  they  shall  wander  from  sea 
to  sea,  and  from  the  north  even  to  the 
east,  they  shall  run  to  and  fro  to  seek 
the  word  of  the  Lord,  and  shall  not 
find  it. 

"In  that  day  shall  the  fair  virgins 
and  young  men  faint  for  thirst."  (Amos 
8:11-13.) 


Thirst  for  life's  meaning 

Youth  suffers  from  a  lingering  thirst 
that  has  become  a  drive.  Though  it 
gnaws  within  them,  it  is  not  physical. 
They  want  to  know  what  it  all  means — 
they  are  seeking  the  true  meaning  of 
life.  There  is  something  missing  from 
their  lives,  some  vital  substance  that 
they  have  not  tasted. 

Many  of  them  unfortunately  seek  it 
in  physical  satisfaction.  They  smash 
down  the  boundaries  of  morality  and 
wantonly  indulge  themselves  in  every 
manner  conceivable  to  the  limit  of 
physical  experience,  seeking  in  physi- 
cal gratification  some  taste  of  life. 
They  come  away  less  satisfied  than 
before,  the  thirst  and  the  craving  more 
acute. 

Escape  from  futility 

Then  many  of  them  turn  elsewhere, 
seeking  to  escape  the  futility  in  life. 
They  turn  to  drugs  and  find  for  a 
moment  the  escape  they  seek.  At  last 
their  spirits  soar.  They  reach  beyond 
themselves,  erase  all  limitations,  and 
taste  for  a  moment,  as  they  suppose, 
that  which  they  have  been  seeking. 
But  it  is  a  synthetic,  a  wicked  counter- 
feit, for  they  return  to  a  depression 
worse  than  the  one  they  left. 

Then  they  become  players  in  the 
saddest  of  human  tragedies.  For,  as  they 
turn  again  to  this  release,  they  are  not 
seeking  what  they  sought  before,  but 
indulge  to  escape  the  consequences  of 
each  previous  adventure  with  drugs. 
This  is  addiction!  This  is  tragedy!  This 
is  slavery!  When  a  remedy  becomes 
worse  than  the  disease,  then  we  have 
found  futility  itself. 

Advice  to  young  people 

If  one  of  these  young  people  would 
listen  for  a  moment — listen  seriously 
enough  that  I  could  speak  from  the 
depths  of  my  soul — there  are  some 
things  I  would  tell  him. 

Why,  he  may  first  ask,  do  you  appeal 
to  me,  the  most  criticized  and  uncom- 


ELDER  BOYD  K.  PACKER 


37 


fortable  of  all  in  society?  That  is  easy 
to  answer. 

First,  you  are  right,  you  know,  when 
you  assess  that  most  of  society  is  in- 
terested only  in  immediate  material 
success,  too  comfortable  to  really  care, 
too  preoccupied  to  listen  to  any  signifi- 
cant message. 

Because  you  are  trying  to  change 
things,  perhaps  you  will  at  least  listen. 

We  are  trying  to  change  things  too. 
We  have  many  thousands  of  young 
people,  something  like  yourself,  as- 
signed across  the  world  to  change 
people.  But  they  must  sift  through 
literally  thousands  to  find  one  who 
will  listen — really  listen. 

We  appeal  to  you  because  you  are 
young.  Our  message  requires  a  change 
so  monumental  that  few  but  youth 
have  the  courage  for  it. 

Cast  net  on  right  side 

In  your  rebellion,  so  called,  you  have 
cut  yourself  loose  from  your  moorings, 
perhaps  even  from  family  ties,  and  set 
adrift  on  the  sea  of  life.  Now  you  may 
be  drifting  on  the  right  sea,  you  may 
even  be  in  the  right  boat,  but  you 
might  try  fishing  on  the  other  side. 
Some  others  were  fishing  on  the  wrong 
side  of  the  ship. 

"And  he  said  unto  them,  Cast  the 
net  on  the  right  side  of  the  ship,  and 
ye  shall  find.  They  cast  therefore,  and 
now  they  were  not  able  to  draw  it  for 
the  multitude  of  fishes."  (John  21:6.) 

When  we  mention  that  there  is  a 
spiritual  answer  to  your  need,  I  hope 
you  don't  dismiss  it  or  ridicule  the 
possibility.  "Don't  knock  it  till  you've 
tried  it"  is  sound  counsel.  If  you 
haven't  tried  it  yet,  you  are  as  yet  no 
witness  on  the  matter.  Surely  you  have 
that  much  honesty. 

You  may  say  you've  been  to  church, 
that  you've  tried  religion  and  not  been 
satisfied.  That  is  little  wonder.  It 
isn't  in  them  all,  you  know,  only  a 
flavoring  of  it.  The  substance  of  it,  the 
fullness  of  it  can  be  found  in  only  one 
place.  Perhaps  you  have  looked  for 
it  here,  in  that  one  place,  and  have  not 
found  it.  And  so  I  repeat,  you  might 
try  fishing  on  the  right  side. 


Finding  the  true  light 

No  one  can  compel  you  to  taste  of 
this  living  water.  It  can  come  only 
when  you  consent.  There  are  no  con- 
scripts, only  volunteers. 

If  you  are  to  find  it,  you  must  pay 
more,  by  a  thousandfold,  than  ever 
you  paid  before,  reach  farther  than  you 
have  ever  reached,  use  more  courage 
and  self-discipline  than  you  ever  knew 
you  had.  But  at  the  end  of  all  that 
comes  the  promise: 

"Verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord:  It 
shall  come  to  pass  that  every  soul  who 
forsaketh  his  sins  and  cometh  unto  me, 
and  calleth  on  my  name,  and  obeyeth 
my  voice,  and  keepeth  my  command- 
ments, shall  see  my  face  and  know 
that  I  am; 

"And  that  I  am  the  true  light  that 
lighteth  every  man  that  cometh  into 
the  world."  (D&C  93:1-2.) 

I  must  be  plain  also  to  say  to  you, 
my  young  friend,  that  when  you  come 
to  know,  it  will  be  on  his  terms — not 
on  yours. 

"Therefore,"  he  has  said,  "sanctify 
yourselves  that  your  minds  become 
single  to  God,  and  the  days  will  come 
that  you  shall  see  him;  for  he  will  un- 
veil his  face  unto  you,  and  it  shall  be 
in  his  own  time,  and  in  his  own  way, 
and  according  to  his  own  will."  (D&C 
88:68.  Italics  added.) 

Facing  issues  with  new  light 

The  fact — the  positive,  irrefutable 
truth — is  that  what  you  seek,  my  young 
friend,  exists.  And  when  you  find  it, 
it  will  not  take  you  out  of  the  world. 
You  will  find  a  greater  need  to  be  in 
the  mainstream  of  life  facing  the  same 
issues  that  are  so  disturbing  to  you 
now,  but  you'll  face  them  with  a  dif- 
ferent light. 

It  will  not  require  that  you  give  up 
anything  essential  or  fulfilling  in  life, 
whether  it  be  physical,  emotional, 
spiritual,  or  intellectual.  You  will  be 
the  same  height,  the  same  weight, 
you'll  be  under  the  necessity  of  eating 
to  live  and  being  sheltered.  You'll  have 
dislikes  and  likes,  passions  and  desires. 
At  first  glance  nothing  will  change  at 
all,  and  yet  positively  everything  will 
change. 


38  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  October  3 

Quench  spiritual  thirst 

We  bid  you — our  restless,  drifting, 
seeking  youth — to  come,  quench  that 
spiritual  thirst. 

The  Lord  has  said:  "Whosoever 
drinketh  of  .  .  .  water  shall  thirst  again: 

''But  whosoever  drinketh  of  the 
water  that  I  shall  give  him  shall  never 
thirst;  but  the  water  that  I  shall  give 
him  shall  be  in  him  a  well  of  water 
springing  up  into  everlasting  life." 
(John  4:13-14.) 

Oh,  how  we  pray  that  as  you  drift, 
seeking  everywhere,  trying  everything, 
that  one  day  you  will  cast  your  net  on 
the  right  side  of  the  ship. 

I  bear  to  you  my  witness,  as  one 


First  Day 

among  those  authorized  to  bear  that 
witness,  that  God  does  live,  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  this  is  his  church,  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  He 
directs  his  church  and  ministers  in  the 
midst  of  his  Saints.  There  is  a  prophet 
of  God  directing  this  work.  Youth  is 
needed  to  carry  it  on.  We  bid  you  to 
come,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen.  O 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to 
the  Church,  will  now  speak  to  us,  and 
he  will  be  followed  by  Elder  S.  Dil- 
worth  Young. 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 


•  We  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  have  been  accused 
of  being  peculiar  in  many  ways,  one  of 
them  being  that  we  build  temples  and 
restrict  entrance  to  them  to  members  of 
special  standards.  We  are  asked,  "Why 
do  you  build  temples?  Why  is  a  tem- 
ple different  from  other  Church  edi- 
fices? Why  cannot  anyone  enter 
into  the  temple,  like  other  Church 
buildings?" 

In  the  time  allotted  to  me  I  may  not 
answer  all  these  questions,  but  I  want 
to  show  that  temples  are  absolutely 
essential  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Temples  are  holy  edifices 

Temples  are  more  than  just  a  gath- 
ering place  for  the  Saints,  or  who 
might  call  themselves  Saints.  They 
are  holy  edifices  where  the  Lord  God 
can  talk  to  his  people  through  the 
leaders,  the  prophets  of  God,  and  make 
his  will  known  concerning  them.  Also, 
temples  are  holy  edifices  wherein 
sacred  saving  ordinances  may  be  per- 
formed in  such  manner,  and  by  proper 
authority,  as  to  be  acceptable  to  God 
our  Father  in  heaven. 

The  Ark  of  the  Covenant  was  so 
sacred  that  even  the  unauthorized  were 
smitten  with  death  who  touched  it, 
even  to  save  it,  as  they  thought,  from 
falling  to  the  ground. 


Today,  such  severe  penalty  seems 
unnecessary.  If  you  will  note  from 
published  pictures  of  the  temple  in- 
teriors, the  rooms  are  filled  with  chairs 
for  large  groups.  If  the  room  is  full  of 
people  performing  a  sacred  ordinance, 
it  stands  to  reason  there  just  isn't  room 
for  the  onlooker. 

Necessity  of  baptism 

The  Lord  said  to  Nicodemus,  "Verily, 
verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  Except  a  man 
be  born  of  water  and  of  the  Spirit,  he 
cannot  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God." 
(John  3:5.) 

He  instructed  his  apostles:  "Go  ye 
therefore,  and  teach  all  nations,  bap- 
tizing them  in  the  name  of  the  Father, 
and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy 
Ghost."  (Matt.  28:19.)  He  also  said, 
"He  that  believeth  and  is  baptized  shall 
be  saved;  but  he  that  believeth  not 
shall  be  damned."  (Mark  16:16.) 

Jesus  Christ  himself  was  baptized  by 
John  the  Baptist.  When  John  seemed 
reluctant  to  baptize  Jesus,  who  was  a 
sinless  man,  Jesus  said,  "Suffer  it  to  be 
so  now:  for  thus  it  becometh  us  to 
fulfil  all  righteousness."  (Matt.  3:15.) 

If  it  was  necessary  for  Jesus,  a  sin- 
less man,  to  be  baptized,  how  much 
more  important  and  necessary  for  all 
other  mortals  on  this   earth  to  be 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


39 


baptized.  Jesus  went  to  him  to  whom 
the  authority  to  baptize  had  been  given. 

All  to  partake  of  gospel  ordinances 

Now  what  about  all  those  who  have 
not  heard  the  teaching  of  Jesus,  either 
in  his  day  or  since?  Are  they  to  be 
damned  if  they  are  not  given  the  op- 
portunity of  hearing  of  baptism? 

If  God  is  just — and  we  know  he  is — 
then  would  not  God  be  obligated  to 
provide  a  way  where  all  his  children 
may  hear  the  gospel  plan  and  partake 
of  his  ordinances,  regardless  of  when 
they  lived  upon  the  earth? 

Peter  tells  us  that  between  the  cruci- 
fixion and  the  resurrection  of  Jesus,  he 
"went  and  preached  unto  the  spirits  in 
prison;  Which  sometime  were  dis- 
obedient, when  once  the  longsuffering 

of  God  waited  in  the  days  of  Noah  " 

(1  Pet.  3:19-20.)  Peter  also  declared: 
"For  for  this  cause  was  the  gospel 
preached  also  to  them  that  are  dead, 
that  they  might  be  judged  according  to 
men  in  the  flesh,  but  live  according 
to  God  in  the  spirit."  (I  Pet.  4:6.) 

The  Savior  established  his  organiza- 
tion on  the  earth  during  his  ministry. 
He  preached  to  the  disembodied  spirits 
after  his  crucifixion.  He  established 
his  organization  on  this  continent 
among  the  Nephites  after  his  resurrec- 
tion. I  think  we  can  reasonably  assume 
he  also  established  his  organization  in 
the  spirit  world  so  the  teaching  of  his 
gospel  can  be  made  known  to  all  man- 
kind after  death,  if  not  during  this 
lifetime. 

Vicarious  work  for  the  dead 

The  ordinances  of  the  gospel,  how- 
ever, must  be  performed  on  the 
earth.  Hence,  there  must  needs  be  a 
vicarious  work  done  on  the  earth  for 
those  who  have  departed  this  life  with- 
out such  opportunities. 

The  entire  life,  crucifixion,  and 
resurrection  was  a  vicarious  mission  of 
our  Savior.  Then  is  it  not  right  that 
he  should  ask  us  to  be  Saviors  to  our 
fellowmen,  to  perform,  vicariously, 
saving  ordinances  for  our  ancestors? 

The  apostle  Paul  clinched  his  point 
to  the  Corinthians  to  prove  to  them  the 
reality  of  the  resurrection  by  asking 


them:  "Else  what  shall  they  do  which 
are  baptized  for  the  dead,  if  the  dead 
rise  not  at  all?"  (1  Cor.  15:29.) 

There  is  only  one  answer  to  this 
passage  of  scripture — a  vicarious  work 
of  baptism  for  the  dead  was  performed 
in  those  days. 

Revealed  instructions 

In  this  dispensation  the  Lord  re- 
vealed the  following  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith: 

"For  there  is  not  a  place  found  on 
earth  that  he  may  come  to  and  restore 
again  that  which  was  lost  unto  you,  or 
which  he  hath  taken  away,  even  the 
fulness  of  the  priesthood. 

"For  a  baptismal  font  there  is  not 
upon  the  earth,  that  they,  my  saints, 
may  be  baptized  for  those  who  are 
dead — 

"For  this  ordinance  belongeth  to  my 
house,  and  cannot  be  acceptable  to  me, 
only  in  the  days  of  your  poverty,  where- 
in ye  are  not  able  to  build  a  house  unto 
me."  (D&C  124:28-30.) 

Then  the  Lord  gave  a  commandment 
to  build  a  temple,  or  a  house  of  the 
Lord,  and  added: 

"For  it  is  ordained  that  in  Zion,  and 
in  her  stakes,  and  in  Jerusalem,  those 
places  which  I  have  appointed  for 
refuge,  shall  be  the  places  for  your 
baptisms  for  your  dead. 

"And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you, 
how  shall  your  washings  be  acceptable 
unto  me,  except  ye  perform  them  in  a 
house  which  you  have  built  to  my 
name? 

"For,  for  this  cause  I  commanded 
Moses  that  he  should  build  a  taber- 
nacle, that  they  should  bear  it  with 
them  in  the  wilderness,  and  to  build 
a  house  in  the  land  of  promise,  that 
those  ordinances  might  be  revealed 
which  had  been  hid  from  before  the 
world  was. 

"Therefore,  verily  I  say  unto  you, 
that  your  anointings,  and  your  wash- 
ings, and  your  baptisms  for  the  dead, 
.  .  .  and  for  the  glory,  honor,  and 
endowment  of  all  her  municipals,  are 
ordained  by  the  ordinance  of  my  holy 
house,  which  my  people  are  always 
commanded  to  build  unto  my  holy 
name."  (D&C  124:36-39.) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


40 

Friday,  October  3 

Temples  built 

In  accordance  with  commandment, 
the  temple  in  Kirtland  was  built  in 
which  the  keys  to  the  sealing  bless- 
ings were  revealed.  The  keys  of  the 
gathering  of  Israel  were  restored.  The 
promise  made  by  Malachi  was  fulfilled, 
that  Elijah  the  Prophet  would  come 
"before  the  coming  of  the  great  and 
dreadful  day  of  the  Lord: 

"And  he  shall  turn  the  heart  of  the 
fathers  to  the  children,  and  the  heart  of 
the  children  to  their  fathers,  lest  I 
come  and  smite  the  earth  with  a 
curse."  (Mai.  4:5-6.) 

I  would  like  to  here  thank  the  Re- 
organized Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter  Day  Saints  for  taking  good  care 
of  that  building.  It  has  fulfilled  its 
original  purpose,  and  the  last  time  I 
saw  it  I  was  pleased  with  its  good 
condition. 

Land  in  Independence,  Missouri,  has 
been  dedicated  for  a  temple  to  be  built 
sometime  in  the  future,  and  I  would 
like  to  thank  those  who  are  taking  good 
care  of  that  property.  The  Lord  bless 
them  for  so  doing. 

Then  the  temple  in  Nauvoo  was 
built  with  a  baptismal  font  and  special 
rooms  for  endowments  and  sealings, 
for  both  the  living  and  the  dead.  This 
building  was  destroyed,  but  since  then 
there  have  been  13  temples  built,  all 
active  at  present,  with  three  more  now 
getting  started  in  construction.  Many 
more  will  follow. 

Sealing  ordinances  performed 

In  addition  to  the  baptisms  for  the 


First  Day 

dead,  the  sealing  ordinances  of  celes- 
tial marriage  for  the  living  and  the 
dead  are  performed  in  these  temples. 

I  wish  some  of  our  men  could  see 
how  readily  the  tears  well  up  in  the 
eyes  of  some  of  the  women  when  I  ask 
about  their  husbands.  Some  say,  "He's 
not  a  member."  Some  say,  "He  isn't 
active"  or  "doesn't  hold  the  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood."  Some  say,  "He's 
an  elder,  but  just  hasn't  felt  he  is 
ready  yet." 

Many  men  spend  large  sums  of 
money,  even  buy  a  special  home  or  a 
car,  just  to  make  their  wives  happy;  but 
the  greatest  happiness  that  could  come 
to  either  or  both  of  them  would  be  to 
so  live  as  to  be  worthy  to  be  sealed 
together  as  husband  and  wife  for  all 
eternity. 

There  is  no  exaltation  without  the 
celestial  sealing  of  marriage.  This 
must  be  done  in  the  temple  of  God, 
either  while  living  or  vicariously  after 
death.  The  home  is  the  only  eternal 
organization.  These  are  the  saving 
ordinances  that  can  be  performed  only 
in  a  temple,  built  and  dedicated  unto 
the  Lord.  Thus  it  is  absolutely  essential 
to  build  temples. 

I  so  testify  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen.  O 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  S. 
Dilworth  Young  of  the  First  Council 
of  Seventy,  and  he  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley,  who  will  be 
our  concluding  speaker  at  this  session. 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


•  Fifty  years  ago  my  father  was  ap- 
proached by  our  bishop  as  to  the  pros- 
pect of  one  of  his  sons  going  on  a 
mission.  After  a  dignified  period  of 
conversation,  my  father  agreed  to  the 
proposition,  and  I  was  duly  called. 

I  remember  that  I  wondered  how  my 
father  could  support  a  missionary.  We 
were  poor,  income  from  his  business 
was  spotty  and  inadequate  to  meet  the 


ordinary  expenses,  yet  he  did  not  hesi- 
tate to  tell  the  bishop  that  he  would 
support  me. 

Financing  of  mission 

The  first  seven  months  went  smooth- 
ly enough.  I  was  working  without 
purse  or  scrip  for  the  first  four  months 
and  required  no  more  than  $5.00  per 
month  for  incidentals.   The  next  three 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 


41 


months  cost  me  about  $40.00  per 
month.  And  then  Father,  caught  in 
the  inflation  of  1920,  was  unable 
further  to  meet  the  cost  of  the  mission. 
The  fact  that  I  stayed  on  the  mission 
for  26  more  months  without  help  from 
home  has  been  miraculous  to  me — not 
that  I  found  money  from  miraculous 
sources  or,  like  my  maternal  great- 
grandfather, opened  my  purse  and  there 
it  was  as  needed — none  of  that.  The 
way  opened  by  perfectly  natural  means, 
and  there  was  barely  sufficient  to  meet 
the  needs  of  the  moment. 

During  that  time,  none  of  my  fam- 
ily expected  nor  received  any  help  or 
encouragement  from  the  ward  officials, 
stake  officials,  or  from  the  Church. 

Quorum  assistance 

I  was  ordained  a  seventy  just  before 
departing,  but  I  didn't  receive  even  a 
Christmas  card  from  my  new  quorum 
for  the  33  months  I  was  away.  The 
elders  quorum  to  which  I  had  belonged 
showed  no  interest  in  me  either,  al- 
though I  had  been  quite  active  in  the 
quorum.  I  didn't  expect  any  attention 
from  either  quorum,  and  I  suspect  the 
quorum  did  not  expect  to  do  anything 
for  me.  My  quorum  in  those  days 
did  not  seem  to  recognize  the  im- 
portance of  being  of  help  to  its  mem- 
bers. To  them  it  was  not  what  can  the 
quorum  do  for  you,  but  what  can  you 
do  for  the  quorum.  We  lived  for  the 
organization  and  not  for  the  members. 

Not  so  today.  Every  quorum  of  the 
priesthood  is  alert  to  the  needs  of  its 
members.  Children  of  these  members 
may  go  on  missions.  They  know  that 
they  will  be  supported.  No  worthy 
member  in  the  stakes  of  North  America 
when  ready  for  a  mission  will  be  re- 
fused. In  their  prosperity  the  quorums 
can  easily  take  up  the  slack  for  those 
unable  to  bear  the  complete  cost  of  the 
mission.  They  will  be  helped  by  their 
united  brethren,  and  the  burden  is 
light. 

Missionaries  outside  United  States 

It  has  not  been  so  in  the  full-time 
missions  outside  of  the  United  States. 
There,  general  economic  depressions 
and  the  ravages  of  two  great  wars  have 
taken  an  immense  toll  on  the  economic 


life  of  the  people.  Men  and  women 
of  the  Church  in  those  nations  have 
been  unable  to  earn  sufficient  to  send 
their  children,  with  but  few  exceptions. 
The  result  has  been  that  the  young 
men  and  women  of  these  nations,  while 
worthy  and  anxious  to  go,  have  been 
unable  to  do  so. 

This  has  caused  a  good  deal  of  envy 
of  their  more  affluent  American  mis- 
sionaries, and  it  has  caused  some  dis- 
couragement among  them.  To  many 
of  them  it  has  appeared  that  the  choice 
fruits  of  the  gospel  are  not  to  be  en- 
joyed, because  of  where  they  live.  More 
serious  has  been  the  fact  that  these 
young  people  are  the  best  possible  mis- 
sionary prospects  for  their  countries. 
They  know  the  language,  the  traditions, 
the  mores  of  the  people.  They  are  the 
potential  leaders  of  the  Church  in 
their  lands. 

There  is  a  tendency  on  the  part  of 
people  of  other  nations  to  think  of  us 
as  an  American  church.  When  the  mis- 
sionaries are  native  born,  people  can 
better  understand  the  universal  nature 
of  the  Church.  Our  members  then  see 
that  the  responsibility  becomes  theirs 
as  much  as  ours,  and  this  will  result  in 
greater  effort  on  their  part. 

Seventies  assistance  to  missionaries 

Several  years  ago,  the  body  of  seven- 
ties of  the  Church  undertook  to  assist 
the  young  men  and  women  in  foreign 
lands.  From  among  the  seventies  was 
raised  a  sum  of  money  to  assist  these 
prospective  missionaries.  On  the  basis 
of  the  missionary  and  his  family's  doing 
all  they  are  able  to  do,  the  seventies 
give  assistance  for  the  remainder. 

I  am  happy  to  report  to  the  seven- 
ties this  afternoon  that  to  date  the 
number  of  missionaries  assisted  has 
been  more  than  600  in  number.  Cur- 
rently the  number  in  the  field  is  275. 
In  no  mission  has  a  worthy  applicant 
been  refused.  We  have  had  assistance 
from  elders  quorums,  high  priests  quo- 
rums, and  from  individuals  not  at- 
tached to  any  quorum.  One  of  the 
large  contributions  comes  from  a  man 
not  a  Church  member.  We  should  like 
to  let  all  these  people  know  that  their 
contributions  are  of  material  assistance 
in  the  project. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


42 

Friday,  October  3 

Discharging  responsibility 

It  is  difficult  for  many  seventies  to 
personally  go  on  fulltime  missions. 
They  are  rearing  families  and  must 
support  them.  By  supporting  these 
young  men  and  women  in  the  missions, 
they  in  a  sense  project  themselves  into 
the  mission  field  and  thus  discharge  a 
part  of  their  responsibility. 

Now  in  lands  all  over  the  earth  our 
young  men  and  women  look  forward 
to  being  able  to  become  missionaries. 
On  their  return  home  they  become  the 
leaders  in  branches  and  districts.  They 
are  our  future  investment  in  stake 
presidents  and  bishops  for  stakes  yet 
unborn. 

The  quorums  of  seventy  with  a  com- 
paratively small  membership  of  23,000 
may  know  that  they  are  not  laboring 
in  vain.  They  are  building  a  house  to 
the  Lord,  and  the  fruits  of  their  effort 
will  continue  to  rain  down  blessings 
on  their  heads. 

The  calling  of  the  Seventy 

We  constantly  remember,  as  charged 
in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  that 
"the  Seventy  are  also  called  to  preach 
the  gospel,  and  to  be  especial  witnesses 
unto  the  Gentiles  and  in  all  the  world 
— thus  differing  from  other  officers  in 
the  church  in  the  duties  of  their  call- 
ing." (D&C  107:25.) 

Therefore,  to  further  missionary  work 
is  what  we  should  be  doing.  We  must 
enlarge  our  efforts  to  the  end  that  the 
whole  world  will  hear  the  gospel  and 
that  those  who  are  to  come  out  of  the 
world  into  the  fold  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  will  come. 

Stake  missions 

We  realize  too  that  the  "whole 
world"  is  here  as  well  as  in  the  remote 
corners  of  the  land  mass  of  Eurasia. 
The  stake  missions  are  our  most  fertile 
sources  of  converts.  Where  our  people 
are  gathered,  where  we  have  wards  and 
stakes,  where  we  have  buildings  and 


First  Day 

facilities,  is  our  best  opportunity — 
there  also  is  the  world.  By  our  merely 
living  the  principles  of  the  gospel, 
people  cannot  help  seeing  the  light 
shining  on  the  hilltop,  and  seeing  will 
want  to  partake  of  the  good  fruit  of  the 
gospel  that  it  illuminates.  For  those 
whose  heads  are  down,  if  we  live  as  we 
should,  all  we  need  to  do  is  to  say  to 
them,  "Look  up,  see!  The  light  shines 
for  you."  Earnest  effort  to  this  end 
will  bring  greater  results. 

Large  field  to  be  harvested 

The  seventies  quorums  are  aware 
that  the  field  to  be  harvested  is  very 
large  and  that  the  work  must  be  pur- 
sued with  great  vigor  while  the  day 
lasts.  Our  constant  prayer  is  to  be 
anxiously  engaged  in  carrying  forth  the 
missionary  work  and  to  stand  true  to 
the  First  Presidency  and  the  Twelve  as 
they  direct  us  and  point  the  way  we 
should  go. 

This  great  work  is  under  the  di- 
vine guidance  of  God  the  Eternal 
Father,  who  is  a  living,  exalted  being 
of  flesh  and  bone — not  the  flesh  and 
bone  that  you  and  I  know,  but  resur- 
rected, glorified  flesh  and  bone  filled 
with  light.  Indescribable  is  his  person. 
There  are  not  words  to  picture  that 
glory;  it  is  not  earthly — it  is  heavenly. 

His  Son  is  like  him.  Through  the 
Son  of  God,  Jesus  Christ,  we  have  hope 
that  eventually  we  can  become  like 
them.  We  must  learn  to  know  them, 
and  knowing  them  we  may  share  the 
truth  announced  by  the  Lord  himself 
that  to  know  them  is  to  have  eternal 
life.  This  church  is  their  earthly  king- 
dom, and  President  David  O.  McKay 
is  the  prophet  through  whom  they 
speak  in  our  day.  This  I  witness  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen.  O 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  conclud- 
ing speaker  this  afternoon. 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


43 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


•  My  brothers  and  sisters,  when  con- 
sidering the  history  of  the  various 
organizations  of  the  Church,  I  am  re- 
minded of  the  statement  by  David 
Everett: 

"Large  streams  from  little  fountains 
flow, 

Tall  oaks  from  little  acorns  grow." 

No  one  society  or  no  one  organiza- 
tion has  sprung  at  once  into  full, 
perfect  maturity.  Most  good  and  great 
thoughts  and  things  are  a  growth,  not 
a  sudden  perfection,  and  so  it  was  with 
the  Young  Women's  Mutual  Improve- 
ment Association.  This  being  their 
centennial  year,  it  seems  appropriate 
at  this  conference  to  recognize  this  im- 
portant young  women's  organization 
and  program. 

Retrenchment  Society  established 

Visualize  the  setting  existing  when 
President  Brigham  Young  established 
the  beginning  organization,  called  in 
those  days  the  Retrenchment  Society. 
He  was  disturbed  about  his  daughters' 
somewhat  worldly  interests  and  actions. 
He  worried  about  their  spiritual  and 
intellectual  development  and  was  con- 
cerned over  the  growing  trend  to- 
ward materialism,  commercialism,  and 
sophistication  among  the  younger 
Church  members.  His  daughters  seemed 
to  reflect  the  general  trend  he  had 
observed  among  the  young  women  in 
Zion,  whose  main  interests  were  young 
men,  socials,  theater,  ice  skating,  sleigh 
and  hay  rides,  picnics,  and  clothes. 

As  President  of  the  Church  and  a 
former  governor  of  the  Territory  of 
Deseret,  Brigham  Young  felt  person- 
ally responsible  for  the  moral  and  so- 
cial welfare  of  all  the  residents  of  the 
territory. 

The  young  men  did  not  seem  to  be 
such  an  immediate  problem,  as  many 
were  pursuing  higher  education  and 
becoming  well  versed  in  the  scriptures 
and  preparing  for  missions.  Others 
were  kept  busy  in  agricultural  and 
industrial  pursuits — building  homes, 
stores,  ward  houses,  roads,  and  working 
on  the  construction  of  the  temple. 


The  family  home  required  help  from 
the  young  women,  with  miscellaneous 
household  tasks  and  caring  for  the 
sick. 

President  Young's  instruction 

President  Young's  thoughts  turned 
to  his  own  daughters,  knowing  their 
needs  for  improved  womanly  virtues 
and  their  qualifications  for  a  more 
complete  and  abundant  life. 

He  asked  Sister  Eliza  R.  Snow  to 
notify  all  bis  family  to  assemble  in  the 
Lion  House,  as  he  had  important  mat- 
ters to  present  to  them.  The  scene  in 
the  quaint  parlor  was  a  memorable  one. 
Following  the  evening  family  prayer, 
President  Young  dismissed  his  sons  and 
younger  daughters,  looked  around  at 
the  lovely  faces  of  his  older  daughters, 
and  said:  "All  Israel  are  looking  to  my 
family  and  watching  the  example  set 
by  my  .  .  .  children.  For  this  reason  I 
desire  to  organize  my  own  family  first 
into  a  society  for  the  promotion  of 
habits  of  order,  thrift,  industry,  and 
charity:  and,  above  all  things,  I  desire 
them  to  retrench  from  their  extrava- 
gance in  dress  ...  in  your  speech,  .  .  . 
wherein  you  have  been  guilty  of  silly 
.  .  .  speeches  and  light-mindedness  of 
thought.  Retrench  in  everything  that 
is  bad  and  worthless,  and  improve  in 
everything  that  is  good  and  beautiful." 
(Susa  Young  Gates,  History  of  the 
Young  Ladies'  Mutual  Improvement 
Association,  pp.  8-9.) 

The  word  retrench  may  to  this 
generation  sound  rather  archaic  and 
outmoded.  The  dictionary  defines  re- 
trench: to  cut  down,  reduce  or  dimin- 
ish, curtail,  to  economize. 

The  last  sentence  of  the  quotation 
is  thus  made  more  meaningful.  "Re- 
trench in  everything  that  is  bad  and 
worthless,  and  improve  in  everything 
that  is  good  and  beautiful." 

Challenge  accepted 

With  mixed  emotions,  the  daugh- 
ters of  Brigham  Young  accepted  the 
challenge  he  had  given  them.  Eliza  R. 
Snow  recorded  his  words  and  wrote 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


44 

Friday,  October  3 

the  subsequent  resolutions  to  guide  the 
organization.  She  knew  that  as  a 
prophet  of  God  he  had  organized  the 
Retrenchment  Society  through  divine 
inspiration,  not  just  for  his  own  family, 
but  for  the  benefit  and  blessing  of  all 
young  ladies  of  the  Church. 

Soon  they  caught  the  spirit  and  be- 
came involved  in  striving  to  be  "worthy 
of  imitation."  Before  a  year  had  gone 
by,  young  ladies  all  over  the  valley- 
were  holding  meetings  in  parlors, 
schools,  and  ward  houses. 

Program  for  young  men 

As  Brigham  Young  watched  the  Re- 
trenchment Society  bless  every  Mormon 
community,  he  became  concerned  about 
the  general  welfare  of  the  young  men 
of  the  Church,  especially  during  the 
winter  months  when  time  hung  more 
heavily  on  their  hands.  In  those  early- 
days  the  social  structure  was  simple. 
There  was  very  little  in  the  way  of 
sports  or  commercial  amusement,  and 
he  felt  the  young  men  also  needed  a 
program  of  involvement.  Junius  F. 
Wells  was  given  the  assignment  to  or- 
ganize societies  among  the  young  men 
of  the  Church  for  their  mutual  im- 
provement. This  led  to  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  Young  Men's  Mutual 
Improvement  Association.  The  Re- 
trenchment Society  thereafter,  and  un- 
til recent  years,  became  known  as  the 
Young  Ladies'  Mutual  Improvement 
Association. 

Brigham  Young  explained:  "Ours  is 
a  religion  of  improvement;  it  is  not 
contracted  and  confined,  but  is  calcu- 
lated to  expand  the  minds  of  the 
children  of  men  and  lead  them  up  into 
the  state  of  intelligence  that  will  be 
an  honor  to  our  being."  (Journal  of 
Discourses,  Vol.  10,  p.  290.) 

Thoughts  for  today's  youth 

What  he  said  a  century  ago  is  so 
applicable  to  the  young  people  of  the 
Church  today.  With  this  in  mind,  I 
would  like  to  direct  some  thoughts  to 
our  youth. 

As  children  of  promise,  do  not  choose 
to  be  common;  rather,  choose  to  excel. 
There  is  no  prominent  place  in  the 
society  of  men  and  women  today  for 
the  mediocre.  Strive  for  perfection  and 


first  Day 

you  will  attain  perfection  in  many 
areas  and  approach  it  in  others.  You 
have  a  rich  heritage.  Be  unafraid  to 
think  and  act  in  accordance  with  gos- 
pel principles,  and  enjoy  the  benefits 
and  blessings  of  it  as  you  fulfill  on 
earth  the  full  measure  of  your  creation 
as  a  child  of  God. 

Set  goals  in  life  and  achieve  them. 

Don't  be  quitters  or  failures;  I  be- 
lieve the  current  word  is  "losers." 
Rather,  be  steadfast  in  attaining  righ- 
teous, soul-satisfying  goals. 

Failure  weakens  one's  incentive,  pur- 
pose, and  character,  just  as  success 
strengthens  these  desirable  attributes. 
The  adage  "Nothing  succeeds  like  suc- 
cess" is  true.  Keep  the  aura  of  success 
and  achievement  with  you. 

Opportunities  come  to  those  who  are 
better  prepared  by  knowledge,  train- 
ing, desire,  and  are  firm  in  determining 
what  they  want  to  do  and  become. 

Standards  never  change 

The  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  directing 
his  church  here  on  earth;  therefore,  the 
high  standards  for  Mormon  youth  will 
never  change.  The  world  may  lower 
its  standards,  but  the  Church  can  never 
do  so,  because  God  has  revealed  the 
way  all  faithful  members  should  live. 

Do  not  place  man's  science,  his 
philosophies  or  sophistries  above  or  on 
an  equal  plane  with  the  truths  revealed 
of  God.  The  philosophy  of  man  can 
rise  no  higher  than  the  mind  of  man 
who  created  it.  True  philosophy  is 
found  only  in  the  gospel  of  Christ.  It 
is  the  Lord's  way  of  life  for  mankind. 
The  apostle  Paul  counseled:  "Be  not 
deceived;  God  is  not  mocked;  for  what- 
soever a  man  soweth,  that  shall  he 
also  reap."  (Gal.  6:7.) 

H.  S.  Johnson  expressed  it  in  these 
words:  "Great  thoughts  alone  change 
men  and  women.  By  the  great  thoughts 
of  Jesus,  men  and  women,  for  some 
two  thousand  years,  have  been  changed 
from  folly  to  the  ways  of  wisdom,  from 
baseness  to  wholesomeness,  from 
cruelty  to  mercifulness,  from  sin  to 
righteousness." 

The  faith  that  saves 

My  young  brothers  and  sisters,  seek 
for  the  knowledge  and  faith  that  saves. 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


45 


Choose  your  companions  well,  and  be 
a  person  sought  out  by  others  as  a 
proper  companion.  Hold  high  the 
standards  and  ideals  of  the  gospel.  Do 
not  follow  the  crowd;  they  can  be 
wrong  and  often  are.  Do  not  waver  or 
settle  for  anything  less  than  you  are 
worthy  and  entitled  to  receive.  To 
compromise  is  to  give  up  something — 
and  to  give  up  something  is  to  lose. 

Grow  spiritually,  mentally,  and 
physically  into  the  full  stature  of  in- 
telligent youth;  cultivate  desires  for 
beneficial  service  to  mankind  in  what- 
ever life's  activities  you  choose  to 
follow. 

You  are  living  in  a  modern  world. 
You  should  learn  how  to  live  in  the 
presence  of  these  modern  conditions 
and  still  express  a  wholesome,  righteous 
response  to  them. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr., 
warned  the  membership  of  the  Church: 
"If  there  was  a  time  in  our  history 
when  we  must  be  on  guard  against  the 
insidious  influences  and  propaganda 
of  the  churches  of  the  world,  and  the 
atheists  of  the  world,  that  time  is 
today." 

"...  a  standard  for  the  nations." 

The  eyes  of  the  world  are  more  and 
more  upon  the  Church.  We  are  be- 
coming better  known,  and  because  of 
our  high  standards,  more  is  expected  of 
us.  We  should  live  as  people  expect 
us  as  Church  members  to  live.  This 
does  not  mean  giving  up  our  initiative 
and  living  only  to  be  seen  of  men,  but 
to  live  as  we  know  we  should  live  and 
as  our  Heavenly  Father  wants  us  to 
live.  Here  is  his  admonition:  "Verily, 
I  say  unto  you  all:  Arise  and  shine 
forth,  that  thy  light  may  be  a  standard 
for  the  nations."  (D&C  115:5.) 

Cultivating  a  strong  testimony  of 
the  gospel  will  develop  a  feeling  of 
self-worth  that  will  cause  one  to  be 
humble  and  meek  and  yet  not  subject 
to  the  domination  of  evil,  designing 
persons  or  institutions. 

Resistance  to  temptation 

Resist  temptation  and  keep  your- 
selves free  from  sin  and  its  sorrows. 
Third  Nephi  records  Jesus'  admonition 
to  his  followers:  "Behold,  verily  .  .  . 


I  say  unto  you,  ye  must  watch  and 
pray  always  lest  ye  enter  into  tempta- 
tion; for  Satan  desireth  to  have  you, 
that  he  may  sift  you  as  wheat."  (3  Ne. 
18:18.) 

But  the  Lord  promises:  "Be  faithful 
unto  the  end,  and  lo,  I  am  with  you. 
These  words  are  not  of  man  nor  of 
men,  but  of  me,  even  Jesus  Christ, 
your  redeemer,  by  the  will  of  the 
Father."  (D&C  31:13.) 

I  have  seen  the  heartaches  and  sor- 
rows of  persons  who  have  sinned  and 
lost  membership  in  the  Church.  The 
Lord,  however,  is  merciful  and  forgiv- 
ing and  rejoices  in  the  truly  repentant 
soul.  I  plead  with  you  young  people  of 
the  Church  to  avoid  the  snares  and 
pitfalls  of  sin  that  lead  to  one's  unhap- 
piness  and  so  often  to  the  destruction 
of  everything  that  is  pure,  noble,  and 
good  in  life. 

It  is  incumbent  upon  each  of  us  to 
see  the  full  picture  of  God's  complete 
plan  for  his  children — one's  preexis- 
tence,  mortality,  and  immortality  and 
eternal  life.  Each  should  chart  his 
life's  course  according  to  gospel  prin- 
ciples and  standards. 

Purposes  of  the  YWMIA 

It  is  the  beginning  of  the  second 
century  of  the  Young  Women's  Mu- 
tual Improvement  Association.  One 
hundred  years  ago  it  was  organized  in 
one  family,  one  community,  one  terri- 
tory, and  one  country.  Today  it  has 
a  membership  of  approximately  360,000 
young  women  and  is  organized  on 
nearly  every  continent  in  the  world. 

Many  teachers  and  leaders  are  in- 
volved in  initiating  and  directing  the 
best  possible  programs  for  the  youth 
of  the  Church.  Times  have  changed, 
the  programs  have  changed,  but  the 
original  purposes  and  principles  have 
not,  nor  will  they  ever  change  until  a 
higher  order  is  revealed. 

The  Young  Women's  Mutual  Im- 
provement Association  supports  and 
enhances  the  beautiful  ideal  of  family 
life.  It  provides  for  young  women 
abundant  and  wholesome  social  and 
recreational  experiences.  It  fosters 
friendships.  It  directs  toward  worth- 
while goals.  It  promotes  the  mastery 
of  good  habits.    It  develops  talents 


46  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  October  3 

and  intelligence.  It  provides  the  op- 
portunity for  members  to  increase  their 
knowledge  of  and  appreciation  for  the 
beauties  and  wonders  of  the  world 
around  them.  It  teaches  the  satisfac- 
tion of  service  to  others.  It  deepens 
testimonies  that  God  is  their  Father, 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  his  Son,  and  that 
the  Presidents  of  the  Church  are 
prophets  of  God. 

Service  to  youth 

And  now  to  you  dedicated  parents, 
teachers,  and  leaders:  Continue  your 
interest  and  service  to  youth.  Go  the 
extra  mile— go  beyond  the  class — go 
beyond  the  scheduled  activities.  Listen 
to  them  and  learn  to  know  their  prob- 
lems. Let  them  know  you  love  them 
and  will  do  all  in  your  power  to 
strengthen  them.  They  are  the  elect 
of  God's  children. 

The  family  home  evening  stressed  by 
Church  leaders  today  is  an  important 
time  and  place  to  teach  these  noble 
concepts  to  youth. 

Remember,  MIA  leaders,  youth  come 
to  you  at  a  most  critical  period  of  their 
lives.  They  are  wavering  between  child- 
hood ideals  and  a  maturity  that  comes 
with  adulthood. 

There  are  movies  and  television 
programs  with  poor  standards  that 
stress  violence  and  place  improper 
emphasis  on  sex.  Perhaps  these  things 
are  difficult  to  abolish;  therefore,  you 
must  succeed  in  teaching  chastity  as  a 
way  of  life,  despite  the  existence  of 
these  and  other  temptations  to  which 
youth  are  subjected.  Modern  styles 
and  immodesty  of  dress  certainly  are 
contributing  factors  to  evil. 

Alma's  counsel 

Develop  within  youth  a  desire  to 
obtain  the  blessings  promised  to  the 
faithful. 

Alma,  a  Book  of  Mormon  prophet, 
counseled: 

"Preach  unto  them  repentance,  and 
faith  on  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  teach 
them  to  humble  themselves  and  to 
be  meek  and  lowly  in  heart;  teach 
them  to  withstand  every  temptation 
of  the  devil.  .  .  . 

"Teach  them  to  never  be  weary  of 
good  works,  ...  for  such  shall  find 


First  Dmj 

rest  to  their  souls."  (Al.  37:33-34.) 

Tryon  Edwards  hit  a  key  note  when 
he  said,  "People  never  improve  unless 
they  look  to  some  standard  of  example 
higher  and  better  than  themselves." 

Exemplary  parents  and  leaders  be- 
come a  stabilizing  influence  for  good 
and  righteousness  in  the  lives  of  youth. 

Blessing  of  MIA 

The  Young  Women's  and  Young 
Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Associa- 
tions have  blessed  every  boy  and  girl, 
every  leader,  every  family,  every  com- 
munity touched  by  their  influence; 
and  all  their  accomplishments  glorify 
our  Father  in  heaven,  for  this  is  his 
plan  that  his  children  might  also  be 
glorified. 

I  pray  the  good  Lord  will  bless  these 
two  splendid  youth  organizations  and 
bless  us  leaders  that  we  will  be  inter- 
ested in  the  organizations  and  the 
welfare  of  youth  and  do  all  within 
our  power  to  strengthen  their  faith  and 
their  testimonies  so  that  their  lives  will 
be  in  harmony  with  the  divine  will. 
This  I  pray  humbly  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen.  O 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

We  are  grateful  to  Elder  Stapley  and 
the  others  for  their  inspiring  remarks 
this  afternoon. 

As  a  matter  of  information,  the  Sat- 
urday morning  session  will  be  broadcast 
direct  by  numerous  radio  and  television 
stations,  and  recorded  for  transmission 
on  Sunday  morning  to  many  television 
stations  in  the  eastern  and  central  parts 
of  the  United  States. 

A  video  tape  of  Saturday  morning's 
session  of  conference  will  be  flown 
from  the  mainland  and  televised  Sun- 
day morning  in  Hawaii. 

The  proceedings  of  the  session  of 
conference  this  morning  and  also  on 
Sunday  morning  will  be  transmitted 
from  the  Tabernacle  over  direct  oceanic 
cables  to  a  large  number  of  Saints  as- 
sembled in  over  70  chapels  throughout 
Great  Britain,  Germany,  France,  Aus- 
tria, and  Belgium  on  Sunday.  Direct 
circuits  will  also  carry  these  sessions  to 
Saints  assembled  in  chapels  throughout 
eastern  Canada. 


SECOND  DAY 


47 


Both  sessions  of  our  conference  to- 
day, Saturday,  and  Sunday,  will  be  re- 
broadcast  over  KSL,  KIRO  at  Seattle, 
KMBZ  at  Kansas  City,  and  WNYW 
International  Shortwave  radio  the  fol- 
lowing morning  beginning  at  midnight, 
and  will  be  heard  in  many  parts  of  the 
United  States  and  other  countries. 

I  call  your  attention  to  several  meet- 
ings of  importance:  A  meeting  for  all 
stake  patriarchs  from  throughout  the 
Church  will  be  held  this  evening  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  at  7:00.  Others  invited 
to  be  present  are  General  Authorities, 
the  Regional  Representatives  of  the 
Twelve,  stake  presidents  or  their  repre- 
sentatives. 

The  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 
meeting  will  be  held  this  evening  at 
7:00  in  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle.  All 
Sunday  School  officers  and  teachers  are 
invited  to  attend.  Members  of  the 
priesthood  who  have  Sunday  School 
responsibilities  are  to  be  in  attendance 
at  this  meeting. 

Under  the  direction  of  the  First 
Presidency  there  will  be  a  Welfare 
Agricultural  meeting  held  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall  tomorrow  morning,  Sat- 
urday, at  7:30  o'clock  a.m.  Invited  to 
attend  this  general  session  will  be 
Regional  Representatives  of  the  Twelve, 
all  stake  presidencies,  high  council- 
men,  bishoprics,  Agricultural  Operating 


Committees,  stake  Relief  Society  presi- 
dents, and  others  responsible  for  oper- 
ating Welfare  production. 

The  singing  for  this  session  has  been 
furnished  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers  under  the  direction  of  Ellen 
N.  Barnes,  with  Alexander  Schreiner  at 
the  organ.  We  thank  them  for  the 
beautiful  music  they  have  rendered 
at  this  session.  They  are  to  be  com- 
mended for  their  desire  to  serve  and 
to  bring  happiness  to  others  through 
their  music. 

The  Singing  Mothers  will  now  favor 
us  with  the  "Twenty-third  Psalm,"  and 
the  benediction  will  then  be  offered  by 
Elder  Fred  E.  Schluter,  high  priest 
group  leader  of  the  Princeton  Ward  of 
the  New  Jersey  Central  Stake,  and  the 
General  Conference  of  this  Church  will 
then  be  adjourned  until  10:00  tomorrow 
morning. 


Singing  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers  of  the  "Twenty-third  Psalm." 

Benediction  by  Elder  Fred  E.  Sch- 
luter, high  priest  group  leader  of  the 
Princeton  Ward,  New  Jersey  Central 
Stake. 


Conference  was  adjourned  until 
10:00  a.m.  Saturday,  October  4. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


THIRD  SESSION 

The  third  session  of  the  conference 
convened  on  Saturday,  October  4,  1969 
at  10  o'clock  a.m. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown,  first  coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency,  conducted 
the  meeting. 

The  music  for  this  session  was  fur- 
nished by  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 
Choir.  Elder  Richard  P.  Condie  di- 
rected the  singing.  Elder  Alexander 
Schreiner  was  at  the  organ. 

Before  the  opening  of  the  conference 
session,  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  under 


the  direction  of  Elder  Condie,  sang  the 
number,  "Sleepers  Awake  a  Voice  Is 
Calling." 

President  Brown  made  the  following 
introductory  statement: 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

President  McKay  is  viewing  these 
services  at  his  home.  He  is  presiding 
at  this  conference  and  has  asked  me  to 
conduct  this  session.  He  joins  us  in 
extending  to  all  a  most  cordial  welcome 
this  morning  in  this  great  Tabernacle. 
We  announce  there  will  also  be  over- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


48 

Saturday,  October  4 

flow  meetings  in  the  Assembly  Hall  on 
Temple  Square  and  the  newly  erected 
Salt  Palace  auditorium.  Salt  Lake  City. 

We  extend  a  welcome  also  to  the 
vast  television  and  radio  audience 
throughout  the  world  in  this,  the  third 
session  of  the  139th  Semi-Annual  Con- 
ference of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the 
direction  of  Richard  P.  Condie,  with 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ,  will 
open  these  services  by  singing:  "Awake 
The  Trumpets  Lofty  Sound,"  following 
which  the  invocation  will  be  offered 
by  Elder  Sylvan  Wittwer,  president  of 
the  Lansing  Stake. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  as  an 
opening  number  "Awake  the  Trumpets 
Lofty   Sound,"  following  which  the 


Second  Day 

opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Presi- 
dent Svlvan  Wittwer  of  the  Lansing 
Stake.  ' 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  favor 
us  with:  "Give  Ear,  O  Lord."  Follow- 
ing the  singing  President  Nathan  Eldon 
Tanner,  second  counselor  in  the  First 
Presidency  of  the  Church,  will  speak 
to  us. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  num- 
ber, "Give  Ear,  O  Lord." 


PRESIDENT  N.  ELDON  TANNER 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


•  Last  month  we  mourned  the  passing 
of  our  beloved  friend,  colleague,  and 
brother,  John  Longden,  who  had  spent 
many  years  of  his  life  in  the  service  of 
his  Maker  and  his  fellowmen.  He  con- 
tributed greatly  to  the  community,  the 
Church,  and  industry.  He  was  a  good 
friend  and  neighbor.  At  his  funeral 
we  heard  one  of  his  favorite  songs, 
which  he  had  sung  so  well  and  so 
often: 

"I  know  that  my  Redeemer  lives; 
What    comfort   this    sweet  sentence 
gives!  .  .  . 

He  lives,  he  lives,  who  once  was  dead. 
He  lives,  my  ever-living  head.  .  .  . 
O  sweet  the  joy  this  sentence  gives: 
'I  know  that  my  Redeemer  lives!'" 

— Hymns,  No.  95 

Questions  answered  in  scriptures 

The  passing  of  loved  ones  has  always 
caused  us  to  stop  and  ponder  such 
questions  as: 

"Who  am  I?" 

"Where  did  I  come  from?" 

"Why  am  I  here?" 

"When  I  die  will  I  live  again?" 

"Where  am  I  going?" 

"How  can  I  best  prepare  myself?" 

I  am  sure  that  thousands  and  thou- 


sands have  said,  "If  I  knew  the  answers 
to  these  questions,  I  would  know  better 
how  to  govern  my  life."  It  is  impossible 
for  any  of  us,  including  philosophers, 
astrologers,  astronomers,  and  scientists 
in  any  field,  with  our  finite  minds,  to 
answer  these  questions  pertaining  to 
the  infinite  without  referring  to  the 
word  of  God  as  contained  in  the 
scriptures. 

We  mortals  have  never  experienced 
death  and  the  resurrection,  nor  do  we 
remember  our  preexistence.  Therefore, 
it  is  not  commonly  believed  or  under- 
stood that  we  had  a  premortal  exis- 
tence, that  we  are  the  spirit  children 
of  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  and  that 
when  we  have  finished  our  life  here 
upon  the  earth  we  will  enjoy  a  literal 
resurrection  and  may  continue  on  in 
eternal  progression.  In  fact,  many 
who  question  this  say  that  if  someone 
would  return  from  the  dead  as  a  wit- 
ness of  these  things,  they  would  believe. 
This  is  not  so. 

Let  us  remember  the  parable  of  the 
rich  man  who  prayed  that  Lazarus  be 
sent  from  the  dead  to  his  father's  house 
to  testify  to  his  brethren,  saying  that  if 
one  went  to  them  from  the  dead,  they 
would  repent.     Abraham  said  unto 


PRESIDENT  N.  ELDON  TANNER 


49 


him:  "If  they  hear  not  Moses  and  the 
prophets,  neither  will  they  be  per- 
suaded, though  one  rose  from  the  dead." 
(Luke  16:31.) 

How  fortunate  we  are  that  the  Lord 
God,  from  the  time  of  Adam,  down 
through  the  ages  to  the  present  time, 
has  given  us  the  answers  to  these  very 
important  questions,  and  we  have 
them  recorded  in  Holy  Writ.  Yes,  God 
has  seen  fit  to  talk  to  his  people 
through  his  chosen  prophets,  and  those 
who  have  heard  and  believed  and  fol- 
lowed have  been  blessed. 

Ignorance  of  the  truth 

It  is  sad  but  true  that  many,  many 
people  are  not  acquainted  with  the 
words  of  the  prophets,  and  many  re- 
fuse to  believe,  and  others  often  scoff 
and  ridicule  the  teachings  of  the  Savior. 
It  is  extremely  sad  that  many,  through 
their  own  learning  and  their  sensuous 
knowledge,  become  self-satisfied  and 
think  that  they  are  sufficient  unto 
themselves  and  need  not  heed  the  word 
of  God;  and  often,  because  they  have 
not  heard,  seen,  touched,  or  talked  to 
God,  they  deny  even  his  very  existence, 
and  use  their  influence  to  dissuade 
others. 

But  all  of  this  ignorance,  derision, 
scoffing,  and  ridicule  does  not  destroy 
the  truth,  which  finally  will  triumph. 
We  must  learn  to  live  by  faith  and 
believe  in  the  words  of  the  Lord,  espe- 
cially in  those  things  which  we  mortals 
do  not  and  cannot  fully  comprehend. 
Probably  the  greatest  evidence  of  the 
fact  that  God  speaks  to  his  prophets 
is  the  fulfillment  of  the  prophecies 
made  by  them.  Many  of  these  prophe- 
cies and  their  fulfillment  are  a  matter 
of  historical  and  scriptural  record. 

This  is  life  eternal 

As  I  was  pondering  the  questions  to 
which  I  have  referred,  and  their  an- 
swers, and  in  turning  to  the  scriptures  I 
read  again  this  significant  and  most 
important  statement: 

"And  this  is  life  eternal,  that  they 
might  know  thee  the  only  true  God, 
and  Jesus  Christ,  whom  thou  hast 
sent."  (John  17:3.) 

Many  ask:  "How  can  a  man  know 
God  and  Jesus  Christ,  whom  he  has 


sent?"  The  answer  must  be  clear  that 
it  is  through  prayer  and  faith  and  study 
of  the  words  of  God  as  given  through 
his  prophets  and  by  Jesus  Christ,  whom 
he  has  sent.  Let  us  refer  to  some 
revelations  received  and  prophecies 
made  by  both  ancient  and  modern 
prophets  that  tell  us  about  God  and 
our  relationship  to  him,  and  that  will 
help  us  to  know  and  understand  the 
purpose  of  our  mission  here  on  earth. 

Premortal  existence 

Probably  the  very  earliest  scriptural 
account  we  have  of  man  and  his  rela- 
tionship to  God,  and  which  shows  be- 
yond doubt  that  we  had  a  premortal 
existence  in  the  spirit  world  with  God, 
is  the  record  of  the  council  in  heaven 
as  revealed  to  Moses  and  Abraham. 

"Now  the  Lord  had  shown  unto  me, 
Abraham,  the  intelligences  that  were 
organized  before  the  world  was;  .  .  . 

"And  God  .  .  .  stood  in  the  midst  of 
them,  and  he  said:  These  I  will  make 
my  rulers;  for  he  stood  among  those 
that  were  spirits,  .  .  .  and  he  said  unto 
me:  Abraham,  thou  art  one  of  them; 
thou  wast  chosen  before  thou  wast 
born. 

"And  there  stood  one  among  them 
that  was  like  unto  God,  and  he  said 
unto  those  who  were  with  him:  We 
will  go  down,  for  there  is  space  there, 
and  we  will  take  of  these  materials, 
and  we  will  make  an  earth  whereon 
these  may  dwell; 

"And  we  will  prove  them  herewith, 
to  see  if  they  will  do  all  things  what- 
soever the  Lord  their  God  shall  com- 
mand them; 

"And  they  who  keep  their  first  estate 
shall  be  added  upon;  and  they  who 
keep  not  their  first  estate  shall  not  have 
glory  in  the  same  kingdom  with  those 
who  keep  their  first  estate;  and  they 
who  keep  their  second  estate  shall 
have  glory  added  upon  their  heads  for 
ever  and  ever."  (Abr.  3:22-26.) 

Lord's  word  to  Moses 

And  the  Lord  told  Moses: 

"And  I,  God,  said  unto  mine  Only 
Begotten,  which  was  with  me  from  the 
beginning:  Let  us  make  man  in  our 
image,  after  our  likeness;  and  it  was 
so.  .  .  . 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


50 

Saturday,  October  4 

"And  I,  God,  created  man  in  mine 
own  image,  in  the  image  of  mine  Only 
Begotten  created  I  him;  male  and  fe- 
male created  I  them."  (Moses  2:26-27.) 

God  told  Moses  that  Christ  was 
chosen  as  the  Savior  of  the  world  and 
that  Satan  rebelled,  and  God  said: 

"Wherefore,  because  that  Satan  re- 
belled against  me,  and  sought  to  de- 
stroy the  agency  of  man,  which  I,  the 
Lord  God,  had  given  him,  and  also, 
that  I  should  give  unto  him  mine  own 
power;  ...  I  caused  that  he  should  be 
cast  down; 

"And  he  became  Satan,  yea,  even 
the  devil,  the  father  of  all  lies,  to  de- 
ceive and  to  blind  men,  and  to  lead 
them  captive  at  his  will,  even  as  many 
as  would  not  hearken  unto  my  voice." 
(See  Moses  4:1-4.) 

Spirit  children  of  God 

We,  as  spirit  children  of  God,  were 
all  present  at  that  council  and  voted 
to  sustain  Jesus  Christ  as  the  Savior  of 
the  world.  In  Paul's  Epistle  to  the 
Hebrews,  in  Ecclesiastes,  in  Jeremiah, 
and  in  many  other  accounts  in  both 
the  Old  and  the  New  Testaments,  and 
in  modern  scripture,  we  have  further 
evidence  that  we  are  the  spirit  children 
of  God  and  dwelt  with  him  in  the 
spirit  world. 

There  is  also  further  indisputable 
evidence  that  Jesus  was  with  God  be- 
fore he  came  here.  Just  before  his 
crucifixion,  he  went  into  Gethsemane, 
and  in  his  agony  he  prayed  unto  the 
Father  in  these  words: 

"Father,  the  hour  is  come;  .  .  . 

"I  have  glorified  thee  on  the  earth: 
I  have  finished  the  work  which  thou 
gavest  me  to  do. 

"And  now,  O  Father,  glorify  thou 
me  with  thine  own  self  with  the  glory 
which  I  had  with  thee  before  the  world 
was."  (John  17:1,  4-5.) 

Mission  of  only  begotten  Son 

How  comforting  and  encouraging  it 
is  for  us  to  know  that  "God  so  loved 
the  world,  that  he  gave  his  only  be- 
gotten Son,  that  whosoever  believeth 
in  him  should  not  perish,  but  have 
everlasting  life."  (John  3:16.) 

The  coming  of  the  Savior  was  fore- 


Second  Day 

told  to  Adam  right  after  he  and  Eve 
were  driven  out  of  the  Garden  of 
Eden.  They  were  told  by  the  Lord  to 
offer  sacrifice,  and  they  were  obedient. 
After  many  days  an  angel  of  the  Lord 
appeared  unto  Adam  and  explained: 

"This  thing  is  a  similitude  of  the 
sacrifice  of  the  Only  Begotten  of  the 
Father,  which  is  full  of  grace  and 
truth. 

"Wherefore,  thou  shalt  do  all  that 
thou  doest  in  the  name  of  the  Son, 
and  thou  shalt  repent  and  call  upon 
God  in  the  name  of  the  Son  forever- 
more."  (Moses  5:7-8.) 

Then  we  have  the  writings  of  many 
Old  Testament  prophets,  including 
Isaiah,  Micah,  Zechariah,  and  Malachi, 
as  well  as  Nephi  and  other  American 
prophets,  as  recorded  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  who  foretold  of  the  birth, 
teachings,  persecution,  crucifixion,  and 
resurrection  of  the  Savior.  We  all  know 
that  these  prophecies  have  been  ful- 
filled. 

It  is  most  reassuring  to  know  that 
the  prophets  in  different  climes  and  in 
different  dispensations  were  in  com- 
plete harmony,  and  that  their  prophe- 
cies have  been  fulfilled  to  the  letter. 
And  always  they  gave  us  this  assur- 
ance, as  did  Nephi,  that  "all  those  who 
shall  believe  on  his  name  shall  be 
saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God."  (See 
2  Ne.  25:13.) 

Testimony  of  Paul 

Though  we  should  need  no  further 
evidence  of  the  Savior's  divinity  and  of 
the  importance  of  his  mission  as  it 
pertains  to  us,  let  us  recall  the  strong 
and  stirring  testimony  of  Paul,  who 
was  a  great  persecutor  of  the  saints. 
He  records  that  as  he  was  going  to 
Damascus  to  bring  saints  unto  Jeru- 
salem to  be  punished,  "suddenly  there 
shone  from  heaven  a  great  light  round 
about  me.  And  I  fell  unto  the  ground, 
and  heard  a  voice  saying  unto  me, 
Saul,  Saul,  why  persecutest  thou  me?" 

When  he  asked  who  was  speaking, 
the  voice  said,  "I  am  Jesus  of  Nazareth, 
whom  thou  persecutest." 

Then  Saul  said:  "What  shall  I  do, 
Lord?  And  the  Lord  said  unto  me, 
Arise  and  go  into  Damascus;  and  there 
it  shall  be  told  thee  of  all  things 


PRESIDENT  N.  ELDON  TANNER 


51 


which  are  appointed  for  thee  to  do." 
(Acts  22:6-10.) 

You  will  remember  that  he  was 
blinded  by  the  glory  of  the  light,  so 
he  had  to  be  led  to  Damascus  and  to 
Ananias,  who  said,  "Brother  Saul,  re- 
ceive thy  sight,"  and  he  could  see. 
From  that  time  Saul,  who  was  also 
called  Paul,  became  one  of  the  most 
valiant  and  strong  of  the  Christian 
preachers  and  defenders. 

Defense  before  King  Agrippa 

Then  we  find  him  falsely  accused 
and  forced  to  defend  himself  before  the 
governor  and  other  officials,  and  finally 
before  King  Agrippa.  Think  of  his  bold- 
ness and  courage  as  he  stood  in  chains 
before  the  king  and  recounted  the  story 
of  his  conversion,  after  which  he  said: 

"Whereupon,  O  king  Agrippa,  I  was 
not  disobedient  unto  the  heavenly  vi- 
sion: 

"But  shewed  first  unto  them  of 
Damascus,  and  at  Jerusalem,  and 
throughout  all  the  coasts  of  Judea,  and 
then  to  the  Gentiles,  that  they  should 
repent  and  turn  to  God,  and  do  works 
meet  for  repentance. 

"For  these  causes  the  Jews  caught  me 
in  the  temple,  and  went  about  to  kill 
me. 

"Having  therefore  obtained  help  of 
God,  I  continue  unto  this  day,  witness- 
ing both  to  small  and  great,  saying 
none  other  things  than  those  which  the 
prophets  and  Moses  did  say  should 
come: 

"That  Christ  should  suffer,  and  that 
he  should  be  the  first  that  should  rise 
from  the  dead,  and  should  shew  light 
unto  the  people,  and  to  the  Gentiles. 

"And  as  he  thus  spake  for  himself, 
Festus  said  with  a  loud  voice,  Paul, 
thou  art  beside  thyself;  much  learning 
doth  make  thee  mad. 

"But  he  said,  I  am  not  mad,  most 
noble  Festus;  but  speak  forth  the  words 
of  truth  and  soberness. 

"For  the  king  knoweth  of  these 
things,  before  whom  also  I  speak  freely: 
for  I  am  persuaded  that  none  of  these 
things  are  hidden  from  him;  for  this 
thing  was  not  done  in  a  corner. 

"King  Agrippa,  believest  thou  the 


prophets?  I  know  that  thou  believest. 

"Then  Agrippa  said  unto  Paul,  Al- 
most thou  persuadest  me  to  be  a 
Christian. 

"And  Paul  said,  I  would  to  God, 
that  not  only  thou,  but  also  all  that 
hear  me  this  day,  were  both  almost, 
and  altogether  such  as  I  am,  except 
these  bonds."  (Acts  26:19-29.) 

The  strength  of  his  deep  conviction 
had  been  previously  manifest  when 
he  said  to  his  friends  who  were  trying  to 
protect  him  and  persuade  him  not  to  go 
to  Jerusalem:  "What  mean  ye  to 
weep  and  to  break  mine  heart?  for  I  am 
ready  not  to  be  bound  only,  but  also 
to  die  at  Jerusalem  for  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus."  (Acts  21:13.) 

Prophets  bear  witness 

I  would  that  we,  as  Paul,  could  all 
feel  and  show  our  deep  love  and  de- 
votion to  Jesus  Christ,  who,  because 
of  his  great  love  for  us,  was  prepared 
to  suffer  and  give  his  life  to  redeem 
us  from  the  grave.  All  through  the 
scriptures  we  have  the  words  of  the 
prophets,  bearing  witness  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  Son  of  God  and  that 
he  came  and  gave  his  life  for  us.  He 
also  gave  us  the  Ten  Commandments, 
the  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  and  the 
whole  plan  of  life  and  salvation — the 
blueprint  of  life — which  if  lived  will 
not  only  bring  joy  to  us  here  on  earth 
but  will  prepare  us  for  immortality  and 
eternal  life,  where  we  can  dwell  with 
God  the  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ  and  our  loved  ones  who  have 
gone  there  before  us. 

Our  Heavenly  Father,  knowing  our 
weaknesses  and  our  need  for  constant 
direction,  sends  us  prophets  to  con- 
tinually teach  us  and  keep  us  reminded 
of  this  plan  of  life  and  salvation.  Just 
yesterday  we  sustained  David  O.  Mc- 
Kay as  Prophet,  Seer,  and  Revelator, 
and  President  of  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Our  salva- 
tion and  that  of  our  loved  ones  depends 
on  our  listening  to  and  heeding  the 
words  of  the  prophets,  realizing  that 
we  must  believe  all  that  God  has 
revealed,  all  that  he  does  now  reveal, 
and  that  he  will  yet  reveal  many  great 
and  important  things  pertaining  to 
the  kingdom  of  God. 


52  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  Ocioher  4 

Gospel  teachings  benefit  mankind 

To  those  who  question  these  things, 
I  should  like  to  emphasize  this  one 
fact:  Everything  that  was  taught  by 
the  prophets  and  by  Jesus  Christ  him- 
self, as  recorded  in  Holy  Writ,  is  for 
the  benefit  of  mankind,  and  if  accepted 
and  lived  will  make  for  better  indi- 
viduals, better  communities,  a  better 
world  where  we  can  live  in  love  and 
peace  with  one  another. 

Man  by  his  own  formula  has  failed 
to  accomplish  these  things.  He  has  no 
effective  plan,  and  any  failure  is  not 
because  the  gospel  has  failed,  but 
because  man  has  failed  to  live  its 
teachings.  To  those  who  doubt  or 
question,  but  have  no  answers,  and 
who  look  for  hope  out  of  the  midst 
of  their  despair,  I  urge  that  they  accept 
the  word  of  God  the  Eternal  Father  and 
believe  in  the  gospel,  which  is  up- 
lifting and  beautiful  and  will  bring 
peace  and  contentment  to  their  souls. 
How  much  better  to  hope  than  despair, 
and  the  words  of  hope  and  everlasting 
life  with  the  Father  and  the  Son  are 
to  be  found  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

The  great  commandment 

He  summed  it  all  up  and  gave  a 
simple  formula  when  he  answered  the 
lawyer  who  asked,  tempting  him: 

"Master,  which  is  the  great  com- 
mandment in  the  law? 

"Jesus  said  unto  him,  Thou  shalt 
love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy 
heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with 
all  thy  mind. 

"This  is  the  first  and  great  com- 
mandment. 

"And  the  second  is  like  unto  it, 
Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbour  as 
thyself. 

"On  these  two  commandments  hang 
all  the  law  and  the  prophets."  (Matt. 
22:36-40.) 

The  Lord  also  said  that  if  we  love 
him,  we  will  keep  his  commandments. 
These  are  the  teachings  of  all  the 
apostles  and  prophets.  Let  us  heed 
the  words  of  Peter  as  he  was  speaking 
to  and  answered  the  multitude: 

"Now  when  they  heard  this,  they 
were  pricked  in  their  heart,  and  said 


Second  Day 

unto  Peter  and  to  the  rest  of  the 
apostles,  Men  and  brethren,  what  shall 
we  do? 

"Then  Peter  said  unto  them,  Repent, 
and  be  baptized  every  one  of  you  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ  for  the  remission 
of  sins,  and  ye  shall  receive  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost. 

"For  the  promise  is  unto  you,  and 
to  your  children,  and  to  all  that  are 
afar  off,  even  as  many  as  the  Lord  our 
God  shall  call."  (Acts  2:37-39.) 

Choices  determine  happiness 

It  is  important  to  understand  that 
we  are  here  to  prove  ourselves,  to  pre- 
pare ourselves  to  go  back  into  the 
presence  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  and 
the  choices  we  make  will  determine 
our  future  happiness.  Hear  the  words 
of  the  American  prophet  Lehi  to  his 
sons,  which  message  has  been  given 
repeatedly  to  the  children  of  men 
through  the  ages: 

"Wherefore,  men  are  free  according 
to  the  flesh;  and  all  things  are  given 
them  which  are  expedient  unto  man. 
And  they  are  free  to  choose  liberty  and 
eternal  life,  through  the  great  media- 
tion of  all  men,  or  to  choose  captivity 
and  death,  according  to  the  captivity 
and  power  of  the  devil;  for  he  seeketh 
that  all  men  might  be  miserable  like 
unto  himself. 

"And  now,  my  sons,  I  would  that  ye 
should  look  to  the  great  Mediator,  and 
hearken  unto  his  great  commandments; 
and  be  faithful  unto  his  words,  and 
choose  eternal  life,  according  to  the 
will  of  his  Holy  Spirit; 

"And  not  choose  eternal  death,  ac- 
cording to  the  will  of  the  flesh  and 
the  evil  which  is  therein,  which  giveth 
the  spirit  of  the  devil  power  to  capti- 
vate, to  bring  you  down  to  hell,  that 
he  may  reign  over  you  in  his  own 
kingdom."  (2  Ne.  2:27-29.) 

Jacob,  Lehi's  son,  taught:  "Therefore, 
cheer  up  your  hearts,  and  remember 
that  ye  are  free  to  act  for  yourselves — 
to  choose  the  way  of  everlasting  death 
or  the  way  of  eternal  life."  (2  Ne. 
10:23.) 

To  summarize,  we  read  from  Ecclesi- 
astes:  "Let  us  hear  the  conclusion  of 
the  whole  matter:  Fear  God,  and  keep 


PRESIDENT  ALVIN  R.  DYER 


53 


his  commandments:  for  this  is  the 
whole  duty  of  man."  (Eccles.  12:13.)  I 
bear  testimony  that  these  things  are 
true,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen.  O 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

We  express  appreciation  to  President 
Nathan  Eldon  Tanner  for  his  inspiring 
address. 

Following  a  brief  organ  interlude 


the  Tabernacle  Choir  will  sing  "Seek 
Him  That  Maketh  the  Seven  Stars." 
Following  the  singing  President  Alvin 
R.  Dyer  of  the  First  Presidency  will 
speak  to  us. 


After  an  organ  interlude,  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  sang  "Seek  Him  That  Mak- 
eth the  Seven  Stars." 


PRESIDENT  ALVIN  R.  DYER 

Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


•  My  dear  brothers  and  sisters  and 
friends,  both  here  and  those  of  the 
television  and  radio  audience,  I  call 
your  particular  attention  this  day  to  the 
divine  direction  given  to  Joseph  Smith, 
the  latter-day  prophet,  who  gave  utter- 
ance to  this  direction  concerning  the 
ills  of  the  people  of  the  world.  Plans 
and  programs  are  being  offered  here 
and  there  as  a  means  of  correcting 
dangerous  behavioral  trends  that  are 
creating  changes  in  our  way  of  living, 
that  are  threatening  moral  and  spiritual 
values. 

The  statements  are  often  heard, 
"Where  will  it  all  end?"  and  "Why 
isn't  something  being  done  to  check 
these  dangerous  trends?" 

Panacea  for  dangerous  trends 

The  panacea  to  all  this,  as  declared 
by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  must 
go  right  to  the  heart  of  the  individual; 
mass  control  in  the  final  analysis  can- 
not succeed  without  individual  control. 

Commandments  were  given  to  Joseph 
Smith  by  revelation  which,  if  obeyed, 
could  divert  and  frustrate  the  dangerous 
trends  of  behavior  among  the  people 
this  very  day.  The  first  of  these  to 
which  I  refer  concerns  the  principle  of 
virtue.  Here  are  the  words  of  the 
Lord: 

".  .  .  let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts 
unceasingly;  then  shall  thy  confidence 
wax  strong  in  the  presence  of  God; 
and  the  doctrine  of  the  priesthood  shall 
distil  upon  thy  soul  as  the  dews  from 
heaven. 


"The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  con- 
stant companion,  and  thy  scepter  .  .  . 
of  righteousness  and  truth;  and  thy 
dominion  .  .  .  ,  and  without  compul- 
sory means  it  shall  flow  unto  thee 
forever  and  ever."  (D&C  121:45-46.) 

Think  of  what  the  effects  of  having 
a  virtuous  mind  would  have  upon  the 
spreading  of  immorality,  with  all  of 
its  carnal  aspects. 

Reference  is  made  to  a  second  harm- 
ful thing,  that  of  harmful  indulgence, 
concerning  which  the  Lord  has  warned 
us  against  with  this  commandment: 
"Strong  drinks  .  .  .  and  tobacco  are  not 
for  the  body."  (See  D&C  89:7-8.) 

No  one  today  needs  to  be  mis- 
informed of  the  ravaging  and  deathly 
effects  that  the  use  of  tobacco,  alcohol, 
and  other  narcotics  have  upon  the 
human  body,  as  well  as  the  indirect 
effects  on  the  spiritual  and  moral  char- 
acter of  the  individual,  which  often  are 
more  detrimental  even  than  the  physi- 
cal effects. 

And  again,  the  Lord  has  spoken  of 
the  need  of  understanding  the  princi- 
ples of  freedom  and  agency  in  human 
relationships,  for,  said  he: 

".  .  .  when  we  [seek]  ...  to  exercise 
control  or  dominion  or  compulsion 
upon  the  souls  of  the  children  of  men, 
in  any  degree  of  unrighteousness,  be- 
hold, the  heavens  withdraw  themselves; 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  grieved;  and 
when  it  is  withdrawn,  Amen  to  the 
priesthood  or  the  authority  of  thai 
man."  (D&C  121:37.) 

And  amen  to  the  influence  of  the 


54  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  4 

Holy  Ghost,  which  will  lead  us  into 
truth.  But  when  we  undertake  to  exer- 
cise by  cunning  means  any  leverage 
against  people  to  compel  them,  we 
lose  the  growth  and  uplifting  of  cor- 
rect communication  and  relationship 
with  other  human  beings. 

Repentance 

Added  to  these  timely  divine  warn- 
ings to  mankind  given  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  is  the  principle  of  re- 
pentance, to  which  I  shall  direct  the 
remainder  of  my  remarks. 

The  importance  of  this  divine  princi- 
ple is  readily  seen  by  the  emphasis 
that  the  Lord  has  given  to  it  in  all  of 
his  dealings  with  man.  It  was  estab- 
lished in  the  beginning  and  has  con- 
tinued down  through  the  centuries  of 
time,  either  to  enlighten  and  uplift 
the  individual  by  obedience  thereto  or 
to  bring  about  a  condition  of  decay  and 
demoralization  by  disobedience. 

Adam  and  Eve,  cut  off  from  the 
presence  of  God,  were  given  instruction 
concerning  the  necessity  of  repentance 
as  a  means  to  regain  their  place  in 
God's  presence,  there  to  continue  in  the 
way  of  light  and  intelligence  to 
the  attainment  of  ultimate  perfection. 
Adam,  seeking  earnestly  to  know  the 
will  of  God,  asked  this  question  of  the 
Lord:  "Why  is  it  that  men  must  repent 
and  be  baptized  in  water?"  (Moses 
6:53.) 

The  Lord's  answer  was  clear  and 
distinct,  for  unto  Adam  and  Eve,  upon 
whom  darkness  had  come,  having 
fallen  from  God,  came  this  vital  in- 
struction of  the  need  of  repentance: 
"Wherefore  teach  it  unto  your  children, 
that  all  men,  everywhere,  must  repent, 
or  they  can  in  nowise  inherit  the  king- 
dom of  God  "  (Moses  6:57.) 

Prophets  cried  repentance 

Centuries  later,  when  all  living 
beings  upon  the  earth  were  threatened 
with  destruction,  when  corruption  filled 
the  earth,  caused  by  a  lack  of  re- 
pentance, the  prophet  Noah  labored 
valiantly  in  crying  repentance  unto  the 
people,  but  to  no  avail.  All  living  upon 
the  earth,  except  Noah  and  his  family, 


Second  Day 

were  destroyed  by  a  flood  of  waters.  For 
verification  of  this,  the  Old  Testament 
account  of  the  great  flood,  though  writ- 
ten by  Hebrew  or  "Shemitic"  historians, 
is  substantiated  by  the  historical  writ- 
ings of  many  other  nations  and 
peoples.  (See  Gaued,  Legends  of  Patri- 
archs and  Prophets,  pp.  118-35.) 

In  the  meridian  dispensation,  John 
the  Baptist,  the  forerunner  and  herald 
of  the  Christ,  preached  on  the  out- 
skirts of  the  province  of  Judea,  saying, 
"Repent  ye:  for  the  kingdom  of  heaven 
is  at  hand.  .  .  .  Bring  forth  therefore 
fruits  meet  for  repentance."  (Matt. 
3:2,  8.) 

Jesus  taught  repentance 

The  Lord  himself  referred  to  the 
principle  of  repentance  upon  many 
occasions  with  such  declarations,  for 
"Jesus  came  into  Galilee,  preaching  the 
gospel  of  the  kingdom  of  God, 

"And  saying,  The  time  is  fulfilled, 
and  the  kingdom  of  God  is  at  hand: 
repent  ye,  and  believe  the  gospel." 
(Mark  1:14-15.) 

Jesus,  in  sending  his  apostles  out, 
told  them  to  teach  men  everywhere  to 
repent: 

"And  said  unto  them,  Thus  it  is 
written,  and  thus  it  behoved  Christ  to 
suffer,  and  to  rise  from  the  dead  the 
third  day: 

"And  that  repentance  and  remission 
of  sins  should  be  preached  in  his  name 
among  all  nations,  beginning  at  Jeru- 
salem." (Luke  24:46-47.) 

The  need  of  adherence  to  the  princi- 
ple of  repentance  has  been  reiterated 
many,  many  times  in  the  history  of 
mankind,  and  when  man  has  earnestly 
and  sincerely  sought  the  will  of  God, 
he  has  responded  to  this  principle  of 
personal  salvation. 

Revealed  in  modern  time 

It  has  been  revealed  with  ever- 
expanded  meaning  in  our  modern 
period  of  time  through  the  prophets  of 
God.  It  constitutes  a  law,  the  knowl- 
edge and  application  of  which  is 
perhaps  the  most  important  single 
principle  of  redemption.  Repentance  is 
as  the  Lord  proclaimed  it  to  be — "of 
the  greatest  worth  to  the  individual." 


PRESIDENT  ALVIN  R.  DYER 


55 


As  early  as  1829,  in  the  present  dis- 
pensation of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
as  the  marvelous  work  of  restoration 
began  to  unfold,  the  principle  of  re- 
pentance was  stressed  again  and  again, 
even  to  the  extent  of  being  the  most 
important  of  all  things  to  transpire 
among  the  people,  not  only  to  safeguard 
them  individually  from  the  evils  and 
deceptions  of  our  day  and  time,  but 
also  to  prepare  them  for  the  part  they 
will  take  in  the  things  to  happen  in 
the  destiny  of  God's  work  associated 
with  mortal  existence. 

"Say  nothing  but  repentance" 

Here  is  an  excerpt  from  a  revelation 
given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  for  his 
brother  Hyrum,  who  sought  earnestly 
to  know  the  will  of  God  concerning 
what  he  was  to  do  to  assist  in  bringing 
forth  the  great  latter-day  work;  it  indi- 
cates how  strongly  this  principle  is  in 
the  mind  of  the  Lord,  for,  said  he: 

"Say  nothing  but  repentance  unto 
this  generation.  Keep  my  command- 
ments, and  assist  to  bring  forth  my 
work,  according  to  my  commandments, 
and  you  shall  be  blessed."  (D&C  11:9.) 

The  following  admonition  was  given 
to  David  Whitmer  and  Oliver  Cow- 
dery,  even  as  it  had  been  given  to  the 
apostle  Paul  of  old,  and  it  likewise  is 
a  divine  instruction  unto  all  who  would 
seek  to  further  God's  work  in  saving 
his  people,  as  summarized  in  this  state- 
ment: 

"Remember  the  worth  of  souls  is 
great  in  the  sight  of  God; 

"For,  behold,  the  Lord  your  Re- 
deemer suffered  death  in  the  flesh; 
wherefore  he  suffered  the  pain  of  all 
men,  that  all  men  might  repent  and 
come  unto  him. 

"And  he  hath  risen  again  from  the 
dead,  that  he  might  bring  all  men  unto 
him,  on  conditions  of  repentance. 

"And  how  great  is  his  joy  in  the  soul 
that  repenteth! 

"Wherefore,  you  are  called  to  cry 
repentance  unto  this  people. 

"And  if  it  so  be  that  you  should  labor 
all  your  days  in  crying  repentance  unto 
this  people,  and  bring,  save  it  be  one 
soul  unto  me,  how  great  shall  be  your 


joy  with  him  in  the  kingdom  of  my 
Father! 

"And  now,  if  your  joy  will  be  great 
with  one  soul  that  you  have  brought 
unto  me  into  the  kingdom  of  my 
Father,  how  great  will  be  your  joy  if 
you  should  bring  many  souls  unto 
me!"  (D&C  18:10-16.  Italics  added.) 

Principle  of  eternal  growth 

Repentance  is  a  principle  of  eternal 
growth  for  the  individual  and  is,  there- 
fore, a  basic  principle  of  our  Christian 
faith,  as  declared  in  the  fourth  Article 
of  Faith. 

If  a  man  has  a  desire  in  his  heart 
to  know  the  truth,  the  normal  and 
positive  reaction,  as  his  faith  expands, 
causes  him  to  know  that  he  has  partici- 
pated in  volitional  acts  that  are  wrong 
and  therefore  sinful.  In  this  respect, 
all  are  in  need  of  repentance,  which 
leads  us  to  the  covenant  of  baptism. 
Only  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  the  Only  Be- 
gotten Son  of  God,  of  all  men  upon 
the  earth,  is  sinless.  He  kept  every 
law,  yielded  personally  to  every  prin- 
ciple of  righteousness,  and  thus  was 
unblemished  in  mortal  experience. 

It  can  be  a  crucial  misfortune  to  any 
man  who  fails  to  recognize  the  differ- 
ence between  right  and  wrong.  But 
when  he  does  recognize  this  difference 
and  brings  his  own  life  into  harmony 
with  that  knowledge  through  repen- 
tance, he  attains  conviction  and  power 
in  many  ways.  For  example,  repentance 
is  inseparably  associated  with  forgive- 
ness; and  when  forgiveness,  as  a  per- 
sonal possession  working  two  ways, 
flows  through  the  thought  and  action 
of  man,  he  experiences  a  feeling  of 
great  joy,  a  release  of  tension  and  frus- 
tration caused  by  the  committing  of 
sin.  Thus,  there  is  produced  personal 
security  and  assurance.  Here  is  power 
that  prepares  for  further  life  corrections. 

Repentance,  as  an  eternal  law,  is  not 
confined  to  conversion.  Its  use  and 
application  is  broader  than  that.  It  is 
a  principle  of  eternal  progression.  After 
faith,  repentance,  and  baptism,  which 
are  first  principles,  repentance  leads 
the  way  to  many  regenerations,  with- 
out which  the  soul  shall  never  reach 
perfection. 


56  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  4 

The  need  of  repentance 

Those  who  deal  with  the  souls  of 
men  are  repeatedly  recognizing  the 
wisdom  of  the  divine  counsel  that  has 
been  given  concerning  repentance. 
Marriage  counselors,  judges,  scientists 
of  the  mind  are  stressing  more  and 
more  the  need  of  repentance  for  the 
correction  of  every  evil  in  life,  whether 
it  be  large  or  small,  based  upon  a 
recognition  and  confession  of  that 
wrong  and  fortified  with  a  deliberate, 
stubborn  forsaking  of  it  to  reform  one's 
character  and  in  so  doing  gain  freedom 
from  emotional  stress,  ever  associated 
with  sin  and  wrong  doing. 

The  principal  element  of  forsaking 
is  seen  in  the  human  desire  to  make 
restitution  for  wrongs  that  are  admitted, 
to  change  one's  life  to  that  of  the  better 
way. 

It  is  probably  true  that  sin  is  never 
forgotten  when  once  committed.  But 
the  laws  governing  repentance  provide 
a  release  of  emotional  stress  caused  by 
the  sin,  when  that  sin  is  acknowledged 
and  forsaken.  Through  repentance  and 
forsaking  will  come  the  peace  of  mind, 
a  form  of  regeneration,  that  enables 
one  to  go  on  in  life  in  pursuit  of  true 
happiness.  This  fits,  it  seems  to  me, 
the  ennobling  challenge  of  the  Christ 
to  become  like  unto  him. 

Genuine  sorrow  for  sin 

I  recall  the  comment  from  this  stand 
of  Stephen  L  Richards,  who  said,  in 
essence:  "Men  may  wonder  why  they 
are  retarded  in  the  Church  and  in  life. 
Such  should  be  invited  to  look  into 
their  lives,  and  if  they  are  frank  and 
honest  with  themselves,  they  will  find 
the  answer." 

As  sin  is  looked  upon,  we  are  led  to 
conclude  that  not  until  man  is  hum- 
bled, not  until  the  heart  throbs  with 
genuine  sorrow  for  repeated  violations 
of  God's  holy  laws,  not  until  the  citadel 
of  sin  is  surrendered,  can  man  hope  for 
forgiveness  or  expect  exaltation. 

Repentance  is  something  between 
each  one  of  us  and  our  God,  something 
that  produces  the  power,  through  the 
processes  of  change,  that  causes  truth 
and  right,  a  power  for  good,  to  spring 
from  within  us. 


Second  Day 

Declare  repentance 

Thus,  the  exercise  of  repentance  is  a 
factor  in  the  challenges  we  face  today. 
Obedience  to  this  divine  principle,  to- 
gether with  an  obedience  to  the  other 
commandments  of  God,  which  I  have 
referred  to,  concerning  harmful  indul- 
gences, the  virtuous  heart  and  mind, 
and  the  practice  of  exercising  righteous 
dominion  under  all  circumstances  in 
behavioral  associations,  can  provide  a 
panacea  for  our  present  dilemma  of 
frustration  and  misdirection  that  con- 
fronts us  as  individuals  and  as  a  people. 
As  the  Lord  has  declared,  our  obedience 
to  these  commandments  will  enable  us 
to  avoid  the  calamities  which  are  upon 
us. 

Generally  speaking,  there  is  nothing 
wrong  with  an  individual  that  faith 
and  repentance  will  not  cure.  For  that 
matter,  there  is  nothing  wrong  with 
America  or  the  world  that  faith  and 
repentance  will  not  correct,  for  as  the 
Lord  has  said,  ".  .  .  the  thing  which 
will  be  of  the  most  worth  unto  you  will 
be  to  declare  repentance  unto  this 
people.  .  .  ."  (D&C  15:6.) 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  help  us  to 
understand  that  the  thing  that  shall 
be  of  the  greatest  worth  to  us  is  re- 
pentance. 

I  testify  of  this  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen.  O 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  under  the  di- 
rection of  Richard  P.  Condie  sang  "Lo, 
My  Shepherd  Is  Divine,"  and  "All 
Creatures  of  Our  God  and  King." 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

We  express  appreciation  to  President 
Alvin  R.  Dyer  for  his  timely  address. 
He  was  followed  by  the  singing  by  the 
Choir  of:  "Lo,  My  Shepherd  Is  Divine," 
and  "All  Creatures  of  Our  God  and 
King." 

Now,  following  a  brief  organ  inter- 
lude, the  congregation  will  join  with 
the  Choir  in  singing:  "Now  Let  Us 
Rejoice  in  the  Day  of  Salvation." 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


57 


After  an  organ  interlude,  the  con-    President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

gregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Now  Let  ,     , ,   .      _    _  _  , 

Us  Rejoice  in  the  Day  of  Salvation."       „  Elde.r,  Marion  G.  Romney  of  the 

Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  next 
  speaker. 

ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


•  President  McKay,  other  members  of 
the  General  Authorities,  brothers  and 
sisters,  and  listeners  throughout  the 
world: 

I  have  selected  as  the  subject  of  my 
remarks  today  "The  Crucible  of  Adver- 
sity and  Affliction,"  something  with 
which  we  are  all  well  acquainted.  My 
purpose  is  to  give  comfort  and  courage 
to  the  weary  and  heavy-laden,  among 
whom  we  all,  at  times,  find  place. 

Latter-day  Saints  know  that  much  of 
pain  and  suffering  would  be  avoided 
if  the  people  would  accept  and  follow 
the  Savior.  Our  mission,  as  a  church, 
is  to  bring  people  to  a  knowledge  of 
Christ  and  thus  avoid  all  unnecessary 
suffering.  We  are  aware,  however, 
that  should  all  men  accept  and  live 
his  teachings,  adversity  and  affliction 
would  still  abound  because,  in  the 
words  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
"Men  have  to  suffer  that  they  may 
come  upon  Mount  Zion  and  be  exalted 
above  the  heavens."  (Documentary 
History  of  the  Church,  Vol.  5,  p.  556.) 

Crucible  of  adversity 

This  does  not  mean  that  we  crave 
suffering.  We  avoid  all  we  can. 
However,  we  now  know,  and  we  all 
knew  when  we  elected  to  come  into 
mortality,  that  we  would  here  be 
proved  in  the  crucible  of  adversity  and 
affliction. 

As  our  Heavenly  Father,  in  that 
great  pre-earth  council  referred  to  here 
this  morning  by  President  Tanner, 
"stood  in  the  midst  of"  us,  his  spirit 
children,  and  announced  his  plan  for 
bringing  "to  pass"  our  "immortality 
and  eternal  life"  (Moses  1:39),  he  said, 
".  .  .  We  will  go  down,  .  .  .  and  .  .  . 
make  an  earth  whereon  these  may 
dwell; 

"And  we  will  prove  them  ...  to 


see  if  they  will  do  all  things  whatso- 
ever the  Lord  their  God  shall  command 
them."  (Abr.  3:24-25.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  said  that 
"the  organization  of  the  spiritual  and 
heavenly  worlds,  and  of  spiritual  and 
heavenly  beings  .  .  .  were  .  .  .  voluntar- 
ily subscribed  to  in  their  heavenly 
estate  by  themselves."  (DHC,  Vol.  6, 
p.  51.) 

Savior  not  exempt 

The  Father's  plan  for  proving  his 
children  did  not  exempt  the  Savior 
himself.  The  suffering  he  undertook  to 
endure,  and  which  he  did  endure, 
equaled  the  combined  suffering  of  all 
men.  Eighteen  hundred  years  after 
he  had  endured  it,  he  spoke  of  it  as 
being  so  intense  that  it  "caused  myself, 
even  God,  the  greatest  of  all,  to  trem- 
ble because  of  pain,  and  to  bleed  at 
every  pore,  and  to  suffer  both  body 
and  spirit — and  would  that  I  might 
not  drink  the  bitter  cup,  and  shrink — 

"Nevertheless,  [he  concluded,]  glory 
be  to  the  Father,  and  I  partook  and 
finished  my  preparations  unto  the 
children  of  men."  (D&C  19:18-19.) 

Intensity  of  suffering 

President  Brigham  Young  pointed 
out  that  the  intensity  of  Christ's  suf- 
fering was  induced  by  the  withdrawal 
from  him  of  the  Father's  Spirit.  And 
I  quote  from  Brother  Young: 

".  .  .  at  the  very  moment  .  .  .  when 
the  crisis  came  .  . .  the  Father  withdrew 
.  .  .  His  Spirit,  and  cast  a  veil  over 
him.  That  is  what  made  him  sweat 
blood.  ...  he  then  plead  with  the 
Father  not  to  forsake  him.  'No,'  says  the 
Father  'you  must  have  your  trials,  as 
well  as  others.' "  (Journal  of  Dis- 
courses, Vol.  3,  p.  206.) 

The  severity  of  the  suffering  incident 


58  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  4 

to  the  withdrawal  of  the  Father's 
Spirit  is  intimated  in  the  Lord's  state- 
ment, through  the  Prophet,  to  Martin 
Harris,  in  which  he  said: 

".  .  .  repent  .  .  .  lest  you  suffer  these 
punishments  of  which  I  have  spoken, 
of  which  in  the  smallest,  yea,  even  in 
the  least  degree  you  have  tasted  at  the 
time  I  withdrew  my  Spirit."  (D&C 
19:20.) 

Fortunately,  we  need  not  endure  such 
suffering  because  Jesus  endured  it  for 
us,  provided,  of  course,  that  we  bring 
ourselves,  through  righteous  living, 
within  the  reach  of  his  atoning  sac- 
rifice. 

Men  must  prove  themselves 

However,  just  as  Jesus  had  to  endure 
affliction  to  prove  himself,  so  must 
all  men  endure  affliction  to  prove 
themselves. 

"Abel  was  slain  for  his  righteous- 
ness. .  .  .  Abraham  .  .  .  was  laid  upon 
the  iron  bedstead  for  slaughter;  and 
.  .  .  cast  into  the  fire.  .  .  .  Moses  .  .  . 
was  driven  from  his  country  and 
kindred.  Elijah  had  to  flee  his  coun- 
try. .  .  .  Daniel  was  cast  into  a  den 
of  lions:  Micah  was  fed  on  the  bread 
of  affliction;  and  Jeremiah  was  cast 
into  the  filthy  hole  under  the 
Temple.  .  .  . 

".  .  .  all  the  Saints  .  .  .  prophets  and 
apostles,  have  had  to  come  up  through 
great  tribulation.  .  .  ."  (Teachings  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  1938  ed., 
pp.  260-61.) 

Afflictions  of  Prophet  Joseph 

From  his  own  experiences,  the 
Prophet  Joseph  was  eminently  quali- 
fied to  talk  about  affliction,  and  this 
he  most  eloquently  did. 

Writing  from  Liberty  Jail  in  March 
1839,  he  revealed  something  concern- 
ing the  tribulations  then  being  endured 
by  him  and  his  associates. 

".  .  .  we  have  been  taken  prisoners 
charged  falsely  with  every  kind  of  evil, 
and  thrown  into  prison,  enclosed  with 
strong  walls,  surrounded  with  a  strong 
guard,  who  continually  watch  day  and 
night  as  indefatigable  as  the  devil.  .  .  . 

".  .  .  we  are  compelled  to  hear  noth- 
ing but  blasphemous  oaths,  and  witness 


Second  Day 

a  scene  of  blasphemy,  and  drunken- 
ness and  hypocrisy,  and  debaucheries 
of  every  description."  (DHC,  Vol.  3. 
p.  290.) 

But  even  as  he  protested  these 
atrocities,  his  soul  expanded  as  he  en- 
dured them.  To  the  Saints — who  them- 
selves (at  that  time  some  12  to  15 
thousand  of  them)  were  being  ravished 
and  plundered,  robbed  and  driven  from 
their  homes,  in  the  dead  of  winter- 
he  said:  ".  .  .  our  circumstances  are 
calculated  to  awaken  our  spirits  to  a 
sacred  remembrance  of  everything,  and 
we  think  that  yours  are  also,  and  that 
nothing  .  .  .  can  separate  us  from  the 
love  of  God  and  fellowship  one  with 
another;  and  that  every  species  of 
wickedness  and  cruelty  practiced  upon 
us  will  only  tend  to  bind  our  hearts 
together  and  seal  them  together  in 
love  "  (DHC,  Vol.  3,  p.  290.) 

Tried  in  crucible 

A  little  later  on  in  his  letter  he  added 
this: 

"And  now,  beloved  brethren,  we  say 
unto  you,  that  inasmuch  as  God  hath 
said  that  He  would  have  a  tried  people, 
that  He  would  purge  them  as  gold,  now 
we  think  that  this  time  He  has  chosen 
His  own  crucible,  wherein  we  have 
been  tried;  and  we  think  if  we  get 
through  with  any  degree  of  safety,  and 
shall  have  kept  the  faith,  that  it  will 
be  a  sign  to  this  generation,  altogether 
sufficient  to  leave  them  without  excuse; 
and  we  think  also,  it  will  be  a  trial  of 
our  faith  equal  to  that  of  Abraham, 
and  that  the  ancients  will  not  have 
whereof  to  boast  over  us  in  the  day  of 
judgment,  as  being  called  to  pass 
through  heavier  afflictions. . . ."  (DHC, 
Vol.  3,  p.  294.) 

And  then,  speaking  for  himself  and 
his  fellow  prisoners,  he  said:  ".  .  .  in 
His  Almighty  name  we  are  determined 
to  endure  tribulation  as  good  soldiers 
unto  the  end."  (DHC,  Vol.  3,  p.  297.) 
And  counseling  the  Saints  to  do  like- 
wise, he  said:  ".  .  .  let  thy  bowels  .  .  . 
be  full  of  charity  towards  all  men.  .  .  ." 
(DHC,  Vol.  3,  p.  300.) 

This  admonition,  considered  in  light 
of  the  circumstances  under  which  it 
was  given,  seems  to  me  to  almost  equal 
the  Master's  statement  from  the  cross: 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


59 


"Father,  forgive  them;  for  they  know 
not  what  they  do."  (Luke  23:34.) 

Soul  heightened  by  endurance 

The  Prophet's  soul  never  could  have 
reached  these  heights  without  endur- 
ing well  the  tribulations  and  afflictions 
heaped  upon  him. 

President  Brigham  Young  is  quoted 
as  observing  that  the  Prophet  was  more 
perfect  in  38  years,  with  the  severe 
tribulation  through  which  he  passed, 
than  he  would  have  been  in  a  thou- 
sand years  without  it.  (Truman  G. 
Madsen,  Eternal  Man  [Deseret  Book 
Company,  1966],  p.  61.) 

The  Prophet's  appreciation  and 
gratitude  for  the  kindness  of  a  friend, 
the  "pure  love  of  Christ"  which  filled 
his  soul,  and  the  assurance  given  him 
by  the  Lord,  he  expressed  in  the  follow- 
ing passage.  (As  I  read  it,  note  how  it 
reveals  the  purity  of  his  heart,  the 
tenderness  of  his  spirit,  and  the  nobility 
of  his  soul.) 

".  .  .  those  who  have  not  been  en- 
closed in  the  walls  of  prison  without 
cause  or  provocation,  can  have  but 
little  idea  how  sweet  the  voice  of  a 
friend  is;  one  token  of  friendship  from 
any  source  whatever  awakens  and  calls 
into  action  every  sympathetic  feeling; 
it  brings  up  in  an  instant  everything 
that  is  passed;  it  seizes  the  present  with 
the  avidity  of  lightning;  it  grasps  after 
the  future  with  the  fierceness  of  a  tiger; 
it  moves  the  mind  backward  and  for- 
ward, from  one  thing  to  another,  until 
finally  all  enmity,  malice  and  hatred, 
and  past  differences,  misunderstand- 
ings and  mismanagements  are  slain 
victorious  at  the  feet  of  hope;  and 
when  the  heart  is  sufficiently  contrite, 
then  the  voice  of  inspiration  steals 
along  and  whispers,  [My  son,  peace  be 
unto  thy  soul;  thine  adversity  and 
thine  afflictions  shall  be  but  a  small 
moment;  and  then  if  thou  endure  it 
well,  God  shall  exalt  thee  on  high. 
.  .  .]"  (DHC,  Vol.  3,  p.  293.) 

No  wonder  the  Lord  could  say  to 
him,  as  he  did,  "...  I  seal  upon  you 
your  exaltation,  and  prepare  a  throne 
for  you  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father, 
with  Abraham  your  father. 

"Behold,  I  have  seen  your  sacrifices, 
and  will  forgive  all  your  sins;  I  have 


seen  your  sacrifices  in  obedience  to 

that  which  I  have  told  you  "  (D&C 

132:49-50.) 

Courage  to  bear  afflictions 

Now,  as  I  noted  in  the  beginning,  my 
desire  is  to  comfort  and  encourage  and 
inspire  all  you  faithful,  humble  people 
who  are  enduring,  with  patience  and 
loneliness,  pain,  sorrow,  and  at  times 
almost  despair;  you  who  languish  in 
hospitals  and  nursing  homes,  and  all 
you  other  shut-ins;  you  who  mourn  the 
loss  of  loved  ones  by  death  or  trans- 
gression; you  who  are  experiencing 
diminution  of  strength  in  mind  and 
body.  In  sympathy  and  love  I  say  to 
you  and  all  the  rest  of  us  who  are  being 
tried  in  the  crucible  of  adversity  and 
affliction:  Take  courage;  revive  your 
spirits  and  strengthen  your  faith.  In 
these  lessons  so  impressively  taught  in 
precept  and  example  by  our  great 
exemplar,  Jesus  Christ,  and  his  Prophet 
of  the  restoration,  Joseph  Smith,  we 
have  ample  inspiration  for  comfort  and 
for  hope. 

If  we  can  bear  our  afflictions  with 
the  understanding,  faith,  and  courage, 
and  in  the  spirit  in  which  they  bore 
theirs,  we  shall  be  strengthened  and 
comforted  in  many  ways.  We  shall  be 
spared  the  torment  which  accompanies 
the  mistaken  idea  that  all  suffering 
comes  as  chastisement  for  transgres- 
sion. We  shall  be  comforted  by  the 
knowledge  that  we  are  not  enduring, 
nor  will  we  be  required  to  endure,  the 
suffering  of  the  wicked  who  are  to 
"be  cast  out  into  outer  darkness  [where] 
there  shall  be  weeping,  and  wailing, 
and  gnashing  of  teeth."  (Al.  40:13.) 

Blessings  follow  tribulation 

We  can  draw  assurance  from  the 
Lord's  promise  that  "he  that  is  faithful 
in  tribulation,  the  reward  of  the  same 
is  greater  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

"Ye  cannot  behold  with  your  natural 
eyes,  for  the  present  time,  [he  said,] 
the  design  of  your  God  concerning 
those  things  which  shall  come  here- 
after, and  the  glory  which  shall  follow 
much  tribulation. 

"For  after  much  tribulation  come  the 
blessings.  .  .  ."  (D&C  58:2-4.) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


60 

Saturday,  October  4 

Glory  in  tribulations 

We  can  experience  what  Paul  was 
expressing  in  his  epistle  to  the  Romans, 
when  he  said: 

"Therefore  being  justified  by  faith, 
we  have  peace  with  God  through  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ: 

"By  whom  also  we  have  access  by 
faith  into  this  grace  wherein  we  stand, 
and  rejoice  in  hope  of  the  glory  of 
God. 

"And  not  only  so,  but  we  glory  in 
tribulations  also:  knowing  that  tribula- 
tion worketh  patience; 

"And  patience,  experience;  and  ex- 
perience, hope: 

"And  hope  maketh  not  ashamed;  be- 
cause the  love  of  God  is  shed  abroad  in 
our  hearts  by  the  Holy  Ghost  which 
is  given  unto  us."  (Rom.  5:1-5.) 

In  conclusion,  I  testify  to  the  truth- 
fulness of  these  things.  They  are  part 
and  parcel  of  the  restored  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  I  know  they  are  true.  I 
have  read  and  been  impressed  by  the 
testimony  of  others.  Paul,  for  example, 
having  thrice  sought  the  Lord  to  re- 
move "a  thorn  in  the  flesh,"  was  an- 
swered: "My  grace  is  sufficient  for  thee: 
for  my  strength  is  made  perfect  in 
weakness."  Then  Paul  answered:  "Most 
gladly  therefore  will  I  rather  glory  in 
my  infirmities,  that  the  power  of  Christ 
may  rest  upon  me. 

"Therefore  I  take  pleasure  in  infirmi- 
ties, in  reproaches,  in  necessities,  in 
persecutions,  in  distresses  for  Christ's 
sake:  for  when  I  am  weak,  then  am  I 
strong."  (2  Cor.  12:9-10.) 

Growth  through  adversity 

Not  only  have  I  been  impressed  by 
the  testimonies  of  others;  I  have  been 


Second  Day 

eyewitness  to  the  operation  of  these 
principles  in  the  lives  of  my  own 
acquaintances.  I  have  seen  the  remorse 
and  despair  in  the  lives  of  men  who,  in 
the  hour  of  trial,  have  cursed  God  and 
died  spiritually.  And  I  have  seen  people 
rise  to  great  heights  from  what  seemed 
to  be  unbearable  burdens. 

Finally,  I  have  sought  the  Lord  in 
my  own  extremities  and  learned  for 
myself  that  my  soul  has  made  its  great- 
est growth  as  I  have  been  driven  to  my 
knees  by  adversity  and  affliction. 

To  these  things  I  bear  solemn  wit- 
ness in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our 
beloved  Savior,  and  in  his  name  I  in- 
voke a  comforting  and  sustaining  bless- 
ing upon  each  of  you.  In  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen.  O 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

The  comforting  and  encouraging  ad- 
dress just  given  was  by  Elder  Marion 
G.  Romney  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now 
sing:  "The  Artisan,"  with  Olga  Gard- 
ner as  soloist,  following  which  there 
will  be  a  brief  organ  interlude  and 
then  Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  con- 
cluding speaker. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  "The 
Artisan"  with  Olga  Gardner  as  soloist. 

Following  this,  the  Choir  sang  the 
number,  "Come  Ye  Thankful  People." 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


•  My  brethren  and  sisters,  seen  and 
unseen,  godless  forces  threaten  us  of 
the  free  world.  My  text  is  from  Paul's 
timely  admonition: 

"Put  on  the  whole  armour  of  God, 
that  ye  may  be  able  to  stand  against 
the  wiles  of  the  devil. 


"For  we  wrestle  not  against  flesh 
and  blood,  but  against  principalities, 
against  powers,  against  the  rulers  of  the 
darkness  of  this  world,  against  spiritual 
wickedness  in  high  places."  (Eph. 
6:11-12.) 

A  modern-day  prophet  has  said,  ".  .  . 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


61 


when  acts  and  schemes  are  manifestly 
contrary  to  the  revealed  word  of  the 
Lord,  we  feel  justified  in  warning 
people  against  them.  We  may  be 
charitable  and  forbearing  to  the  sinner, 
but  must  condemn  the  sin.  .  .  ."  (David 
O.  McKay,  quoted  in  Statements  on 
Communism  and  the  Constitution  of 
the  United  States  [Deseret  Book, 
1964].) 

Fear  for  free  world 

Correspondence  and  the  printed 
word,  crossing  my  desk  daily,  proclaim 
the  deep  concern  and  agonizing  fear  of 
alert  people,  especially  concerned  par- 
ents, in  my  own  and  other  Christian 
nations,  fear  for  the  future  of  America 
and  the  free  world,  fear  we  may  lose 
all  we  hold  dear,  and  soon. 

While  most  Americans  continue  to 
enjoy  their  comfortable  complacency, 
the  fact  remains  that  the  American  way 
of  life,  with  its  spiritual  foundation, 
is  under  powerful  attack. 

The  godless  worldwide  Communist 
conspiracy  expects  one  day  soon  to  take 
over  the  United  States.  With  the  active 
support  of  some  150  known  or  suspected 
Communist  fronts  and  infiltrated 
groups  identified  by  the  FBI  (Human 
Events,  September  20,  1969);  with  al- 
most half  the  student  bodies  of 
colleges  and  universities  of  America 
reported  to  have  elected  presidents  who 
support  the  revolution;  with  acts  of 
treason  against  the  United  States  com- 
mitted daily  throughout  the  nation, 
and  laws  on  treason  and  sedition 
shattered  by  decisions  of  the  Supreme 
Court;  with  riots  in  125  cities  within 
five  days'  time,  2,600  buildings  burned 
and  713  of  them  in  the  nation's  capi- 
tal; with  revolutions  interrupting  oper- 
tions  of  200  colleges  and  universities 
since  Christmas;  with  the  Reds  order- 
ing the  New  Left  to  "close  down  100 
universities  in  1970";  and  with  the 
constant  aid  of  leftists,  dupes,  fellow 
travelers,  and  complacent  citizens,  the 
conspiracy  is  now  moving  into  what 
they  claim  is  the  final  stages  for  a 
nationwide  "revolutionary  take  over." 
(The  National  Program  Letter;  Dr. 
McBirnie's  Newsletter,  both  October 
1969.) 

Some  of  the  most  prominent  targets 


now  under  withering  fire  in  this  war 
against  us  are  the  Ten  Commandments, 
the  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  the  Consti- 
tution of  the  United  States,  the  institu- 
tion of  private  property,  and  the  basic 
concepts  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Surely  this  is  a  time  when  consideration 
might  well  be  given  by  the  people  of 
America,  and  the  entire  free  world,  to 
the  important  matter  of  citizenship  re- 
sponsibility and,  more  importantly, 
membership  in  the  churches  of  the  free 
world. 

Insidious  evils  widespread 

Today  we  face  insidious,  devastating 
evils  that  are  widespread.  Aimed  espe- 
cially at  the  destruction  of  America — 
the  last  great  bastion  of  freedom — with 
emphasis  on  our  youth,  the  evils  are 
everywhere,  sponsored,  promoted,  and 
directed  by  the  Communist  conspiracy, 
fellow  travelers,  and  dupes.  Never  has 
evil  been  presented  in  such  an  array  of 
appealing  forms.  We  face  a  most  dan- 
gerous revolution  in  America,  and  it  is 
now  in  progress.  According  to  the 
FBI,  "It  is  well-planned,  well-financed, 
and  well-armed."  As  citizens  of  the 
greatest  nation  of  the  world,  we  face  a 
deadly  serious  crisis.  We  must  do 
battle  with  these  evil  forces  on  every 
front,  now.  Any  delay  will  be  disas- 
trous. "We  must  begin  aggression 
against  evil.  The  time  for  procrastina- 
tion and  permissiveness  is  long  past." 

These  atrocious,  destructive  evils  are 
now  revealed  in  our  music,  in  our  art, 
in  sex  perversion  and  so-called  sex 
education  in  the  schools,  in  destructive 
sensitivity  training — a  powerful  form 
of  Pavlovian  brainwashing,  as  used  by 
Communists  on  captured  American 
servicemen  in  Korea  and  by  Hitler  in 
Nazi  Germany. 

These  evils  are  prominent  in  the 
promotion  of  drugs — LSD,  marijuana, 
and  a  host  of  others — in  leading  maga- 
zines and  underground  publications 
for  youth;  in  TV,  movie,  and  radio 
programs,  in  pornographic  literature, 
in  morally  destructive  paperback  books 
available  to  all  on  newsstands,  and  in 
Communist-oriented  anti-American  or- 
ganizations, such  as  SDS  (Students  for 
a  Democratic  Society). 

These  devilish  forces  "led  generally 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


62 

Saturday,  October  4 

by  dirty  minds  in  dirty  bodies,"  seem 
to  be  everywhere.  They  are  spreading 
into  every  segment  of  our  social,  eco- 
nomic, and  religious  life — all  aimed  at 
the  destruction  of  one  whole  generation 
of  our  choice  youth  in  preparation  for 
the  Communist  take-over. 

The  godless  Communists  have  de- 
clared, "We  are  going  to  destroy  the 
moral  character  of  a  generation  of 
young  Americans,  and  when  we  have 
finished  you  will  have  nothing  with 
which  to  really  defend  yourself  against 
us." 

Courageous  action  needed 

We  may,  as  adults,  close  our  eyes 
to  them  and  keep  our  heads  in  the  sand, 
hoping  they  will  go  away;  but  these 
evils  are  here,  close  by,  working  in- 
sidiously and  destructively  day  by  day, 
hour  by  hour,  without  ceasing.  Will 
parents  who  have  abandoned  their 
responsibilities  for  the  training  and 
guidance  of  their  children  awaken  and 
act  before  it  is  too  late? 

We  may  cry,  "peaceful  coexistence," 
but  there  is  no  such  thing  with  the 
devil  and  his  emissaries.  We  are  at 
war — not  a  cold  war,  but  a  burning, 
searing  hot  war,  the  most  serious  war 
in  the  memory  of  man.  We  must  win 
this  war  now.  Will  parents  bestir 
themselves  before  it  is  too  late?  Will 
our  political  leaders  really  awaken  to 
the  danger?  Will  courageous  action 
come  before  destruction  falls?  Will  we 
as  citizens  rally  prayerfully  and  ac- 
tively to  courageous  leadership? 

Eternal  verities 

The  Christian  world — the  real  Chris- 
tian world — knows  that  there  are  certain 
eternal  verities,  principles,  that  never 
change.  Jesus  Christ  is  in  very  deed 
"the  way,  the  truth,  and  the  life."  The 
Ten  Commandments  are  verily  true. 
They  form  a  permanently  binding  code 
of  conduct  that  man  cannot  violate 
without  drastic  damage  to  both  his 
material  and  his  spiritual  welfare.  We 
know  that  God  is  not  dead — that  he  is 
watching  us — even  though  one  of  the 
Russian  astronauts  cracked:  "We've 
been  all  over  'heaven'  and  we  didn't 
see  any  sign  of  God." 

Yes,  godless  forces  do  threaten  our 


Second  Day 

great  civilization.  These  godless  forces 
are  forging  a  union  of  state  and 
atheism.  I  quote  in  substance  from 
the  well-known  constitutional  lawyer, 
Dean  Clarence  E.  Manion  (see  Ma- 
nion  Forum  Broadcast  747,  January  26, 
1969): 

Astronauts'  praise  of  God 

Can  you  name  the  three  kings  who 
came  out  of  the  East  bearing  gifts  for 
the  Infant  Jesus?  St.  Matthew  called 
them  the  Three  Wise  Men  of  the  Year 
One  a.d.  A  few  months  ago  a  national 
magazine  called  the  Apollo  8  Astro- 
nauts the  Three  Men  of  the  Year  1968. 
But  by  whatever  name  they  are  called, 
these  six  famous  men  are  now  forever 
joined  across  the  centuries  by  then- 
colorful  execution  of  the  same  high 
purpose.  All  of  them  followed  their 
stars  from  the  end  of  their  earth  to 
praise  and  glorify  God. 

The  miracle  for  St.  Matthew's  men 
was  the  unerring  accuracy  of  the  Star 
of  Bethlehem,  which  guided  them  to 
their  divine  destination.  The  wonder 
of  the  world  for  1968  was  the  apparent 
common  faith,  wisdom,  humility,  and, 
last  but  not  least,  the  moral  courage 
of  Colonel  Borman,  Captain  Lovell, 
and  Major  Anders,  who,  on  Christmas 
Day,  at  the  apex  of  history's  then  long- 
est and  most  perilous  voyage,  gave 
praise  and  thanks  to  God,  the  Creator 
of  heaven  and  earth,  and  implored  his 
blessing  upon  all  of  the  three  billion 
listening  people  of  this  world. 

When  all  of  the  facts,  figures,  and 
findings  of  the  first  incredible  journey 
to  the  moon  are  finally  evaluated  and 
computerized,  this  unscheduled,  un- 
precedented public  act  of  religious  faith 
and  worship  will  be  found,  like  the 
name  of  Abou  Ben  Adhem,  to  lead  all 
the  rest  for  all  the  years  to  come.  With- 
out the  blessings  of  the  Lord,  all  this 
would  be  quite  impossible. 

War  against  religion 

Those  professed  atheists,  who  have 
confidently  relied  upon  science  to  de- 
throne and  eclipse  Almighty  God,  are 
already  doing  their  manful  best,  of 
course,  to  rub  out  all  reference  to  the 
prayer   in   their   recapitulation  and 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


63 


evaluation  of  Apollo  8.  The  monitor- 
ing Communists  in  Moscow  decided 
wisely  to  ignore  it.  But  some  others 
are  unable  to  restrain  their  indignation 
and  have  probably  been  back  to  the 
United  States  Supreme  Court  seeking 
the  same  kind  of  prohibition  against 
the  public  glorification  of  God  in  the 
heavens  that  they  have  so  successfully 
maintained  here  on  earth. 

The  justices  may  or  may  not  wel- 
come this  new  opportunity  to  reenforce 
their  strange  new  doctrine  of  neutrality 
in  the  weird  war  that  is  being  fronted 
against  God  and  religion.  Undoubtedly, 
the  Court's  ultimate  decision  will  be 
influenced  by  what  happens  to  the 
attitude  of  the  American  people  in  the 
meantime.  For  the  real  question  now 
is  this:  How  much  longer  will  the 
American  people — the  whole  Christian 
world — continue  to  tolerate  the  sadistic 
beating  that  religion  has  been  taking 
in  this  country  and  elsewhere  for  the 
past  25  years? 

Strategy  of  godless  forces 

Frankly  recognizing  that  godless 
forces  in  this  country  have  always  been 
overwhelmingly  outnumbered  by  the 
faithful,  the  first  working  principle 
of  the  anti-God  strategists  has  been  to 
move  insidiously  and  always  carefully 
to  avoid  anything  that  resembles  a 
direct  attack  or  a  frontal  confrontation 
with  their  opponents. 

So  in  launching  their  campaign 
against  God,  the  attackers  proceeded 
first  to  ignore  him  in  the  secular  press; 
second,  to  humanize  him  in  the 
churches;  third,  to  clobber  him  with 
ridicule  on  the  campus;  and,  finally,  to 
induce  the  courts  to  enforce  official 
governmental  neutrality  in  all  litigated 
controversies  about  God  and  religion. 

From  a  practical  standpoint,  of 
course,  these  decisions  establish  a  union 
of  state  and  atheism.  The  accomplish- 
ment of  this  last  objective  has  taken 
prayer  out  of  the  public  schools;  and 
if  and  when  the  judicial  conclusion  is 
extended  to  its  logical  limits,  it  will 
abolish  tax  exemption  for  church 
property,  eliminate  chaplains  from  the 
armed  services,  remove  our  motto  "In 
God  we  trust"  from  our  coins,  and 


require  major  surgery  upon  our  official 
salute  to  the  flag. 

We  must  realize  that  the  anti-prayer 
decisions  are  simply  a  beguiling  climax 
in  the  wide-ranging  campaign  against 
God  and  religion  that  has  been  sus- 
tained here  in  this  country,  and  in 
many  other  nations,  for  more  than 
three  decades. 

Recognition  of  Russia 

It  was  boldly  begun  here  in  1933 
(November  16),  when  the  United 
States  announced  our  diplomatic  recog- 
nition of  atheistic  Soviet  Russia.  For  15 
years  the  United  States  had  refused  to 
recognize  the  godless  Moscow  Com- 
munists, for  the  reasons  published  at 
length  in  1920  by  Bainbridge  Colby, 
Secretary  of  State  in  the  administration 
of  President  Woodrow  Wilson.  In  con- 
cluding his  long  letter  of  documenta- 
tion and  explanation,  Colby  had  said 
this:  "There  cannot  be  any  common 
ground  upon  which  the  Government  of 
the  United  States  can  stand  with  a 
power  whose  conceptions  are  so  entirely 
alien  to  our  own,  so  utterly  repugnant 
to  our  moral  sense." 

This  recognition,  together  with  the 
abandonment  of  the  inspired  Monroe 
Doctrine,  gave  the  Red  atheists  a  big 
diplomatic  sanctuary  for  the  coordina- 
tion and  direction  of  their  propagandist 
spies  and  saboteurs.  These  promptly 
infiltrated  every  branch  of  our  federal 
government  and  later  every  segment  of 
our  economy,  and  more  recently  have 
established  a  godless  base  90  miles  from 
our  shores.  Our  recognition  broke  the 
ice  of  American  resistance  to  the  ac- 
ceptance of  the  Kremlin  gangsters  into 
the  international  community  as  a  legiti- 
mate government  and  so  strengthened 
their  iron  grip  upon  the  tortured  people 
of  Russia  and  her  satellites. 

Works  of  atheism 

Judging  by  its  demoralized  works, 
atheism  has  now  quit  advancing  in 
this  country  simply  because  it  has  ar- 
rived. Not  just  rhetorically  but  actually 
— our  country  is  in  an  ungodly  mess. 
City  streets  are  terrorized  by  crime;  our 
biggest  and  most  expensive  campuses 
are  paralyzed  by  nihilism  and  anarchy; 
with  special  license  from  the  Supreme 


64  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  4 

Court,  theaters  are  boldly  featuring  sex 
perversion   and   the   newsstands  are 
loaded  with  hard-core  pornography. 
Big-name    investigating  commissions 
have  told  us  all  about  riots,  crime, 
progress,  and  poverty,  but  always  in 
materialistic  terms  of  money,  housing, 
social  service  jobs,  and  birth  control — 
without  a  word  about  the  possibilities 
for  personal  moral  self-restraint. 

What  about  our  churches?  You  have 
heard  the  startling  story  of  what  scien- 
tific atheism  has  done  to  institutional 
religion  in  the  United  States  and  else- 
where. 

America's  belief  in  God 

But  if  atheism  has  taken  over,  then 
who  and  where  are  the  atheists?  It 
was  sheer  coincidence,  of  course,  that 
the  day  after  the  1968  astronauts  gave 
us  their  inspiring  prayer  from  the 
moon,  the  Gallup  Poll  reported  that 
98  percent  of  the  American  people  be- 
lieve in  God.  Fantastic?  Not  at  all. 
How  many  avowed  atheists  do  you 
know  personally? 

Gallup  also  found  that  65  percent  of 
us  believe  in  hell  and  60  percent  of  all 
Americans  believe  in  the  devil.  Now 
just  a  word  to  this  big  majority  who 
believe  in  the  devil.  Who,  in  your 
opinion,  has  masterminded  this  tragic 
transformation  of  the  official,  control- 
ling American  mind?  The  devil? 
Through  Satan's  communistic  counter- 
feit to  the  gospel?  Then,  why  don't  we 
all  say  so? 

Now  to  the  98  percent  of  us  who 
believe  in  God:  Well,  the  astronauts 
did  something  big  about  it.  Now  will 
you  please  do  a  little  something  about 
it  when  you  get  your  next  captive  audi- 
ence, however  small  it  is? 

Organized  atheism,  representing  just 
two  percent  of  our  population,  has  con- 
taminated— is  still  contaminating — the 
whole  course  of  American  life,  of 
Christian  life  everywhere.  In  this  coun- 
try today  a  two  percent  tail  is  wagging 
the  big  98  percent  dog.  Never  in  all 
history  have  so  many  been  horn- 
swoggled  by  so  few. 

Start  working  and  praying 

For  years  we  have  all  been  obsessed 
with  the  iniquities  of  the  Supreme 


Second  Day 

Court.  The  way  to  do  something  about 
the  Supreme  Court  is  for  the  98  percent 
of  us  to  become  obsessed  with  the 
omnipotent  goodness  of  the  Supreme 
Being.  What  do  you  suppose  would 
happen  in  all  branches  of  our  govern- 
ment if  the  98  percent  of  us  would  stop 
complaining  and  start  working  and 
praying? 

We  Americans  have  come  almost  a 
year  with  a  new  national  administra- 
tion in  the  United  States.  The  world 
is  watching.  Perhaps  now  is  the  time 
to  return  to  basic  eternal  concepts,  to 
praise  the  Lord  while  we  continue  to 
work  hard  on  the  Congress,  the  Presi- 
dent, and  the  Supreme  Court. 

Other  nations  might  well  follow  a 
similar  pattern  of  concern. 

As  Americans — as  members  of  the 
worldwide  Christian  community — we 
can  defeat  the  godless,  atheistic  forces 
that  threaten  us.  Yes,  with  the  help  of 
Almighty  God  we  can — we  must — win 
the  war  against  the  evil  forces  which 
seem  almost  to  overwhelm  us.  The 
eternal  verities  revealed  from  God, 
through  his  inspired  prophets,  have  not 
and  will  not  change. 

Let  us  "put  on  the  whole  armour  of 
God,  that  [we]  may  be  able  to  stand 
against  the  wiles  of  the  devil."  There 
is  no  other  way  of  safety. 

God  is  not  dead.  He  lives,  for  he  has 
appeared — together  with  his  Beloved 
Son  Jesus  Christ — in  our  day.  This  I 
know,  as  I  know  that  I  live,  and  I  bear 
this  humble  witness  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen.  O 


Following  Brother  Benson's  address, 
the  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  num- 
ber, "Fight  the  Good  Fight." 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

We  wish  to  express  sincere  apprecia- 
tion for  the  incomparable  renditions  of 
the  Tabernacle  Choir. 

We  are  grateful  for  the  warm  re- 
sponse from  the  managers  and  operators 
of  over  300  television  and  radio  stations 
in  offering  their  facilities  as  a  public 
service  to  make  the  proceedings  of 
this  conference  available  to  millions 
throughout  many  areas  of  the  world. 


SECOND  DAY 


65 


Through  special  arrangements  of  the 
Armed  Forces  Radio  and  Television 
Network  this  session  will  be  televised 
to  bases  of  the  Armed  Forces  through- 
out the  Pacific,  and  will  be  heard  by 
the  radio  in  Vietnam. 

We  appreciate  the  attendance  here 
this  morning  of  educators,  national  and 
local  government  officials,  Church 
officials,  and  all  members  and  visitors 
who  attended  this  service  this  morning. 

We  shall  conclude  this  service  with 
the  Tabernacle  Choir  singing:  "The 
Lord's  Prayer."  Following  the  singing 


the  benediction  will  be  pronounced  by 
Elder  Harold  Brown,  president  of  the 
Mexico  City  Stake,  and  the  conference 
will  be  adjourned  until  2:00  this  after- 
noon. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  as  the 
closing  hymn,  "The  Lord's  Prayer." 

The  benediction  was  offered  by 
President  Harold  Brown  of  the  Mexico 
City  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock 
p.m. 


SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


FOURTH  SESSION 

Conference  reconvened  at  2  p.m.,  Sat- 
urday, October  4,  with  President  Joseph 
Fielding  Smith  of  the  First  Presidency 
conducting  the  meeting. 

The  MIA  Girls'  Centennial  Chorus, 
with  Margrit  F.  Lohner  conducting, 
furnished  the  choral  music  for  this  ses- 
sion of  the  conference.  Elder  Roy  M. 
Darley  was  at  the  organ. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  meeting, 
President  Smith  made  the  following 
remarks: 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Following  the  doctors'  orders,  Presi- 
dent McKay  is  watching  this  session 
of  the  conference  by  television  from  his 
apartment.  He  has  asked  that  I  conduct 
this  service,  and  to  extend  his  greetings 
and  love  to  all  present  here,  and  to  all 
who  are  listening  in. 

For  the  information  of  the  television 
and  radio  audience,  we  wish  to  an- 
nounce that  we  are  assembled  in  the 
historic  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square 
in  Salt  Lake  City  in  the  fourth  session 
of  the  139th  Semi-Annual  Conference 
of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

We  are  pleased  to  announce  that 
this  morning's  session,  in  addition  to 
being  broadcast  direct,  was  video-taped, 
and  will  be  released  through  many 
television  stations  tomorrow  morning  to 


the  eastern  and  central  parts  of  the 
United  States,  and  also  to  Hawaii  and 
bases  of  the  Armed  Forces  throughout 
the  Pacific. 

The  sessions  of  this  conference  are 
being  televised  in  color,  and  will  be 
received  by  many  in  the  United  States 
and  Canada  over  most  stations  cooper- 
ating to  provide  the  extensive  coverage 
of  this  conference. 

Both  of  the  sessions  today  will  be 
re-broadcast  over  KSL  Radio,  KIRO 
Radio  at  Seattle,  KMBZ  Radio  at 
Kansas  City,  Missouri,  and  WNYW 
International  Short-Wave  Radio  at 
New  York  City,  Sunday  morning 
starting  at  midnight. 

The  singing  for  this  afternoon's  ses- 
sion will  be  furnished  by  the  MIA  Girls 
Centennial  Chorus,  conducted  by 
Margrit  F.  Lohner,  with  Roy  M.  Darley 
at  the  organ.  These  450  singers  were 
selected  from  63  stakes  in  the  Salt  Lake 
Valley.  We  are  very  pleased  indeed  to 
have  these  singers  with  us  at  this  hour. 

We  shall  begin  this  service  by  the 
Girls  Chorus  singing,  "Joseph  Smith's 
First  Prayer,"  following  which  the  in- 
vocation will  be  offered  by  Elder  An- 
drew O.  McArthur,  president  of  the  St. 
George  Stake. 


The  MIA  Girls  Centennial  Chorus 
sang  the  hymn,  "Joseph  Smith's  First 
Prayer." 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


66 

Saturday,  October  4 

President  Andrew  O.  McArthur  of 
the  St.  George  Stake  offered  the  open- 
ing prayer. 


Second  Day 

God  Is  Intelligence,"  after  which  Elder 
Richard  L.  Evans  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  will  be  our  speaker. 


President  Smith  _,  .  _  , 

The  song,    The  Glory  ot  God  Is  In- 

The  MIA  Girls  Centennial  Chorus  telligence,"  was  rendered  by  the  MIA 
will  now  favor  us  with  "The  Glory  of     Girls  Centennial  Chorus. 


ELDER  RICHA 

Of  the  Council 

•  President  McKay,  and  my  beloved 
brethren  and  sisters: 

My  heart  has  been  touched,  as  I  am 
sure  yours  have  been,  by  the  beautiful 
singing  of  this  MIA  girls'  centennial 
chorus.  I  am  sure  that  for  them,  in 
their  loveliness  at  this  time  of  life,  it 
is  wonderful  "to  discover  that  they  are 
being  discovered!" 

MIA  theme 

Now,  with  their  presence  and  their 
participation,  it  would  seem  appro- 
priate to  turn  to  this  year's  MIA  theme: 
"For  the  eternal  purposes  of  the  Lord 
shall  roll  on,  until  all  his  promises 
shall  be  fulfilled."  (Morm.  8:22.)  This, 
my  beloved  young  friends,  whoever  you 
are,  wherever  you  are,  whatever  you're 
thinking,  wherever  you're  going — this, 
I  promise  you,  you  can  count  on. 

We  come  to  you  today — to  you,  our 
beloved  young  people  everywhere — 
with  an  awareness  that  you  face  a 
complexity  of  choices  such  as  we  at 
your  age  had  never  heard  of,  and  yet 
with  an  awareness  that  the  principles 
are  as  clear-cut  as  they  ever  were,  as 
they  always  were. 

And  in  the  few  moments  I  have,  I'd 
like  to  touch  quickly  upon  a  number  of 
subjects: 

Important  commitment  of  marriage 

First,  I  know  of  no  more  complete  or 
important  commitment,  in  time  or  in 
eternity,  than  marriage.  In  marriage 
we  choose  the  closest  companion  of  our 
life.  In  marriage  we  choose  the  parents 
of  our  children  and  the  heritage  they 
have.  Don't  let  this  choice  ever  be 
made  except  with  earnest,  searching, 


RD  L.  EVANS 

of  the  Twelve 

prayerful  consideration,  confiding  in 
parents,  in  faithful,  mature,  trustworthy 
friends,  making  sure  the  person  you 
marry  shares  your  ideals,  your  convic- 
tions; a  person  with  ambition,  integrity, 
and  intelligence;  a  person  of  cleanli- 
ness, of  faith,  of  reverence  and  respect, 
to  whom  you  would  be  willing  to  trust 
your  children,  and  your  own  happiness, 
forever.  Oh,  be  sure  you  choose  a  mate 
of  character  and  kindness.  And  don't 
be  stampeded  by  the  music  and  the 
moonlight. 

May  I  share  a  quotation  from  Presi- 
dent Tanner  that  is  much  worth  re- 
membering: "The  parents  that  you 
should  honor  more  than  any  others 
are  the  parents  of  your  children-to-be. 
Those  children  are  entitled  to  the  best 
parents  that  it  is  possible  for  you  to 
give  them — clean  parents."  (Church 
News,  April  19,  1969,  p.  2.) 

Statements  on  morality 

And  now  on  the  matter  of  morality: 
May  I  cite  two  significant  sources:  "The 
finest  piece  of  mechanism  in  all  the 
universe,"  said  Dr.  David  Starr  Jordan, 
of  Stanford  University,  "is  the  brain  of 
man  and  the  mind  which  is  its  mani- 
festation. .  .  .  The  sober  man  is  the 
one  who  protects  his  brain  from  all 
that  would  do  harm.  .  .  .  The  Twen- 
tieth Century  .  .  .  will  be  strenuous, 
complex  .  .  .  [and]  will  ask  for  men  of 
instant  decision,  men  whose  mental 
equipment  is  all  in  order.  ...  No  one 
can  afford  to  look  downward  for  his 
enjoyments.  .  .  .  The  pleasures  of  vice 
are  mere  illusions,  tricks  of  the  nervous 
system,  and  each  time  these  tricks  are 
played  it  is  more  and  more  difficult 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


67 


for  the  mind  to  tell  the  truth.  Such  de- 
ceptions come  through  drunkenness  and 
narcoticism.  In  greater  or  less  degree 
all  nerve-affecting  drugs  produce  it: 
nicotine,  caffeine,  opium,  cocaine,  and 
[all]  the  rest,  strong  or  weak.  Habitual 
use  of  any  of  these  is  a  physical  vice. 
A  physical  vice  becomes  a  moral  vice, 
and  ...  to  cultivate  vice  is  to  render 
.  .  .  our  mind  incapable  of  normal  ac- 
tion. .  .  .  One  and  all,  these  various 
drugs  .  .  .  tend  to  give  the  impression 
of  a  power  or  a  pleasure  .  .  .  which  we 
do  not  possess.  .  .  .  One  and  all  their 
function  is  to  force  the  nervous  system 
to  lie.  One  and  all  the  result  of  their 
habitual  use  is  to  render  the  nervous 
system  incapable  of  ever  telling  the 
truth.  .  .  .  Indulgence  .  .  .  destroys  wis- 
dom and  virtue;  it  destroys  faith  and 
hope  and  love.  .  .  .  Whatever  you  do, 
.  .  .  count  all  the  cost." 

Thus  spoke  the  eminent  educator, 
Dr.  Jordan.  And  this  he  added:  "To  be 
clean  is  to  be  strong.  ...  To  say  no  at 
the  right  time,  and  then  stand  by  it, 
is  the  first  element  of  success.  .  .  .  He 
is  the  wise  man  who,  for  all  his  life, 
can  keep  mind  and  soul  and  body 
clean."  (Selected  from  The  Strength  of 
Being  Clean  and  The  Call  of  the 
Twentieth  Century.) 

And  now,  for  the  second  source:  Dr. 
Frank  Crane  said:  "Nature  keeps  books 
pitilessly.  Your  credit  with  her  is  good, 
but  she  collects.  .  .  .  She  never  forgets; 
she  sees  to  it  that  you  pay  her  every 
cent  you  owe,  with  interest.  .  .  .  Every 
generation  a  new  crop  of  fools  comes 
on.  They  think  they  can  beat  the 
orderly  universe.  They  conceive  them- 
selves to  be  more  clever  than  the  eter- 
nal laws.  They  snatch  goods  from 
Nature's  store  and  run.  .  .  .  And  one 
by  one  they  all  come  back  to  Nature's 
counter  and  pay — pay  in  tears,  in 
agony,  in  despair;  pay  as  fools  before 
them  have  paid."  (Four  Minute  Essays: 
Pay,  Pay,  Pay!) 

Laws  of  life  in  force 

There  isn't  any  way  to  cheat  nature, 
to  bypass  law,  to  run  away  from  life. 
The  commandments  haven't  been  re- 
pealed; the  laws  of  morality,  the 
spiritual  laws,  the  laws  of  life  are  still 
in  force  and  effect. 


Oh,  don't  let  others  drag  you  down, 
and  don't  drag  yourself  down.  No  mat- 
ter what  cynical  or  immoral  or  even 
honestly  mistaken  people  may  say, 
don't  let  them  destroy  your  faith  or 
your  virtue,  or  lead  you  to  a  lower  way 
of  life. 

And  when  they  try  to  tell  you  what 
you're  missing,  you  tell  them  what 
they're  missing:  peace  and  self-respect 
and  a  quiet  conscience — happiness — 
and  the  assurance  of  the  highest  op- 
portunities of  everlasting  life. 

The  question  of  love 

Now  to  turn  to  the  question  of  love: 
There  are  tests  to  which  love  should  be 
put.  Don't  trust  the  love  of  anyone 
who  would  propose  to  you  what  is 
improper.  Don't  trust  the  love  of  any- 
one who  would  hurt  or  embarrass  you 
or  tempt  you  to  evil,  or  endeavor  to 
induce  you  to  do  that  which  would 
lead  you  to  shame  or  sorrow. 

The  test  of  love  is  in  how  we  live. 
If  we  do  really  love  someone,  we  would 
do  for  them,  or  induce  them  to  do,  only 
what  would  be  for  their  happiness  and 
peace  and  protection,  for  their  benefit 
and  blessing. 

If  we  truly  love  our  parents,  we  will 
prove  our  love  by  living  honorable 
lives  and  by  respecting  them,  caring 
for  them,  taking  them  into  our  con- 
fidence. 

If  we  love  the  Church,  we  will  prove 
that  love  by  how  we  serve  and  honor 
our  membership  in  it. 

Sometimes  we  say  we  love  the  Lord, 
but  he  has  told  us  how  to  prove  that 
love:  "If  ye  love  me,  keep  my  com- 
mandments." (John  14:15.) 

Don't  be  deceived  by  false  or  selfish 
or  counterfeit  love  from  any  source. 

Faith  in  God's  word 

Now,  as  to  faith:  Believe  me,  you 
can  count  on  all  that  God  has  said. 
More  than  a  hundred  thirty-six  years 
ago,  to  a  young  prophet  he  said  simply, 
".  .  .  tobacco  is  not  .  .  .  good  for 
man.  .  .  ."  (D&C  89:8.)  It  has  taken 
medical  science  more  than  a  century 
to  prove  that  the  Lord  knew  what  he 
was  talking  about.  When  he  tells  us 
something,  he  expects  us  to  believe  it. 


68  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  4 

It  doesn't  take  faith  to  believe  the 
Word  of  Wisdom  any  more.  It  just 
takes  a  little  common  sense. 

I  have  been  privileged  to  know  some 
of  the  most  brilliant  men  of  the  earth, 
in  many  countries,  worldwide.  I  have 
a  great  respect  for  research  and  scholar- 
ship and  for  the  skills  and  talents  and 
minds  of  competent  men.  But  I  have 
never  known  a  man  who  knew  enough 
so  that  I  was  willing  to  trust  him  with 
my  everlasting  life.  I  only  know  one 
place  to  put  such  trust.  Oh,  I  plead 
with  you  to  go  all  the  way  with  your 
Father  in  heaven,  for  you  will  see — 
all  of  us  shall — in  time  and  in  eternity 
the  promises  of  God  fulfilled.  This  you 
can  count  on. 

Principle  of  repentance 

Now  a  word  about  repentance:  It 
seems  significant  that  repentance  is 
given  as  the  second  great  principle  of 
the  gospel:  "Faith,  repentance.  .  .  ." 
(Article  of  Faith  4.) 

We  all  make  mistakes.  If  our  re- 
pentance is  sincere,  we  have  the  right  to 
approach  him  for  forgiveness,  but  re- 
member we  are  not  entitled  to  any 
quota  of  mistakes.  It  is  always  better 
that  we  don't  make  them.  And  surely 
we  shouldn't  go  on  stupidly  or  stub- 
bornly repeating  the  same  old  mistakes 
over  and  over  again.  We  ought  to  have 
learned  our  lessons.  It  isn't  enough 
to  be  just  as  good  today  as  we  were 
yesterday.  We  should  be  better.  The 
Lord  doesn't  deal  in  theories.  When 
he  says  perfection  is  possible,  we'd 
better  be  improving.  But  one  of  the 
most  devilish  doctrines  that  anyone 
could  advocate  would  be  to  say  that 
because  someone  had  made  a  mistake, 
it  wouldn't  matter  if  he  made  one  more, 
or  many  more.  The  best  time  to  repent 
is  now,  before  the  next  time. 

But  don't  let  anyone  tell  you  ever 
that  you  are  beyond  repenting,  or  that 
there  is  no  point  in  repenting,  or  that 
it  is  all  right  to  postpone  repentance. 

The  burden  of  sin 

I  think  it  was  our  beloved  Brother 
Harold  B.  Lee  who  said  that  the 
heaviest  burden  in  the  world  is  the 
burden  of  sin.  Don't  carry  it  around 
with  you.    Don't  tamper  with  evil. 


Second  Day 

Don't  flirt  with  temptation.  Don't  live 
with  a  quarreling  conscience.  Confide 
in  those  who  love  you,  who  can  help 
you — your  parents,  your  bishops,  your 
stake  presidents.  Clean  out  the  clutter 
of  the  past  and  live  to  have  peace  and 
a  quiet  conscience. 

Many  centuries  ago  Mencius  said, 
"Let  men  decide  firmly  what  they  will 
not  do,  then  they  will  be  free  vigorously 
to  do  what  they  ought  to  do."  (Dis- 
courses, iv.)  All  of  us  ought  to  decide 
firmly  what  we  will  not  do.  We 
shouldn't  have  to  argue  with  ourselves 
at  each  time  of  temptation.  Taught  as 
we  are,  our  decisions  against  evil  ought 
to  be  more  or  less  automatic. 

In  the  words  of  Marcus  Aurelius,  "If 
it  is  not  right,  do  not  do  it;  if  it  is  not 
true,  do  not  say  it."  (Meditations,  Bk. 
xii,  sec.  17.) 

Laws  that  can  be  counted  on 

And  now,  as  to  law:  We  have  seen 
men  walk  on  the  moon  and  we  have 
marveled  at  the  minds  of  men.  But 
remember  this:  It  was  possible  to  go 
to  and  from  the  moon  because  there  are 
laws  that  can  be  counted  on,  because 
the  Creator  keeps  creation  in  its  course. 

I  witness  to  you,  my  beloved  young 
friends,  that  the  moral  and  spiritual 
laws  are  as  much  in  force  and  effect  as 
are  the  physical  laws. 

Study,  learn.  Don't  drop  out.  Seek 
wholesome  knowledge.  Develop  your 
talents.  Increase  in  competence.  Take 
counsel.  There  is  safety  in  counsel. 
Don't  stubbornly  and  rebelliously  de- 
cide to  go  it  alone  in  life.  Keep  your 
sense  of  humor.  Keep  your  standards. 
Love  and  respect  your  parents.  Keep 
close  to  the  Church.  Be  active  in  it. 
Love  and  serve  your  country,  your 
community.  Love  and  enjoy  life. 
Choose  the  right.  Keep  the  heritage  you 
have.  Seek  the  guidance  of  your 
Father  in  prayer.  Be  happy.  Have 
faith:  "For  the  eternal  purposes  of  the 
Lord  shall  roll  on,  until  all  his  prom- 
ises shall  be  fulfilled." 

This  I  witness  to  you  as  I  witness 
that  God  lives;  that  you  are  his 
children;  that  he  sent  his  divine  Son  to 
show  us  the  way  of  life  and  redeem  us 
from  death;  that  the  gospel  has  been  re- 
stored to  earth.    This  you  can  count 


ELDER  BERNARD  P.  BROCKBANK 


69 


on — and  your  life  can  be  as  happy  and 
wonderful  as  anyone  would  ever  want 
— "not  for  just  an  hour,  not  for  just 
a  day,  not  for  just  a  year,  but  always." 
(Irving  Berlin,  "Always.") 

God  bless  you  and  be  with  you,  my 
beloved  young  friends,  this  day — and 
always — I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen.  O 


President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

We  will  now  hear  from  Elder 
Bernard  P.  Brockbank,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
James  A.  Cullimore,  also  an  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  BERNARE 

Assistant  to  the  C 

•  My  dear  brothers  and  sisters:  It  is  a 
joy  to  be  in  the  atmosphere  of  peace 
and  love,  and  that  is  what  seems  to  be 
radiated  here  today.  I  would  like  to  give 
a  few  general  thoughts  in  the  few  mo- 
ments that  I  occupy.  I  would  like  to 
quote  a  few  statements  from  our  Lord 
and  Savior  Jesus  Christ. 

Statements  of  Jesus 

Jesus  said,  "For  I  came  down  from 
heaven,  not  to  do  mine  own  will,  but 
the  will  of  him  that  sent  me."  (John 
6:38.) 

"For  God  sent  not  his  Son  into  the 
world  to  condemn  the  world;  but  that 
the  world  through  him  might  be  saved." 
(John  3:17.) 

Brothers  and  sisters,  our  assignment 
is  not  to  condemn  the  world,  but  to 
help  save  the  world. 

"I  am  come  that  they  might  have  life, 
and  that  they  might  have  it  more 
abundantly. 

"I  am  the  good  shepherd:  the  good 
shepherd  giveth  his  life  for  the  sheep." 
(John  10:10-11.) 

"...  I  am  the  way,  the  truth,  and 
the  life:  no  man  cometh  unto  the 
Father,  but  by  me."  (John  14:6.) 

"...  I  am  the  light  of  the  world: 
he  that  followeth  me  shall  not  walk  in 
darkness,  but  shall  have  the  light  of 
life."  (John  8:12.) 

In  Jesus  Christ  and  his  teachings 
and  example  we  have  God's  truth; 
we  have  God's  way  and  God's  example 
for  full  and  abundant  life. 

Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  is  the 
Savior  of  the  world,  the  Messiah  and 
Redeemer  of  all  mankind,  and  the 


P.  BROCKBANK 

ncil  of  the  Twelve 

only  mediator  between  God  and  mortal 
man. 

Jesus  said,  ".  .  .  no  man  cometh  unto 
the  Father,  but  by  me."  (John  14:6.) 

The  apostle  Peter  said,  "Neither  is 
there  salvation  in  any  other:  for  there 
is  none  other  name  under  heaven 
given  among  men,  whereby  we  must  be 
saved."  (Acts  4:12.) 

Miracles  performed  by  Jesus 

Jesus  is  the  only  mortal  man  who 
proved  his  divine  godliness  by  the  many 
miracles  that  he  performed.  He  "re- 
buked the  wind  and  the  raging  of  the 
water:  and  they  ceased,  and  there  was 
calm: 

"And  they  being  afraid  wondered, 
saying  one  to  another,  What  manner 
of  man  is  this!  for  he  commandeth  even 
the  winds  and  water,  and  they  obey 
him."  (Luke  8:24-25.) 

Jesus  multiplied  five  loaves  of  bread 
and  two  fishes  and  fed  five  thousand 
hungry  people.  He  "commanded  the 
multitude  to  sit  down  on  the  grass,  and 
took  the  five  loaves,  and  the  two  fishes, 
and  looking  up  to  heaven,  he  blessed, 
and  brake,  and  gave  the  loaves  to  his 
disciples,  and  the  disciples  to  the  multi- 
tude. 

"And  they  did  all  eat,  and  were 
filled:  and  they  took  up  of  the  frag- 
ments that  remained  twelve  baskets 
full. 

"And  they  that  had  eaten  were  about 
five  thousand  men,  beside  women  and 
children."  (Matt.  14:19-21.) 

Before  witnesses  Jesus  raised  the  dead 
maid  and  Lazarus.  He  took  the  dead 
maid  by  the  hand  and  called,  saying, 
"Maid,  arise.    And  her  spirit  came 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


70 

Saturday,  October  A 

again,  and  she  arose  straightway.  .  .  ." 
(Luke  8:51-55.) 

The  people  who  were  with  Jesus 
when  he  called  Lazarus  out  of  his 
grave  and  raised  him  from  the  dead 
bear  their  records. 

Jesus  healed  the  blind,  the  crippled, 
and  the  sick. 

The  scriptures  say  Jesus  was  cruci- 
fied for  the  sins  of  the  world. 

First  to  be  resurrected 

Jesus  was  the  first  to  be  resurrected 
from  the  dead. 

The  glorious  resurrection  was  an- 
nounced. "He  is  not  here,  for  he  is 
risen.  .  .  ."  (Matt.  28:6.) 

"But  now  is  Christ  risen  from  the 
dead,  and  become  the  firstfruits  of  them 
that  slept."  (1  Cor.  15:20.) 

Jesus  appeared  to  his  disciples.  "Be- 
hold my  hands  and  my  feet,  that  it  is 
I  myself:  handle  me,  and  see;  for  a 
spirit  hath  not  flesh  and  bones,  as  ye 
see  me  have."  (Luke  24:39.) 

Paul  said,  "After  that,  he  was  seen 
of  about  five  hundred  brethren  at 
once.  ..."  (1  Cor.  15:6.) 

Many  other  miracles  were  performed 
by  him.  His  teachings,  his  life,  his 
death,  his  resurrection,  and  his  ascen- 
sion to  the  kingdom  of  God  are  evi- 
dence of  his  divinity. 

Jesus  is  the  God  of  love,  the  God  of 
peace,  the  God  of  light. 

God  is  light 

The  apostle  John  said,  "This  then 
is  the  message  which  we  have  heard  of 
him,  and  declare  unto  you,  that  God 
is  light,  and  in  him  is  no  darkness  at 
all. 

"If  we  say  that  we  have  fellowship 
with  him,  and  walk  in  darkness,  we 
lie,  and  do  not  the  truth: 

"But  if  we  walk  in  the  light,  as  he 
is  in  the  light,  we  have  fellowship  one 
with  another,  and  the  blood  of  Jesus 
Christ  his  Son  cleanseth  us  from  all 
sin."  (1  John  1:5-7.) 

"He  that  saith  he  is  in  the  light,  and 
hateth  his  brother,  is  in  darkness  even 
until  now. 

"He  that  loveth  his  brother  abideth 
in  the  light,  and  there  is  none  occasion 
of  stumbling  in  him. 


Second  Day 

"But  he  that  hateth  his  brother  is 
in  darkness,  and  walketh  in  darkness, 
and  knoweth  not  whither  he  goeth,  be- 
cause that  darkness  hath  blinded  his 
eyes."  (1  John  2:9-11.) 

Spiritual  darkness  today 

Today  there  is  spiritual  darkness  in 
the  world  in  many  places  and  in  the 
lives  of  many  of  the  Lord's  children. 
Much  has  been  said  in  this  conference 
relative  to  this. 

Today  there  is  widespread  disrespect 
for  God,  disrespect  for  Jesus  Christ  and 
his  teachings  and  commandments, 
disrespect  for  self  and  neighbor,  disre- 
spect for  marriage  and  family,  disrespect 
for  the  holy  scriptures. 

Many  love  themselves  and  pleasure 
more  than  they  love  God.  Men  love  the 
creatures  and  the  creations  of  God  more 
than  they  love  the  Creator.  Alcohol, 
tobacco,  stimulants,  and  drugs  are 
consumed  abundantly.  In  many,  the 
appetites  are  controlling  their  brains 
and  minds,  rather  than  the  God-given 
human  mind  controlling  the  appetites. 
Love  is  often  turned  into  lust.  Love 
is  from  God  and  lust  is  from  Satan. 

Blessings  available 

Young  people  and  many  others  are 
concerned  and  are  asking  about  today 
and  the  future.  I  am  often  asked, 
"What  does  today  and  the  future  offer 
me?" 

Young  people,  all  that  your  God  and 
your  Savior  have  ever  offered  to  mortal 
man  is  available  to  you  today.  Knowl- 
edge of  the  living  God  and  the  living 
Jesus  Christ  is  available  to  you  now. 

You  can  seek  first  the  kingdom  of 
God  and  his  righteousness,  and  he  has 
promised  you  his  care  and  blessings. 
The  God-inspired  scriptures,  the  Holy 
Bible  and  the  Book  of  Mormon,  with 
God's  plan  of  life,  are  available  today. 
You  can  pray  to  a  living  God  that 
created  you  in  his  image  and  likeness 
and  have  your  prayers  heard  and  an- 
swered. You  can  love  the  Lord  thy  God 
with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy 
soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind.  You  can 
love  neighbor  and  self.  You  can  be 
honest.  You  can  love  your  parents  and 
honor  them. 


ELDER  JAMES  A.  CULLIMORE 


71 


Prophets  on  the  earth 

There  is  a  prophet  of  God  and  apos- 
tles on  the  earth  today  to  assist  and 
help  you;  you  can  follow  their  example 
and  counsel. 

You  can  be  baptized  for  the  remis- 
sion of  sins  and  receive  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  by  those  holding  the 
priesthood  of  God. 

You  can  repent  and  be  forgiven  and 
be  free  of  sin.  Jesus  Christ  said,  "Be- 
hold, he  who  has  repented  of  his  sins, 
the  same  is  forgiven,  and  I,  the  Lord, 
remember  them  no  more."  (D&C 
58:42.)  Repentance  is  the  God-given 
principle  to  perfect  your  life.  When 
used,  it  cleanses  away  sin,  weakness, 
imperfection,  and  brings  progress,  peace, 
love,  righteousness,  and  eternal  life. 

Jesus  said,  ".  .  .  Repent:  for  the  king- 
dom of  heaven  is  at  hand."  (Matt. 
4:17.) 

Repentance  will  lift  you  from  dark- 
ness and  cloudiness  to  the  light  of 
godliness.  Preparation  for  the  kingdom 
of  heaven  through  repentance  is  avail- 
able to  you  today. 

Temple  marriage 

Young  people,  you  can  be  married 
for  time  and  eternity  in  a  temple  of 
God  by  one  holding  the  Holy  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood.  You  can  live  the 
God-revealed  Word  of  Wisdom  and 
have  the  destroying  angel  pass  you  by. 


You  can  pay  your  tithing  and  offerings 
and  have  the  Lord  open  the  windows 
of  heaven  and  pour  you  out  a  blessing, 
that  there  shall  not  be  room  enough 
to  receive  it.  You  can  do  the  will  of 
God  and  help  build  his  church  and 
kingdom  on  this  earth. 

All  of  the  accumulated  knowledge  of 
man  is  also  available  to  you  today.  It 
is  estimated  that  we  have  twice  the 
knowledge  available  today  that  we  had 
a  few  years  ago.  As  young  people,  all 
of  the  evils  of  the  world  are  also  avail- 
able to  you. 

The  power  of  choice 

Our  Prophet  opened  this  conference 
with  these  words  in  his  message:  "God 
gave  to  man  part  of  his  divinity.  He 
gave  man  the  power  of  choice,  and  no 
other  creature  in  the  world  has  it,  so 
he  placed  upon  the  individual  the  obli- 
gation of  conducting  himself  as  an 
eternal  being." 

Young  people,  when  you  pray,  pray 
for  wisdom,  pray  for  faith,  pray  for 
love,  pray  for  strength  and  forgiveness. 
Ask  to  be  helped  through  the  tempta- 
tions of  this  life  and  be  sure  you  ask 
to  be  delivered  from  evil. 

I  testify  that  Jesus  Christ  lives  to- 
day, that  he  is  the  way,  the  truth,  and 
the  life,  and  that  you  can  come  unto 
the  fullness  of  life  by  following  him, 
and  so  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen.  O 


ELDER  JAMES  A.  CULLIMORE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


•  My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters: 
This  is  a  choice  experience  to  be  with 
you  here  today.  » 

Passing  of  John  Longden 

The  passing  of  Brother  John  Long- 
den has  been  referred  to  at  least  twice 
during  this  conference.  I  would  also 
like  to  refer  to  this  and  let  you  know 
how  very  much  we  miss  our  fellow 
worker  and  associate,  and  how  he  is 
missed  in  the  Church  because  of  his 
untimely  death.  It  has  saddened  us 
all.    We  miss  him  greatly,  and  I  am 


sure  you  will  agree  with  me  that  he 
will  be  missed  all  over  the  Church. 
Brother  John  has  earned  a  great  re- 
ward, and  I  am  sure  that  in  the  king- 
dom of  our  Father  he  will  receive  this 
reward. 

I  was  greatly  impressed  by  the  peace 
and  understanding  with  which  Sister 
Longden  accepted  the  passing  of  John. 
Only  she  will  know,  of  course,  of  the 
real  sorrow,  the  pangs  of  loneliness, 
that  he  will  not  return  in  this  life.  But 
the  understanding  of  the  gospel  and 
the  plan  of  salvation  can  greatly  ease 
the  sting  of  death. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


72 

Saturday,  October  4 

God's  plan  of  salvation 

Knowing  the  beauty  of  God's  plan 
for  the  salvation  of  his  children  some- 
times makes  even  death  beautiful.  We 
understand  that  death  is  a  very  neces- 
sary part  of  the  great  plan  of  salvation 
and  that  it  is  the  means  of  the  separa- 
tion of  the  body  and  the  spirit,  in  which 
the  spirit  returns  to  God  and  the  body 
returns  to  the  earth.  As  the  scripture 
says:  "Then  shall  the  dust  return  to  the 
earth  as  it  was:  and  the  spirit  shall 
return  unto  God  who  gave  it."  (Eccles. 
12:7.) 

Death  is  just  as  necessary  as  birth 
in  this  great  plan.  Birth  into  this  life 
is  the  means  by  which  the  spirit  and 
the  body  are  joined  together  for  their 
great  mission  on  this  earth.  Resurrec- 
tion is  the  process  whereby  the  spirit, 
which  separated  from  the  body  in 
death,  is  again  reunited  with  the  body, 
which  has  been  purified,  glorified,  and 
immortalized,  never  to  be  separated 
again. 

Yes,  even  death  can  be  beautiful  as 
we  understand  the  plan  of  the  Lord 
and  know  that  in  life  we  have  lived 
well.  Even  the  pangs  of  sorrow,  be- 
cause of  separation  and  the  many 
memories,  are  momentarily  over- 
shadowed by  this  understanding. 

Passing  of  parents 

I  shall  never  forget  one  such  beauti- 
ful occasion.  My  parents  had  lived  a 
good  life.  They  had  celebrated  their 
sixty-fifth  wedding  anniversary.  To 
them  had  been  born  12  children;  six 
boys  filled  missions;  all  the  family  is 
active  in  the  Church.  Father  filled  a 
three-year  mission.  He  was  a  bishop  for 
nearly  thirty  years.  Mother  had  com- 
pletely sustained  my  father  in  all  his 
Church  activities  and  had  held  many 
responsible  positions  in  the  ward  her- 
self. When  father  left  on  his  mission, 
they  had  one  child  and  were  expecting 
another.  In  her  eighty-fourth  year, 
mother  broke  her  hip  and  was  quite  ill 
in  the  hospital.  My  father,  at  86,  was 
still  very  active  and  drove  to  work  each 
day.  He  came  from  work  that  day, 
visited  with  mother  in  the  hospital  for 
a  while,  then  went  on  to  the  house. 
That  evening  he  passed  away  peace- 


Second  Day 

fully.  Mother  never  knew  of  his 
passing,  for  the  next  day  she  passed 
away  also.  A  double  funeral  was  held. 
As  we  all  visited  during  the  evening  of 
the  viewing,  realizing  the  beautiful, 
full  lives  both  had  lived,  and  knowing 
the  kindness  of  the  Lord  in  sparing 
either  of  them  the  loneliness  of  being 
alone,  there  could  be  no  real  sorrow — 
yes,  momentary  grief  in  separation,  but 
otherwise  beautiful  peace  in  knowing 
they  were  together. 

The  meaning  of  death 

Not  long  ago  a  noted  scholar  wrote 
a  book  entitled  The  Meaning  of 
Death.  The  contents  of  his  work  were 
taken  from  several  case  histories  of 
individuals  who  were  suffering  from 
terminal  cancer.  These  people  were 
faced  with  the  immediate  problem  of 
dying. 

"The  object  of  the  study  was  to  as- 
sess the  feelings  of  those  who  were 
about  to  die.  Almost  universally  the 
patients  agreed  that  the  inevitability  of 
death  was  not  the  issue.  The  real  issue 
was  how  to  live  a  full  life.  They  all 
seemed  to  agree  that  the  problem  of 
dying  is  the  regret  of  not  having  lived." 
(Max  W.  Swenson,  "Living  Life  Abun- 
dantly," Impact,  Winter  1969,  p.  8.) 

The  concern  of  living  a  good  life  and 
keeping  the  commandments  in  prepara- 
tion to  meet  our  Maker  has  been  the 
concern  of  mankind  from  the  begin- 
ning. Unto  Cain  the  Lord  said,  "If 
thou  doest  well,  shalt  thou  not  be  ac- 
cepted? and  if  thou  doest  not  well,  sin 
lieth  at  the  door.  .  .  ."  (Gen.  4:7.) 

A  code  of  living 

Unto  Moses  the  Lord  gave  a  code  of 
living  that  was  reaffirmed  in  the 
meridian  dispensation  by  the  Savior 
and  again  in  this  dispensation  in 
which  he  said: 

"Thou  shalt  have  no  other  gods  be- 
fore me. 

"Thou  shalt  not  make  unto  thee  any 
graven  image. 

"Thou  shalt  not  take  the  name  of  the 
Lord  thy  God  in  vain. 

"Remember  the  sabbath  day,  to  keep 
it  holy. 

"Honour  thy  father  and  thy  mother. 
"Thou  shalt  not  kill. 


ELDER  JAMES  A.  CULLIMORE 


73 


"Thou  shalt  not  commit  adultery. 
"Thou  shalt  not  steal. 
"Thou  shalt  not  bear  false  wit- 
ness. 

"Thou  shalt  not  covet.  .  .  ."  (See 
Exod.  20:2-17.) 

The  Lord  exhorted  the  children  of 
Israel  to  obedience  when  he  said,  "Be- 
hold, I  set  before  you  this  day  a  blessing 
and  a  curse; 

"A  blessing,  if  ye  obey  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord  your  God,  which  I 
command  you  this  day: 

"And  a  curse,  if  ye  will  not  obey 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord  your 
God  "  (Deut.  11:26-28.) 

The  Savior  promised,  "For  the  Son 
of  man  shall  come  in  the  glory  of  his 
Father  with  his  angels;  and  then  he 
shall  reward  every  man  according  to 
his  works."  (Matt.  16:27.) 

Proper  conformity  in  life 

Possibly  one  of  the  most  direct  an- 
swers as  to  proper  conformity  in  life 
was  given  by  Peter  on  the  day  of  Pente- 
cost. Filled  with  the  Holy  Ghost,  he 
delivered  a  powerful  sermon  and  bore 
witness  to  the  divinity  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Many  were  pricked  in  their  hearts  and 
wanted  to  know  what  they  should  do 
to  be  saved.  He  said,  "Repent,  and  be 
baptized  every  one  of  you  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ  for  the  remission  of 
sins,  and  ye  shall  receive  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost. 

"For  the  promise  is  unto  you,  and 
to  your  children,  and  to  all  that  are 
afar  off,  even  as  many  as  the  Lord  our 
God  shall  call."  (Acts  2:38-39.) 

Paul,  who  found  the  Galatian  saints 
believing  false  doctrine,  called  them 
to  repentance,  saying,  "Be  not  deceived; 
God  is  not  mocked:  for  whatsoever  a 
man  soweth,  that  shall  he  also  reap. 

"For  he  that  soweth  to  his  flesh 
shall  of  the  flesh  reap  corruption;  but 
he  that  soweth  to  the  Spirit  shall  of 
the  Spirit  reap  life  everlasting."  (Gal. 
6:7-8.) 

In  this  dispensation  the  Lord  has 
said:  "If  thou  wilt  do  good,  yea,  and 
hold  out  faithful  to  the  end,  thou 
shalt  be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God, 
which  is  the  greatest  of  all  the  gifts 
of  God;  for  there  is  no  gift  greater 


than  the  gift  of  salvation."  (D&C 
6:13.) 

Divine  instructions 

But  the  Lord  has  not  left  us  alone. 
In  every  dispensation  of  the  gospel,  he 
has  administered  unto  his  children — 
instructing  them  as  to  how  they  can 
regain  his  presence.  He  walked  and 
talked  with  the  ancient  prophets.  The 
prophet  Alma  tells  how  the  Lord  sent 
angels  to  converse  with  men  in  his 
time  and  reveal  the  plan  of  redemp- 
tion. ".  .  .  he  saw  that  it  was  expedient 
that  man  should  know  concerning  the 
things  whereof  he  had  appointed  unto 
them; 

"Therefore  he  sent  angels  to  converse 
with  them,  who  caused  men  to  behold 
of  his  glory. 

"And  they  began  from  that  time 
forth  to  call  on  his  name;  therefore  God 
conversed  with  men,  and  made  known 
unto  them  the  plan  of  redemption, 
which  had  been  prepared  from  the 
foundation  of  the  world;  and  this  he 
made  known  unto  them  according  to 
their  faith  and  repentance  and  their 
holy  works."  (Al.  12:28-30.) 

Peace  from  conviction 

Possibly  one's  concern  about  not  hav- 
ing lived  well  is  really  in  not  knowing 
what  his  real  purpose  in  life  is.  Real 
peace  of  mind  comes  from  a  firm  con- 
viction of  the  plan  of  salvation  as 
revealed  to  us  of  the  Lord;  that  we  are 
the  children  of  God,  created  in  his 
image;  that  he  is  the  Father  of  our 
spirits;  that  we  lived  with  him  in  a 
glorious  spiritual  existence  before  this 
temporal  existence;  that  this  mortal 
state  is  probationary;  that  through 
death  and  the  resurrection,  having 
lived  a  worthy  life,  having  complied 
with  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel,  we 
might  enter  again  into  the  presence  of 
God.  Peace  comes  as  we  know  the 
gospel  and  live  it,  as  we  develop  a 
strong  testimony  of  its  divinity,  as  we 
are  vindicated  by  the  Holy  Spirit  in 
our  good  works. 

A  new  gospel  dispensation 

In  this  dispensation  God  has  also 
visited  the  earth  and  sent  his  messen- 


74 

Saturday,  October  4 

gers  to  reveal  unto  us  his  plan  of  re- 
demption, that  we  may  know  of  his 
will  and  feel  his  sustaining  spirit  as 
we  do  his  bidding.  He  has  said,  ".  .  . 
Repent,  repent,  and  prepare  ye  the 
way  of  the  Lord,  and  make  his  paths 
straight;  fpr  the  kingdom  of  heaven  is 
at  hand;  i  I 

"Yea,  reflpt  and  be  baptized,  every 
one  of  you,  for  a  remission  of  your 
sins;  yea,  be  baptized  even  by  water, 
and  then  cometh  the  baptism  of  fire 
and  of  the  Holy  Ghost."  (D&C  33:10- 
11.) 

It  is  our  witness  to  the  world  that 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  as  revealed 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  contains 
the  direction  and  understanding  of 
eternal  life,  that  by  abiding  by  its  prin- 
ciples and  teachings  and  by  complying 
with  its  ordinances,  one  might  have 
peace  and  satisfaction  by  the  vindica- 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


Second  Day 

tion  of  the  spirit,  and  whether  in  life 
or  death  they  will  know  all  is  well — 
death  will  have  no  sting. 

I  leave  you  this  witness,  my  brothers 
and  sisters,  and  witness  unto  you  that 
God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and 
that  this  is  his  church,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen.  O 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

The  congregation  and  MIA  Girls 
Centennial  Chorus  will  now  join  in 
singing,  "High  on  the  Mountain  Top," 
after  which  Elder  Hartman  Rector,  Jr. 
of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  will  be 
our  speaker. 


The  congregation  and  chorus  sang 
the  hymn,  "High  on  the  Mountain 
Top." 


ELDER  HARTMAN  RECTOR,  JR. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


•  It  is  intended  that  man  is  to  be  like 
God.  The  scriptures  declare  that  man 
was  made  in  the  beginning  in  the 
image  and  likeness  of  God. 

Paul,  speaking  of  Jesus  Christ,  said 
that  he  (Christ),  "being  in  the  form  of 
God,  thought  it  not  robbery  to  be  equal 
with  God."  (Phil  2:6.)  He  further  de- 
clared that  he  (Christ)  was  "the 
brightness  of  his  [Father's]  glory,  and 
the  express  image  of  his  person.  .  .  ." 
(Heb.  1:3.) 

God,  the  Father  of  the  spirits  of  all 
men,  is  in  all  respects  like  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ,  whom  we,  at  least  to  some 
extent,  know;  for  he  has  revealed  him- 
self to  us,  and  although  we  may  not 
understand  all  things  about  Jesus 
Christ,  we  know  what  manner  of  man 
he  was  from  records  that  were  kept 
of  his  exemplary  life.  What  is  more, 
in  the  words  of  John  we  understand 
"that  when  he  shall  appear,  we  shall  be 
like  him."  (1  John  3:2.) 

Man  to  be  like  God 

From  these  and  other  scriptures,  it 
becomes  clear  that  it  is  intended  that 
man  is  to  be  like  God.    In  fact,  the 


Master  made  this  a  central  part  of  his 
teachings  when  he  walked  in  mortality 
among  men.  "Be  ye  therefore  perfect, 
even  as  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven 
is  perfect."  (Matt.  5:48.)  This  was  his 
commission  to  us.  Then,  the  question 
of  questions  becomes:  What  is  God 
like? 

I  have  often  felt  the  reason  we  don't 
understand  God  is  because  we  are  so 
unlike  him.  By  that,  I  mean  that  even 
though  man  is  like  God  physically, 
spiritually  man  is  far  from  God.  For- 
tunately, the  Lord  has  given  us  specific 
direction  and  guidance  to  get  us  into 
condition  so  we  grow  closer  to  him 
spiritually  also. 

However,  regretfully,  though  men 
draweth  nigh  unto  God  with  their 
mouths,  and  honoreth  him  with 
their  lips,  their  hearts  are  far  from 
him.  (See  Matt.  15:8.)  This  is  true 
primarily  because  we  are  concerned 
with  what  we  want  to  do  rather 
than  with  what  God  wants  us  to  do. 

Root  cause  of  problems 

If  we  face  facts,  we  will  realize  we 
are  all  afflicted  with  the  same  malady. 


ELDER  HARTM 

It  is  the  root  cause  of  all  the  problems 
and  suffering  in  the  world,  both  col- 
lectively and  individually,  and  has 
always  been.  What  is  this  cause?  It 
is  a  very  simple,  one-word  answer — 
selfishness.  I  use  this  word  in  its 
broadest  sense,  which  includes  greed 
and  covetousness.  We  are  selfish,  and 
selfishness  is  not  like  God. 

We  endlessly  do  what  we  want  to 
do  instead  of  doing  what  the  Lord 
wants  us  to  do.  It  isn't  that  we  don't 
know  what  the  Lord  wants  us  to  do. 
He  has  made  it  abundantly  clear 
through  revelation  to  his  prophets,  but 
we  are  too  concerned  with  our  own 
wants. 

How  does  it  happen  that  we  are  this 
way?  What  makes  us  so  selfish?  I 
don't  believe  we  are  born  this  way. 
The  spirit  comes  to  this  earth  essen- 
tially free  of  selfish  desire,  but  it 
appears  it  is  made  selfish  at  a  very 
early  age. 

Selfishness  to  be  overcome 

The  human  infant  comes  into  this 
world  in  a  completely  helpless  condi- 
tion. It  cannot  support  itself.  There- 
fore, the  Lord  has  placed  in  the  heart 
of  the  adult  male  and  female  great 
love  for  infants. 

This  love  is  frequently  expressed  by 
supplying  every  wish  of  this  infant  to 
the  point  where,  after  about  five  to  six 
years  of  this  kind  of  treatment,  the 
child  begins  to  feel  that  the  whole 
world  revolves  around  it.  "Me  first" 
and  "I  want  the  biggest"  form  some  of 
his  first  phrases.  Parents  suddenly 
come  to  the  startling  realization  that 
they  have  a  spoiled  child  on  their 
hands.  They  then  embark  on  a  long, 
drawn-out  program  that  will  only  take 
50  to  70  years  to  talk  Junior  out  of 
being  selfish.  Sometimes  they  never 
succeed. 

On  the  success  of  this  endeavor,  the 
happiness  of  the  individual  depends. 
The  selfish  man  suffers  eternally  from 
his  selfishness,  for  never  can  a  selfish 
man  become  like  God.  Instead,  he 
has  erected  himself  as  his  idol.  Of 
course,  this  is  not  necessarily  the  only 
way  that  we  become  selfish.  Man  is 
by  nature  fallen,  therefore  self-centered. 

Someone  has  said,  "Most  men,  born 


\N  RECTOR,  JR.  75 

into  this  world,  creep  selfishly  into 
nameless  graves;  while  every  now  and 
then  one  man  forgets  himself  into  im- 
mortality." 

Qualifications  for  ministry 

The  Lord  saw  fit  to  give  instruction 
on  this  subject  to  his  children  early  in 
this  dispensation.  In  February  1829, 
he  set  forth  the  qualifications  for  the 
labors  of  the  ministry.  He  said,  "And 
faith,  hope,  charity  and  love,  with  an 
eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God,  qualify 
him  for  the  work."  (D&C  4:5.) 

Now,  the  faith,  hope,  charity,  and 
love  are  of  vital  importance,  but  the 
eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God  is 
crucial.  This  means  that  all  decisions 
must  be  made  on  the  side  of  the  Lord. 
Instead  of  forever  doing  what  we  want 
to  do,  we  must  do  what  the  Lord  wants 
done. 

The  Lord  says  our  eye  must  be 
single  to  his  glory,  and  in  the  scripture 
it  is  spelled  EYE.  Of  course,  this  is 
figuratively  speaking.  I  believe  he 
means  the  capital  I,  or  you — WE.  We 
must  be  single  to  the  glory  of  God. 
When  we  act,  we  must  always  have  in 
mind  what  the  Lord  has  said.  Of 
course,  the  ideal  would  be  to  harmo- 
nize our  desires  with  the  will  of  the 
Lord;  then  we  can  always  do  what  we 
want  and  still  have  the  approval  of 
the  Lord,  but  this  is  seldom  the  case. 

The  Lord  continued  this  revelation 
on  the  qualification  for  the  labors  of 
the  ministry  by  saying,  "Remember 
faith,  virtue,  knowledge,  temperance, 
patience,  brotherly  kindness,  godliness, 
charity,  humility,  diligence."  (D&C 
4:6.) 

Surely  the  Lord  feels  these  attributes 
are  vitally  important  to  our  success  in 
his  work,  for  he  admonishes  us  to 
remember  them. 

Meaning  of  godliness 

We  are,  to  some  extent,  familiar  with 
most  of  these  attributes,  but  what  does 
he  mean  by  godliness?  We  think  in- 
stantly he  must  mean  that  we  must 
become  like  God,  but  how  do  we  do 
that? 

Perhaps  it  means  to  become  perfect 
in  all  these  qualifications  he  has  listed. 
No — if  that  were  the  case,  he  would 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


76 

Saturday,  October  4 

have  needed  only  one  qualification: 
godliness. 

Godliness  must  mean  something  spe- 
cial. Perhaps  it  has  to  do  with  the 
distinguishing  characteristic  of  God. 

What  is  the  distinguishing  character- 
istic of  our  Heavenly  Father?  John 
gave  us  a  clue  when  he  said:  "Beloved, 
let  us  love  one  another:  for  love  is  of 
God;  and  every  one  that  loveth  is  born 
of  God  and  knoweth  God. 

"He  that  loveth  not  knoweth  not 
God;  for  God  is  love."  (1  John  4:7-8. 
Italics  added.) 

This  was  so  very  difficult  for  me  to 
understand  before  the  missionaries 
knocked  on  my  door,  for,  from  this 
scripture  and  others  quite  similar,  it 
appeared  that  God  and  love  were  one 
and  the  same.  Is  God,  then,  just  an 
emotion?  You  can't  see  love.  You  may 
see  the  effect  of  love  or  the  lack  of  it, 
but  love  is  not  a  corporate  entity.  When 
I  learned  the  truth — that  God  is  an 
exalted  man  of  flesh  and  bone  and 
spirit — then  I  understood  what  John 
was  saying:  that  love  is  God's  dis- 
tinguishing characteristic. 

Why  God  loves  us 

God  loves  us.  We  know  it.  The 
scriptures  declare  it,  and  from  the 
experiences  of  each  one  of  us,  we  know 
it  to  be  true.  Almost  no  one  doubts 
this  fact.  God  loves  us,  but  why? 
Why  does  God  love  us  when  we  often 
do  not  deserve  his  love? 

One  might  say,  "Oh,  because  we  are 
his  children."  It  is  true,  we  are  his 
children,  but  is  that  the  reason  he  loves 
us?  Does  he  only  love  what  belongs 
to  him?  If  we  are  not  careful,  we  will 
ascribe  to  God  our  own  selfishness. 

Another  might  say,  "He  loves  us 
because  he  knows  us  and  knows  our 
potential."  It  is  true  he  does  know 
our  potential,  but  this  would  imply 
he  would  love  those  with  greater  po- 
tential more  than  those  of  less  poten- 
tial. What  if  you  had  little  or  no 
potential?  Would  he  not  love  you? 
There  must  be  some  other  reason  why 
our  Heavenly  Father  loves  us.  Does  he 
love  us  because  we  are  good?  I  hope 
not.  I'm  afraid  many  of  us  would  be 
unloved. 

I  don't  know  why  God  loves  us,  but 


Second  Day 

I  believe  the  scriptures  give  us  a  clue. 
God  doesn't  love  us  because  we  arc 
good.  God  loves  us  because  he  is  good. 
God  is  good  and  so  he  loves  us,  and 
those  who  are  the  best  love  the  best. 
It  appears  that  only  if  you  are  good 
do  you  receive  a  reward  for  loving. 
The  Lord  requires  us  to  love  those  who 
don't  deserve  it. 

"For  if  ye  love  them  which  love  you, 
what  thank  have  ye?"  saith  the  Master, 
"for  sinners  also  love  those  that  love 
them."  (Luke  6:32.) 

Quality  of  unselfish  love 

It  is  easy  to  love  people  who  love  us. 
It  is  much  more  difficult  to  love  people 
who  not  only  don't  love  us,  but  don't 
even  like  us.  But  if  we  are  to  be  like 
our  Father  in  heaven  who  "maketh  his 
sun  to  rise  on  the  evil  and  on  the  good, 
and  sendeth  rain  on  the  just  and  on 
the  unjust"  (Matt.  5:45),  then  we  must 
love  these  people  who  don't  like  us, 
and  we'll  have  to  be  good  to  do  that. 

I  have  seen  this  godlike  quality  of 
unselfish  love  in  all  the  best  men  I 
have  known  or  read  about.  Jesus  wept 
over  those  who  rejected  him  and  prayed 
for  those  who  crucified  him. 

Joseph  Smith's  heart  was  filled  with 
love  and  compassion  for  all  men,  even 
for  his  persecutors.  All  the  prophets 
have  had  this  great  quality.  I  never 
had  the  privilege  of  knowing  President 
George  Albert  Smith,  but  from  the 
testimony  of  those  who  knew  him,  love 
radiated  from  his  countenance  for  all 
men.  I  know  this  to  be  a  quality  of 
President  David  O.  McKay.  I  have 
seen  and  personally  experienced  the 
all-encompassing  love  of  our  present, 
beloved  prophet.  Those  who  are  the 
best  love  the  best. 

Good  in  every  man 

If  we  are  good,  we  will  look  for  and 
find  the  good  in  others.  It  is  there. 
There  is  good  in  every  man.  In  fact, 
I  believe  every  man  is  superior  to  every 
other  man  in  some  thing.  If  you  look 
for  it,  you  will  find  it.  But  you  can  see 
only  what  you  have  eyes  to  see.  It  de- 
pends solely  on  how  good  you  are  as  to 
whether  you  see  good  or  not. 

All  of  the  commandments  given  us 
by  the  Lord  are  calculated  to  make  us 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


77 


good.  This  is  to  help  us  become  like 
him. 

Only  as  we  live  in  obedience  to  these 
commandments  will  we  be  able  to 
know  real  love  for  others  and  real  joy 
ourselves. 

I  bear  witness  that  God,  our  Heav- 
enly Father,  does  live  and  that  he 
loves  us,  and  as  we  have  love  one  for 
another  and  for  all  men,  we  will 
become  more  like  him  and  find  the 
great  joy  and  happiness  that  is  the  ob- 


ject and  design  of  our  existence.  I 
bear  this  witness  to  you  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen.  O 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder 
Milton  R.  Hunter  of  the  First  Council 
of  Seventy.  He  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  of  that  same 
Council.  Brother  McConkie  will  be 
the  concluding  speaker. 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


•  The  age-old  question  "Where  do  we 
go  when  we  die?"  has  been  asked  by 
old  people  and  young  people  among 
all  nations  from  time  immemorial. 
Many  disbelievers,  cynics,  and  atheists 
today  maintain  that  nothing  exists  for 
man  beyond  the  grave — that  death  is 
the  end. 

Life  beyond  the  grave 

The  greatest  of  all  teachers,  Jesus 
the  Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  proclaimed 
an  entirely  different  doctrine.  He 
taught  that  there  is  a  glorious  life 
beyond  the  grave  in  the  presence  of  the 
Eternal  Father,  and  that  by  compliance 
with  certain  laws  we  may  go  there  and 
enjoy  it.  For  example,  Nicodemus,  a 
ruler  of  the  Jews,  came  unto  Jesus  at 
night  and  in  course  of  their  conversion, 
Jesus  declared: 

"Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  Ex- 
cept a  man  be  born  of  water  and  of 
the  Spirit,  he  cannot  enter  into  the 
kingdom  of  God."  (John  3:5.) 

The  Savior  revealed  to  Joseph  Smith, 
a  modern  prophet: 

"Take  upon  you  the  name  of 
Christ,  .  .  . 

"And  as  many  as  repent  and  are 
baptized  in  my  name,  which  is  Jesus 
Christ,  and  endure  to  the  end,  the  same 
shall  be  saved. 

"Behold,  Jesus  Christ  is  the  name 
which  is  given  of  the  Father,  and  there 
is  none  other  name  given  whereby  man 
can  be  saved."  (D&C  18:21-23.) 


The  resurrection  and  the  life 

On  a  certain  occasion,  a  dear  friend 
of  the  Master  in  Palestine  was  very  ill. 
His  sisters,  Martha  and  Mary,  sent  for 
Jesus  to  come  and  heal  their  brother. 
The  Savior  did  not  come  for  a  few- 
days,  and  when  he  did  come  Lazarus 
had  been  dead  and  buried  for  four  days. 
Martha  was  told  that  Jesus  was  ap- 
proaching, and  so  she  hurried  out  to 
meet  him.  She  said:  "Lord,  if  thou 
hadst  been  here,  my  brother  had  not 
died.  .  .  . 

"Jesus  saith  unto  her,  Thy  brother 
shall  rise  again. 

"Martha  saith  unto  him,  I  know  he 
shall  rise  again  in  the  resurrection  at 
the  last  day." 

Jesus  replied:  "I  am  the  resurrection, 
and  the  life:  he  that  believeth  in  me, 
though  he  were  dead,  yet  shall  he  live: 

"And  whosoever  liveth  and  believeth 
in  me  shall  never  die.  Believest  thou 
this?"  (John  11:21-26.) 

The  night  before  his  crucifixion, 
Jesus  gave  his  apostles  additional  in- 
formation regarding  his  Father's  king- 
dom.  He  said  to  them: 

"In  my  Father's  house  are  many 
mansions:  if  it  were  not  so,  I  would 
have  told  you.  I  go  now  to  prepare 
a  place  for  you. 

"And  if  I  -go  and  prepare  a  place 
for  you,  I  will  come  again,  and  re- 
ceive you  unto  myself;  that  where  I  am, 
there  ye  may  be  also."  (John  14:2-3.) 


78 

Saturday,  October  4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Dmj 


What  is  death? 

What  is  death?  It  is  nothing  more 
than  the  separation  of  the  spiritual 
body  from  the  physical  body.  The 
physical  tabernacle  becomes  diseased, 
worn,  and  aged,  and,  therefore,  no 
longer  a  fit  home  for  the  spirit.  Thus 
the  spirit — the  real  person,  in  which  all 
the  good  deeds  committed,  also  the  bad 
deeds  committed,  the  personality — 
goes  on  alive  as  a  spirit  personage  in 
the  spirit  world.  Some  departed  spirits 
go  to  paradise,  a  place  of  peace  and 
happiness  where  they  can  continue  to 
work  and  progress.  Others  go  to  a 
spirit  prison.  Certain  prophets  have 
termed  it  a  hell.  The  apostle  Peter 
proclaimed  that  Christ  who  suffered 
death  for  our  sins  "went  and  preached 
unto  the  spirits  in  prison"  (1  Pet. 
3:19)  who  had  been  there  from  the 
time  they  were  drowned  in  the  flood 
in  Noah's  day. 

Thus  they  were  in  the  spirit  prison 
for  nearly  twenty-five  hundred  years, 
because  they  had  rejected  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  and  had  lived  wicked  lives. 

Vision  of  judgment  day 

John  the  Revelator  saw  in  vision  the 
resurrection  and  judgment  of  the  hu- 
man family.  He  described  it  as 
follows: 

"And  I  saw  the  dead,  small  and 
great,  stand  before  God;  and  the  books 
were  opened:  and  another  book  was 
opened,  which  is  the  book  of  life:  and 
the  dead  were  judged  out  of  those  things 
which  were  written  in  the  books,  ac- 
cording to  their  works. 

"And  the  sea  gave  up  the  dead  which 
were  in  it;  and  death  and  hell  delivered 
up  the  dead  which  were  in  them:  and 
they  were  judged  every  man  according 
to  their  works."  (Rev.  20:12-13.) 

The  ancient  American  prophets 
taught  that  there  would  be  a  universal 
resurrection.  Amulek  stated:  ".  .  .  the 
day  cometh  that  all  shall  rise  from  the 
dead  and  stand  before  God,  and  be 
judged  according  to  their  works." 
(Al.  11:41.) 

Jacob,  the  brother  of  Nephi,  described 
the  judgment  day:  "Wherefore,  we 
shall  have  a  perfect  knowledge  of  all 
our  guilt,  and  our  uncleanness,  and 


our  nakedness;  and  the  righteous  shall 
have  a  perfect  knowledge  of  their  en- 
joyment, and  their  righteousness,  being 
clothed  with  purity,  yea,  even  with  the 
robe  of  righteousness."  (2  Ne.  9:14.) 

Modern  revelations 

The  most  profound  and  marvelous 
revelations  that  exist  on  life  after 
death  and  the  final  destiny  of  man 
were  received  by  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  They  are  recorded  in  Sections 
76,  88,  131,  and  132  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants.  In  addition,  other  vi- 
sions he  had  on  the  immortality  of 
man  are  not  recorded  in  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants. 

Three  degrees  of  glory 

God  revealed  to  the  Prophet  that 
there  are  three  degrees  of  glory — the 
celestial,  the  terrestrial,  and  the  teles- 
tial.  If  a  person's  body  at  the  resur- 
rection is  "quickened  by  a  portion  of 
the  celestial  glory,"  he  shall  later  re- 
ceive a  fullness  of  that  glory.  The 
same  holds  true  for  the  other  two 
degrees  of  glory.  On  February  16, 
1832,  Joseph  Smith  and  Sidney  Rigdon 
were  translating  the  Bible  at  Hiram, 
Ohio,  when  they  had  a  marvelous 
vision. 

"And  while  we  meditated  upon  these 
things,  the  Lord  touched  the  eyes  of 
our  understandings  and  they  were 
opened,  and  the  glory  of  the  Lord 
shone  round  about. 

"And  we  beheld  the  glory  of  the  Son, 
on  the  right  hand  of  the  Father,  and 
received  of  his  fulness; 

"And  saw  the  holy  angels,  and  them 
who  are  sanctified  before  his  throne, 
worshiping  God,  and  the  Lamb,  who 
worship  him  forever  and  ever. 

"And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies 
which  have  been  given  of  him,  this 
is  the  testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we 
give  of  him:  That  he  lives! 

"For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right 
hand  of  God;  and  we  heard  the  voice 
bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only 
Begotten  of  the  Father — 

"That  by  him,  and  through  him,  .  .  . 
the  worlds  are  and  were  created,  and 
the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten 
sons  and  daughters  unto  God."  (D&C 
76:19-24.) 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 


79 


The  celestial  degree 

Who  will  go  to  the  celestial  degree 
of  glory  and  live  with  the  Father  and 
the  Son? 

From  another  vision  of  celestial  glory 
had  by  Joseph  Smith,  we  receive  the 
following  information: 

"And  I  also  beheld  that  all  children 
who  die  before  they  arrive  at  the  years 
of  accountability,  are  saved  in  the 
celestial  kingdom  of  heaven."  (Docu- 
mentary History  of  the  Church,  vol.  2, 
p.  381.) 

By  revelation  the  Lord  set  the  age 
eight  as  the  age  of  accountability  for 
little  children.  (D&C  68:27.) 

In  addition  to  little  children,  others 
who  go  to  the  celestial  glory  are  those 
who  receive  a  testimony  of  Jesus,  in 
other  words,  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
They  must  be  baptized  by  immersion 
in  water  and  receive  the  Holy  Ghost  by 
one  having  authority.  Also,  they  must 
keep  the  commandments,  and  be  those 
who  are  "overcome  by  faith  and  are 
sealed  by  the  Holy  Spirit  of  promise, 
which  the  Father  sheds  forth  upon  all 
those  who  are  just  and  true."  (D&C 
76:53.) 

Certainly  many  of  the  people  in 
celestial  glory  will  be  holders  of  the 
holy  Melchizedek  Priesthood. 

"In  the  celestial  glory  there  are  three 
heavens  or  degrees; 

"And  in  order  to  obtain  the  highest, 
a  man  must  enter  into  this  order  of  the 
priesthood  [meaning  the  new  and  ever- 
lasting covenant  of  marriage]; 

"If  he  does  not,  he  cannot  obtain  it. 

"He  may  enter  into  the  other,  but 
that  is  the  end  of  his  kingdom;  he 
cannot  have  an  increase."  (D&C 
131:1-4.) 


Other  degrees  of  glory 

The  Lord  has  declared  that  the  hon- 
orable people  of  the  earth  who  do  not 
accept  the  true  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
will  go  to  the  terrestrial  glory. 

The  wicked  people  of  the  earth  who 
have  not  denied  the  Holy  Ghost — 
"they  who  are  thrust  down  to  hell  .  .  . 
until  the  last  resurrection" — will  be 
assigned  to  the  telestial  glory. 

The  people  who  commit  the  unpar- 
donable sins  of  denying  the  Holy  Ghost 
or  shedding  innocent  blood  shall  be 
cast  off  with  the  devil  and  die  the 
second  death. 

Where  we  go  after  death 

Where  do  we  go  when  we  die?  It 
depends  on  how  we  live  while  here  in 
mortality,  and  how  much  light  and 
truth  we  receive,  and  how  much  op- 
portunity we  have  had.  Also,  for  those 
who  have  not  had  a  chance  to  hear  the 
gospel  while  here  in  mortality,  they 
will  have  an  opportunity  in  the  spirit 
world  and  temple  work  will  be  done 
for  them.  The  Lord  revealed  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith: 

"All  who  have  died  without  a  knowl- 
edge of  this  Gospel,  who  would  have 
received  it  if  they  had  been  permitted 
to  tarry,  shall  be  heirs  to  the  celestial 
kingdom  of  God:  also  all  that  shall  die 
henceforth  without  a  knowledge  of 
it,  who  would  have  received  it  with 
all  their  hearts,  shall  be  heirs  of  the 
kingdom  for  I,  the  Lord,  will  judge  all 
men,  .  .  .  according  to  the  desires  of 
their  hearts."  (DHC,  vol.  2,  p.  380.) 

I  bear  testimony  that  the  true  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  has  been  restored  to 
earth  again.  It  is  found  in  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen.  O 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


•  I  am  grateful  beyond  any  power  of 
expression  that  I  have  for  the  knowl- 
edge that  is  in  my  heart  of  the  truth 
and  divinity  of  this  great  work.  I  am 
thankful  for  the  testimony  of  Jesus,  for 
the  whisperings  of  the  Spirit  that  have 
come  to  my  soul  certifying  that  this 


kingdom,  the  Church,  is  God's  king- 
dom on  earth;  and  I  desire  to  bear  that 
witness,  not  in  words  only  but  also  by 
my  acts,  to  be  in  word  and  in  deed  a 
witness  to  the  world  of  the  truth  and 
divinity  of  the  gospel  cause — all  in 
harmony  with  the  instructions  we  have 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Second  Day 


80 

Saturday,  October  4 

received  in  our  revelations. 

Will  you  join  with  me  in  considering 
these  eternal  truths: 

True  religion  revealed 

True  religion  comes  by  revelation; 
there  is  no  other  source. 

Where  there  is  true  religion,  there  is 
revelation;  and  where  there  is  no  reve- 
lation, there  is  no  true  religion. 

God  reveals  himself  or  he  remains 
forever  unknown. 

He  is  our  Father  in  heaven;  we  are 
his  spirit  children,  and  he  ordained 
the  laws  whereby  we  can  advance  and 
progress  and  become  like  him. 

He  is  the  author  of  the  plan  of  salva- 
tion, which  his  servant  Paul  designates 
as  "the  gospel  of  God,  .  .  .  Concerning 
his  Son  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord."  (Rom. 
1:1,  3.) 

He  has  revealed  this  plan  of  salvation 
in  successive  gospel  dispensations,  and 
he  is  revealing  his  mind  and  his  will 
today,  thereby  showing  that  he  is  the 
same  God  yesterday,  today,  and  for- 
ever, and  that  a  soul  is  just  as  precious 
in  his  sight  in  this  day  as  in  any  age. 

Thus  true  religion  comes  from  God, 
and  from  no  other  source. 

Priesthood  administers  gospel 

It  is  his  priesthood  that  administers 
the  gospel.  It  is  his  power  that  gov- 
erns his  church. 

It  is  at  his  direction  that  the  gospel 
is  preached  and  that  the  gifts  of  the 
Spirit  are  poured  out  upon  the  faithful. 

His  is  the  power  by  which  miracles 
are  wrought,  by  which  the  sick  are 
healed  and  the  dead  raised. 

He  seals  men  up  unto  eternal  life. 

He  makes  men  joint  heirs  with  his 
Son. 

He  gives  them  the  fullness  of  his 
glory  and  kingdom. 

He  is  the  source  of  all  things,  of 
every  true  principle,  of  every  saving 
truth,  of  revealed  religion,  and  without 
revelation  from  him  there  is  no  true 
church,  no  true  religion,  and  no  per- 
sonal salvation. 

God  sends  apostles  and  prophets, 
wise  and  holy  men  who  have  the 
spiritual  talent  to  commune  with  him, 
to  receive  in  their  hearts  his  mind  and 
will,  and  then  to  communicate  these 


eternal  truths  to  their  fellowmen. 
Joseph  Smith  was  one  of  the  greatest 
of  these,  and  we  have  living  apostles 
and  prophets  today  who  make  the 
truths  of  salvation  available  to  us  as  a 
people  and  to  all  who  will  come  and 
join  with  us. 

Salvation  is  personal 

But  people  are  not  saved  en  masse. 
Salvation  is  personal  and  individual. 
Religion  must  come  to  one  man  stand- 
ing alone,  independent  of  all  others. 

If  I  am  to  be  saved,  I  personally  must 
believe  and  obey  the  true  religion. 

I  must  get  religion  into  my  own  heart 
and  soul.  What  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  saw  and  believed  and  knew  will 
not  suffice.  True,  his  revelations  make 
salvation  available  to  me;  they  open 
the  door.  But  I  must  see  and  believe 
and  know  for  myself. 

I  must  know  God. 

I  must  learn  the  truths  of  salvation. 

I  must  feel  the  power  of  his  priest- 
hood. 

I  must  receive  the  gifts  of  his  Spirit. 
I  must  be  born  again. 
I  must  receive  revelation. 

Personal  revelation 

No  man  can  be  saved  unless  and 
until  he  receives  revelation.  Revelation 
is  the  rock  foundation  upon  which  true 
religion  and  personal  salvation  rest. 
Peter  learned  by  personal  revelation 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the 
living  God,  the  Holy  Messiah,  through 
whose  atoning  sacrifice  salvation  is 
offered  to  men.  Then  the  Lord  told 
him  that  upon  this  rock  of  revelation 
he  would  build  his  church. 

If  I  do  not  build  upon  this  rock,  if 
I  do  not  receive  the  same  testimony  of 
our  Lord's  divine  Sonship  that  Peter 
gained,  if  I  do  not  know  by  the  power 
of  the  Holy  Ghost  that  Jesus  is  the 
Lord,  if  I  do  not  have  the  testimony  of 
Jesus,  that  is,  if  I  do  not  receive  revela- 
tion, I  have  not  received  true  religion, 
and  I  shall  have  no  abiding  inheritance 
in  that  church  and  kingdom  which  is 
founded  upon  the  rock  of  revelation. 

In  our  day,  in  this  final  gospel  dis- 
pensation, the  revealed  knowledge  of 
the  truth  and  divinity  of  the  work  in- 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 


81 


eludes  the  heaven-sent  assurance  that 
Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God,  that 
he  is  the  revealer  of  the  knowledge  of 
Christ  and  of  salvation  to  the  world 
today. 

A  testimony  of  the  gospel 

The  first  great  revelation  which  men 
must  receive  if  they  are  to  gain  salva- 
tion is  the  revelation  of  the  divine  Son- 
ship  of  Christ,  which  knowledge  is 
coupled  with  the  Spirit-born  assurance 
that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God. 
This  revelation  is  called  a  testimony  of 
the  gospel. 

But  a  testimony  is  only  the  begin- 
ning of  revelation.  The  recipient  has 
just  begun  to  drink  at  the  fountain  of 
revealed  truth.  He  has  but  opened  the 
door  to  an  immeasurably  great  store- 
house of  spiritual  knowledge. 

The  great  things  that  set  the  Lord's 
saints  apart  from  the  world  are,  first, 
that  they  know  by  revelation  that  the 
work  in  which  they  are  engaged  is 
true,  that  they  have  testimonies  of  its 
divinity,  and,  second,  that  they  then 
receive  added  personal  revelation  con- 
cerning many  things. 

Gift  of  Holy  Ghost 

At  their  baptism,  God's  saints  have 
the  hands  of  legal  administrators 
placed  upon  their  heads,  and  they  re- 
ceive the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  an 
endowment  from  on  high.  This  endow- 
ment, this  gift,  is  the  right  to  the  con- 
stant companionship  of  this  member 
of  the  Godhead  based  on  faithfulness. 

Joseph  Smith  said:  "No  man  can  re- 
ceive the  Holy  Ghost  without  receiving 
revelations.  The  Holy  Ghost  is  a 
revelator."  (Teachings  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  p.  328.) 

Accordingly,  those  who  are  saints 
indeed,  those  who  have  been  born 
again,  those  who  are  so  living  as  to  be 
in  tune  with  the  Spirit — they  are  they 
who  receive  revelation,  personal  revela- 
tion, revelation  which  is  the  mind  and 
will  of  God  to  them  as  individuals. 
They  know  there  are  apostles  and 
prophets  directing  the  kingdom  who  re- 
ceive revelation  for  the  Church  and 
the  world.  But  they  as  individuals  re- 
ceive personal  revelation  in  their  own 
affairs. 


And  there  are  no  restrictions  placed 
upon  them;  there  are  no  limitations  as 
to  what  they  may  see  and  know  and 
comprehend.  No  eternal  truths  will 
be  withheld,  if  they  obey  the  laws 
entitling  them  to  receive  such  truths. 

Revelation  to  prophets 

Joseph  Smith  and  the  prophets  had 
revelation.  They  saw  God,  viewed  the 
visions  of  eternity,  entertained  angels, 
came  upon  Mount  Zion,  stood  in  heav- 
enly places,  and  had  communion  with 
the  general  assembly  and  Church  of 
the  Firstborn. 

Of  these  very  experiences  Joseph 
Smith  said:  ".  .  .  God  hath  not  revealed 
anything  to  Joseph,  but  what  He  will 
make  known  unto  the  Twelve,  and 
even  the  least  Saint  may  know  all 
things  as  fast  as  he  is  able  to  bear 
them."  (Ibid.,  p.  149.) 

Revelation  for  all  men 

Now  let  me  read  the  words  of  a 
revelation,  the  words  of  the  Lord  God 
himself,  the  very  words  of  Deity.  These 
words,  spoken  to  Joseph  Smith,  an- 
nounce that  revelation  is  for  all  men, 
that  every  faithful  member  of  the 
Church  can  commune  with  his  Maker, 
without  limit  and  without  restraint. 

They  are:  "For  thus  saith  the  Lord — 
I,  the  Lord,  am  merciful  and  gracious 
unto  those  who  fear  me,  and  delight 
to  honor  those  who  serve  me  in  righ- 
teousness and  in  truth  unto  the  end. 

"Great  shall  be  their  reward  and 
eternal  shall  be  their  glory. 

"And  to  them  will  I  reveal  all  mys- 
teries, yea,  all  the  hidden  mysteries  of 
my  kingdom  from  days  of  old,  and  for 
ages  to  come,  will  I  make  known  unto 
them  the  good  pleasure  of  my  will  con- 
cerning all  things  pertaining  to  my 
kingdom. 

"Yea,  even  the  wonders  of  eternity 
shall  they  know,  and  things  to  come 
will  I  show  them,  even  the  things  of 
many  generations. 

"And  their  wisdom  shall  be  great, 
and  their  understanding  reach  to  heav- 
en; and  before  them  the  wisdom  of  the 
wise  shall  perish,  and  the  understand- 
ing of  the  prudent  shall  come  to 
naught. 

"For  by  my  Spirit  will  I  enlighten 


82 

Saturday,  October  4 

them,  and  by  my  power  will  I  make 
known  unto  them  the  secrets  of  my 
will — yea,  even  those  things  which  eye 
has  not  seen,  nor  ear  heard,  nor  yet 
entered  into  the  heart  of  man."  (D&C 
76:5-10.) 

Thus  we  learn  that  any  man  who 
obeys  the  law  entitling  him  to  receive 
revelation  shall  see  and  hear  and  know 
for  himself.  Revelation  for  the  Church 
comes  through  those  who  are  prophets, 
seers,  and  revelators  to  the  Church,  but 
personal  revelation,  revelation  for  the 
guidance  of  the  individual,  revelation 
which  says  to  a  man  and  a  woman, 
"Son,  daughter,  thou  shalt  be  exalted; 
thou  shalt  have  part  and  lot  in  my 
kingdom,"  this  revelation  comes  to 
them  as  individuals,  alone  and  apart 
from  all  others. 

Joseph  Smith  received  this  revelation: 
"Verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord:  It  shall 
come  to  pass  that  every  soul  who  for- 
saketh  his  sins  and  cometh  unto  me, 
and  calleth  on  my  name,  and  obeyeth 
my  voice,  and  keepeth  my  command- 
ments, shall  see  my  face  and  know 
that  I  am."  (D&C  93:1.) 

The  brother  of  Jared 

Among  those  who  complied  with  the 
law  of  righteousness  here  revealed  was 
the  brother  of  Jared,  a  prophet  who 
lived  some  2,000  years  before  our  Lord's 
birth  into  mortality.  Of  the  vision 
which  he  saw,  Moroni  says:  ".  .  .  be- 
cause of  the  knowledge  of  this  man  he 
could  not  be  kept  from  beholding  with- 
in the  veil;  and  he  saw  ...  the  Lord; 
and  he  had  faith  no  longer,  for  he 
knew,  nothing  doubting. 

"Wherefore,  having  this  perfect 
knowledge  of  God,  he  could  not  be 
kept  from  within  the  veil;  therefore  he 
saw  Jesus;  and  he  did  minister  unto 
him."  (Ether  3:19-20.) 

Personal  righteousness 

From  these  revelations  we  learn  that 
there  are  no  limitations  placed  upon 
any  of  us.  Revelations  are  not  reserved 
for  a  limited  few  or  for  those  called  to 
positions  of  importance  in  the  Church. 
It  is  not  position  in  the  Church  that 
confers  spiritual  gifts.  It  is  not  being 
a  bishop,  a  stake  president,  or  an  apos- 
tle that  makes  revelation  and  salvation 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

available.  These  are  high  and  holy 
callings  which  open  the  door  to  the 
privilege  of  great  service  among  men. 
But  it  is  not  a  call  to  a  special  office 
that  opens  the  windows  of  revelation  to 
a  truth  seeker.  Rather  it  is  personal 
righteousness;  it  is  keeping  the  com- 
mandments; it  is  seeking  the  Lord 
while  he  may  be  found. 

God  is  no  respecter  of  persons.  He 
will  give  revelation  to  me  and  to  you 
on  the  same  terms  and  conditions.  I 
can  see  what  Joseph  Smith  and  Sidney 
Rigdon  saw  in  the  vision  of  the  degrees 
of  glory — and  so  can  you.  I  can  enter- 
tain angels  and  see  God,  I  can  receive 
an  outpouring  of  the  gifts  of  the  Spirit 
— and  so  can  you. 

The  course  to  glory 

There  are  goals  to  gain,  summits  to 
climb,  revelations  to  receive.  In  the 
eternal  scope  of  things  we  have  scarcely 
started  out  on  the  course  to  glory  and 
exaltation.  The  Lord  wants  his  saints 
to  receive  line  upon  line,  precept  upon 
precept,  truth  upon  truth,  revelation 
upon  revelation,  until  we  know  all 
things  and  have  become  like  him. 

Let  us  press  forward  in  making  our 
callings  and  elections  sure,  until,  as 
Joseph  Smith  said,  we  shall  have  the 
personage  of  Jesus  Christ  to  attend  us, 
or  to  appear  to  us  from  time  to  time, 
and  until  even  he  will  manifest  the 
Father  unto  us.  (See  Teachings  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  p.  151.) 

I  know  man  can  commune  with  his 
Maker,  can  petition  the  throne  of  grace 
and  receive  answers  to  his  prayers,  be- 
cause I  have  done  so. 

I  know  man  can  receive  revelations, 
because  I  have  received  them.  God  has 
spoken  to  me,  not  for  the  guidance  of 
the  Church,  not  for  your  benefit,  but 
for  mine.  The  same  thing  has  or  can 
or  should  happen  in  the  life  of  every 
member  of  his  kingdom. 

God  be  praised  that,  unworthy 
though  we  are,  he  stands  ready  to  and 
does  in  fact  reveal  himself  to  those  of 
us  who  are  sons  and  daughters  in  his 
kingdom. 

Witnesses  of  the  truth 

Now  in  this  day  in  which  we  live 
we  have  been  appointed  to  stand  as 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 


83 


witnesses  of  the  truth.  Our  elders  go 
forth  proclaiming  the  message  of  the 
restoration  to  the  world.  They  go  out 
to  teach  and  to  testify.  When  the  Lord 
sends  them  forth,  it  is  with  this  com- 
mission: ".  .  .  ye  are  my  witnesses, 
saith  the  Lord,  that  I  am  God."  (Isa. 
43:12.) 

And  since  God  stands  revealed  or 
remains  forever  unknown,  there  is  no 
way  on  earth  or  in  heaven  for  anyone 
to  come  to  a  knowledge  of  him  unless 
he  receives  a  personal  revelation  of 
God  or  unless  he  hearkens  to  the  voice 
of  witnesses  who  have  received  reve- 
lation. Man  can  and  will  receive  revela- 
tion from  the  Holy  Ghost  if  he  heeds 
the  testimony  that  is  borne  by  the 
living  witnesses  who  are  sent  forth  to 
raise  their  voices  and  to  proclaim  the 
everlasting  gospel. 

As  elders  in  Israel  we  are  expected 
to  be  witnesses.  We  become  witnesses 
because  of  personal  revelation.  When 
a  man  receives  the  surety  in  his  heart 
that  this  work  is  true,  when  he  gains  a 
testimony  by  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  then  he  knows  what  the  world 
does  not  know,  and  he  can  go  forth 
and  bear  record  of  it  to  them. 

We  are  not  concerned  particularly 
or  especially  with  the  matter  of  in- 
tellectuality. Everything  pertaining  to 
the  gospel  is  rational  and  reasonable. 
It  is  intellectual  in  the  sense  that  we 
can  sustain  it  by  sense  and  reason  and 
wisdom,  but  religion  is  something  far 
more  than  intellectuality.  Religion  is  a 
matter  of  revelation,  of  spirituality. 
Religion  comes  from  God,  and  those 
who  receive  it  become  living  witnesses 
of  its  truth  and  divinity. 

Obligation  to  testify 

And  so  there  rests  upon  me  and  upon 
you,  and  upon  all  the  elders  of  Israel, 
the  obligation  to  testify  of  the  truth 
and  divinity  of  the  work,  and  we  can 
do  it  because  we  have  received  the 
revelations  of  the  Holy  Spirit  to  our 
souls  certifying  that  the  work  is  true. 

Now  I  as  one  elder  in  Israel  can 
stand  alone,  independent  of  all  others — 
but  there  are  thousands  in  a  like  cate- 
gory— and  I  can  bear  testimony  of  the 
truth  and  the  divinity  of  this  work 
because  the  Holy  Spirit  has  spoken  to 


the  spirit  within  me.  The  whisperings 
of  the  still  small  voice  have  come  to 
my  soul,  and  have  told  me  that  there 
is  a  God  in  heaven  who  is  infinite  and 
eternal,  from  everlasting  to  everlasting. 
They  have  told  me  that  he  chose  his 
Only  Begotten  Son,  the  Firstborn  in  the 
spirit,  Jesus  our  Lord,  to  be  the  Savior 
and  the  Redeemer  of  the  world;  that 
he  sent  his  Son  into  the  world — born 
of  Mary  and  born  of  him,  thus  inherit- 
ing the  power  of  mortality  and  the 
power  of  immortality — so  that  he  could 
work  out  the  infinite  and  eternal  aton- 
ing sacrifice,  so  that  he  could  bring  to 
pass  immortality  for  all  men,  and  make 
eternal  life  available  for  those  who 
believe  and  obey. 

And  not  alone  has  the  Spirit  whis- 
pered to  me  that  these  great  eternal 
verities,  which  come  by  the  grace  of 
God,  are  true;  it  has  certified  to  my 
soul  that  the  heavens  have  been  opened 
in  this  day;  that  God  has  spoken  anew; 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  called  of  him, 
anointed  and  empowered  and  endowed 
with  power  from  on  high,  and  com- 
missioned to  begin  the  rolling  forth 
of  this  final,  great,  glorious  dispen- 
sation. 

Testimony  a  living  thing 

Now  a  testimony  of  the  gospel  to  be 
effective,  to  be  in  force,  to  have  power 
and  efficacy  and  validity,  has  to  be 
brought  up  to  date.  It  is  not  enough 
for  someone  to  know  that  Jesus  is  the 
Lord  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
prophet  of  God.  A  testimony  has  to 
be  a  current,  living  thing.  And  so  I 
certify  that  I  know,  as  do  thousands 
of  you,  that  those  who  preside  over 
this  church  at  this  time — with  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay  at  the  head,  his 
counselors  in  the  Presidency,  and  these 
great  brethren  who  comprise  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  and  the  Patriarch 
to  the  Church — are  prophets,  seers, 
and  revelators.  They  hold  the  keys  of 
the  kingdom.  The  power  is  in  their 
hands  to  have  the  message  of  salva- 
tion presented  in  all  the  world. 

I  have  sufficient  background  and  un- 
derstanding that  I  could  reason  these 
things  out  from  the  revelations.  I  could 
read  the  scriptures  and  ascertain  that 
all  this  is  accurate  and  sensible,  that  it 


84  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  4 

is  logical  and  rational,  but  what  I  am 
now  saying  is  something  that  is  in  ad- 
dition to  that.  It  is  very  helpful  to 
have  a  knowledge  of  the  gospel  and  be 
able  to  reason  on  the  principles  of 
eternal  truth;  it  is  helpful  in  that  it 
leads  to  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of 
the  work.  But  what  I  am  now  saying 
is  that  I  am  a  witness  of  the  truth  and 
the  divinity  of  the  work  because  the 
Holy  Spirit  has  revealed  to  the  spirit 
that  is  in  me  that  this  is  God's  work, 
that  this  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  is  the  only  true  and 
living  church  upon  the  face  of  the 
whole  earth.  (D&C  1:30.) 

Valiant  in  testimony 

Now  we  have  a  revelation  that  says, 
in  effect,  that  in  order  to  be  saved  in 
the  kingdom  of  God,  we  must  be  valiant 
in  testimony.  It  is  not  enough  to  have  a 
testimony,  a  knowledge  of  the  divinity 
of  the  work,  but  it  is  a  glorious  thing 
to  start  there.  In  order  to  gain  an  in- 
heritance in  the  celestial  world,  we 
have  to  be  valiant  in  testimony,  and 
we  have  to  manifest  that  valiance  by 
keeping  the  commandments  of  God. 
God  grant  us  the  fortitude  and  courage 
and  wisdom  to  seek  him  while  he  may 
be  found,  to  learn  for  ourselves  that 
he  is  the  Lord  and  that  this  is  his  work, 
and  then  give  us  the  determination  to 
press  forward  in  steadfastness  and  de- 
votion, until  in  fact  and  in  reality  we 
do  make  our  callings  and  elections 
sure. 

In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen.  O 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

I  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that 
the  General  Priesthood  meeting  of  the 
Church  will  be  held  in  the  Salt  Lake 
Tabernacle  this  evening  at  7  o'clock. 
Priesthood  members  only  are  invited 
to  be  present.  The  Priesthood  meeting 
will  not  be  broadcast  publicly. 

In  addition  to  the  overflow  meeting 
in  the  Assembly  Hall,  the  proceedings 
of  the  Priesthood  meeting  this  evening 
will  be  relayed  by  closed-circuit,  origi- 
nating in  the  Tabernacle,  to  members 
of  the  Aaronic  and  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood assembled  in  approximately  550 


Second  Day 

separate  locations  in  all  parts  of  the 
United  States  and  Canada,  and  via 
closed-circuit  television  in  five  build- 
ings in  Salt  Lake  City,  and  to  10,000 
assembled  in  the  Smith  Fieldhouse  at 
the  Brigham  Young  University  in 
Provo.  It  is  estimated  that  approxi- 
mately ten  thousand  holders  of  the 
priesthood  will  be  on  Temple  Square, 
and  approximately  150,000  others  will 
gather  in  the  other  locations  from  coast 
to  coast  and  in  Canada. 

The  Sunday  morning  session  will 
be  broadcast  by  many  radio  and  tele- 
vision stations  in  the  western  United 
States;  and  short-waved  in  English  over 
Station  WNYW  to  Europe,  South 
America,  Central  America,  Africa,  and 
parts  of  Asia. 

Over  seventy  radio  stations  will 
broadcast  conference  in  Spanish  Sunday 
morning  to  major  cities  of  Mexico  and 
Central  America,  and  by  satellite  to 
countries  of  South  America,  together 
with  Spanish  programming  stations  in 
this  country  to  a  potential  Latin  Ameri- 
can audience  of  forty-two  million 
people. 

Radio  stations  in  Brazil  will  broad- 
cast conference  in  Portuguese,  also  by 
means  of  satellite,  to  a  potential 
Brazilian  audience  of  fourteen  million 
people. 

Arrangements  are  made  for  the 
morning  sessions  of  Friday  and  Sun- 
day to  be  carried  from  the  Tabernacle 
over  direct  oceanic  cables  to  a  large 
number  of  Saints  assembled  in  many 
chapels  throughout  Great  Britain,  Ger- 
many, France,  Austria  and  Belgium  on 
Sunday.  Direct  circuits  will  also  carry 
these  sessions  to  Saints  assembled  in 
chapels  throughout  eastern  Canada. 

The  CBS  Radio  Network  Tabernacle 
Choir  Broadcast  tomorrow  morning 
will  be  from  9:35  to  10:00  o'clock  a.m. 
Those  desiring  to  attend  this  broadcast 
must  be  in  their  seats  no  later  than 
9:15  a.m. 

The  singing  for  this  session  has  been 
furnished  by  the  MIA  Girls  Centennial 
Chorus,  with  Margrit  F.  Lohner  con- 
ducting, and  Roy  M.  Darley  at  the 
organ. 

I  am  sure  this  great  gathering  in 
the  Tabernacle  and  our  radio  and  tele- 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


85 


vision  audience  would  wish  us  to 
express  for  them  our  heartfelt  appre- 
ciation for  the  excellent  singing  of 
this  chorus.  We  thank  them,  their  con- 
ductor, Margrit  F.  Lohner,  and  Roy  M. 
Darley  who  has  been  at  the  organ. 

The  chorus  will  now  favor  us  with 
"Twenty-third  Psalm,"  and  the  bene- 
diction will  be  offered  by  Elder  Dehlin 
A.  Erickson,  president  of  the  Nyssa 
Stake,  after  which  this  conference  will 


be  adjourned  until  seven  o'clock  this 
evening. 


The  MIA  Girls  Centennial  Chorus 
sang  the  song,  "Twenty-third  Psalm." 
President  Dehlin  A.  Erickson  of  the 
Nyssa  Stake  then  pronounced  the  bene- 
diction. 

The  conference  was  adjourned  until 
7  p.m. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


FIFTH  SESSION 

The  General  Priesthood  meeting  of 
the  Church  convened  at  7  o'clock 
p.m.,  Saturday,  October  4,  1969,  with 
President  N.  Eldon  Tanner,  second 
counselor  in  the  First  Presidency,  con- 
ducting. 

The  Delta  Phi  Kappa  Chorus  (Logan 
Institute  of  Religion)  furnished  the 
choral  numbers  for  this  session,  with 
James  L.  Bradley  as  conductor.  Roy 
M.  Darley  served  as  organist. 

President  Tanner  made  the  follow- 
ing introductory  remarks: 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

This  is  the  General  Priesthood  ses- 
sion of  the  139th  Semi-Annual  Confer- 
ence of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

President  McKay's  doctors  have  urged 
that  he  not  attempt  to  attend  this 
meeting.  He  is  watching  these  proceed- 
ings by  closed  circuit  television  and 
sends  his  love  and  blessings  to  all  the 
priesthood  members  assembled  here 
and  in  the  various  buildings  through- 
out the  Church.  He  has  prepared  a 
message  for  this  priesthood  audience 
which  will  be  read  by  his  son,  Elder 
David  Lawrence  McKay. 

It  may  be  of  interest  to  you  to  know 
that  these  services  are  being  relayed  by 
closed-circuit  wire  to  members  of  the 
priesthood  gathered  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  and  in  approximately  550  other 
separate  locations  from  coast  to  coast 
and  in  Canada.  It  is  estimated  that 
approximately  150,000  will  participate 
in  this  meeting  by  closed  circuit. 


The  singing  during  this  session  will 
be  furnished  by  the  Delta  Phi  Kappa 
Chorus,  faculty  and  returned  mission- 
aries from  the  Logan  Institute  of  Re- 
ligion. I  would  like  to  say  that  this 
chorus  is  a  returned  missionary  group. 
There  are  approximately  575  years  of 
missionary  service  represented  by  these 
brethren  here  tonight.  Every  mission 
of  the  Church,  with  the  exception  of 
three,  is  represented  in  this  group.  All 
branches  of  the  military  service  are 
represented,  and  there  is  a  composite  of 
176  years  of  military  service,  with  four 
members  from  two  USU  Stake  Presi- 
dencies and  eight  members  of  USU 
Stake  bishoprics  with  us  this  evening. 

We  shall  begin  this  service  by  the 
chorus  singing  "The  Pilgrim's  Song," 
after  which  Elder  Carl  A.  Mortensen, 
president  of  the  Oneida  Stake,  will  offer 
the  invocation. 


The  Delta  Phi  Kappa  Chorus  sang 
"The  Pilgrim's  Song,"  with  James  L. 
Bradley  conducting,  and  Roy  M.  Darley 
at  the  organ. 

President  Carl  A.  Mortensen  of  the 
Oneida  Stake  offered  the  opening 
prayer. 


President  Tanner 

The  Delta  Phi  Kappa  Chorus  from 
the  Logan  Institute  of  Religion,  with 
James  L.  Bradley  conducting  and  Roy 
M.  Darley  at  the  organ,  will  now  favor 
us  with  "Discovery." 


86 

Saturday,  October  4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


President  Tanner 


Second  Day 


The  Delta  Phi  Kappa  Chorus  then 
sang  the  song,  "Discovery." 


President  David  O.  McKay's  mes- 
sage will  be  read  by  his  son,  David 
Lawrence  McKay. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 

(Read  by  his  son  David  Lawrence  McKay) 


•  My  beloved  brethren,  it  has  always 
been  my  nature  to  enjoy  the  company 
of  my  associates.  I  love  to  be  with  my 
friends. 

The  older  I  grow  the  more  intense 
becomes  my  appreciation  of  fellowship 
in  the  brotherhood  of  Christ.  I  sense 
that  tonight  more  deeply  more  sincerely 
than  ever  before,  as  I  can  be  with  you 
only  in  spirit;  but  still  I  feel  that  it  is 
one  of  the  most  inspirational  experiences 
in  life  to  associate,  even  in  spirit,  with 
men  who  hold  the  Holy  Priesthood. 

Responsibilities  of  priesthood 

Recently,  as  I  have  read  the  reports 
of  the  brethren  who  have  returned 
from  touring  the  missions,  my  heart 
has  been  thrilled  at  the  great  latter-day 
work  that  is  being  accomplished — espe- 
cially the  great  missionary  cause  in 
which  we  are  engaged.  And  I  say  this 
not  only  to  our  over  twelve  thousand 
missionaries  serving  in  the  88  missions 
of  the  Church,  but  also  to  this  great 
body  of  priesthood.  Ours  is  the  re- 
sponsibility— greater  than  ever  before: 

1.  To  proclaim  that  the  Church  was 
divinely  established  by  the  appearance 
of  God  the  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
and  that  divine  authority  through  the 
priesthood  is  given  to  represent  Deity 
in  establishing  Christ's  Church  upon 
the  earth. 

2.  To  proclaim  that  its  assigned  re- 
sponsibility is  to  fulfill  the  admonition 
of  Jesus  to  his  apostles:  "Go  ye  there- 
fore, and  teach  all  nations,  baptizing 
them  in  the  name  of  the  Father,  and 
of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost: 

"Teaching  them  to  observe  all  things 
whatsoever  I  have  commanded  you: 
and,  lo,  I  am  with  you  alway,  even 
unto  the  end  of  the  world.  Amen." 
(Matt.  28:19-20.) 


3.  To  proclaim  peace  and  goodwill 
unto  all  mankind. 

4.  To  exert  every  effort  and  all 
means  within  our  reach  to  make  evil- 
thinking  men  good,  and  good  men 
better,  and  all  people  happier. 

5.  To  proclaim  the  truth  that  each 
individual  is  a  child  of  God  and  im- 
portant in  his  sight;  that  he  is  entitled 
to  freedom  of  thought,  freedom  of 
speech,  freedom  of  assembly;  that  he 
has  the  right  to  worship  God  according 
to  the  dictates  of  his  conscience.  In 
this  positive  declaration,  we  imply 
that  organizations  or  churches  that 
deprive  the  individual  of  these  inherent 
rights  are  not  in  harmony  with  God's 
will  and  with  his  revealed  word. 

Teaching  by  personal  contact 

There  is  no  teaching  of  morality 
without  personality,  and  the  best 
means  of  preaching  the  gospel  is  by 
your  personal  contact.  Personal  con- 
tact is  what  will  influence  those  in- 
vestigators. That  personal  contact — 
the  nature  of  it,  its  effect — depends 
upon  you.  That  is  the  thing  I  wish  to 
emphasize.  Each  one  should  remem- 
ber that  somewhere  there  is  an  honest 
soul  waiting  to  hear  the  truth,  and  it 
may  be  that  you  are  the  only  one  who 
can  reach  that  inquiring  soul. 

Members  of  the  Church  are  or  can 
be  effective  missionaries.  We  saw  that 
exemplified  in  Great  Britain  in  1923. 
Before  that  time  the  elders  were  using 
the  newspapers,  and  the  British  news- 
papers were  very  antagonistic.  They 
refused  to  publish  the  truth  about  the 
Church.  After  we  had  won  the  favor 
of  the  press,  we  decided  to  put  this 
challenge  to  the  members  of  the 
Church:  "This  year  we  should  like 
every  member  in  the  British  Mission 
to  bring  into  the  Church  at  least  one 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


87 


member.  It  may  be  your  mother,  it 
may  be  your  father,  it  may  be  a  child, 
it  may  be  a  neighbor,  it  may  be  one 
of  your  associates  in  business,  but  these 
and  others  know  you,  and  so  prejudice 
is  largely  removed  from  their  hearts — 
that  is,  if  your  personality  radiates  the 
principles  of  the  gospel  so  as  to  bring 
confidence  to  the  hearts  of  the  indi- 
vidual." And  if  you  look  at  the  rec- 
ords in  Great  Britain  for  1923,  you 
will  find  that  there  were  three  times 
the  number  of  converts  we  had  in  any 
other  previous  year  for  many  years. 

Challenge  to  priesthood 

Now  I  challenge  you  holders  of  the 
priesthood,  as  I  have  done  before,  and 
as  I  did  to  the  Saints  in  Great  Britain 
in  1923,  to  take  the  responsibility,  each 
of  you,  of  bringing  one  member  into 
the  Church  each  year.  Think  of  the 
growth  of  the  kingdom  of  God  if  just 
you  holders  of  the  priesthood  within 
the  sound  of  my  voice  accept  that 
challenge. 

We  are  all  missionaries.  We  may 
drop  a  word  here,  bear  our  testimony, 
be  an  exemplar  by  what  we  do;  and,  as 
we  accept  this  call  and  discharge  our 
duties  in  the  stakes,  wards,  quorums, 
and  the  mission  field,  our  acts  will 
"roll  from  soul  to  soul  and  go  forever 
and  forever." 

I  have  said  that  personality  is  a  very 
important  factor  in  removing  preju- 
dice and  in  bringing  investigators. 
However,  that  personality  must  be  such 
that  we  radiate  confidence;  and  unless 
our  actions  are  in  harmony  with  our 
pretensions,  our  personality  will  pro- 
duce a  disappointment  instead  of  con- 
fidence. This  means,  therefore,  that 
you  brethren  carry  the  responsibility 
of  preaching  the  gospel  by  your  actions 
even  more  than  by  your  words. 

Responsibility  of  personal  influence 

There  is  one  responsibility  that  no 
man  can  evade.  That  is  the  responsi- 
bility of  personal  influence.  The  effect 
of  your  words  and  acts  is  tremendous 
in  this  world.  Every  moment  of  life 
you  are  changing  to  a  degree  the  life 
of  the  whole  world.  Every  man  has 
an  atmosphere  or  a  radiation  that  is 


affecting  every  person  in  the  world. 
You  cannot  escape  it.  Into  the  hands  of 
every  individual  is  given  a  marvelous 
power  for  good  or  for  evil.  It  is  simply 
the  constant  radiation  of  what  a  man 
really  is.  Every  man  by  his  mere  living 
is  radiating  positive  or  negative  quali- 
ties. Life  is  a  state  of  radiation.  To 
exist  is  to  be  the  radiation  of  our  feel- 
ings, natures,  doubts,  schemes,  or  to  be 
the  recipient  of  those  things  from  some- 
body else.  You  cannot  escape  it.  Man 
cannot  escape  for  one  moment  the  radi- 
ation of  his  character.  You  will  select 
the  qualities  that  you  will  permit  to 
be  radiated.  That  reminds  me  of  the 
following  poem,  the  author  of  which 
is  unknown. 

"You  tell  on  yourself  by  the  friends 
you  seek, 

By  the  very  manner  in  which  you 
speak, 

By  the  way  you  employ  your  leisure 
time, 

By  the  use  you  make  of  dollar  and 
dime. 

You  tell  what  you  are  by  the  things  you 
wear, 

And  even  by  the  way  you  wear  your 
hair, 

By  the  kind  of  things  at  which  you 
laugh, 

By  the  records  you  play  on  your  phono- 
graph. 

You  tell  what  you  are  by  the  way  you 
walk, 

By  the  things  of  which  you  delight  to 
talk, 

By  the  manner  in  which  you  bury 
deceit, 

By  so  simple  a  thing  as  how  you  eat. 

By  the  books  you  choose  from  the  well- 
filled  shelf. 

In  these  ways  and  more  you  tell  on 
yourself." 

A  light  set  upon  a  hill 

Men  and  brethren  of  the  priesthood, 
so  live  your  lives  that  you  set  the 
proper  example  to  those  about  you. 
You  are  a  light,  and  it  is  your  duty 
not  to  have  that  light  hidden  under  a 
bushel,  but  set  upon  a  hill  that  all 
men  may  be  guided  thereby. 

You  brethren  of  the  priesthood 
should  radiate  what  our  twelve  thou- 


88  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  4 

sand  missionaries  should  also  radiate 
to  the  nations  of  the  world: 

First,  worthiness.  This  means  that 
every  man  is  a  Christian  gentleman; 
that  he  has  integrity,  is  honest  and 
trustworthy;  that  every  husband  is 
true  to  the  ideals  of  chastity;  that  every 
young  man  refrains  from  indulgence  in 
tobacco,  in  strong  drink  or  drugs,  and 
keeps  himself  free  from  the  sins  of  the 
world;  that  every  man  is  worthy  to 
represent  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus 
Christ! 

Second,  testimony.  Every  member  of 
the  Church  should  be  converted  and 
have  a  knowledge  of  the  gospel,  in- 
cluding a  knowledge  of  the  scriptures. 
How  wonderful  it  would  be  if  every 
member  of  the  Church  could,  as  Peter 
of  old,  "sanctify  the  Lord  God  in  your 
hearts:  and  be  ready  always  to  give  an 
answer  to  every  man  that  asketh  you  a 
reason  of  the  hope  that  is  in  you.  .  .  ." 
(1  Pet.  3:15.)  A  man  must  know  what 
he  teaches  before  he  can  effectively 
teach  it  to  others! 

Third,  service.  Are  you  willing  to 
serve?  Do  you  have  the  vision  King 
Benjamin  had  when  he  said,  ".  .  . 
when  ye  are  in  the  service  of  your 
fellow  beings,  ye  are  only  in  the 
service  of  your  God"?  (Mosiah  2:17.) 
True  Christianity  is  love  in  action. 
There  is  no  better  way  to  manifest 
love  for  God  than  to  show  an  un- 
selfish love  for  one's  fellowmen.  That 
is  the  spirit  of  missionary  work! 

And  fourth,  inspiration — the  seeking 
of  divine  guidance  through  prayer. 
When  one  senses  the  glory  of  the 
gospel,  when  one  realizes  how  compre- 
hensive it  is  and  what  a  great  guide 
it  is  to  a  true  philosophy  of  living,  he 
senses  his  own  need  for  help  and 
guidance.  That  is  the  fourth  help  in 
the  performance  of  missionary  work — 
guidance  through  prayer! 

Story  of  ancient  king 

Especially  to  you  young  men  in  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  as  you  begin  from 
the  time  you  are  deacons  to  prepare  to 
serve  full-time  missions  for  our 
Father  in  heaven,  may  I  relate  this 
story: 

There  once  was  an  ancient  king  who 
called  a  young  man  to  him  and  said, 


Second  Day 

"Youth,  I  have  a  precious  gift  that  I 
must  ask  you  to  carry  to  the  nations  of 
the  world,  to  all  the  people  of  the 
uttermost  parts." 

"O  king,"  said  the  youth,  "I  am 
young.  The  world  today  says  youth 
is  not  worthy;  youth  is  frivolous  with 
no  aim.  Can  you  trust  youth  with 
your  precious  gift?" 

The  king  answered,  "The  world  is 
wrong  in  misjudging  youth.  Youth 
has  always  met  with  a  high  courage 
whatever  life  brings.  Youth  is  filled 
with  hope;  youth  is  joyous  and  happy." 

"Then,"  said  the  youth,  "I  will  try, 
and  I  shall  succeed." 

"That  is  well,"  said  the  king.  "My 
gift  is  very  precious.  You  must  bear 
it  to  all  the  people,  and  they  can  keep 
it  only  as  they  give  it  away." 

"I  do  not  understand,"  replied  the 
youth. 

The  king  said,  "My  son,  my  gift  can 
neither  be  bought,  nor  weighed,  nor 
measured.  The  young  and  the  old,  the 
rich  and  the  poor,  all  have  need  of  this 
gift"  _ 

"I  implore  you,  O  king,  give  it  to 
me." 

Then  the  king  spoke  more  firmly: 
"Underneath  all  new  things  are  the 
things  that  never  change.  They  are: 
the  beauty  of  honor,  the  joy  of  service, 
the  sublimity  of  integrity  and  sacrifice. 
O  youth,  the  hope  of  the  world  rests 
in  these  three  things  and  the  change- 
less things  that  I  am  naming  for  you. 
Remember,  skies  grow  dark,  birds 
sleep,  winds  moan,  yet  you  must  go  on 
far  afield  in  the  spirit  of  those  chang- 
less  things.  You  will  grow  weary, 
you  will  not  understand,  you  will 
climb  the  steep  heights  and  be  carried 
down  to  the  depths,  you  will  visit 
palaces  and  hovels,  you  will  go  to 
workers,  you  will  go  to  loungers, 
to  those  who  weep  and  to  those  who 
laugh." 

And  the  youth  said,  "O  king,  how 
shall  I  find  my  way?" 

And  the  king  answered,  "I  will  give 
you  two  things:  first,  a  lantern  of 
tolerance  to  light  your  way,  and  sec- 
ond, a  magic  cloud  to  bear  the  burdens 
that  beset  you." 

The  youth  said,  "I  am  ready.  Give 
me  the  gift." 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


89 


And  the  king  said,  "The  precious  gift 
is  peace,  my  son.  Peace  through  toler- 
ance and  peace  through  helpfulness — 
one  hand  clasped  in  mine  and  the 
other  outstretched  to  all  humanity." 

That  king  might  well  have  been  the 
King  of  the  world,  Jesus  Christ,  and 
the  young  man  might  well  have  been 
you,  my  young  fellow  workers  in  the 
Church  of  Christ.  The  Lord  and  Savior 
Jesus  Christ  will  ask  you  to  go  to  all 
the  world  and  preach  the  gospel.  You 
will  be  given  higher  authority  than 
you  now  have  to  represent  the  Savior, 
just  as  the  king  gave  that  young  man 
a  commandment  to  take  a  message  of 
peace. 

Message  of  peace 

In  order  to  bring  peace  to  the  hearts 
of  men  in  the  world,  take  this  mes- 
sage, my  brethren.  The  people  you 
teach  must  have  these  great  truths  in 
mind. 

First,  teach  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  and  accepting  him  as  the  Only 
Begotten  Son  of  the  Father,  who  came 
and  redeemed  all  men  from  death,  all 
men,  and  who  established  the  princi- 
ples of  the  gospel,  by  obedience  to 
which  men  may  gain  salvation  in  his 
kingdom.  And  as  Peter  said  before 
the  judges  in  the  Sanhedrin,  ".  .  .  there 
is  none  other  name  under  heaven 
given  among  men,  whereby  we  must 
be  saved."  (Acts  4:12.)  Young  men, 
take  that  message  and  instill  faith  in 
the  hearts  of  the  people  of  the  world 
in  God  our  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ— faith  that  Christ's  Church  has 
been  established  in  this  age,  through 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  as  he  estab- 
lished it  in  the  former  days  when 
Peter,  James,  and  John  lived  as  leaders. 

The  second  plan  that  you  are  to 
teach,  young  men,  is  kindness  toward 
all  men.  You  cannot  have  enmity  in 
your  hearts  toward  any  one  man.  Some 
men  may  try  to  deprive  you  of  your 
privileges,  but  you  keep  kindness  in 
your  heart  and  prove  to  the  world  that 
you  have  the  spirit  of  the  lowly 
Nazarene  who  preached  to  the  poor  on 
the  Sea  of  Galilee.  With  faith,  with 
kindness,  let  your  heart  be  filled  with 
the  desire  to  serve  all  mankind.  The 
spirit  of  the  gospel  comes  from  service 


in  the  good  of  others.  Listen  to  that 
paradoxical  saying  of  the  Son  of  Man: 
"For  whosoever  will  save  his  life  shall 
lose  it;  but  whosoever  shall  lose  his  life 
for  my  sake  and  the  gospel's,  the  same 
shall  save  it."  (Mark  8:35.) 

Responsibility  to  preach  gospel 

My  dear  young  brethren  of  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood,  prepare  for  that 
day  when  you  will  go  out  into  the 
world  to  preach  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ;  and,  as  you  prepare,  you  will 
so  radiate  that  you  will  truly  be  mis- 
sionaries here  at  home,  here  and  now. 

The  responsibility  of  the  Church  is 
to  preach  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as 
restored  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
not  only  to  preach  it  and  proclaim  it 
by  word,  by  distribution  of  literature, 
but  more  than  anything  else  by  living 
the  gospel  in  our  homes  and  in  our 
business  dealings,  having  faith  and 
testimony  in  our  hearts,  and  radiating 
it  wherever  we  go. 

Brethren,  there  is  nothing  that  can 
stop  the  progress  of  truth  excepting 
only  our  weaknesses  or  failure  to  do 
our  duty. 

In  conclusion,  let  me  urge  more  dili- 
gence in  living  and  radiating  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  gospel.  The  older  I  grow 
the  more  thrilled  and  more  grateful 
I  am  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ, 
and  the  more  impressed  I  am  with  the 
importance  of  declaring  this  truth  to 
the  world. 

Divine  Sonship  of  Christ 

God  bless  the  missionary  cause,  not 
merely  to  increase  our  membership — 
that  will  follow  inevitably — but  to 
declare  the  restoration  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  the  divinity  of  the  life, 
death,  and  resurrection  of  our  Lord 
and  Savior.  Upon  you,  my  fellow 
workers,  and  the  two-and-one-half 
million  members  of  the  Church,  rests 
the  responsibility  of  declaring  to  the 
world  the  divine  Sonship  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

Now,  there  are  many  who  believe 
it  is  true.  There  are  millions  of  honest 
souls  who  believe  it,  but  they  need  men 
and  women  who  will  declare  it,  and 
declare  that  they  have  a  testimony  of 
that  truth. 


90 

Saturday,  October  4 

Testimony 

I  bear  you  that  testimony  tonight.  I 
know  our  Lord  and  Savior  is  at  the 
head  of  this  church,  that  he  is  guid- 
ing it.  I  know  it  as  I  know  I  live.  I 
know  that  he  with  his  Father  restored 
this  gospel  as  it  was  given  in  the 
meridian  of  time  in  its  simplicity,  in 
its  beauty,  in  its  divinity.  I  know  that 
these  brethren,  constituting  the  General 
Authorities,  are  true  servants  of  the 
Lord.  I  know  that  there  are  thousands 
— hundreds  of  thousands — of  men  and 
women  in  the  Church  who  have  that 
testimony.  I  pray  that  we  may  use  the 
means  that  have  been  put  into  our 
hands  to  harvest  the  rich  group  of 
souls  waiting  to  hear  this  message. 

Paul  said  he  heard  a  voice  calling 
him  over  into  Macedonia,  and  he  went 
into  Europe  and  found  honest  souls 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

waiting.  We  hear  the  voice  calling, 
not  only  in  Europe  and  Macedonia, 
but  here  at  home  and  in  the  utter- 
most ends  of  the  earth,  "Come  and  give 
us  the  gospel." 

God  help  us  to  heed  that  call — an- 
swer it,  that  we  may  harvest  the  crop 
of  honest  souls  to  the  glory  of  the  Lord, 
who  said,  ".  .  .  this  is  my  work  and 
my  glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  immor- 
tality and  eternal  life  of  man"  (Moses 
1:39),  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen.  O 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

Elder  Alan  J.  Smith  of  the  Draper 
1st  Ward  in  the  Mount  Jordan  Stake, 
who  has  just  returned  from  a  mission 
in  Australia,  will  now  address  us. 


ELDER  ALAN  J.  SMITH 


It  is  thrilling  to  look  over  this  great 
congregation  of  priesthood  holders  to- 
night, and  to  ponder  the  magnitude  of 
the  power  that  we  hold.  And  what  a 
humbling  experience  it  is  for  me  to 
represent  the  many  thousands  of  re- 
turned missionaries.  What  a  glorious 
opportunity  a  mission  is.  Simply  de- 
fined, missionary  work  is  sharing  with 
others  the  most  important  message 
on  earth.  No  satisfaction  is  greater 
than  that  of  seeing  others  grow  and 
progress  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  vividly  recall  the  events  leading 
up  to  my  call  and  entrance  into  the 
mission  field.  I  had  to  wait  several 
months  after  my  nineteenth  birthday 
for  a  quota  to  become  available,  and 
these  were  months  filled  with  great 
anxiety.  I  had  many  questions  about 
the  mission  field,  and  my  preparedness 
for  it.  Where  would  I  be  called?  Was 
I  really  prepared  to  teach  others  the 
gospel  when  my  own  knowledge  was 
so  small?  What  was  the  mission  field 
really  like? 

My  anxieties  were  aroused  one  day 
as  my  bishop  called  me  into  his  office 
and  informed  me  that  a  quota  was 
available  and  proceeded  to  interview 
me.  Both  his  interview  and  that  of  my 
stake  president  were  very  significant. 


Both  of  these  inspired  men  had  soul- 
searching  questions  which  stimulated 
my  thinking,  and  both  expressed  their 
confidence  in  me.  An  awareness  of  the 
confidence  and  the  trust  the  Church 
places  in  its  missionaries  was  being 
awakened  in  me,  and  I  began  to  appre- 
ciate the  seriousness  of  the  work  to 
which  I  would  soon  be  called. 

A  few  days  later  I  received  a  letter 
from  President  McKay,  and  my  fingers 
must  have  trembled  nervously  as  I 
opened  it  and  read  my  call  from  a 
prophet  of  God  to  preach  the  gospel 
in  Australia.  The  ensuing  weeks  were 
filled  with  hasty  preparations  for  the 
mission  field.  How  grateful  I  am  that 
I  took  the  opportunity  to  learn  the 
first  missionary  discussion  and  gain  a 
basic  understanding  of  the  others  be- 
fore entering  the  Salt  Lake  missionary 
home. 

The  week  spent  in  the  mission  home 
was  exciting  and  interesting.  We  lis- 
tened to  the  inspired  teachings  of  the 
presiding  brethren  of  the  Church,  and 
endeavored  to  prepare  ourselves  men- 
tally and  spiritually  for  missionary 
service. 

It  was  a  great  moment  in  my  life 
when  Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  set  me 
apart  as  a  missionary.  One  statement 


ELDER  AL 

he  made  has  been  of  great  significance 
to  me  in  my  missionary  experience.  I 
have  pondered  these  words  many  times 
over  the  past  three  years.  He  said, 
"Nothing  is  more  important  at  this  time 
and  season  than  this  work." 

We  read  from  Ecclesiastes,  "To  every 
thing  there  is  a  season,  and  a  time  to 
every  purpose  under  the  heaven." 
(Ecclesiastes  3:1.)  This  is  the  time  of 
the  great  missionary  movement  in  the 
Church,  and  the  Lord  needs  all  who 
are  willing,  and  who  have  the  courage 
to  prepare  themselves  for  the  greatest 
work  on  earth. 

As  my  companions  and  I  descended 
upon  the  red  roofs  of  Melbourne,  Aus- 
tralia, it  seemed  as  though  we  were 
entering  a  different  world.  While  walk- 
ing from  the  plane  into  the  air 
terminal,  a  man  stepped  out  from  the 
crowd,  extended  his  hand  and  said, 
"I  am  President  Russon.  Welcome  to 
Australia."  Little  did  I  realize  at  that 
time  the  profound  effect,  the  profound 
influence  that  this  man  would  have 
on  my  life.  He  is  a  man  of  high  prin- 
ciples and  ideals.  He  was  a  great 
leader  and  his  goals  were  of  a  celestial 
nature.  How  I  hoped  to  be  able  to 
emulate  the  example  he  set. 

Once  in  the  mission  field,  responsi- 
bility is  placed  squarely  on  a  mis- 
sionary's shoulders.  Each  missionary 
is  the  Lord's  personal  representative 
in  his  assigned  area  of  labor.  And  what 
a  responsibility  that  is,  to  realize  you 
are  all  the  Lord  has  in  that  area.  How 
important  it  is  that  a  missionary  be 
cognizant  of  who  he  is  and  whom  he 
represents.  Each  member  sees  in  every 
missionary  the  image  of  the  missionary 
who  brought  him  into  the  Church,  and 
what  a  boon  it  is  to  a  ward  or  branch 
to  have  effective  missionaries  who 
work  hard,  who  are  enthusiastic,  and 
who  have  burning  within  them  a  testi- 
mony that  will  ignite  a  fire  in  an 
earnest  investigator's  heart.  In  this 
caliber  of  missionary  the  members  have 
confidence.  They  are  willing  and 
anxious  to  help  and  support  them  in 
their  missionary  endeavors.  Enthusiasm 
mounts  and  the  spirit  and  progress  of 
the  Church  program  are  greatly  en- 
hanced. 

It  has  been  said  that  one  of  the  hard- 


V  /.  SMITH  91 

est  things  in  the  world  is  to  know  one's 
self.  In  the  mission  field  you  come  face 
to  face  with  yourself,  and  your  imper- 
fections and  inadequacies  become  more 
apparent  to  you.  You  recognize  the 
need  to  improve  yourself  so  that  you 
will  be  better  prepared  to  help  others. 
You  learn  self-discipline  as  you  realize 
the  value  of  time,  and  begin  to  organize 
and  use  it  wisely  to  accomplish  the 
Lord's  work.  You  soon  find  out  that 
your  own  knowledge  and  wisdom  are 
really  quite  shallow,  and  that  you  need 
the  advice  and  counsel  of  others  to 
help  you  to  complete  your  assignment 
successfully.  For  this  reason  you  are 
given  a  companion,  with  whom  you 
must  learn  to  counsel,  to  work  and  to 
live,  and  with  whom  you  kneel  in 
prayer  to  seek  divine  guidance. 

A  true  knowledge  of  yourself  develops 
the  attribute  of  humility.  Humility 
takes  you  to  your  knees,  and  helps  you 
to  realize  the  presence  and  accessibility 
of  a  loving  Father,  a  Father  who  will 
guide  and  direct  you  successfully  in 
accomplishing  his  work.  What  an  ad- 
vantage life  offers  to  missionaries  who 
have  learned  self-discipline,  who  have 
learned  to  live  with  and  appreciate 
others,  and  who  have  learned  to  com- 
mune with  God.  Success  in  school,  in 
a  vocation,  in  the  community,  in  the 
home  and  in  the  Church  is  easily  with- 
in the  grasp  of  the  successful  mis- 
sionary. 

Time  may  pass  and  memory  may 
fade,  but  nothing  can  erase  from  my 
mind  indelible  memories  of  treasured 
experiences  in  the  mission  field.  May  I 
just  share  with  you  part  of  a  letter 
I  received  from  a  wonderful  sister  in 
Perth,  Australia.  My  companion  taught 
her  and  her  good  husband  the  first  dis- 
cussion. He  lost  interest;  hers  was 
stimulated.  She  gained  a  strong  con- 
viction of  the  truth  and  was  soon  bap- 
tized, and  in  the  ensuing  weeks  her  two 
daughters  followed  her  example,  but 
her  husband  remained  firm  in  his  op- 
position to  the  Church.  Some  months 
later  I  received  a  letter  from  her,  a 
glowing  letter.  It  read: 

"You  can  never  imagine  the  change 
which  has  been  effected  in  this  man, 
my  husband.  I  find  at  times  that  I 
can't  believe  that  he  has  taken  the 


92 

Saturday,  October  4 

glorious  step.  My  thanks  are  great  for 
a  wonderful  blessing.  He  is  now  a 
deacon  and  is  preparing  to  receive  the 
Melchizedek  Priesthood.  Words  fail  to 
convey  an  expression  of  my  gratitude 
and  happiness  at  this  time  and  for  all 
the  future,  but  you  deserve  to  share  in 
this  beautiful  time  of  joy  in  our  family. 
Sincerely  yours." 

Brethren  of  the  priesthood,  may  I  sub- 
mit to  you  a  definition  of  happiness. 
Happiness  is  sharing  with  others  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  witnessing 
in  their  lives  the  application  of  gospel 
principles.  You  Aaronic  Priesthood 
holders,  a  mission  is  for  you.  No  other 
experience  in  life  can  act  as  a  substitute 
Prepare  now  for  it.  Prepare  by  reading 
and  by  becoming  familiar  with  the 
gospel,  by  learning  the  content  and 
method  of  presenting  the  missionary 
discussions,  and  by  gaining  a  firm 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

testimony  through  prayer  and  fasting. 
The  mission  field  is  beckoning.  It  is 
beckoning  prepared  missionaries,  and 
it  offers  the  most  rewarding  experience 
of  a  lifetime. 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  wonderful  par- 
ents who  taught  me  the  gospel,  and 
who  have  encouraged  and  supported 
me  not  only  in  the  mission  field  but  in 
all  my  life  endeavors. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  the 
gospel  is  true,  and  that  we  have  a  great 
responsibility  to  share  our  testimonies 
with  others,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

Elder  Thomas  S.  Monson  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  now  speak 
to  us. 


ELDER  THOMAS  S.  MONSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


•  Twice  each  year  this  historic  taber- 
nacle seems  to  say  to  us,  with  its  per- 
suasive voice:  "Come  all  ye  sons  of  God 
who  have  received  the  priesthood." 
There  is  a  characteristic  spirit  that  per- 
vades the  general  priesthood  meeting  of 
the  Church.  This  spirit  emanates  from 
the  Tabernacle  and  enters  every  build- 
ing where  the  sons  of  God  assemble. 

Some  13,000  of  our  number  are  ab- 
sent tonight,  but  they  are  not  beyond 
our  love  nor  our  prayers.  In  response  to 
a  call  from  God's  prophet,  they  have 
left  behind  home,  family,  friends,  and 
school,  and  gone  forward  to  serve  in 
his  harvest  fields  so  wide.  Men  of  the 
world  ask  the  question:  "Why  do  they 
respond  so  readily  and  willingly  give 
so  much?"  Our  missionaries,  your  sons, 
your  brothers  could  well  answer  in  the 
words  of  Paul,  that  peerless  missionary 
of  an  earlier  day:  "For  though  I  preach 
the  gospel,  I  have  nothing  to  glory  of: 
for  necessity  is  laid  upon  me;  yea,  woe 
is  unto  me,  if  I  preach  not  the  gospel!" 
(1  Cor.  9:16.) 

".  .  .  teach  all  nations." 

The  holy  scriptures  contain  no  proc- 


lamation more  relevant,  no  responsi- 
bility more  binding,  no  instruction 
more  direct  than  the  injunction  given 
by  the  resurrected  Lord  as  he  appeared 
in  Galilee  to  the  11  disciples.  Said  he: 
"All  power  is  given  unto  me  in  heaven 
and  in  earth. 

"Go  ye  therefore,  and  teach  all  na- 
tions, baptizing  them  in  the  name  of 
the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the 
Holy  Ghost: 

"Teaching  them  to  observe  all  things 
whatsoever  I  have  commanded  you: 
and  lo,  I  am  with  you  alway,  even 
unto  the  end  of  the  world."  (Matt. 
28:18-20.) 

This  divine  command,  coupled  with 
its  glorious  promise,  is  our  watchword 
today  as  in  the  meridian  of  time.  Mis- 
sionary work  is  an  identifying  feature 
of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  It  has  always  been 
so;  it  shall  ever  be.  As  the  prophet 
Joseph  Smith  declared:  "After  all  that 
has  been  said,  the  greatest  and  most 
important  duty  is  to  preach  the  Gospel." 
(Documentary  History  of  the  Church, 
Vol.  2,  p.  478.) 


ELDER  THOMAS  S.  MONSON 


93 


Requirements  for  ministry 

Within  two  short  years,  all  13,000 
missionaries  in  this  royal  army  of  God 
will  conclude  their  full-time  labors 
and  return  to  their  homes  and  loved 
ones.  Their  replacements  are  found 
tonight  in  the  ranks  of  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  of  the  Church.  Young  men, 
are  you  ready  to  respond?  Are  you 
willing  to  work?  Are  you  prepared  to 
serve?  Mediocrity  is  not  in  fashion. 
Excellence  is  the  order  of  the  day. 

President  John  Taylor  summed  up 
the  requirements:  "The  kind  of  men 
we  want  as  bearers  of  this  gospel  mes- 
sage are  men  who  have  faith  in  God; 
men  who  have  faith  in  their  religion; 
men  who  honor  their  priesthood;  men 
in  whom  the  people  who  know  them 
have  faith,  and  in  whom  God  has  con- 
fidence. .  .  .  We  want  men  full  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  and  the  power  of  God.  .  .  . 
Men  who  bear  the  words  of  life  among 
the  nations  ought  to  be  men  of  honor, 
integrity,  virtue  and  purity;  and  this 
being  the  command  of  God  to  us,  we 
shall  try  to  carry  it  out." 

Inexperienced  missionaries 

Now  that  is  quite  a  demanding  de- 
scription. Especially  is  it  so  when  I 
reflect  upon  several  of  the  young  and 
inexperienced  missionaries  who  came 
to  the  mission  where  I  had  the  privilege 
to  preside.  I  shall  ever  remember  the 
bewilderment  of  one  boy  from  down 
on  the  farm  when  he  first  gazed  at  the 
skyscrapers  of  Toronto.  He  inquired 
of  me:  "President,  how  many  people  in 
this  here  town?"  I  answered:  "Oh,  about 
a  million  and  a  half."  To  which  he  re- 
sponded, "Goll-ee!  There  are  only 
eighty  in  my  home  town." 

That  evening  in  our  traditional  get- 
acquainted  testimony  meeting,  some  of 
the  veteran  missionaries  expressed 
themselves  regarding  the  difficulty  of 
the  work.  "Doors  will  slam  in  your 
face,  abusive  language  will  be  hurled 
toward  you,  you'll  get  discouraged  and 
downhearted;  but  when  it's  all  over, 
you  will  say,  'These  have  been  the 
happiest  two  years  of  my  life.'  " 

My  missionary  from  the  small  town 
was  more  hesitant  than  ever  as  he  spoke 
falteringly:  "I'll  be  glad  when  the 
happiest  two  years  of  my  life  are  over." 


Requires  devotion 

At  best,  missionary  work  necessitates 
drastic  adjustment  to  one's  pattern  of 
living.  No  other  labor  requires  longer 
hours  or  greater  devotion,  nor  such 
sacrifice  and  fervent  prayer.  As  a  re- 
sult, dedicated  missionary  service  re- 
turns a  dividend  of  eternal  joy  that 
extends  throughout  life  and  into 
eternity. 

Today  our  challenge  is  to  be  more 
profitable  servants  in  the  Lord's  vine- 
yard. 

Formula  for  success 

May  I  suggest,  particularly  to  you 
bearers  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  a 
formula  that  will  insure  your  success: 

First:  Search  the  scriptures  with  dili- 
gence! 

Second:  Plan  your  life  with  purpose! 
Third:  Teach  the  truth  with  testi- 
mony! 

Fourth:  Serve  the  Lord  with  love! 
Let  us  consider  each  of  the  four  parts 
of  this  formula. 

Search  the  scriptures 

1.  Search  the  scriptures  with  dili- 
gence. 

The  scriptures  testify  of  God  and 
contain  the  words  of  eternal  life.  They 
become  the  burden  of  your  message — 
even  the  tools  of  your  trade.  Your  con- 
fidence will  be  directly  related  to  your 
knowledge  of  God's  word.  Oh,  I  am 
sure  you  have  heard  of  some  mission- 
aries who  were  lazy,  less  than  effective, 
and  anxious  for  their  missions  to 
conclude.  A  careful  examination  of 
such  instances  will  reveal  that  the 
actual  culprit  is  not  laziness,  nor  dis- 
interest, but  is  the  foe  known  as  fear. 
Our  Father  chastized  such:  ".  .  .  with 
some  I  am  not  well  pleased,  for  they 
will  not  open  their  mouths,  but  they 
hide  the  talent  which  I  have  given 
unto  them,  because  of  the  fear  of  man." 
(D&C  60:2.  Italics  added.) 

Had  not  this  same  loving  Heavenly 
Father  provided  a  prescription  to  over- 
come this  malady,  his  words  perhaps 
would  appear  overly  harsh.  In  a  revela- 
tion given  through  Joseph  Smith  the 
Prophet,  January  2,  1831,  the  Lord  de- 
clared: ".  .  .  if  ye  are  prepared  ye  shall 


94  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  4 

not  fear."  (D&C  38:30.)  This  is  the 
key.  Will  you  use  it? 

How  grateful  am  I  that  the  Family 
Home  Evening  Manual  places  emphasis 
upon  the  scriptures.  The  seminary  and 
institute  curricula  likewise  stress  the 
scriptures  and  help  the  student  to  in- 
ternalize their  vibrancy  and  meaning. 
The  same  holds  true  of  the  courses 
of  study  now  used  by  the  priesthood 
quorums  and  the  auxiliary  organiza- 
tions, all  programmed  and  coordinated 
through  the  correlation  effort  of  the 
Church. 

Sons  of  Mosiah 

Let  me  provide  but  one  reference 
that  has  immediate  application  to  our 
lives.  In  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the 
seventeenth  chapter  of  Alma,  we  read 
the  account  of  Alma's  joy  as  he  once 
more  saw  the  sons  of  Mosiah  and  noted 
their  steadfastness  in  the  cause  of  truth. 
The  record  describes  these  "mission- 
aries": 

".  .  .  they  had  waxed  strong  in  the 
knowledge  of  the  truth;  for  they  were 
men  of  a  sound  understanding  and 
they  had  searched  the  scriptures  dili- 
gently, that  they  might  know  the  word 
of  God. 

"But  this  is  not  all;  they  had  given 
themselves  to  much  prayer,  and  fast- 
ing; therefore  they  had  the  spirit  of 
prophecy,  and  the  spirit  of  revelation, 
and  when  they  taught,  they  taught 
with  power  and  authority  of  God." 
(Al.  17:2-3.)  Brethren,  search  the 
scriptures  with  diligence. 

Plan  with  purpose 

2.  Plan  your  life  with  purpose. 

Perhaps  no  generation  of  youth  has 
faced  such  far-reaching  decisions  as  the 
youth  of  today.  Provision  must  be  made 
for  school,  mission,  military,  and  mar- 
riage. With  this  thought  in  mind,  the 
First  Presidency  recently  made  standard 
throughout  the  world  a  two-year  length 
of  service  for  each  mission.  This  policy 
permits  a  young  man  to  plan  more 
adequately  the  time  of  his  departure 
and  of  his  return,  that  a  mission 
might  mesh  with  his  educational  pur- 
suits. 

Preparation  for  a  mission  begins 
early.  It  is  a  wise  parent  who  encour- 


Sccond  Day 

ages  young  Jimmy  to  commence  even  in 
boyhood  his  personal  missionary  fund. 
As  the  fund  grows,  so  does  Jimmy's 
desire  to  serve.  He  may  well  be  en- 
couraged as  the  years  go  by  to  study  a 
foreign  language,  that  if  necessary  his 
language  skills  could  be  utilized.  Didn't 
the  Lord  say,  "Teach  all  nations"? 
(See  Matt.  28:19.) 

The  missionary  call 

Then  comes  that  glorious  day  when 
the  bishop  invites  Jim  into  his  office. 
Worthiness  is  ascertained;  a  missionary 
recommendation  is  completed.  There 
follow  those  anxious  moments  of  won- 
derment and  the  unspoken  question, 
"I  wonder  where  I  will  be  called?" 

During  no  other  crisis  does  the  entire 
family  so  anxiously  watch  and  wait  for 
the  mailman  and  the  letter  which  con- 
tains the  return  address:  47  East  South 
Temple,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah.  The 
letter  arrives,  the  suspense  is  over- 
whelming, the  call  is  read.  Often  the 
assigned  field  of  labor  is  a  far-away 
place  with  a  strange  sounding  name — 
Tonga,  the  Philippines,  Japan-Okina- 
wa, to  name  but  a  few.  More  frequently, 
the  assignment  may  be  closer  to  home. 
The  response  of  the  prepared  mission- 
ary is  the  same:  "J  will  serve." 

Mission  a  family  affair 

The  experience  at  the  mission  home 
is  enjoyable,  hectic,  and  helpful.  Never 
have  you  had  newer  clothing,  cleaner 
shirts,  nor  more  uncomfortable  shoes. 
You  occupy  the  limelight.  It  is  a  touch- 
ing scene  to  witness  parents  of  modest 
means  give  so  freely  to  outfit  their  sons. 
Young  men,  I  hope  you  appreciate  the 
sacrifice  which  they  so  willingly  make 
for  you.  Their  labors  will  sustain  you, 
their  faith  encourage  you,  their  prayers 
uphold  you.  A  mission  is  a  family 
affair.  Though  the  expanse  of  oceans 
may  separate,  hearts  are  as  one,  as 
evidenced  by  this  letter  from  a  mission- 
ary son  to  his  father: 

"Dear  Dad: 

"This  is  my  first  Christmas  away 
from  my  home  and  family.  I  wish  that 
I  could  be  home  to  share  the  joy,  good 
cheer,  and  the  love  that  come  with  this 


ELDER  THOMAS  S.  MONSON 


95 


season;  but  I  am  grateful  to  be  here 
in  Sweden  as  a  missionary. 

"I'm  grateful  for  my  father;  I  do  so 
love,  admire,  and  respect  him.  His  life 
has  always  been  a  wonderful  example 
to  me  and  has  helped  countless  times 
to  make  the  right  decisions. 

"I'm  grateful  for  his  wisdom,  which 
has  counseled  me;  his  love,  which  has 
disciplined  me;  and  his  testimony, 
which  has  inspired  me. 

"How  can  a  son  show  his  love  for 
his  father?  How  can  he  fully  express 
what  he  feels?  How  can  he  demonstrate 
his  gratitude?  I  wish  I  could  answer 
these  questions.  There  is,  however, 
one  way  that  I  know  I  can  show  my 
gratitude,  and  that  is  by  patterning  my 
life  after  that  of  my  father. 

"This,  then,  is  my  task — to  live  a 
life  equal  to  that  of  my  father's,  that 
I  may  spend  eternity  together  with 
him. 

"Merry  Christmas  and  God  bless  you, 

Paul" 

Missionary  opportunities 

As  you  plan  with  purpose  your  lives, 
remember  that  your  missionary  op- 
portunities are  not  restricted  to  the 
period  of  a  formal  call.  The  time  you 
spend  in  military  service  can  and 
should  be  profitable.  Each  year,  our 
young  men  in  uniform  bring  thousands 
of  souls  into  the  kingdom  of  God.  How 
do  they  accomplish  this  marvelous  feat? 
They  themselves  honor  their  priest- 
hood, live  the  commandments  of  God, 
and  teach  to  others  his  divine  word. 
Many  returned  missionaries  have  testi- 
fied that  their  missionary  experiences 
in  the  military  were  equally  as  bounti- 
ful and  richly  rewarding  as  in  the 
mission  field  itself. 

And  while  pursuing  your  formal 
education,  do  not  overlook  your  privi- 
lege to  be  missionaries.  Your  example 
as  a  Latter-day  Saint  is  being  observed, 
weighed,  and  ofttimes  will  be  emulated. 

Make  time  in  your  lives  and  provide 
room  in  your  hearts  for  school,  a  mis- 
sion, the  military,  and,  of  course,  tem- 
ple marriage.  Plan  your  life  with 
purpose. 

Teach  with  testimony 

3.  Teach  the  truth  with  testimony. 


Obey  the  counsel  of  the  apostle 
Peter,  who  urged:  ".  .  .  be  ready  always 
to  give  an  answer  to  every  man  that 
asketh  you  a  reason  of  the  hope  that  is 
in  you."  (1  Pet.  3:15.)  Lift  up  your 
voices  and  testify  to  the  true  nature  of 
the  Godhead.  Declare  your  witness 
concerning  the  Book  of  Mormon.  Con- 
vey the  glorious  and  beautiful  truths 
contained  in  the  plan  of  salvation. 
Regarding  your  testimony,  remember, 
that  which  you  willingly  share  you 
keep,  while  that  which  you  selfishly 
keep  you  lose.  Have  the  courage  and 
the  kindness,  as  did  Jesus,  to  teach  the 
Nicodemuses  whom  you  may  meet  that 
baptism  is  essential  to  salvation.  Teach 
and  testify.  There  is  no  better  combina- 
tion. 

Missionary  experience 

Remember  our  boy  from  the  rural 
community  who  marveled  at  the  size 
of  Toronto?  He  was  short  in  stature, 
but  tall  in  testimony.  Together  with 
his  companion,  he  called  at  the  home 
of  Elmer  Pollard  in  Oshawa,  [Ontario,] 
Canada.  Feeling  sorry  for  the  young 
men  who,  during  a  blinding  blizzard, 
were  going  from  house  to  house,  Mr. 
Pollard  invited  the  missionaries  into 
his  home.  They  presented  to  him 
their  message.  He  did  not  catch  the 
spirit.  In  due  time  he  asked  that  they 
leave  and  not  return.  His  last  words 
to  the  elders  as  they  departed  his 
front  porch  were  spoken  in  derision: 
"You  can't  tell  me  you  actually  believe 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God!" 

The  door  was  shut.  The  elders 
walked  down  the  path.  Our  country 
boy  spoke  to  his  companion:  "Elder, 
we  didn't  answer  Mr.  Pollard's  ques- 
tion. He  said  we  didn't  believe  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  true  prophet.  Let's  return 
and  bear  our  testimonies  to  him."  At 
first  the  more  experienced  missionary 
hesitated,  but  finally  he  agreed  to  ac- 
company his  companion.  Fear  struck 
their  hearts  as  they  approached  the 
door  from  which  they  had  been  turned 
away.  A  knock,  the  confrontation 
with  Mr.  Pollard,  an  agonizing  mo- 
ment, then  with  power,  a  testimony 
borne  by  the  Spirit:  "Mr.  Pollard,  you 
said  we  didn't  really  believe  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God.  Mr.  Pol- 


96 

Saturday,  October  4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


lard,  I  testify  that  Joseph  was  a  prophet. 
He  did  translate  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
He  saw  God  the  Father  and  Jesus  the 
Son.  I  know  it." 

Mr.  Pollard,  now  Brother  Pollard, 
stood  in  a  priesthood  meeting  some 
time  later  and  declared:  "That  night  I 
could  not  sleep.  Resounding  in  my  ears 
I  heard  the  words:  'Joseph  Smith  was  a 
prophet  of  God.  I  know  it.  I  know  it. 
I  know  it.'  The  next  day  I  telephoned 
the  missionaries.  Their  message,  cou- 
pled with  their  testimonies,  changed 
my  life  and  the  lives  of  my  family." 
Teach  the  truth  with  testimony. 

Serve  with  love 

4.  Serve  the  Lord  with  love. 

There  is  no  substitute  for  love.  Suc- 
cessful missionaries  love  their  com- 
panions, their  mission  leaders,  and  the 
precious  persons  whom  they  teach. 
Often  this  love  was  kindled  in  youth 
by  a  mother,  nurtured  by  a  father,  and 
kept  vibrant  through  service  to  God. 

In  the  fourth  section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  the  Lord  established 
the  qualifications  for  the  labors  of  the 
ministry.  Let  us  consider  but  a  few 
verses:  ".  .  .  O  ye  that  embark  in  the 
service  of  God,  see  that  ye  serve  him 
with  all  your  heart,  might,  mind  and 
strength,  that  ye  may  stand  blameless 
before  God  at  the  last  day. 

"And  faith,  hope,  charity  and  love, 
with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God, 
qualify  him  for  the  work. 

"Remember  faith,  virtue,  knowledge, 
temperance,  patience,  brotherly  kind- 
ness, godliness,  charity,  humility,  dili- 
gence." (D&C  4:2,  5-6.  Italics  added.) 

Well  might  each  of  us  assembled 
here  tonight  ask  himself:  Today,  have 
I  increased  in  faith,  in  virtue,  in  knowl- 
edge, in  godliness,  in  love? 

When  our  lives  comply  with  God's 
own  standard,  those  within  our  sphere 
of  influence  will  never  speak  the  la- 
ment: "The  harvest  is  past,  the  summer 
is  ended,  and  we  are  not  saved."  (Jer. 
8:20.) 

Through  your  dedicated  devotion  at 
home  or  abroad,  those  souls  whom  you 
help  to  save  may  well  be  those  whom 
you  love  the  most. 


Letters  from  home 

Several  years  ago,  while  touring  the 
California  Mission,  I  interviewed  a 
missionary  who  appeared  rather  de- 
jected and  downcast.  I  asked  him  if 
he  had  been  sending  a  letter  home  to 
his  parents  each  week.  He  replied: 
"Yes,  Brother  Monson,  each  week  for 
the  last  five  months." 

I  responded:  "And  do  you  enjoy  the 
letters  you  receive  from  home?" 

Came  his  unexpected  answer:  "I 
haven't  had  a  letter  from  home  since 
I  came  on  my  mission.  You  see,  my 
Dad  is  inactive  and  Mother  is  a  non- 
member.  She  didn't  favor  my  accepting 
a  mission  call  and  said  that  if  I  went 
into  the  mission  field  she  would  never 
write  nor  send  a  dime."  With  a  half 
smile  that  didn't  really  disguise  the 
heartache,  he  said:  "And  she  has  kept 
her  word.  What  can  I  do,  Brother 
Monson?" 

I  prayed  for  inspiration.  The  an- 
swer came.  "Keep  writing,  son,  every 
week.  Bear  your  testimony  to  Mother 
and  to  Dad.  Let  them  know  you  love 
them.  Tell  them  how  much  the  gos- 
pel means  to  you.  And  serve  the  Lord 
with  all  your  heart." 

Six  months  later  when  I  attended  a 
stake  conference  in  that  area,  this  same 
elder  ran  up  to  me  and  asked:  "Do  you 
remember  me?  I'm  the  missionary 
whose  parents  didn't  write." 

I  remembered  only  too  well  and  cau- 
tiously asked  if  he  had  received  a 
letter  from  home. 

He  reached  into  his  pocket  and  held 
out  to  my  view  a  large  handful  of 
envelopes.  With  tears  streaming  down 
his  cheeks  he  declared  proudly,  "Not 
one  letter,  Brother  Monson,  but  a  letter 
every  week.  Listen  to  the  latest  one: 
'Son,  we  so  much  appreciate  the  work 
you  are  doing.  Since  you  left  for  your 
mission  our  lives  have  changed.  Dad 
attends  priesthood  meeting  and  will 
soon  be  an  elder.  I  have  been  meeting 
with  the  missionaries  and  next  month 
will  be  baptized.  Let's  make  an  ap- 
pointment to  all  be  together  in  the 
Los  Angeles  Temple  one  year  from  now 
as  you  conclude  your  mission.  Sin- 
cerely, Mother.' " 

Love  had  won  its  victory.  Serve  the 
Lord  with  love. 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 


97 


Brethren,  may  each  one  of  us  search 
the  scriptures  with  diligence;  plan  his 
life  with  purpose;  teach  the  truth  with 
testimony;  and  serve  the  Lord  with 
love.  The  elements  of  this  formula 
then  become  our  ideals.  Ideals  are  like 
the  stars:  we  cannot  touch  them  with 
our  hands,  but  by  following  them,  we 
reach  our  destination. 

Great  joy  promised 

The  perfect  Shepherd  of  souls,  the 
missionary  who  redeemed  mankind, 
gave  us  his  divine  assurance:  ".  .  .  If 
it  so  be  that  you  should  labor  all  your 
days  in  crying  repentance  unto  this 
people,  and  bring,  save  it  be  one  soul 
unto  me,  how  great  shall  be  your  joy 
with  him  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father! 

"And  now,  if  your  joy  will  be  great 
with  one  soul  that  you  have  brought 
unto  me  into  the  kingdom  of  my 
Father,  how  great  will  be  your  joy  if 
you  should  bring  many  souls  unto  me!" 
(D&C  18:15-16.) 


Of  him  who  spoke  these  words,  I  de- 
clare my  witness.  He  is  the  Son  of 
God,  our  Redeemer,  and  our  Savior. 

I  pray  that  we  will  respond  to  his 
gentle  invitation,  "Follow  thou  me,"  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen.  O 


President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

Brother  James  L.  Bradley  will  now 
lead  the  congregation  and  chorus  in 
singing,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 

We  would  ask  those  assembled  in  all 
the  different  buildings  to  rise  and  sing 
with  us,  after  which  Elder  Marion  D. 
Hanks,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  will 
address  us. 


The  congregation  joined  in  singing 
the  hymn,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


•  I  have  been  thinking  about  the  story 
of  a  man  who  was  seen  running  full 
speed  toward  a  river,  a  broad  river.  As 
he  approached  the  dock  he  increased 
his  speed  and  then  flung  himself  with 
all  his  might  into  the  water  maybe  ten 
feet,  turned  around  and  swam  back, 
got  out,  and  was  asked  by  a  startled 
onlooker  why  he  had  jumped  into  the 
river.  He  answered  that  a  friend  of  his 
had  bet  him  a  thousand  dollars  to  one 
that  he  couldn't  jump  across  the  river, 
and  after  a  while  he  just  couldn't  stand 
thinking  about  those  odds  without  at 
least  trying. 

Latter-day  Saints  Student  Association 

It  is  going  to  be  quite  a  thing  for  me 
to  talk  about  something  else  besides 
missionary  work  after  this  great  meet- 
ing tonight,  but  I  will  try  because  it  is 
my  responsibility  this  evening,  under 
assignment,  to  discuss  the  Latter-day 
Saints  Student  Association. 

Under  the  direction  of  the  First 
Presidency  and  the  Quorum  of  the 


Twelve  and  operating  with  the  guid- 
ance of  the  Correlation  Committee  and 
the  direct  supervision  and  support  of 
the  Youth  Correlation  Committee  of 
the  Church,  the  Latter-day  Saints  Stu- 
dent Association  functions  as  a  corre- 
lating agency  to  serve  Latter-day  Saint 
students  on  college  and  university 
campuses  across  the  world.  The  Stu- 
dent Association  presently  reaches 
about  285  campuses.  Its  work  is  im- 
portant to  all  college-level  students  and 
to  all  those  who  one  day  will  be;  and, 
of  course,  parents  and  interested 
adults,  bishops,  executive  secretaries, 
stake  presidents,  and  other  Church 
leaders  will  be  deeply  concerned,  as 
should  all  Church  members.  It  is  our 
earnest  hope  that  all  of  you  who  have 
the  Student  Association  in  your  area 
will  discover  that  and  will  cooperate 
fully  and  strengthen  its  work. 

Underlying  principles 

I  would  like  to  talk  tonight  for  a  few 
minutes,  in  order  to  put  this  program 


98 

Saturday,  October  4 

in  perspective,  about  some  principles 
and  problems  and  challenges  that 
underlie  it.  Brother  Monson  has  just 
repeated  what  may  be  the  most  sig- 
nificant fundamental  principle  under- 
lying the  work  we  do.  If  a  few  words 
could  be  thought  to  reveal  the  heart  of 
the  gospel,  distill  its  essence,  those 
words  might  be  the  ones:  "Remember 
the  worth  of  souls  is  great  in  the  sight 
of  God."  (D&C  18:10.)  Of  so  much 
worth  to  God  are  the  souls  of  men  that 
he  sent  his  Holy  Son  as  his  agent  of 
redemption  and  of  mercy  and  of  hap- 
piness. Of  so  much  worth  are  the 
souls  of  men  to  that  Son  that  he  gave 
his  life  on  a  cross  that  we  all  might 
enjoy  the  blessings  of  eternal  life  and 
lasting  relationships  with  loved  ones 
in  the  progressive,  creative  future  with 
our  Eternal  Father  that  we  envision 
and  believe  in. 

The  worth  of  souls 

In  his  lifetime  Jesus  witnessed 
majestically  in  his  teachings  his  con- 
tinuing interest  in  and  his  high  valua- 
tion of  the  individual  souls  of  men. 
Those  three  great  parables  in  one  chap- 
ter of  scripture,  in  answer  to  a  question 
from  a  critic  about  why  he  companied 
with  sinners,  teach  us  everlastingly 
how  we  ought  to  feel  about  the  lost 
sheep,  or  the  individual  child  of  God, 
because  the  enfolded  99  and  the  wan- 
dering one  all  were  important  to  him, 
and  must  be  to  us.  And  when  in  the 
parable  of  the  Good  Samaritan  he 
taught  us  how  we  should  behave  to- 
ward each  other,  he  gave  us  the  objec- 
tive and  ideal  we  ought  to  be  thinking 
about. 

It  is  this  great  principle,  the  worth 
of  souls  in  the  sight  of  God,  that  causes 
the  Church,  the  Lord's  instrument,  to 
be  so  very  concerned  with  each  age 
level  of  individual. 

When  we  think  about  some  of  the 
problems  that  exist  in  this  world  today, 
and  we  think  about  what  happens 
when  one  honest  soul  undertakes  to 
learn  and  live  the  life  the  Lord  wants 
him  to,  and  how  he  frequently  multi- 
plies himself  in  so  many  ways  in  the 
lives  of  others  (as  we  have  seen  it 
in  missionary  work,  in  the  military,  in 
teaching,  in  sports,  in  civic  work,  in 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

employment),  then  we  know  that  this 
is  in  truth  the  Lord's  kingdom,  because 
it  believes  in  the  worth  of  souls. 

Let  me  tell  you  then  about  an  addi- 
tional effort  the  Church  is  making  to 
reach  and  assist  its  college  and  univer- 
sity students  to  find  spiritual  strength 
and  balance  while  they  grow  in  the 
academic  and  social  worlds  of  uni- 
versity life. 

Situation  on  college  campuses 

You  are  all  conscious,  to  some 
measure,  of  the  situation  on  the  col- 
lege campuses,  and  President  McKay's 
words  relating  to  a  survey  about  that 
as  this  conference  began  yesterday.  He 
talked  about  some  of  the  more  signifi- 
cant moral  problems  in  the  attitudes 
of  some  young  people  toward  pre- 
marital sex,  drugs,  and  other  difficult 
pressures  and  unrest  situations  on  the 
campus  these  days. 

Many  adults  are  pessimistic  about 
the  generation  involved,  and  certainly 
some  of  their  acts  indicate  that  some 
of  them  are  not  only  radicals  but  that 
some  are  psychotics,  disciplined  Com- 
munists, or  criminals.  With  them, 
however,  are  many  genuine  idealists 
who  in  the  spirit  of  the  times  seek 
change  toward  a  better  and  more  lofty 
ethical  and  moral  climate. 

In  some  measure,  I  believe,  unfor- 
tunately, the  cynical  words  of  William 
Butler  Yeats  written  in  1921  seem  to 
fit  the  situation.  I  repeat  only  the  last 
two  lines  of  a  well-known  poem: 
"The  best  lack  all  conviction, 
While  the  worst  are  full  of  passionate 

intensity." 

But  this  is  true  only  in  a  measure. 
Some  of  those  who  are  not  optimistic 
about  this  generation  describe  the 
"worst"  as  wanting  to  "teach  before 
they  learn,  retire  before  they  work,  rot 
before  they  ripen."  (Eric  Hoffer.) 

Majority  want  to  do  well 

Others,  and  I  am  one  of  them,  testify 
that  the  solid  majority  of  this  younger 
generation  want  to  do  well,  and  are 
doing  well,  but  they  need  help  to  keep 
from  becoming  captivated  by  the 
temptations  of  this  world  and  by  the 
sterile  lives  of  those  misguided  imita- 
tation  men  who  spend  their  energies 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 


99 


fomenting  furor  and  chaos,  with  no 
expression  of  their  own  that  I  have  ever 
heard  to  improve  anything.  One  won- 
ders what  their  children  will  have  to 
thank  them  for. 

It  is  an  established  principle  through 
the  ages  that  when  adult  authority 
ceases  to  function  effectively,  the  young 
are  victimized  by  each  other.  A  com- 
mentator has  said  it  this  way:  "As  adult 
authority  distintegrates,  the  young  are 
more  and  more  the  captives  of  each 
other.  .  .  .  The  problem  when  adult 
control  disappears  is  that  the  young's 
control  of  each  other  intensifies." 
(David  Riesman,  Psychology  Today, 
September  1969.) 

Where  do  young  Latter-day  Saints 
stand  in  the  midst  of  all  of  this?  I 
would  like  to  bear  testimony  that  they 
are  special;  they  have  special  chal- 
lenges, but  they  also  have  special 
dreams  and  capacity  and  preparation, 
and  the  courage  to  undertake  to  bring 
them  into  reality.  I  believe  that  po- 
tentially they  are  the  greatest  genera- 
tion in  every  way,  but  they  need  help. 
They  need  the  Church  and  its  great 
principles,  its  leadership,  and  its  pro- 
gram; and  the  Church  reaches  to  help 
them  in  many  important  ways. 

Number  in  missionary  and 
military  service 

All  of  us  know,  and  have  tonight  and 
several  times  in  this  conference  had 
reiterated  for  us,  that  from  the  college- 
age  group,  generally  speaking,  there  are 
at  this  moment  about  13,000  clean, 
decent,  committed  young  Christians 
seeking  to  teach  the  gospel  and  bear 
their  witness  across  the  earth.  Brother 
[Alan  J.]  Smith  did  a  great  job  in 
reminding  us  of  how  important  that  is 
and  how  wonderfully  precious  they  are. 

At  the  same  hour  of  which  we  speak, 
this  hour,  about  twice  that  many  are 
in  the  military  services  of  the  land, 
young  Latter-day  Saints  committed  to 
a  patriotic  sense  of  responsibility  to 
serve  their  country,  and  having  been 
called  to  serve  are  abroad  in  the  world 
doing  what  they  have  been  asked  to  do. 
We  salute  them  and  thank  God  that 
the  Church  with  an  ever-expanding  in- 
terest and  a  program  to  express  it  is 


reaching  out  to  help  them,  to  bring 
them  companionship  and  leadership 
opportunities,  to  get  to  them  regularly 
through  the  mail  with  letters  and  with 
the  literature  that  will  buoy  them  up 
and  strengthen  them.  Again,  I  am 
tempted  to  tell  what  I  know  about 
them  because  I  have  seen  them  across 
the  earth,  in  the  camps  and  the  far 
places  of  a  terribly  difficult  land;  and 
I  testify  that  they  really  are,  many  of 
them,  and  I  would  wish  all  of  them, 
devoted,  dedicated  missionaries  and 
servants  of  the  Lord.  And  the  Church 
is  seeking  to  serve  them. 

Interest  in  university  students 

The  Church  is  interested  also  in 
scores  of  thousands  who  aren't  in  any 
of  these  categories  or  in  college  but 
who  work  for  a  living  or  are  otherwise 
involved.  However,  I  am  going  to 
talk  for  just  a  few  minutes  tonight 
about  a  number  that  may  surprise  you. 
Remember,  there  are  13,000  or  so  of 
our  wonderful  young  people  in  the 
mission  field,  26,000  or  so  in  the  mili- 
tary, and  about  125,000  on  college  and 
university  campuses.  Those  now  at 
school  have  the  usual  pressures  of  cur- 
rent university  study,  plus  the  special 
challenge  of  continuing  to  mature 
spiritually  while  they  grow  academical- 
ly and  of  attempting  to  maintain  the 
close  relationship  with  the  Church  that 
they  should  have  while  they  are  giving 
appropriate  attention  to  their  school 
programs. 

We  believe,  of  course,  that  the 
Church  and  the  gospel  and  the  priest- 
hood have  the  answers  to  help  these 
young  people.  The  Church  has  estab- 
lished colleges  and  a  great  university, 
involving  about  30,000  of  them.  Insti- 
tutes of  religion  are  available  on 
campuses  where  about  55,000  go.  This 
leaves  a  remainder,  but  every  year 
institutes  grow  in  number  and  so  do 
the  people  who  attend  them.  Student 
stakes  have  been  formed  in  various 
parts  of  the  land,  and  student  wards 
and  branches  in  many  places.  In  these 
great  organizations  the  young  lead 
each  other  in  righteous  ways.  They 
serve  and  they  take  part.  The  auxiliary 
organizations  are  helping  in  their  in- 
structional and  activity  programs. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


100 

Saturday.  October  4 

Results  from  student  program 

Then  three  years  ago,  with  the  in- 
spiration of  Brother  Lee  and  led  by 
Brother  Paul  Dunn,  with  the  approval 
of  the  Brethren,  a  pilot  program  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  Student  Association 
was  invoked.  Its  purpose  was  to  support 
and  strengthen  the  great  work  of  the 
institutes,  the  student  stakes,  the  aux- 
iliaries, and  other  church  elements.  The 
product  of  the  labors  of  these  great 
youth-serving  institutions  may  not  be 
well  enough  known.  Could  I  give  you 
one  example.  Among  all  the  marriages 
performed  for  members  of  student 
stakes  last  year,  95  percent  were  in  the 
temple.  Among  institute  graduates, 
95  percent  were  in  the  temple.  Among 
those  attending  Church  colleges  and  the 
great  university,  93  percent  were  in  the 
temple.  Of  those  attending  institutes 
but  not  graduating,  84  percent  of  the 
marriages  were  in  the  temple.  Among 
those  attending  college  but  not  insti- 
tutes of  religion,  about  50  percent  were 
in  the  temple.  The  general  Church 
average  is  a  little  below  that. 

Sheltering  wing  for  LDS  students 

Obviously  we  want  to  do  everything 
we  can  to  get  our  wonderful  young 
students  into  the  institutes  of  religion 
and  to  do  everything  we  can  to  support 
the  student  wards  and  stakes  and  to 
multiply  them  as  conditions  permit  in 
their  great  service  to  students.  And 
that  is  why  the  Latter-day  Saints  Stu- 
dent Association  was  organized.  It 
offers  a  sheltering  wing  for  all  Latter- 
day  Saint  students,  active  or  inactive, 
and  we  might  add,  whether  they  like 
it  or  not  we  take  them  in.  It  reaches 
out  to  freshmen  and  new  students,  to 
returned  missionaries  and  returned 
servicemen,  to  the  boy  and  the  girl 
from  the  little  town,  and  the  one  from 
the  big  city,  to  LDS  men  and  women 
in  campus  fraternities  and  sororities,  to 
Latter-day  Saint  social  groups,  to  rep- 
resentatives of  the  institutes  and  stu- 
dent wards,  branches,  or  stakes,  to  the 
MIA,  to  the  Relief  Society,  where  ap- 
plicable to  married  students,  and  so 
forth.  It  reaches  out  to  converts,  and 
this  association  has  had  a  mighty  and 
wonderful  influence  in  bringing  people 
into  the  Church. 


Second  Day 

Student  council 

The  Student  Association  forms  com- 
mittees to  serve  various  of  these  groups 
and  then  it  brings  their  representatives 
together  in  counsel  in  what  is  called 
the  Latter-day  Saints  student  council 
on  a  campus.  Four  student  leaders  are 
selected,  interviewed,  called,  and  set 
apart.  They  preside  in  the  student 
council  to  which  come  these  other  rep- 
resentatives. The  student  council  ad- 
dresses itself  to  three  basic  questions: 
( 1 )  What  are  the  needs  of  the  students 
on  this  campus  or  in  this  area?  (2) 
How  can  those  needs  best  be  satisfied? 
(3)  Which  Church  agency  or  institu- 
tion or  influence  can  best  undertake 
to  solve  the  problem — which  can  best 
lead  out? 

Priesthood  leadership 

Of  very  great  importance,  the  Student 
Association  brings  to  the  campus  setting 
to  help  in  this  process  priesthood 
leadership  in  the  form  of  a  stake  presi- 
dent. On  a  campus  where  there  is  a 
student  stake,  the  stake  president  of 
the  student  stake  is  generally  the 
priesthood  leader.  Where  there  is  no 
student  stake,  another  great  local  stake 
president  would  be  assigned  that  cam- 
pus or  the  area.  This  stake  president 
is  the  chairman  of  what  is  called  the 
executive  committee.  He  presides  with 
an  educational  adviser  from  the  insti- 
tute, with  MIA  representation,  perhaps 
a  bishop  of  a  student  ward  or  a  branch 
president  of  a  student  branch,  and  they 
meet  with  the  students,  hear  their 
recommendations  and  their  findings, 
and  then  give  answers.  The  student 
voice  is  heard,  and  alert,  seasoned 
priesthood  leaders  consider  what  they 
have  to  say.  Decisions  are  made — 
some  yes,  some  no — and  then  all  the 
Church  elements  on  campus  get  to- 
gether and  go  to  work.  The  representa- 
tives go  back  to  the  student  council  and 
report  the  decisions  made  in  conference 
with  their  priesthood  leader  and  his 
associates,  and  they  resolve  any  prob- 
lems and  go  to  work. 

Need  for  correlation 

Now,  brethren,  correlation  is  more 
than  coordination.  Actually,  an  in- 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 


101 


tense,  devoted  student  could  have  a 
calendar  coordinated  so  that  he  was 
going  to  an  event  every  night  with  no 
conflict,  but  correlation  will  see  to  it 
that  that  doesn't  happen.  The  need  the 
students  have  may  be  for  a  week  se- 
questered for  study  and  preparation  for 
exams.  They  will  tell  that  to  the 
priesthood  leader,  and  the  priesthood 
leader  is  in  a  position  to  see  that  no 
events  are  scheduled  for  that  week  ex- 
cept the  regular  Sabbath  day  meetings. 
The  student  need  may  be  for  tutoring 
or  service  or  a  social.  All  the  Church 
elements  are  in  the  student  council; 
they  talk  about  it,  they  go  then  to  the 
executive  committee,  and  it  is  discussed 
and  decisions  are  made. 

The  Student  Association  has  no  juris- 
diction or  appointment  over  the  non- 
student,  but  this  simple  thought  can 
be  important,  very  important.  While 
the  Student  Association  is  not  chartered 
to  reach  out  to  the  non-student,  his 
brother  of  the  same  general  age  group, 
this  priesthood  leader  has  authority 
and  responsibility  to  care  about  all 
young  people,  and  so  he  can  call  rep- 
resentatives of  the  two  groups  together 
and  real  correlation  begins  to  take 
place;  no  one  is  imposed  upon  and  the 
right  results  occur.  The  results,  I  want 
to  tell  you,  have  been  wonderful. 

Support  of  other  groups 

Let  me  repeat  that  the  Student  Asso- 
ciation purposes  to  strengthen  and  sup- 
port the  Church  organizations  which 
serve  the  student.  Ordinarily  one  of 
them  is  selected  to  take  the  lead  in 
whatever  undertaking  has  been  de- 
cided upon,  but  occasionally  there  is  a 
situation  where  no  one  of  the  frag- 
mented groups,  say  the  student  stake, 
the  institute,  the  MIA,  can  take  the 
job — it  is  too  big.  Then  the  whole 
Student  Association  influence  and  ef- 
fectiveness goes  into  action.  Let  me 
give  you  just  one  example,  and  I  would 
like  to  give  you  a  hundred. 

At  one  major  university  the  non- 
Mormon  president  of  that  school  re- 
cently asked  that  the  LDS  Student 
Association  take  over  a  major  church- 
related  campus  event,  noting  that  no 
single  group  of  the  Mormon  students 


could  likely  handle  it  but  all  of  them 
together  could.  He  said  this  verbatim: 
"The  Latter-day  Saints  Student  Asso- 
ciation is  the  most  important  factor  for 
high  idealism  and  stability  on  this 
campus.  It  is  what  I  have  prayed  for 
on  every  campus  I  have  worked  on." 

University  of  Utah  campus 

How  do  the  students  feel?  The  Uni- 
versity of  Utah  campus  is  the  nearest 
to  this  building.  Let  me  mention  just 
a  word  about  it.  It  is  a  great  school 
from  which  I  graduated  and  which  I 
love.  It  has  problems.  It  has  many 
wonderful  students.  It  has  about 
15,000  Latter-day  Saint  students,  among 
them  many  thousands  of  returned  mis- 
sionaries. At  this  great  university  the 
students  have  the  normal  problems  that 
bother  students  at  the  normal  univer- 
sity these  days.  The  Student  Associa- 
tion has  been  accepted  and  given  status 
on  this  campus.  Among  many  Latter- 
day  Saint  students,  some  of  whom  are 
not  seeking  the  Church,  to  be  honest 
about  it,  but  may  be  trying  to  hide 
from  it,  there  are  many  diverse  ele- 
ments. 

We  have  taped  just  about  three 
minutes  of  the  testimony  of  one  young 
returned  missionary,  a  choice  young 
man  who  couldn't  spend  much  time  or 
didn't  choose  to  at  the  institute  before 
his  mission,  but  who  finds  a  difference 
there  since.  I  am  going  to  ask  that  it 
be  played  right  now,  if  you  will  listen 
attentively  to  Randy  Harmsen,  and 
then  we  will  finish. 

Testimony  of  returned  missionary 

"  'Labor  not  for  the  meat  which 
perisheth,  but  for  that  meat  which  en- 
dureth  unto  everlasting  life.' 

"Recently  there  has  occurred  on  the 
college  campuses  much  dissent  and  un- 
rest, which  in  some  instances  has  led 
to  militant  and  destructive  action.  Or- 
ganizations like  SDS,  the  Black  Student 
Union,  Moaists,  etc.,  attract  nearly  all 
the  attention,  which  leads  some  to 
think  that  other  students  have  no  argu- 
ment. This  in  my  opinion  is  not  so. 
A  great  percentage  of  responsible  stu- 
dents feel  estranged  from  a  system  that 
has  little  room  for  student  participa- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


102 

Saturday,  October  4 

tion.  The  student  wants  a  voice  in  the 
decision  process.  He  needs  a  piece  of 
the  action. 

"We  realize  that  if  we  do  not  act 
responsibly  while  trying  to  obtain  this 
goal  of  meaningful  involvement,  we 
will  never  receive  it.  In  this  quest  for 
personal  and/or  student  representation 
in  the  decision  process,  the  Latter-day 
Saints  Student  Association  provides  op- 
portunities and  means  whereby  this 
goal  can  be  accomplished.  I  am  grate- 
ful for  an  organization  that  meets  the 
needs  of  students  through  their  in- 
volvement and  leadership  under  the 
direction  of  the  priesthood.  The  asso- 
ciation would  not  remain  vital  without 
priesthood  inspiration,  experience,  and 
support.  We  need  it  and  we  want  it.  A 
generation  bond,  not  a  gap,  between 
students  and  priesthood  exists. 

"As  I  examine  the  impact  of  LDSSA 
on  my  life,  I  can  only  reflect  on  my 
experiences  and  observations  at  the 
University  of  Utah.  As  a  freshman  I 
soon  realized  that  I  was  just  one  of 
thousands,  a  number  on  an  IBM  card. 
I  had  spiritual  needs,  not  so  much 
doctrinal  as  of  identity,  that  were  not 
being  met.  I  had  a  desire  to  serve 
others  within  the  university  environ- 
ment. My  fraternity  experiences  were 
sometimes  hollow  and  empty.  The  in- 
stitute was  not  a  place  to  go,  and  if  I 
went  I  wanted  few  to  know.  I  noticed 
a  void  of  LDS  student  unity  and  sup- 
port. 

"We  were  so  anxious  not  to  offend 
the  non-LDS  students  that  little  was 
said  or  done.  We  had  needs  but  there 
didn't  exist  an  organization  or  a  place 
where  we  could  meet  mutually  and  dis- 
cuss our  problems  and  their  possible 
solutions,  so  consequently  religious  ex- 
perience to  me  was  a  Sunday  affair, 
while  during  the  week  I  wanted  to 
appear  as  broad  and  as  open  as  anyone. 

"After  my  mission  there  was  a 
marked  change.  The  institute  was  and 
is  respected,  if  not  becoming  the  place 
to  be.  There  exists  a  force,  a  union,  a 
common  bond  between  LDS  students 
that  I  never  felt  before;  a  vibrancy  of 
spirit,  mutual  concern,  a  desire  to  serve 
others  is  evident.  It  was  like  coming 
from  the  Andes  Mission  to  a  mission 
on  the  campus.  LDSSA  is  an  organiza- 


Second  Day 

tion  that  encourages  students  to  use 
their  ideas,  talents,  and  abilities  to 
act  responsibly. 

"I  have  a  testimony  of  the  value  of 
the  LDS  Student  Association,  mainly 
because  of  its  spirit.  It  is  a  spirit  that 
prevails  over  the  campus.  There  is  a 
spirit  that  inspires  the  students  to  live 
their  religion,  to  grasp  the  relevancy  of 
the  gospel  principles  and  standards.  In 
the  words  of  our  Savior,  'Labor  not  for 
meat  which  perisheth,  but  that  meat 
which  endureth  unto  everlasting  life.' 
The  Latter-day  Saints  Student  Asso- 
ciation provides  those  opportunities  and 
student  experiences  through  involve- 
ment that  we  can  have  a  decisive  voice 
in  our  eternal  lives." 

Appeal  for  support 

The  point,  brethren:  We  care  about 
these  individual,  wonderful  young 
people.  Will  you  bishops,  branch 
presidents,  and  executive  secretaries 
care  about  their  pink  membership 
cards,  or  in  some  other  way  let  us 
know  where  they  are  when  they  leave 
home  for  campuses?  Will  you  wonder- 
ful young  people  accept  our  expression 
of  love  and  interest?  Will  you  go  to  an 
institute  if  you  are  on  a  campus  and 
haven't  done  so?  Will  you  be  involved 
in  being,  not  seeming?  I  close  with 
these  great  words  of  Moroni  written 
long  ago  and  printed  in  the  ninth  chap- 
ter of  Mormon.  I  offer  them  to  the 
young  as  earnestly  as  I  know  how, 
changing  only  two  words  to  include  all 
of  you  and  me  with  the  writer:  "Con- 
demn [us]  not  because  of  [our]  im- 
perfection .  .  .  but  rather  give  thanks 
unto  God  that  he  hath  made  manifest 
unto  you  our  imperfections,  that  ye 
may  learn  to  be  more  wise  than  we 
have  been."  (Morm.  9:31.) 

I  testify  to  you  that  I  believe  they 
will  be,  and  pray  God  to  help  them  in 
the  undertaking,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen.  O 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

We  wish  to  express  our  appreciation 
to  those  who  have  participated  in  and 
made  this  meeting  such  an  inspiration, 
I  am  sure,  both  to  father  and  son,  all 
holders  of  the  priesthood. 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


103 


The  music,  as  I  said  before,  has  been 
furnished  by  the  Delta  Phi  Kappa 
Chorus,  faculty  and  returned  mission- 
aries from  the  Logan  Institute  of 
Religion,  with  James  L.  Bradley,  con- 
ducting, and  Roy  M.  Darley  at  the 
organ.  We  deeply  appreciate  their  in- 
spiring music  and  the  service  they  have 
rendered  here  tonight. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown,  first  coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency,  will  be 
our  concluding  speaker,  after  which  this 


chorus  will  sing,  "I  Need  Thee  Every 
Hour." 

Elder  F.  Arthur  Kay,  president  of  the 
Seattle  Stake,  will  offer  the  benediction. 

As  thousands  are  leaving  this  great 
priesthood  meeting  tonight,  let  us  keep 
in  mind  the  admonition  that  is  con- 
stantly being  given  to  drive  carefully. 
Please  obey  traffic  rules  and  always 
be  courteous  and  patient  in  driving  in 
the  city  and  on  the  highways. 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


•  I  suggested  to  President  Tanner  that 
since  the  time  has  passed  we  should 
dismiss,  but  he  is  very  generous  with 
your  time. 

It's  a  bit  cold  outside  tonight,  and 
winter  is  on  the  way.  A  young  fellow 
wrote  a  short  essay  on  winter.  He  said, 
"In  the  winter  it  is  very  cold.  Many 
old  people  die  in  the  winter,  and  many 
birds  also  go  to  a  warmer  climate." 

I  think  I  could  not  do  better  than  to 
leave  you  smiling. 

A  spotless  future 

Just  one  word:  No  matter  what  your 
past  has  been,  you  have  a  spotless 
future. 

A  week  ago  tomorrow  night  I  was 
talking  to  the  young  people  at  Brigham 
Young  University  in  a  fireside.  There 
were  12,500  of  them  present.  A  very 
inspirational  time  was  had.  I  spoke  to 
them  about  some  of  the  things  that 
have  been  spoken  of  here  tonight.  I 
told  them  they  have  a  spotless  future, 
and  asked  that  they  guard  that  future 
and  remember  that  when  the  Judge 
shall  summon  them,  he  will  not  look 
them  over  for  medals,  for  diplomas,  for 
honors,  but  for  scars,  and  I  warned 
them  to  beware  that  there  be  no  stains 
between  the  scars. 


Continue  to  serve  God 

God  help  us  to  be  worthy  of  the  re- 
sponsibility that  is  ours,  both  those 
who  are  missionaries,  and  those  who 
have  been  on  missions  previously, 
those  of  us  who  are  growing  old  in  the 
work;  let  us  continue  faithfully  to  serve 
God  and  keep  his  commandments.  Let 
us  remember  what  the  speakers  tonight 
have  said  to  us,  and  take  their  words 
home  with  us  and  put  them  into 
practice. 

Sixty-five  years  ago  this  month  I  went 
to  England  on  a  mission,  since  which 
time  it  has  been  my  privilege  to  serve 
in  various  capacities.  I  want  to  bear  you 
my  witness  tonight,  after  a  lifetime  in 
the  Church,  that  this  is  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  and  that  I  know  that  my 
Redeemer  lives.  May  God  bless  us  all 
with  his  Holy  Spirit,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen.  O 


The  Delta  Phi  Kappa  Chorus  sang 
"I  Need  Thee  Every  Hour"  as  the  clos- 
ing song. 

President  F.  Arthur  Kay  of  the 
Seattle  Stake  offered  the  benediction. 

The  conference  was  adjourned  until 
Sunday  at  10  a.m. 


104 

Sunday,  October  5 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


Third  Day 


SIXTH  SESSION 

Sunday  morning,  October  5. 

Conference  reconvened  at  10  o'clock 
a.m.  following  the  conclusion  of  the 
Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ 
Broadcast,  which  was  presented  at  9:35 
a.m.  and  concluded  at  10  o'clock.  A 
complete  report  of  this  broadcast  may 
be  found  on  pages  139  to  141  of  this 
report. 

The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir 
furnished  the  choral  music  for  this 
session  with  Richard  P.  Condie  con- 
ducting and  with  Alexander  Schreiner 
serving  as  accompanist  at  the  organ. 
Before  the  beginning  of  the  conference 
meeting,  the  Tabernacle  Choir  sang 
the  anthem,  "Come  Thou  Almighty 
King." 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner,  second 
counselor  in  the  First  Presidency,  con- 
ducted this  session,  and  made  the  fol- 
lowing opening  remarks: 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

President  McKay,  who  is  watching 
the  proceedings  of  this  meeting  by  tele- 
vision at  his  home,  has  asked  me  to 
conduct  this  session,  and  to  extend  his 
blessings  and  heartfelt  greetings  to 
those  assembled  here  in  the  Tabernacle 
this  morning. 

We  welcome  all  present  this  morn- 
ing in  this  historic  Tabernacle  in  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah.  We  welcome  also 
special  guests,  national  and  local  gov- 
ernment leaders,  educational  and  civic 


leaders,  and  stake  and  ward  Church 
leaders  from  far  and  near.  We  wel- 
come friends  from  other  churches,  and 
also  the  vast  television  and  radio  audi- 
ences in  this,  the  sixth  session  of  the 
139th  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the 
direction  of  Richard  P.  Condie,  with 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ,  will 
open  these  services  by  singing:  "Send 
Forth  Thy  Spirit,"  following  which 
Elder  Fred  Lewis  Markham,  president 
of  the  Utah  Stake,  will  offer  the  in- 
vocation. 


Singing  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir: 
"Send  Forth  Thy  Spirit." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
President  Fred  L.  Markham  of  the  Utah 
Stake. 


President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing: 
"Hear  My  Cry,  O  Lord." 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  "Hear 
My  Cry,  O  Lord." 


President  Tanner 

Our  first  speaker  this  morning  will 
be  President  Hugh  B.  Brown,  first 
counselor  in  the  First  Presidency  of  the 
Church. 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


•  My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  a 
real  honor  to  be  included  as  one  of 
the  speakers  of  this  great  conference, 
an  honor,  however,  that  I  would  gladly 
exchange  with  anyone  at  this  moment; 
an  honor  that  carries  with  it  some 
responsibilities.  I  should  like  to  be  in 
harmony  with  what  has  been  said  or 


may  be  said,  and  to  that  end  seek  di- 
vine guidance. 

The  power  of  faith 

I  should  like  to  briefly  discuss  with 
members  of  the  Church,  as  well  as  with 
nonmembers,  a  subject  of  universal 
interest  and  import,  a  subject  that  is 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


105 


the  moving  cause  of  action — the  power 
of  faith. 

We  understand  that  the  worlds  were 
framed  by  the  word  of  God  through 
this  principle,  "so  that  things  which 
are  seen  were  not  made  of  things  which 
do  appear."  (Heb.  11:3.) 

The  predominating  sense  in  which 
this  subject  is  used  throughout  the 
scriptures  is  that  of  full  confidence  and 
trust  in  the  being,  purposes,  and  words 
of  God.  Such  trust,  if  implicit,  will 
remove  all  doubt  concerning  the  things 
accomplished  or  promised  of  God, 
even  though  such  things  be  not  ap- 
parent to  or  explicable  by  the  ordinary 
senses. 

Some  think  religious  people  are  im- 
practical and  live  in  the  clouds  of  un- 
justified hope.  The  notion  that  science 
is  all  fact  and  religion  all  faith  is  fic- 
tion. Science,  as  well  as  religion,  is 
based  upon  faith,  for  faith  is  ever  "the 
evidence  of  things  not  seen." 

Practical  value  of  faith 

We  do  not  teach  the  principle  of 
faith  merely  for  what  it  will  do  for 
one  in  the  next  world.  We  believe  that 
there  is  real  practical  value  in  mental 
concepts  which  increase  one's  self- 
respect  and  effectiveness  here  and  now. 
To  believe  that  there  is  an  all-wise 
Father  in  charge  of  the  universe  and 
that  we  are  related  to  him,  that  we  are 
in  fact  children  of  God  with  the  "hall- 
mark" of  divinity  upon  us,  is  to  live  in 
a  different  world  from  those  who  be- 
lieve that  man  is  a  mere  animal  con- 
cerned only  with  requirements  for 
creature  existence,  which  must  end  at 
death.  Because  of  low  aim,  the  lives 
of  such  people  lack  trajectory  and  vi- 
sion and  fall  short  of  their  spiritual 
capacity. 

If  you  convince  a  young  man  to  think 
of  life,  here  and  hereafter,  as  being  of 
one  piece,  continuing  through  from 
premortal  to  postmortal  without  any 
break  in  the  endless  chain,  if  he  can 
realize  that  each  of  the  various  stages 
of  his  development  helps  to  condition 
him  for  the  next,  if  you  convince  him 
that  he  can  take  nothing  but  himself 
into  the  next  world — his  intelligence, 
his  experience,  his  character — if  this 
conviction    becomes    really  dynamic 


faith,  it  will  have  definite  and  lasting 
effect  on  the  quality  of  his  life,  both 
here  and  hereafter. 

Meaning  of  eternal  life 

Eternal  life  means  more  than  merely 
continuing  to  exist.  Its  qualitative 
value  will  be  determined  by  what  we 
believe  and  do  while  in  mortality  and 
by  our  conformity  to  eternal  law  in  the 
life  to  come.  Eternal  existence  would 
be  most  undesirable  if  that  existence 
became  fixed  and  static  upon  arrival 
there.  "It  is  hope  and  expectation  and 
desire  and  something  ever  more  about 
to  be"  that  gives  lilt  and  verve  to 
mortal  life.  We  cannot  imagine  nor 
would  we  desire  an  eternity  without 
opportunity  for  growth  and  develop- 
ment. We  believe  in  eternal  progres- 
sion. 

Faith  in  God  and  in  the  ultimate 
triumph  of  right  contributes  to  mental 
and  spiritual  poise  in  the  face  of  diffi- 
culties. It  is  a  sustaining  power  when 
a  confining  or  antagonistic  environment 
challenges  one's  courage. 

And  so  we  recommend  faith  as  a 
present,  living  power  for  good  here  and 
now  as  well  as  for  what  it  will  do  for 
us  in  achieving  salvation  hereafter. 

If  one  has  a  vivid  sense  of  his  own 
divinity,  he  will  not  easily  be  per- 
suaded to  deprave  his  mind,  debauch 
his  body,  or  sell  his  freedom  for 
temporary  gain.  Goethe  is  right  when 
he  makes  Mephistopheles,  his  devil, 
say,  "I  am  the  spirit  of  negation." 
Negation  always  bedevils  life. 

Faith  appropriates  spiritual  values 

Wherever  in  life  great  spiritual 
values  await  man's  appropriation,  only 
faith  can  appropriate  them.  Man  can- 
not live  without  faith,  because  in  life's 
adventure  the  central  problem  is  char- 
acter-building— which  is  not  a  product 
of  logic,  but  of  faith  in  ideals  and 
sacrificial  devotion  to  them.  The 
writer  of  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews 
saw  the  intimate  relationship  between 
the  quality  of  faith  and  the  quality  of 
life  and  called  upon  his  readers  to 
judge  the  Christian  life  by  its  conse- 
quences in  character. 

We  cannot  avoid  looking  ahead  and 
to  some  degree  basing  our  activities 


106 

Sunday,  October  5 

upon  things  we  cannot  sec.  But  bit  by 
bit  we  gain  assurance.  We  have  some 
knowledge  of  what  is  and  of  what  has 
been.  But  it  is  necessary  that  we  have 
faith  in  what  is  yet  to  come. 

In  this  universal  venture  of  life,  its 
full  meaning  can  be  understood  only 
by  the  application  of  faith,  wherein 
the  best  treasures  of  the  spirit  are  ob- 
tainable only  through  courageous  open- 
heartedness  and  the  kind  of  character 
which  is  possible  to  all  men  of  deep 
conviction. 

What  faith  is  not 

Every  discussion  of  faith  must  dis- 
tinguish it  from  its  caricatures.  Faith 
is  not  credulity.  It  is  not  believing 
things  you  know  aren't  so.  It  is  not  a 
formula  to  get  the  universe  to  do  your 
bidding.  It  is  not  a  set  of  beliefs  to  be 
swallowed  in  one  gulp.  Faith  is  not 
knowledge;  it  is  mixed  with  uncertainty 
or  it  would  not  be  faith.  Faith  does 
not  dwindle  as  wisdom  grows. 

Confidence  in  life 

Above  all,  faith  is  to  be  contrasted 
with  pessimism  and  cynicism.  Those 
who  say  they  have  become  disillusioned 
with  life  are  lost  without  faith.  Faith 
is  confidence  in  the  worthwhileness  of 
life.  It  is  assurance  and  trust.  Per- 
haps the  greatest  contrast  to  faith  is 
fear.  Jesus  often  said  to  his  followers, 
"Be  not  afraid." 

The  stern,  appealing  love  of  God  be- 
hind life,  his  good  purposes  through  it, 
his  victory  ahead  of  it,  and  man,  a  fel- 
low worker,  called  into  an  unfinished 
world  to  bear  a  hand  with  God  in  its 
completion — here  is  a  game  to  chal- 
lenge all  stouthearted  men. 

To  believe  that  we  do  not  stand 
alone,  that  we  are  fellow  laborers  with 
God,  our  human  purposes  compre- 
hended in  his  purpose — God  behind  us, 
within  us,  ahead  of  us:  this  is  the  solid 
rock  upon  which  all  rational  religion 
rests. 

Man  tears  his  spiritual  heritage  to 
shreds  in  licentiousness  and  drink.  He 
wallows  in  vice,  wins  by  cruelty,  vio- 
lates love,  is  treacherous  to  trust.  His 
sins  clothe  the  world  in  lamentation. 
Yet  within  him  is  a  trust  that  he  can- 
not stifle.  He  is  the  only  creature  we 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

know  of  whose  nature  is  divided 
against  himself.  Man  hates  his  sin 
even  while  he  commits  it.  He  repents, 
tries  again,  falls,  rises,  stumbles  on — 
and  in  all  his  best  hours  man  cries  out 
for  help. 

Faith  makes  the  difference 

No  message  short  of  religion  has 
ever  met  man's  need  in  this  estate. 
Faith  that  God  himself  is  pledged  to  the 
victory  of  righteousness  in  men  in  the 
world,  that  he  cares,  forgives,  enters 
into  man's  struggle  with  transforming 
power,  and  crowns  the  long  endeavor 
with  triumphant  character — such  faith 
alone  has  been  great  enough  to  meet 
the  needs  of  men. 

When  faith  in  God  goes,  man  loses 
his  securest  refuge  and  must  suffer 
Strong  men,  broken  in  health,  or  men 
who  have  lost  the  fortunes  of  a  life- 
time, families  with  long  illness,  moth- 
ers who  have  wept  at  children's 
graves — these  and  other  staggering 
blows  test  the  faith  of  good  and  bad 
alike.  Nothing  but  religious  faith  has 
been  able  to  save  men  from  despair. 
As  Jesus  said,  the  rains  descend,  and 
the  floods  come,  and  the  winds, 
whether  man's  house  be  built  on  rock 
or  sand.  It  is  faith  that  makes  the 
difference. 

Story  of  woman  of  faith 

And  here  I  should  like  to  introduce 
a  story  coming  out  of  the  first  world 
war.  I  had  a  companion,  a  fellow  of- 
ficer, who  was  a  very  rich  man,  highly 
educated.  He  was  a  lawyer,  had  great 
power,  was  self-sufficient,  and  he  said 
to  me  as  we  often  talked  of  religion 
(because  he  knew  who  I  was),  "There 
is  nothing  in  life  that  I  would  like  to 
have  that  I  cannot  buy  with  my 
money." 

Shortly  thereafter  he  and  I  with  two 
other  officers  were  assigned  to  go  to  the 
city  of  Arras,  France,  which  was  under 
siege.  It  had  been  evacuated,  and  upon 
arrival  there  we  thought  there  was  no 
one  in  the  city.  We  noted  that  the 
fire  of  the  enemy  was  concentrated  on 
the  cathedral.  We  made  our  way  to 
that  cathedral  and  went  in.  There 
we  found  a  little  woman  kneeling  at  an 
altar.    We  paused,  respecting  her  de- 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


107 


votion.  Then  shortly  she  arose,  wrapped 
her  little  shawl  around  her  trail 
shoulders,  and  came  tottering  down 
the  aisle.  The  man  among  us  who 
could  speak  better  French  said,  "Are 
you  in  trouble?" 

She  straightened  her  shoulders,  pulled 
in  her  chin,  and  said,  "No,  I'm  not  in 
trouble.  I  was  in  trouble  when  I  came 
here,  but  I've  left  it  there  at  the  altar." 

"And  what  was  your  trouble?" 

She  said,  "I  received  word  this  morn- 
ing that  my  fifth  son  has  given  his  life 
for  France.  Their  father  went  first, 
and  then  one  by  one  all  of  them  have 
gone.  But,"  straightening  again,  "I 
have  no  trouble;  I've  left  it  there  be- 
cause I  believe  in  the  immortality  of 
the  soul.  I  believe  that  men  will  live 
after  death.  I  know  that  I  shall  meet 
my  loved  ones  again." 

When  the  little  soul  went  out,  there 
were  tears  in  the  eyes  of  the  men.  who 
were  there,  and  the  one  who  had  said 
to  me  that  he  could  purchase  anything 
with  money  turned  to  me  and  said, 
"You  and  I  have  seen  men  in  battle 
display  courage  and  valor  that  is  ad- 
mirable, but  in  all  my  life  I  have 
never  seen  anything  to  compare  with 
the  faith,  the  fortitude,  and  the  courage 
of  that  little  woman." 

Then  he  said,  "I  would  give  all  the 
money  I  have  if  I  could  have  something 
of  what  she  has." 

Faith  in  hereafter 

I  tell  that  story  for  two  reasons.  One 
is  that  today  many  parents  are  getting 
word  that  their  sons  have  been  lost. 
We  ourselves  went  through  that  ex- 
perience. I  tell  it  for  the  reason  that  I 
hope  every  parent  who  has  a  son  in 
danger  in  Vietnam  will  have  faith 
in  the  hereafter,  faith  in  God,  faith  in 
themselves,  faith  in  the  immortality  of 
the  soul.  I  tell  it  secondly  because  my 
own  beloved  companion,  and  you  will 
excuse  this  personal  reference,  is  lying 
after  long  illness  listening  to  this 
service.  I  greet  her,  for  she  had  exactly 
that  kind  of  courage  and  faith  when 
our  son  was  taken  from  us. 

God  help  us  to  arise  to  a  point  where 
we  can  retain  faith  in  the  future,  what- 
ever it  may  hold.    We  need  most  of 


all,  when  suffering,  to  remember  there 
is  an  explanation,  though  we  may  not 
know  exactly  what  it  is. 

Religious  faith  gives  confidence  that 
human  tragedy  is  not  a  meaningless 
sport  of  physical  forces.  Life  is  not 
what  Voltaire  called  it,  "a  bad  joke";  it 
is  really  a  school  of  discipline  whose 
author  and  teacher  is  God. 

Faith  a  road  to  truth 

Faith  is  a  road  to  truth,  without 
which  some  truths  can  never  be  reached 
at  all.  The  reason  for  its  inevitable- 
ness  in  life  is  not  our  lack  of  knowledge, 
but  rather  that  faith  is  as  indispensable 
as  logical  demonstration  in  any  real 
knowing  in  the  world.  Faith  is  not  a 
substitute  for  truth,  but  a  pathway  to 
truth. 

However  undecided  men  may  appear, 
they  cannot  altogether  avoid  decision 
on  the  main  matter  of  religion.  Life 
will  not  let  them.  For  a  while  the 
mind  may  hold  itself  suspended  be- 
tween alternatives.  The  adventure  of 
life  goes  on,  and  men  inevitably  tend 
to  live  either  as  though  the  Christian 
God  were  real  or  as  though  he  were  not. 
This,  then,  is  the  summary  of  the  mat- 
ter. Life  is  a  great  adventure  in  which 
faith  is  indispensable.  In  this  adven- 
ture, faith  in  God  presents  the  issues 
of  transcendent  import.  And  on  these 
issues  life  itself  continually  compels 
decisions. 

Faith  to  endure  to  end 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  my  friends, 
humbly  I  bear  witness  to  you  that  there 
is  a  God  in  heaven  and  that  he  knows 
that  we  are  his.  He  knows  who  and 
where  we  are,  and  he  stands  ready  to 
help  us  at  any  time. 

God  help  us  that  we  may  live  in  such 
a  manner  that  he  can  help  us.  May  we 
have  the  faith  to  endure  to  the  end, 
as  we  are  told  that  only  they  who 
endure  to  the  end  can  be  saved.  I 
leave  with  you  this  testimony  and  my 
blessing  on  this  occasion,  that  what- 
ever the  vicissitudes  of  life  may  be,  you 
may  have  the  faith,  the  fortitude,  and 
the  courage  to  meet  them  triumphantly, 
I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen.  O 


108  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  5  Third  Day 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner  President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 


He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
President  Hugh  B.  Brown  of  the  First 
Presidency. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing: 
"Come,  Come  Ye  Saints." 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the 
hymn,  "Come,  Come  Ye  Saints." 


Many  stations  have  just  tuned  in  on 
this  conference,  and  we  wish  to  extend 
a  cordial  welcome  to  all  who  are  lis- 
tening. 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  of 
the  First  Presidency  and  president  of 
the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve,  will  now 
address  us. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  First  Presidency  and  President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


•  Dear  brethren  and  sisters:  I  have 
been  asked  to  speak  this  morning,  and 
I  have  chosen  for  my  subject  "The 
Purpose  of  Mortal  Man's  Existence." 
I  hope  and  pray  that  the  Lord  will 
bless  me  that  I  may  give  you  good 
people  the  things  that  are  essential 
in  the  world  today. 

The  object  of  our  being  here  is  to 
do  the  will  of  the  Father  as  it  is  done 
in  heaven,  to  work  righteousness  in 
the  earth,  to  subdue  wickedness  and 
put  it  under  our  feet,  to  conquer  sin 
and  the  adversary  of  our  souls,  to  rise 
above  the  imperfections  and  weaknesses 
of  poor  fallen  humanity,  by  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Lord  and  his  power 
made  manifest,  and  thus  become  the 
saints  and  servants  of  the  Lord  in  the 
earth. 

Responsibility  to  the  Lord 

We  are  dealing  with  our  faith  and 
conscience;  you  are  dealing  not  with 
me,  not  with  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church,  but  with  the  Lord.  I  am  not 
dealing  with  men  respecting  my  tith- 
ing— my  dealings  are  with  the  Lord; 
that  is,  with  reference  to  my  own 
conduct  in  the  Church  and  with  refer- 
ence to  my  observance  of  the  other  laws 
and  rules  of  the  Church.  If  I  fail 
to  observe  the  laws  of  the  Church,  I 
am  responsible  to  the  Lord  and  will 
have  to  answer  to  him,  by  and  by,  for 
my  neglect  of  duty,  and  I  may  have  to 
answer  to  the  Church  for  my  fellow- 
ship. If  I  do  my  duty,  according  to  my 
understanding  of  the  requirements  that 
the  Lord  has  made  of  me,  then  I  ought 


to  have  a  conscience  void  of  offense. 
I  ought  to  have  satisfaction  in  my  soul 
that  I  have  simply  done  my  duty  as  I 
understand  it,  and  I  will  accept  the 
consequences.  With  me,  it  is  a  matter 
between  me  and  the  Lord;  so  it  is  with 
every  one  of  us. 

A  mission  to  accomplish 

He  who  sent  his  Only  Begotten  Son 
into  the  world,  to  accomplish  the  mis- 
sion that  he  did,  also  sent  every  soul 
within  the  sound  of  my  voice,  and  in- 
deed every  man  and  woman  in  the 
world,  to  accomplish  a  mission,  and 
that  mission  cannot  be  accomplished 
by  neglect,  nor  by  indifference,  nor 
can  it  be  accomplished  by  ignorance. 

We  should  learn  the  obligation  that 
we  are  under  to  the  Lord  and  to  each 
other;  these  things  are  essential,  and  we 
cannot  prosper  in  spiritual  things,  we 
cannot  grow  in  knowledge  of  the  Lord 
or  in  wisdom,  without  devoting  our 
thoughts  and  our  efforts  toward  our 
own  betterment,  toward  the  increase 
of  our  own  wisdom  and  knowledge  in 
the  things  of  the  Lord. 

It  is  therefore  proper,  and  indeed  it 
becomes  the  duty  of  those  who  are 
placed  upon  the  towers  as  watchmen 
in  Zion,  to  exhort  the  people  to  dili- 
gence, to  prayerfulness,  to  humility,  to 
a  love  of  the  truth  that  has  been  re- 
vealed to  them,  and  to  earnest  devotion 
to  the  work  of  the  Lord,  which  is  in- 
tended for  their  individual  salvation; 
not  that  I  can  save  any  man,  nor  that 
any  man  can  save  any  other  man  or  fit 
him  for  exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


109 


God.  This  is  not  given  to  me  to  do 
for  others,  nor  is  it  given  to  any  man 
to  be  a  savior  in  this  sense  or  in  this 
way  to  his  fellowmen.  But  men  can 
set  an  example.  Men  can  proclaim 
the  truth  to  others  and  can  point  out 
the  way  to  them  in  which  to  walk. 
Men  can  only  be  saved  and  exalted  in 
the  kingdom  of  God  in  righteousness; 
therefore,  we  must  repent  of  our  sins 
and  walk  in  the  light  as  Christ  is  in 
the  light,  that  his  blood  may  cleanse 
us  from  all  sins  and  that  we  may  have 
fellowship  with  the  Lord  and  receive 
of  his  glory  and  exaltation. 

Obedience  to  law  of  the  Lord 

Though  the  Lord  should  try  me  by 
withholding  his  blessings  from  me,  that 
should  make  no  difference  to  me.  The 
point  is,  what  is  the  law  of  the  Lord? 
And  if  I  know  that  law,  it  is  my  duty 
to  obey  it,  though  I  suffer  death  in 
consequence.  Many  a  man  has  gone 
to  the  stake  in  obedience,  as  he  be- 
lieved, to  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord.  Not  one  of  the  ancient  disciples 
who  were  chosen  by  Jesus  Christ 
escaped  martyrdom,  except  Judas  and 
John.  Judas  betrayed  the  Lord  and 
sacrificed  his  own  life,  and  John  re- 
ceived the  promise  of  the  Lord  that  he 
should  live  until  He  came  again  to  the 
earth.  All  the  others  were  put  to  death 
— some  crucified,  some  dragged  in  the 
streets  of  Rome,  some  thrown  from 
pinnacles,  and  some  stoned  to  death. 
For  what?  For  obeying  the  law  of  the 
Lord  and  bearing  testimony  to  that 
which  they  knew  to  be  true. 

The  Lord  will  honor  those  who  honor 
him,  and  will  remember  those  who 
remember  him.  He  will  uphold  and 
sustain  all  those  who  sustain  truth  and 
are  faithful  to  it.  The  Lord  help  us, 
therefore,  to  be  faithful  to  the  truth, 
now  and  forever. 

Spirit  of  forgiveness 

We  hope  and  pray  that  you  will  go 
from  this  conference  to  your  homes 
feeling  in  your  hearts  and  from  the 
depths  of  your  souls  to  forgive  one  an- 
other, and  never  from  this  time  forth 
to  bear  malice  toward  another  fellow 
creature.  We  ought  to  say  in  our 
hearts,  let  the  Lord  judge  between  me 


and  thee,  but  as  for  me,  I  will  forgive. 
Go  home  and  dismiss  envy  and  hatred 
from  your  hearts;  dismiss  the  feeling 
of  unforgiveness;  and  cultivate  in  your 
souls  that  spirit  of  Christ  that  cried  out 
upon  the  cross,  "Father,  forgive  them; 
for  they  know  not  what  they  do." 
(Luke  23:34.)  This  is  the  spirit  that 
the  Latter-day  Saints  ought  to  possess 
all  the  day  long.  It  is  a  good  thing  to 
be  at  peace  with  the  Lord. 

Be  true  to  the  faith 

I  will  say  now  to  all  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  let  us  live  our  religion.  Let  us  do 
all  in  our  power  to  plant  in  the  hearts 
of  the  people  the  glorious  truth  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a 
prophet  of  the  living  God,  whom  the 
Lord  raised  up  in  these  last  days  to 
restore  the  everlasting  gospel  and 
power  of  the  Holy  Priesthood.  We 
should  set  an  example;  we  should  be 
true  to  the  faith;  we  should  be  true  to 
our  covenants,  true  to  the  Lord,  and 
true  to  one  another.  I  can  tell  you  that 
the  man  who  is  not  true  to  the  inter- 
ests of  the  people  will  be  the  man  who 
will  be  found,  by  and  by,  left  out  and 
in  a  pitiable  spiritual  condition.  The 
man  who  stays  with  the  kingdom  of 
God,  who  is  true  to  this  people,  who 
keeps  himself  pure  and  unspotted  from 
the  world  is  the  man  that  the  Lord  will 
accept,  uphold,  and  sustain. 

I  believe  it  is  good  to  seek  knowledge 
out  of  the  best  books,  to  be  able  to 
comprehend  the  purpose  of  the  Lord 
with  reference  to  the  nations  of  the 
earth;  and  I  believe  that  one  of  the 
most  important  things,  and  perhaps 
more  important  to  us  than  studying  the 
history  of  the  world,  is  studying  the 
principles  of  the  gospel,  that  they  may 
be  established  in  our  hearts  and  souls 
above  all  other  things,  to  qualify  us 
to  go  out  into  the  world  to  preach  and 
teach  the  people  the  first  principles 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Improvement  of  musical  talents 

I  would  like  to  say  right  here  that  it 
delights  my  heart  to  see  our  people 
everywhere  improving  their  talents  as 
good  singers.  Everywhere  we  go  among 
our  people  we  find  sweet  voices  and 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


110 

Sunday,  October  5 

talent  for  music.  I  believe  that  this 
is  a  manifestation  to  us  of  the  purpose 
of  the  Lord  in  this  direction  toward 
our  people,  that  they  will  excel  in 
these  things,  as  they  should  excel 
in  every  other  good  thing.  I  can  remem- 
ber, when  I  was  a  young  boy,  hearing 
my  father  sing.  I  do  not  know  how 
much  of  a  singer  he  was,  for  at  that 
time  I  was  not  capable  of  judging  as  to 
the  quality  of  his  singing,  but  the 
hymns  he  sang  became  familiar  to  me 
in  the  days  of  my  childhood. 

When  we  listen  to  this  choir,  we 
listen  to  music,  and  music  is  truth. 
Good  music  is  gracious  praise  of  the 
Lord.  It  is  delightsome  to  the  ear,  and 
it  is  one  of  our  most  acceptable  methods 
of  worshiping.  And  those  who  sing  in 
the  choir  and  in  all  the  choirs  of  the 
Saints  should  sing  with  the  Spirit  and 
with  understanding.  They  should  not 
sing  merely  because  it  is  a  profession, 
or  because  they  have  a  good  voice;  but 
they  should  sing  also  because  they  have 
the  spirit  of  it,  and  can  enter  into  the 
spirit  of  prayer  and  praise  the  Lord  who 
gave  them  their  sweet  voices.  My  soul 
is  always  lifted  up,  and  my  spirit 
cheered  and  comforted,  when  I  hear 
good  music.  I  rejoice  in  it  very  much 
indeed. 

Seek  after  salvation 

Then  let  the  Saints  unite;  let  them 
hearken  to  the  voices  of  the  servants 
of  the  Lord  that  are  sounded  in  their 
ears;  let  them  seek  their  own  salva- 
tion, for,  so  far  as  I  am  concerned,  I 
am  so  selfish  that  I  am  seeking  after 
my  salvation,  and  I  know  that  I  can 
find  it  only  in  obedience  to  the  laws  of 
the  Lord  in  keeping  the  command- 
ments, in  performing  works  of  righ- 
teousness, following  in  the  footsteps  of 
our  file  leader,  Jesus,  the  exemplar  and 
the  head  of  all.  He  is  the  way  of  life;  he 
is  the  light  of  the  world;  he  is  the  door 
by  which  we  must  enter  in  order  that 
we  may  have  a  place  with  him  in  the 
celestial  kingdom. 

Acknowledge  hand  of  the  Lord 

How  much  happier  we  are  in  the 
presence  of  a  grateful  and  loving  soul, 
and  how  careful  we  should  be  to  culti- 


ThirJ  Day 

vate,  through  the  medium  of  a  prayerful 
life,  a  thankful  attitude.  I  believe  that 
one  of  the  greatest  sins  of  which  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth  are  guilty  to- 
day is  the  sin  of  ingratitude,  the  want 
of  acknowledgment,  on  their  part,  of 
the  Lord  and  his  right  to  govern  and 
control. 

We  see  a  man  with  extraordinary 
gifts,  or  with  great  intelligence,  and  he 
is  instrumental  in  developing  some 
great  principle.  He  and  the  world 
ascribe  his  great  genius  and  wisdom  to 
himself.  He  attributes  his  success  to 
his  own  energies,  labor,  and  mental 
capacity.  He  does  not  acknowledge  the 
hand  of  the  Lord  in  anything  con- 
nected with  his  success,  but  ignores  him 
altogether  and  takes  the  honor  to  him- 
self. This  will  apply  to  almost  all  the 
world.  In  all  the  great  modern  dis- 
coveries in  science,  in  the  arts,  in 
mechanics,  and  in  all  the  material  ad- 
vancement of  the  age,  the  world  says, 
"We  have  done  it."  The  individual 
says,  "I  have  done  it,"  and  he  gives  no 
honor  or  credit  to  the  Lord. 

Now,  I  read  in  the  revelations 
through  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet, 
that  because  of  this,  the  Lord  is  not 
pleased  with  the  inhabitants  of  the 
earth;  he  is  angry  with  them  because 
they  will  not  acknowledge  his  hand  in 
all  things. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  not  forget 
to  be  grateful  to  our  Father  in  heaven 
and  thank  him  for  all  his  kindness  to 
us  and  the  watch-care  he  has  over  us; 
and  may  he  bless  us  with  every  righ- 
teous desire  of  our  hearts,  I  humbly 
pray,  in  the  name  of  our  Redeemer. 
Amen.  O 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened 
is  President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  of 
the  First  Presidency. 

The  congregation  will  now  stand  and 
join  the  Choir  in  singing  two  verses  of 
"Do  What  Is  Right." 


Congregational  Singing:  "Do  What 
Is  Right." 


ELDER  HOWARD  W.  HUNTER 


111 


President  Tanner 

For  the  benefit  of  the  television  and  We   shall   now  hear  from  Elder 

radio  audiences  who  have  just  joined  Howard  W.  Hunter  of  the  Council  of 

us,  we  are  gathered  in  the  historic  Tab-  the  Twelve.  He  will  be  followed  by 

ernacle  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  Elder  Gordon  B.  Hinckley  of  the  Coun- 

City,  Utah.  cil  of  the  Twelve. 

ELDER  HOWARD  W.  HUNTER 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


•  Not  long  ago  one  of  our  national 
publications  reported  an  extensive 
study  of  some  conditions  plaguing  our 
modern  society,  conditions  which  give 
us  great  concern.  Crimes  of  violence  are 
increasing  at  an  alarming  rate.  There 
is  disrespect  for  law  and  order,  civil 
disobedience,  expanded  use  of  drugs 
and  barbituates,  increase  in  venereal 
diseases,  and  an  accelerating  divorce 
rate.  The  upward  trend  in  petty  thefts, 
burglary,  gambling,  riots  on  school 
campuses,  and  protests  against  stan- 
dards which  have  long  prevailed  as 
acceptable  is  alarming. 

Faith  in  fellowmen 

Can  we  say  that  because  news  media 
are  filled  with  such  accounts,  there  is  a 
universal  and  basic  social  change  in 
thinking  and  conduct?  Can  we  believe 
that  because  there  are  some  who  have 
no  regard  for  the  law  or  the  rights  of 
others,  or  who  advocate  a  new  morality, 
this  represents  a  new  concept  of  right 
and  wrong?  Although  we  cannot  hide 
our  heads  in  the  sand  and  disregard 
present-day  problems,  I  for  one  have 
not  lost  faith  in  my  fellowmen. 

Among  our  modern  campus  youth 
are  some  who  take  great  delight  in 
attracting  attention  by  pursuing  a 
course  against  the  conventional.  By  a 
misguided  sense  of  direction,  this  vocal 
minority  often  campaigns  for  a  new 
freedom  disassociated  from  any  sense 
of  responsibility.  For  every  one  of 
these  there  are  thousands  of  young 
people  who  want  to  live  right  and  do 
right.  They  have  the  desire  to  take 
their  place  in  a  responsible  society  and 
to  live  under  a  code  of  high  morality. 
We  are  proud  of  them.  These  are  the 
great  hope  of  the  future.  I  only  wish 


their  good  works  and  their  aspirations 
could  receive  the  same  "equal  time"  as 
is  allotted  to  those  of  opposing  politi- 
cal philosophies. 

A  sense  of  right  and  wrong 

What  makes  the  difference?  What 
causes  persons  to  travel  divergent 
courses  on  moral  issues?  Is  it  because 
of  a  difference  in  belief  as  to  whether 
or  not  a  thing  is  right  or  wrong,  or  is 
it  a  total  disregard  for  the  right? 

We  teach  little  children  the  differ- 
ence between  right  and  wrong,  and  a 
conscience  awakens  in  them.  There 
seems  to  be  in  each  of  God's  children 
this  monitoring  device  we  call  a  con- 
science, which  tracks  our  thoughts  and 
actions  and  raises  a  caution  when 
there  is  contemplation  of  the  improper, 
unconventional,  or  immoral.  Merely 
living  with  other  people  teaches  us  the 
difference  between  right  and  wrong. 
There  is  something  lacking  in  the  ex- 
perience of  an  adult  who  must  be  taken 
into  custody  and  punished  or  restrained 
for  violating  the  rights  of  others.  But 
again,  these  people  are  a  small  minor- 
ity. I  think  we  would  agree  that  most 
people  have  a  real  sense  of  right  and 
wrong  and  a  sincere  desire  to  follow 
the  right.  They  have  an  understand- 
ing of  moral  responsibility.  Some- 
times we  refer  to  this  as  ethics,  the 
science  of  moral  duty  or  ideal  human 
character. 

A  code  of  ethics 

I  believe  most  persons  follow  a  strict 
code  of  ethics.  They  are  governed  by 
this  great  ethical  rule:  So  live  as  to  in- 
voke the  best  in  others  and  therefore 
in  yourself.  Surely  this  is  commend- 
able and  would  enhance  relationships 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


112 

Sunday,  October  5 

in  our  complex  society  if  everyone  had 
a  sincere  feeling  of  such  moral  respon- 
sibility. 

Ethical  theory  is  the  basis  for  righ- 
teous government  and  for  the  formula- 
tion of  fair  and  equitable  jurisprudence. 
It  is  the  basis  for  all  moral,  social,  and 
economic  systems. 

We  would  agree  that  to  follow  a 
strict  code  of  moral  ethics,  society 
would  reach  a  high  state  of  perfection 
and  many  of  the  present-day  problems 
would  be  solved,  but  is  ethics  alone 
sufficient  to  attain  our  goals  in  life? 
To  those  who  have  no  belief  in  life 
after  mortality,  ethics  may  be  sufficient 
to  fulfill  the  requirements  of  conduct 
and  responsibility.  There  may  be  some 
who  believe  in  a  life  hereafter,  yet  feel 
that  ethics  is  sufficient  for  salvation. 
Can  this  be  true  without  also  living 
the  other  commandments  of  God? 

Meaning  of  true  religion 

There  is  a  great  difference  between 
ethics  and  religion.  There  is  a  distinc- 
tion between  one  whose  life  is  based 
on  mere  ethics  and  one  who  lives  a 
truly  religious  life.  We  have  a  need 
for  ethics,  but  true  religion  includes 
the  truths  of  ethics  and  goes  far  beyond. 
True  religion  has  its  roots  in  the  belief 
in  a  supreme  being.  Christian  religion 
is  based  upon  a  belief  in  God  the 
Eternal  Father  and  in  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ  and  in  the  word  of  the  Lord 
as  contained  in  scripture.  Religion  also 
goes  beyond  theology.  It  is  more  than 
just  a  belief  in  Deity;  it  is  the  practice 
of  the  belief.  James  E.  Talmage  said, 
"One  may  be  deeply  versed  in  theo- 
logical lore,  and  yet  be  lacking  in 
religious  and  even  moral  character.  If 
theology  be  theory  then  religion  is 
practice;  if  theology  be  precept,  re- 
ligion is  example."  (Articles  of  Faith, 
p.  5.) 

True  religion  to  the  Christian  is 
demonstrated  by  a  real  belief  in  God 
and  the  realization  that  we  are  respon- 
sible to  him  for  our  acts  and  conduct. 
A  person  who  lives  such  religion  is 
willing  to  live  the  principles  of  the 
gospel  of  Christ  and  walk  uprightly 
before  the  Lord  in  all  things  accord- 
ing to  his  revealed  law.  This  brings 
to  a  man  or  a  woman  a  sense  of  peace 


Third  Day 

and  freedom  from  confusion  in  life 
and  gives  an  assurance  of  eternal  life 
hereafter.  The  Lord  said,  ".  .  .  Man 
shall  not  live  by  bread  alone,  but  by 
every  word  that  proceedeth  out  of  the 
mouth  of  God."  (Matt.  4:4.)  A  code 
of  morals  is  not  wholly  sufficient.  For 
the  same  reason  man  cannot  be  saved 
by  bread  alone,  he  cannot  be  saved 
by  a  code  of  ethics. 

Religion  a  vibrant  influence 

In  order  to  be  effective  in  one's  life, 
religion  must  be  a  vibrant  influence. 
It  must  be  an  influence  that  becomes 
a  part  of  one's  thinking  and  conduct. 
There  is  purpose  in  man's  sojourn  in 
mortality.  He  is  placed  here  for  a 
definite  reason,  in  accordance  with 
God's  great  plan.  We  read  in  Genesis 
the  story  of  the  creation:  "And  the 
Lord  God  said,  Behold,  the  man  is  be- 
come as  one  of  us,  to  know  good  and 
evil.  .  .  ."  (Gen.  3:22.) 

To  learn  the  difference  between  good 
and  evil  is  one  of  the  great  purposes  for 
man  to  have  mortal  life,  yet  he  is 
given  his  freedom  of  choice  with  the 
promise  of  eternal  blessings  if  he  obeys 
the  laws  of  God. 

A  true  religious  faith  teaches  us  that 
there  are  certain  principles  that  must 
be  accepted  and  obeyed.  We  must  have 
faith  in  God  the  Eternal  Father  and 
in  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  and  his  atoning 
sacrifice.  This  must  be  followed  by 
repentance  from  all  sin,  then  baptism 
by  immersion  after  the  example  of  the 
Savior  by  one  having  authority,  and 
the  laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost.  Other  things  are 
necessary,  including  a  contrite  spirit, 
a  humble  heart,  obedience  to  the  ordi- 
nances and  principles  of  the  gospel, 
and  faithfulness  to  the  end.  This  en- 
compasses the  choosing  of  right  over 
wrong,  following  good,  and  abstaining 
from  evil. 

Church  restored  in  latter  days 

Ethics  alone  will  not  accomplish  all 
these  things  for  us,  but  an  active  re- 
ligion will  add  to  ethics  the  principles 
and  ordinances  of  the  gospel,  which,  if 
obeyed,  will  open  the  doors  of  eternal 
salvation,  provided  such  religion  is 
ordained  of  God  and  not  of  man's 


ELDER  GORDON  B.  HINCKLEY 


113 


creation.  I  bear  witness  to  you  that 
the  Church  established  by  Christ  and 
taken  from  the  earth  because  of  the 
apostasy  of  men  has  been  restored  in 
these  latter  days  in  the  same  manner  as 
foretold  by  the  prophets  of  old  and  by 
the  other  statements  of  scripture;  that 
God  has  spoken  to  his  servants  in  our 
day  and  is  now  speaking.  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  in- 
vites all  persons  to  listen  to  the  story 
of  the  restoration  of  the  gospel,  the 
story  of  a  religion  vibrant  and  vital 
in  the  lives  of  thousands  of  persons  of 
faith,  testimony,  and  devotion  to  the 
principles  of  the  gospel  taught  by  the 
Church  of  Christ. 

Peace  from  living  gospel 

The  troubles  of  the  world  often 
expressed  in  screaming  headlines  should 
remind  us  to  seek  for  the  peace  that 
comes  from  living  the  simple  princi- 
ples of  the  gospel  of  Christ.  The 
vociferous  minorities  will  not  unsettle 
our  peace  of  soul  if  we  love  our  fellow- 
men  and  have  faith  in  the  atoning 


sacrifice  of  the  Savior  and  the  quiet 
assurance  he  gives  of  life  everlasting. 
Where  do  we  find  such  faith  in  a 
troubled  world?  The  Lord  said,  "Ask, 
and  it  shall  be  given  you;  seek,  and  ye 
shall  find;  knock,  and  it  shall  be 
opened  unto  you. 

"For  every  one  that  asketh  receiveth; 
and  he  that  seeketh  findeth;  and  to 
him  that  knocketh  it  shall  be  opened." 
(Luke  11:9-10.) 

It  is  my  humble  and  sincere  testi- 
mony to  you  that  God  does  truly  live — 
a  kind,  loving  Father.  I  know  that 
his  Son  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Savior  of 
the  world,  and  that  through  belief  in 
him  and  keeping  his  commandments 
we  will  have  life  everlasting.  In  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen.  O 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  How- 
ard W.  Hunter  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve.  Elder  Gordon  B.  Hinckley  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will  now 
speak  to  us. 


ELDER  GORDON  B.  HINCKLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


•  I  supposed  you  have  heard  the  story 
of  the  absent-minded  professor  who 
went  shopping  and  lost  his  umbrella. 
Discovering  his  loss,  he  retraced  his 
steps.  At  the  first  three  stores  on 
which  he  called,  the  clerks  denied 
having  found  his  umbrella.  At  the 
fourth  store  the  clerk  handed  him  the 
missing  umbrella.  He  grumbled, 
"Thank  goodness  for  an  honest  man. 
The  other  three  told  me  they  didn't 
have  it." 

I  am  inclined  to  think  that  not- 
withstanding the  gains  we  see  in  the 
work  of  the  Lord,  notwithstanding  the 
reformation  we  see  in  the  lives  of  many 
people,  we  are  prone  to  emphasize  the 
problems  and  disregard  the  progress. 

Optimism  concerning  Lord's  work 

I  stand  here  today  as  an  optimist 
concerning  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I 
cannot  believe  that  God  has  established 
his  work   in  the  earth  to  have  it 


fail.  I  cannot  believe  that  it  is  getting 
weaker.  I  know  that  it  is  getting  stron- 
ger. I  realize,  of  course,  that  we  are 
beset  with  many  tragic  problems. 
I  am  a  newspaper  reader,  and  I  have 
seen  a  good  deal  of  this  earth.  I  have 
seen  its  rot  and  smelled  its  filth.  I 
have  been  in  areas  where  war  rages 
and  hate  smolders  in  the  hearts  of 
people.  I  have  seen  the  appalling 
poverty  that  hovers  over  many  lands. 
I  have  seen  the  oppression  of  those  in 
bondage  and  the  brutality  of  their 
overlords.  I  know  something  of  the 
misguided  youth  whose  appearance  is 
repugnant,  whose  hygiene  is  repulsive, 
whose  manners  are  disgusting.  I  have 
watched  with  alarm  the  crumbling 
morals  of  our  society. 

And  yet  I  am  an  optimist.  I  have  a 
simple  and  solemn  faith  that  right  will 
triumph  and  that  truth  will  prevail. 
I  am  not  so  naive  as  to  believe  there 
will  not  be  setbacks,  but  I  believe  that 
"truth  crushed  to  earth  will  rise  again." 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


114 

Sunday,  October  5 

"Be  not  afraid,  only  believe" 

When  I  left  for  a  mission  some  36 
years  ago,  my  good  father  handed  me 
a  card  on  which  were  written  five 
words.  They  were  the  words  of  the 
Lord  to  the  ruler  of  the  synagogue  who 
had  received  news  of  his  daughter's 
death:  "Be  not  afraid,  only  believe." 
(Mark  5:36.)  If  the  Lord  will  inspire 
me,  I  should  like  to  express  a  few 
thoughts  on  that  theme. 

Kingdom  to  stand  forever 

I  believe  in  the  triumph  of  the  gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ  and  the  triumph  of 
the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God  on  the 
earth.  If  ever  your  faith  is  inclined  to 
weaken  as  you  see  the  onward  march 
of  evil  and  oppression,  read  again  the 
story  of  Daniel  who,  putting  his  trust 
in  the  "God  in  heaven  that  revealeth 
secrets,"  interpreted  Nebuchadnezzar's 
dream.  He  said  concerning  our  day 
that  the  God  of  heaven  shall  "set  up  a 
kingdom,  which  shall  never  be  de- 
stroyed: and  the  kingdom  shall  not  be 
left  to  other  people,  but  it  shall  break 
in  pieces  and  consume  all  these  [other] 
kingdoms,  and  it  shall  stand  for  ever." 
(Dan.  2:44.) 

I  believe,  my  friends,  that  the  cause 
we  have  the  honor  to  represent  is  that 
kingdom  which  shall  stand  forever. 

I  am  not  engaging  in  unrealistic 
dreams  when  I  think  of  its  future,  for 
every  day  I  see  the  miracle  of  its 
strength  and  of  its  growing  influence  in 
the  lives  of  thousands  across  the  earth. 
It  is  not  a  great  impersonal  juggernaut 
of  power.  It  finds  its  best  expression 
in  the  quiet  of  the  lives  of  those  who 
have  embraced  it. 

I  do  not  want  to  boast.  Heaven 
knows  we  have  problems  among  us. 
We  are  far  from  perfection.  And  yet 
I  have  seen  so  much  of  good  that  my 
faith  constantly  strengthens. 

Belief  in  youth 

I  believe  in  our  youth.  I  believe  in 
their  goodness  and  decency.  I  believe 
in  their  virtue.  I  have  interviewed 
thousands  of  them  on  a  personal  and 
individual  basis.  Yes,  there  are  some 
who  have  succumbed  to  evil,  but  they 
are  a  minority. 


Third  Day 

On  a  visit  to  South  Vietnam  three 
years  ago,  I  talked  individually  witb 
two  or  three  hundred  men — men  who 
had  waded  through  the  blood  and  heat 
of  battle,  but  men  who  were  virtuous 
in  their  lives.  I  remember  one  of 
them,  a  boy  who  had  just  come  down 
from  the  Rock  Pile  near  the  DMZ,  who 
said  in  response  to  a  question  on  moral- 
ity: "Not  on  your  life — I  couldn't  do 
that.  I  want  to  be  worthy  of  a  great 
girl  some  day." 

Service  of  missionaries 

I  believe  in  their  sense  of  service. 
I  have  just  been  down  in  South 
America,  where  we  have  some  1,500 
of  the  13,000  missionaries  of  this 
church.  Like  their  associates  over  the 
world,  they  are  there  entirely  at  their 
own  expense  and  at  the  expense  of  their 
families.  They  give  to  the  Lord  two 
years  of  their  lives.  Their  days  are  long, 
their  weeks  crowded  and  arduous.  They 
speak  with  a  persuasive  conviction. 
They  bear  testimony  of  the  living 
Christ  and  of  the  virtues  of  his  marvel- 
ous work. 

May  I  read  from  a  letter  received 
from  one  of  them:  "The  most  effective 
technique  we  have  found  in  our  work 
is  fasting  and  prayer.  We  saw  how 
this  worked  a  few  weeks  ago  with  an 
investigator  of  the  Church.  He  had 
a  number  of  questions  and  problems  to 
overcome,  and  we  just  didn't  seem 
to  get  anywhere  when  we  met  with 
him  to  discuss  them.  So  we  would  go 
home  to  our  apartment  and  ask  the 
Lord  to  bless  him  and  help  him  under- 
stand what  we  had  explained  to  him. 
We  felt  it  was  very  important  that  he 
be  baptized,  so  we  asked  the  Lord  to 
bless  him  with  a  desire  for  baptism. 
Even  up  through  the  sixth  lesson  he 
was  wavering,  so  we  fasted  the  day 
before  his  baptism,  and  he  has  been 
a  faithful  member  ever  since." 

One  thinks  of  the  words  of  the  Lord 
to  his  disciples  who  complained  they 
could  not  perform  miracles.  Said  he: 
".  .  .  this  kind  goeth  not  out  but  by 
prayer  and  fasting."  (Matt.  17:21.) 

Miracle  of  devotion 

Is  it  not  a  miracle  in  itself  that  in 
this  day  of  doubt  and  disbelief  young 


ELDER  GORDON  B.  HINCKLEY 


115 


men,  thousands  of  them,  with  lives  to 
live  and  careers  to  build,  spend  two 
years  in  the  service  of  the  Lord,  labor- 
ing constantly  and  even  willing  to  fast 
and  pray  in  behalf  of  those  to  whom 
they  seek  to  teach  a  better  life?  I  know 
of  no  experience  more  refreshing  than 
to  be  with  them  and  feel  of  their  spirit. 
If  any  of  you  who  are  listening  this  day 
should  have  two  of  them  come  to  your 
door,  I  hope  that  you  will  welcome 
them  and  hear  them.  They  will  restore 
your  faith  in  youth.  They  will 
quicken  your  faith  in  the  Lord.  They 
will  lead  you  to  a  joy  you  have  never 
previously  known. 

I  believe  they  are  the  best  generation 
that  ever  lived.  In  Montevideo  the 
other  day  I  interviewed  154  of  them.  I 
asked  them  about  their  parents  and 
about  their  homes.  I  discovered  that 
58  of  them,  or  more  than  one-third, 
came  from  homes  where  parents  did 
not  belong  to  the  Church  or  did  noth- 
ing in  the  Church.  While  the  sample 
may  be  too  small  from  which  to  draw 
a  reliable  conclusion,  my  observation 
and  experience  would  indicate  that  the 
youth  I  know  and  love  are  better  than 
their  parents. 

Appreciation  for  parents 

And  I  believe  in  something  else  that 
is  a  barometer  of  their  goodness.  Paul 
warned  that  in  the  last  days  men 
would  be  unthankful,  unholy,  dis- 
obedient to  parents,  without  natural 
affection.  (See  2  Tim.  3:1-3.)  One  need 
not  look  far  in  the  homes  of  the  people 
to  see  that  prophecy  being  fulfilled. 
And  yet  I  have  recently  witnessed  a  re- 
pudiation of  that  insofar  as  many  are 
concerned.  In  my  visit  to  South 
America  I  heard  hundreds  of  our  young 
men  and  women  stand  on  their  feet 
and  express  their  feelings.  Almost  with- 
out exception  they  spoke  words  of  ap- 
preciation, of  thankfulness  for  their 
parents.  What  a  remarkably  refresh- 
ing thing  it  is  to  hear  young  men  and 
women,  19,  20,  21,  and  22  years  of  age, 
stand  before  one  another  and,  in  the 
quiet  confidences  of  such  a  meeting, 
say,  "I  really  appreciate  my  dad."  "I 
love  my  mother."  They  are  not  maud- 
lin; they  are  manly,  athletic,  able 
young    men   and   womanly   girls  of 


charm  and  education.  Their  words 
come  from  the  heart.  Those  sentiments 
in  this  day  are  as  a  cool  and  refresh- 
ing breeze  on  a  hot  and  humid  night. 

Enthusiasm  of  converts 

One  hears  much  these  days  about 
the  slow  death  of  the  churches,  and 
yet  the  Lord  declared  that  "this  gospel 
of  the  kingdom  shall  be  preached  .  .  . 
for  a  witness  unto  all  nations;  and  then 
shall  the  end  come."  (Matt.  24:14.) 
Can  it  possibly  be  accomplished?  I 
recently  had  an  insight  into  that  possi- 
bility. 

When  I  was  in  South  America 
I  met  a  woman.  She  had  just  joined 
the  Church.  She  was  introduced  as  a 
new  convert  to  the  Church.  Fired  by 
a  great  love  for  that  which  she  had 
found,  she  has  gone  about  enthusi- 
astically telling  others.  During  a  period 
of  only  seven  months  since  her  bap- 
tism, she  has  referred  300  acquaintances 
to  the  missionaries  so  that  they  might 
explain  the  gospel  to  them.  Of  these, 
60  have  come  into  the  Church  and  are 
solid  members,  and  more  will  yet  come. 
In  Sao  Paulo,  Brazil,  I  recently  met  the 
young  missionary  who  first  had  taught 
her  the  gospel.  He  too  had  been  a 
convert,  had  gone  on  a  mission  to 
represent  the  Church  at  considerable 
financial  sacrifice;  and  the  woman  of 
whom  I  speak  was  one  of  43  he  had 
brought  into  the  Church,  so  this  young 
man  of  Brazil  had  expanded  himself 
more  than  100  times— 43  converts  of 
his  own  and  60  through  one  of  those 
he  converted,  with  perhaps  more  from 
others  of  his  converts  yet  to  come. 

Work  requires  faith 

Yes,  this  work  requires  sacrifice,  it 
requires  effort,  it  means  courage  to 
speak  out  and  faith  to  try.  This  cause 
does  not  need  critics;  it  does  not  need 
doubters.  It  needs  men  and  women  of 
solemn  purpose.  As  Paul  wrote  to 
Timothy:  ".  .  .  God  hath  not  given  us 
the  spirit  of  fear;  but  of  power,  and  of 
love,  and  of  a  sound  mind.  Be  not  thou 
therefore  ashamed  of  the  testimony  of 
our  Lord  "  (2  Tim.  1:7-8.) 

I  would  that  every  member  of  this 
church,  and  every  good  man  through- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


116 

Sunday,  October  5 

out  the  world,  would  put  those  words 
where  he  might  see  them  every  morning 
as  he  begins  his  day.  They  would  give 
him  the  courage  to  speak  up,  they 
would  give  him  the  faith  to  try,  they 
would  strengthen  his  conviction  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

I  believe  that  miracles  would  begin 
to  happen  over  the  earth. 

The  words  of  eternal  life 

I  recall  the  occasion  on  which  Jesus 
fed  the  multitude  with  the  loaves  and 
fishes.  They  were  satisfied  physically 
and  were  curious.  He  then  taught 
them  the  doctrines  of  the  kingdom  and 
many  fell  away.  "Then  said  Jesus  unto 
the  Twelve,  will  ye  also  go  away? 

"Then  Simon  Peter  answered  him, 
Lord,  to  whom  shall  we  go?  thou  hast 
the  words  of  eternal  life. 

"And  we  believe  and  are  sure  that 
thou  art  that  Christ,  the  Son  of  the 
living  God."  (John  6:67-69.) 


Third  Day 

I  echo  that  testimony,  my  brethren. 
I  know  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  that  this  is  their  holy  work, 
and  I  plead  with  you  and  with  the 
God  of  heaven  that  we  shall  have  the 
power  and  the  faith  and  the  devotion 
to  roll  it  forward  to  its  great  destiny, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  Gordon  B.  Hinckley  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing 
"To  Music,"  after  which  Brother  Mark 
E.  Petersen  will  be  our  concluding 
speaker. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  num- 
ber, "To  Music." 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


•  Earnestly  I  pray  for  the  direction  of 
the  eternal  Spirit  of  God  as  I  stand 
before  you  and  bear  you  my  testimony 
that  I  know  that  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  is  true. 

From  its  beginning,  true  Christian- 
ity has  been  a  religion  that  has  been 
hard  to  believe  and  hard  for  most 
people  to  live. 

When  the  Savior  was  on  earth  and 
taught  his  pure  doctrine,  many  refused 
to  listen  to  him.  Some  were  offended 
by  what  he  said  and  became  so  angry 
that  they  sought  his  life,  and  eventually 
they  crucified  him. 

Following  his  ascension  into  heaven, 
his  disciples  endeavored  to  carry  on  his 
work,  but  they  also  were  misunder- 
stood, disbelieved  by  most,  and  severely 
persecuted. 

As  the  scriptures  indicate,  they  were 
everywhere  spoken  against.  It  was 
largely  because  their  teachings  were  so 
hard  to  believe. 

Doctrines  challenged  traditions 

The  doctrine  which  first  challenged 


the  credulity  of  the  people  was  the 
teaching  that  Christ  was  the  Son  of 
the  living  God.  This  led  his  critics  to 
call  him  a  blasphemer. 

When  he  exhibited  his  divine  power 
in  healing  the  sick  and  giving  sight  to 
the  blind,  they  called  him  Beelzebub 
and  said  he  was  of  the  devil. 

These  reactions  to  his  labors  were 
quite  understandable,  and  in  a  way 
the  people  generally  were  hardly  to 
blame.  Jesus  himself  prayed  at  the 
crucifixion,  "Father,  forgive  them;  for 
they  know  not  what  they  do."  (Luke 
23:34.) 

The  doctrines  of  Christ  were  quite 
different  from  what  they  had  been 
taught  all  their  lives,  and  therefore, 
under  the  influence  of  their  time- 
honored  tradition,  they  felt  that  what 
Jesus  said  was  false. 

And  yet,  the  scriptures  that  they 
professed  to  love  and  read  had  fore- 
told his  coming.  They  even  described 
his  person  and  predicted  his  eventual 
sacrifice.  But  the  scriptures  were  mis- 
construed by  the  elders  and  the  scribes, 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


117 


who  so  confused  the  people  that  when 
Jesus  held  his  pure  truth  before  them, 
they  not  only  misunderstood  but  they 
became  angry  and  bitter. 

As  his  teachings  challenged  their 
long-standing  traditions,  their  resent- 
ment rose  to  the  point  where  thoughts 
of  revenge  filled  their  minds. 

Disbelief  in  resurrection 

When  the  apostles  proclaimed  his 
resurrection,  again  there  was  disbelief. 
Had  anyone  ever  come  back  from  the 
dead?  Who  in  all  his  life  had  seen  a 
dead  man  rise  from  his  grave  in  physi- 
cal reality  and  walk  and  talk  and  eat? 

The  idea  of  a  resurrection  seemed 
completely  incredible  and  was  much 
too  hard  for  most  people  to  believe,  so 
they  turned  away. 

But  time  favored  credulity.  That 
which  is  old  always  seems  easier  to 
believe,  so  when  the  immediacy  of 
Christ's  sacrifice  was  past,  greater  num- 
bers of  people  began  to  accept  him. 

Divisions  in  Christianity 

But  a  new  difficulty  arose.  They 
did  not  all  believe  alike.  Certain  of 
them  had  one  interpretation  of  the 
sacred  word  while  others  had  contrary 
views.  For  example,  differences  arose 
among  the  believers  pertaining  to  the 
nature  of  God.  What  is  God  like? 
That  was  the  question.  Is  he  a  per- 
son? Is  he  a  shapeless,  indescribable 
spirit,  or  is  he  a  mere  influence  for 
good,  filling  the  universe?  The  believers 
could  not  agree  among  themselves. 

Even  on  such  a  simple  thing  as  bap- 
tism, conflicts  arose  among  them.  Some 
could  not  believe  this  ordinance  was 
even  necessary.  Those  who  did  believe 
in  it  disagreed  as  to  the  method  by 
which  it  should  be  administered. 

So  further  divisions  arose  in  Chris- 
tianity. 

Well-meaning  men  began  to  alter 
Christ's  doctrines  to  suit  their  own  no- 
tions, making  them  seem  easier  to 
accept  in  a  revised  form  than  in  the 
way  they  were  given  originally  by  the 
Master. 

And  then  among  the  believers  them- 
selves, divisions  also  began  to  arise 
over  the  resurrection,  which  had  been 


an  earlier  stumbling  block.  Some  at 
that  time  could  not,  and  many  Chris- 
tians even  today  still  cannot,  accept 
that  doctrine.  Certain  of  them  con- 
vinced themselves  that  the  spirit  or 
soul  could  survive  death,  but  not  a  de- 
caying body.  A  physical  resurrection 
of  flesh  and  bone  was  beyond  their 
ability  to  accept.  Therefore,  many  pro- 
fessed followers  of  Jesus  rejected  this 
Christian  teaching  as  being  too  hard  to 
believe. 

And  yet  it  was  in  the  scripture.  To 
reject  the  resurrection  really  meant  also 
to  reject  certain  portions  of  holy  writ. 
What  were  the  followers  of  Christ  to 
do?  Could  they  believe  some  of  the 
scripture  and  not  the  remainder? 

This  is  exactly  what  many  did,  with 
still  further  division  as  a  result.  And 
yet  the  apostle  Paul  had  said  that 
Christ  is  not  divided! 

It  became  obvious  that  the  original 
gospel  was  too  hard  to  believe,  even 
for  many  professed  Christians. 

Need  for  better  understanding 

Today  Christianity  is  still  divided. 
But  the  many  denominations,  with 
their  varied  versions  of  Christian  doc- 
trine, now  see  the  need  for  a  better 
understanding. 

Ecumenical  movements  have  begun, 
arising  largely  in  the  wake  of  the 
courageous  steps  of  the  late  Pope  John, 
who  called  together  the  great  ecumeni- 
cal councils  of  Rome.  He  saw  the 
need  for  a  change  in  world  Christianity 
and  so  did  most  of  his  associates. 

His  Eminence  Julius,  Cardinal  Dopf- 
ner  of  Munich,  Germany,  was  one  of 
the  four  prelates  chosen  by  Pope  John 
to  moderate  the  council  meetings  in 
Rome.  As  quoted  in  Time  magazine, 
following  his  return  to  Munich,  the 
distinguished  cardinal  said  that  many 
of  the  faithful  have  been  lost  because 
the  Christianity  of  today  appears  "as  a 
superannuated  souvenir  of  a  past  age," 
and  he  called  for  reforms  that  would 
bring  Christianity  back  to  Christ  and 
the  Bible.  Ponder,  if  you  will,  the  deep 
significance  of  that  declaration. 

But  if  Christianity  does  take  this 
giant  step,  and  does  return  to  the  pure 
doctrines  of  Christ,  will  modern  Chris- 
tians find  the  original  teachings  of 


118  GENERAL  C 

Sunday.  October  5 

Jesus  any  easier  to  believe  than  did 
their  ancient  predecessors? 

To  unite  the  various  Christian 
churches  under  a  single  banner  is  one 
thing,  but  to  accept  the  original  hard- 
to-believe  doctrines  of  Christ  is  quite 
another,  particularly  if  they  upset 
long-standing  creeds  and  traditions  as 
they  very  definitely  did  when  Jesus 
walked  the  plains  of  Palestine. 

Call  to  rediscover  Christ 

Philip  Scharper,  writing  his  defense 
of  the  changing  Catholicism  of  today, 
in  his  book  Meet  the  American  Catho- 
lic, makes  some  remarks  that  are  well 
worth  serious  consideration. 

He  calls  for  Christians  to  rediscover 
Christ. 

We  Latter-day  Saints  make  the  same 
appeal. 

Speaking  for  his  fellow  Catholics  and 
describing  important  changes  recently 
made  in  his  church,  he  adds: 

"Now  the  stereotypes  are  being 
smashed,  and  we  are  forced  to  search 
out  the  authentic  features  of  our 
Protestant  brothers." 

And  then  he  further  says: 

"Every  Catholic  who  would  take 
seriously  the  high  ecumenical  mandate 
of  the  Council  [of  Rome]  must  come 
to  a  knowledge  of  and  respect  for  the 
beliefs  and  practices  of  the  major 
Protestant  churches." 

Riches  of  divine  revelation 

Then  he  calls  for  an  exploration  of 
the  riches  of  divine  revelation!  What 
a  blessing  this  would  be! 

But  to  explore  the  riches  of  divine 
revelation  can  only  mean  a  genuine 
study  of  the  original  doctrines  of 
Christ,  no  matter  how  hard  to  believe 
they  may  seem  to  be,  for  God  is  the 
same  yesterday,  today,  and  forever. 

If  we  are  to  accept  Christ,  then  we 
must  accept  what  he  taught.  Pretenses 
accomplish  nothing.  He  himself  said 
that  we  cannot  serve  two  masters. 

Then  if  we  are  to  discover  him,  we 
must  discover  the  kind  of  Christianity 
that  he  established  and  be  willing  to 
accept  it  as  it  is,  whether  or  not  it  up- 
sets old  traditions  that  have  become 
dear  to  our  hearts. 


Third  Day 

Tradition  is  by  no  means  infallible. 
Often  it  has  no  basis  in  fact.  And 
quite  as  often  it  is  at  variance  with  the 
original  gospel. 

Important  message  for  mankind 

We  Latter-day  Saints  have  long  been 
concerned  about  the  divisions  in  Chris- 
tianity. The  question  "Which  church 
is  right?"  is  often  on  our  lips. 

In  all  sincerity  and  in  deep  solem- 
nity before  God,  we  declare  that  we 
Latter-day  Saints  have  an  important 
message  for  all  mankind  that  is  most 
pertinent  to  this  point. 

In  the  spirit  of  Mr.  Scharper's 
ecumenical  book,  we  ask  both  Catholics 
and  Protestants  to  listen  to  the  au- 
thentic features  of  Mormonism. 

Being  heard  amidst  the  echoes  of 
long-standing  creeds  and  dogmas,  our 
teachings  may  be  as  hard  to  believe  as 
the  gospel  was  originally.  But  they 
are  nevertheless  true  and  scriptural. 

Mormonism,  so  called,  proclaims  that 
God  does  live  and  that  he  has  been 
seen  and  heard  by  mortal  men  in 
these  modern  times. 

Mormonism  further  declares  that 
Jesus  of  Nazareth  was  indeed  the  Son 
of  Almighty  God;  that  he  is  divine; 
that  he  is  the  Savior  of  the  Christians, 
the  Messiah  of  the  Jews,  and  the  Re- 
deemer of  mankind. 

We  affirm  the  fact  of  his  death  on 
the  cross  and  the  physical  reality  of  his 
resurrection,  in  flesh  and  bone. 

We  teach  the  authenticity  of  the 
Holy  Bible  and  the  truthfulness  of  the 
prophetic  writings  therein. 

Gospel  restored  in  its  purity 

Hard  to  believe  though  it  is,  the 
scriptures  themselves  foretold  the  sad 
division  in  Christianity,  leading  to  the 
formation  of  the  many  denominations 
of  today.  They  refer  to  it  as  a  falling 
away,  an  apostasy  from  the  original 
gospel. 

But  those  same  scriptures  declare 
that  the  gospel  truth  would  be  restored 
in  all  its  purity  and  simplicity  in  these 
latter  days. 

Is  that  hard  to  believe?  It  should 
bring  joy  to  all. 

The  sacred  word  further  explains 
the  manner  in  which  this  restoration 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


119 


would  be  accomplished  and  teaches 
the  almost  incredible  fact  that  before 
the  hour  of  God's  judgment,  holy 
angels  would  fly  through  the  midst  of 
heaven,  bringing  back  to  mankind  the 
one  and  only  true  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  as  it  was  originally  taught 
by  the  Master  himself. 

Is  that  hard  to  believe?  It  is  never- 
theless a  fact. 

Such  an  event,  of  course,  would 
mean  a  new  and  modern  revelation 
from  God.  Dare  you  believe  that? 
Dare  you  accept  the  scriptures? 

A  new  and  sacred  book 

The  ancient  prophets,  speaking  of 
our  day,  also  foretold  that  a  new  and 
sacred  book  would  be  given  to  modern 
man,  a  book  written  anciently  but  re- 
served for  publication  in  our  times. 
It  was  to  be  a  record  that  had  been 
buried  in  the  ground  for  ages,  but,  as 
Isaiah  said,  it  would  come  out  of  the 
earth  in  the  latter  days  to  tell  the 
story  of  a  fallen  people  who  had  lived 
anciently. 

Is  that  hard  to  believe?  It  is  scrip- 
ture! 

The  book  necessarily  would  be  in  an 
ancient  tongue,  but  it  would  be  pub- 
lished in  modern  languages  and  would 
be  done — not  by  some  great  scholar — 
but  by  an  unlearned  man,  says  the 
prophet  Isaiah. 

What  a  paradox!  A  sacred  volume  of 
ancient  scriptures  produced  in  our  day 
by  an  unlearned  man!  And  yet  it  is 
foretold  in  the  scripture.  Is  that  hard 
for  you  to  believe? 

Great  modern  revelation 

Through  this  great  modern  revela- 
tion, God  would  restore  his  church  to 
the  earth  with  modern  apostles, 
prophets,  pastors,  evangelists,  and 
teachers,  such  as  were  in  Christ's  an- 
cient church. 

This  restoration  would  make  ecu- 
menical councils  unnecessary  and 
would  avoid  further  debates  over  dif- 
fering creeds  and  dogmas. 

Man  no  longer  would  need  to  grope 
through  the  darkness  of  his  own  wis- 
dom seeking  religious  truth,  for  the 
light  of  modern  revelation  would  be 
there  to  guide  him. 


Revelation  would  take  the  place  of 
conjecture.  Prophets  would  guide 
mankind  in  this  day  as  Moses  and 
Isaiah  led  their  people  anciently.  All 
of  this  would  be  part  of  a  modern 
restoration  of  the  gospel. 

Is  this  hard  for  you  to  believe?  Yet 
it  is  scripture.  It  is  Bible  doctrine.  Is 
the  Bible  too  hard  to  accept? 

Glad  news  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 

The  glad  news  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  then,  is  this:  Hard  to  believe 
or  not,  God  lives,  and  he  is  our  Father. 

Hard  to  believe  or  not,  Jesus  Christ 
is  his  divine  Son,  the  Savior  of  the 
Christians,  the  Messiah  of  the  Jews, 
and  the  Redeemer  of  all  mankind. 

Difficult  as  it  may  be  to  admit,  the 
many  denominations  of  today,  by  their 
very  existence,  evidence  a  departure 
from  the  original  truth  as  described  by 
the  apostle  Paul. 

And  hard  to  believe  as  it  may  seem, 
a  modern  revelation  from  God  has 
now  come,  just  as  Peter  and  John  said 
it  would. 

New  prophets  have  been  raised  up 
in  our  day.  Once  again  apostles 
traverse  the  earth.  Once  again  the  an- 
cient cry  is  heard:  "Repent:  for  the 
kingdom  of  heaven  is  at  hand."  (Matt. 
4:17.)  The  gospel  now  has  been  re- 
stored in  its  purity. 

So  to  all  mankind  we  extend  our 
hand  in  fellowship  and  love  and  say: 
"Come,  listen  to  a  prophet's  voice, 
And  hear  the  word  of  God, 
And  in  the  way  of  truth  rejoice, 
And  sing  for  joy  aloud. 
We've  found  the  way  the  prophets  went 
Who  lived  in  days  of  yore; 
Another  prophet  now  is  sent 
This  knowledge  to  restore." 

— Hymns,  No.  46 

And  this  is  our  humble  testimony  in 
the  sacred  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen.  O 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

We  express  our  thanks  and  apprecia- 
tion to  the  General  Authorities  who 
have  spoken  to  us,  and  to  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  for  their  inspirational 
music. 


120 

Sunday,  October  5 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


This  session  has  been  broadcast  by 
many  radio  and  television  stations  in 
the  Western  United  States,  and  short- 
waved  in  English  over  Station  WNYW 
New  York  to  Europe,  South  America, 
Central  America,  Mexico,  Africa  and 
parts  of  Asia. 

This  session  has  also  been  carried  by 
direct  wire  from  the  Tabernacle  over 
direct  oceanic  cables  to  a  large  number 
of  members  and  friends  assembled  in 
chapels  throughout  Great  Britain,  Ger- 
many, France,  Austria,  and  Belgium. 
Direct  circuits  will  also  carry  this  ses- 
sion to  members  and  friends  assembled 
in  chapels  throughout  eastern  Canada. 

We  shall  conclude  this  session  of 
the  conference  with  the  Tabernacle 


Choir  singing:  "Hallelujah  Chorus,': 
under  the  direction  of  Richard  P. 
Condie,  with  Alexander  Schreiner  at 
the  organ,  after  which  the  benediction 
will  be  pronounced  by  Elder  Kenneth 
J.  Poole,  president  of  the  Leicester 
Stake  in  England.  This  conference  will 
then  stand  adjourned  until  2:00  this 
afternoon. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  rendered  the 
"Hallelujah  Chorus,"  following  which 
President  Kenneth  J.  Poole  of  the 
Leicester  Stake  gave  the  benediction. 

The  conference  was  adjourned  until 
2  o'clock  p.m. 


THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


SEVENTH  SESSION 

The  concluding  session  of  the  con- 
ference convened  Sunday  afternoon, 
October  5,  at  2  o'clock,  with  President 
Alvin  R.  Dyer,  counselor  in  the  First 
Presidency,  conducting  the  meeting. 

The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir 
furnished  the  music  for  this  session, 
with  Richard  P.  Condie  and  Jay  E. 
Welch  conducting.  Robert  Cundick 
was  at  the  organ. 

President  Dyer  made  the  following 
opening  remarks: 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

President  McKay  is  presiding  at  this 
session  and  has  asked  me  to  conduct. 
He  extends  to  all  his  heartfelt  regrets 
that  he  is  unable  to  greet  you  in  per- 
son. He  again  sends  his  love  and 
blessings  to  all. 

Members  of  the  Church  are  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  in  the 
seventh  and  concluding  session  of  the 
139th  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

This  afternoon  many  television  and 


radio  stations  throughout  the  western 
part  of  the  United  States  will  carry 
the  proceedings  of  this  concluding  ses- 
sion of  the  conference. 

Sessions  of  this  conference  have  been 
televised  in  color  and  received  by  mil- 
lions in  the  United  States  and  Canada 
over  most  of  these  stations  cooperating 
to  provide  the  extensive  coverage  of  the 
various  sessions. 

The  full  proceedings  of  both  sessions 
today  will  be  re-broadcast  to  far-distant 
places  by  Radio  Stations  KSL,  KIRO  at 
Seattle,  KMBZ  at  Kansas  City,  and 
WNYW  International  Short-wave 
Radio  tonight  beginning  at  midnight. 

Saturday  evening  an  inspirational 
meeting  of  the  priesthood  of  the  Church 
was  held  in  the  Tabernacle.  The  pro- 
ceedings of  this  meeting  were  relayed 
by  closed-circuit  broadcast,  originating 
in  the  Tabernacle,  to  members  of  the 
priesthood  assembled  in  approximately 
550  separate  locations  in  all  parts  of 
the  United  States  and  Canada.  It  is 
estimated  that  150,000  holders  of  the 
priesthood  participated  in  this  meeting. 

We  welcome  all  those  who  are 
present  this  afternoon, — special  guests, 
educational  leaders,  our  regional  rep- 
resentatives of  the  Twelve,  stake  presi- 


ELDER  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS 


121 


dencies  from  near  and  far,  temple 
presidencies,  patriarchs,  bishoprics, 
members  of  general  auxiliary  boards 
who  have  attended  this  and  other  ses- 
sions, and  thousands  of  members  of 
the  Church  and  many  friends  every- 
where who  are  listening  in  by  radio 
and  television. 

The  music  for  this  session  will  be 
rendered  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with 
Richard  P.  Condie  and  Jay  E.  Welch 
conducting,  with  Robert  Cundick  at 
the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  this  service  by  the 
choir  singing,  "Father,  O  Hear  Me," 
conducted  by  Jay  E.  Welch,  Assistant 
Conductor. 

The  invocation  will  then  be  offered 
by  Elder  Floyd  D.  Fowers,  president 
of  the  Lakeview  Stake. 


The  opening  song,  "Father,  O  Hear 
Me,"  was  sung  by  the  Tabernacle 
Choir. 

President  Floyd  D.  Fowers  of  the 
Lakeview  Stake  then  offered  the  in- 
vocation. 


President  Dyer 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the 
direction  of  Richard  P.  Condie,  will 
now  sing,  "Now  Let  All  the  Heavens 
Adore  Thee."  After  the  singing,  Elder 
Franklin  D.  Richards,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  will  address  us. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the 
hymn,  "Now  Let  All  the  Heavens 
Adore  Thee." 


ELDER  FRANKL 

Assistant  to  the  C 

•  My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  I  re- 
joice with  you  in  the  wonderful  spirit 
of  this  conference  and  the  inspirational 
messages  that  have  been  given. 

A  wise  man  has  said,  "Yesterday  is 
gone,  tomorrow  may  never  come,  but 
today  is  here."  This  same  impressive 
theme  is  woven  into  our  beautiful 
hymn  entitled  "Today,  While  the  Sun 
Shines": 

"Today,  while  the  sun  shines,  work 

with  a  will; 
Today  all  your  duties  with  patience 

fulfil  .  .  . 
There  is  no  tomorrow,  but  only  today." 

—Hymns,  No.  215 

What  a  marvelous  philosophy — the 
gospel  of  work,  combined  with  the 
challenge  to  perform  willingly  today's 
work  today. 

No  place  for  idler 

President  McKay  has  said,  "Let  us 
realize  that  the  privilege  to  work  is  a 
gift,  that  the  power  to  work  is  a  bless- 
ing, that  love  of  work  is  success." 

How  true  this  is!  Yet  today  as  in 
earlier  times  many  misguided  indi- 
viduals embrace  the  philosophy  of 
idleness,  feeling  that  the  world  owes 


I  D.  RICHARDS 

ncil  of  the  Twelve 

them  a  living.  Many  have  a  desire  to 
destroy  the  establishment  that  has  been 
built  upon  productive  effort. 

In  this  dispensation  the  Lord  has 
many  times  confirmed  the  eternal 
principle  of  work.  We  have  been  told 
that  there  is  no  place  in  the  Church 
for  the  idler  "except  he  repent  and 
mend  his  ways,"  and  "he  that  is  idle 
shall  not  eat  the  bread  nor  wear  the 
garments  of  the  laborer."  (D&C  75:29; 
42:42.) 

The  Welfare  Program 

Ever  since  its  organization  the 
Church  has  encouraged  its  members  to 
establish  and  maintain  their  economic 
independence;  it  has  encouraged  thrift 
and  fostered  the  establishment  of  em- 
ployment-creating industries. 

At  the  time  the  present  Welfare 
Program  of  the  Church  was  established, 
the  First  Presidency  explained  that  the 
primary  purpose  "was  to  set  up  a  sys- 
tem under  which  the  curse  of  idleness 
would  be  done  away  with,  the  evils 
of  a  dole  abolished,  and  independence, 
industry,  thrift  and  self-respect  be  once 
more  established  amongst  our  people. 
The  aim  of  the  Church  is  to  help  the 


122  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  October  5 

people  help  themselves.  Work  is  to  be 
re-enthroned  as  the  ruling  principle  of 
the  lives  of  our  Church  membership." 
(Conference  Report,  October  1936, 
p.  3.) 

These  are  eternal  principles  and  are 
as  applicable  to  us  today  as  they  were 
when  given.  This  does  not  mean  that 
we  do  not  recognize  the  need  for 
change.  Nothing  is  static;  all  things 
change.  We  accept  the  law  of  change 
— this  is  the  law  of  progression.  The 
gospel  of  work  brings  change  and 
progression. 

I  encourage  all  to  accept  whole- 
heartedly the  principle  of  effective 
work  and  make  it  a  vital  part  of  our 
lives. 

Love  of  work 

As  President  McKay  said,  "Love  of 
work  is  success."  I  am  sure  that  you 
know  many  people  who  truly  love 
their  work.  Are  they  happy  and  suc- 
cessful? You  and  I  know  they  are 
both  happy  and  successful.  Such  being 
the  case,  we  might  ask,  "How  can  we 
develop  a  love  of  work?" 

To  develop  love  of  work,  I  suggest 
two  guidelines:  (1)  set  worthwhile 
objectives,  and  (2)  be  satisfied  only 
with  superior  achievement. 

Insofar  as  setting  worthwhile  objec- 
tives is  concerned,  let  us  consider  that 
each  day  is  a  success  in  which  we 
accomplish  a  worthwhile  objective, 
and  any  day  is  a  failure  if  it  passes 
without  some  worthwhile  achieve- 
ment. 

Long-term  objective 

A  proper  appreciation  of  life's  pur- 
pose is  a  great  help  in  developing 
worthwhile  objectives.  The  restored 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  answers  the 
questions,  "Where  did  we  come  from?" 
"Why  are  we  here?"  and  "Where  do 
we  go  after  this  life?"  With  this  knowl- 
edge, we  are  in  a  preferred  position  to 
set  worthwhile  objectives  and  goals, 
both  short  range  and  long  range. 

I  am  grateful  for  my  knowledge  and 
testimony  that  God  the  Father  and  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ  appeared  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  through 
him  restored  the  gospel  in  its  fullness; 
and  I  am  grateful  for  the  Prophet  who 


Third  Day 

stands  at  the  head  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  today,  our  beloved  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay — may  the  Lord 
bless  and  sustain  him. 

The  Lord  has  indicated  that  it  is 
his  work  and  his  glory  to  bring  to  pass 
the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of 
man.    What  a  great  work! 

Thus,  we  need  not  hesitate  to  estab- 
lish our  long-term  objective  as  exalta- 
tion in  the  celestial  kingdom,  or  eternal 
life. 

Each  of  us  is  entitled  to  immortality 
through  the  atoning  sacrifice  of  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Savior  and  Redeemer,  but 
in  order  to  enjoy  eternal  life — or  ex- 
altation in  the  celestial  kingdom — we 
must  work  out  our  own  salvation  day 
by  day. 

Working  out  our  salvation  requires 
that  we  commit  ourselves  to  keep  the 
Lord's  commandments  and  to  work 
and  serve  effectively  in  all  phases  of 
life's  activities. 

Day-to-day  goals 

Our  day-to-day,  month-to-month, 
and  year-to-year  goals  should  contri- 
bute to  our  long-term  objective — eternal 
life. 

In  selecting  our  day-to-day  work,  we 
should  not  overlook  the  fact  that  our 
success  will  be  in  proportion  to  our 
love  of  the  work  that  we  are  engaged  in. 

The  Savior  continually  emphasized 
the  doctrine  of  unselfishness  and  sacri- 
fice, and  it  is  apparent  that  there  is 
no  real  success  or  happiness  in  being 
self-centered  and  selfish.  Let  me  sug- 
gest, therefore,  the  advisability  of  en- 
gaging in  some  work  that  involves 
service  to  our  fellowmen  and  some 
sacrifice  of  our  time,  talents,  and 
means.  It  is  this  type  of  work  that  one 
can  easily  develop  a  love  of,  as  well  as 
a  love  of  people. 

Success  in  these  areas  almost  always 
manifests  itself  in  growth  and  change 
in  the  lives  of  all  the  persons  involved. 

Compatibility  and  loyalty 

Coupled  with  worthwhile  objectives, 
we  must  learn  to  work  compatibly 
with  people.  Some  seem  to  be  born 
with  this  talent  while  others  have  to 
acquire  it,  but  fortunately  this  love  of 
people  and  work  can  be  developed. 


ELDER  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS 


123 


Another  essential  factor  to  consider 
at  this  point  is  loyalty.  Loyalty  to 
employer  or  a  cause  one  is  working 
for  is  a  key  step  in  developing  a  love 
of  work  and  success. 

The  great  merchandiser,  F.  W.  Wool- 
worth,  once  said:  "We  would  rather 
have  one  man  or  woman  working  with 
us  than  three  merely  working  for  us." 

Objectives  and  goals  should  not  only 
be  worthwhile  but  also  realistic.  They 
should  be  an  incentive  to  work  effec- 
tively. Thus  the  setting  of  realistic 
objectives  and  achieving  them  becomes 
an  important  part  of  the  great  process 
of  eternal  progression. 

Superior  achievement 

Now  with  respect  to  the  goal  of 
superior  achievement: 

Helen  Keller,  whose  life  was  an  in- 
spiration to  millions,  expressed  these 
sentiments: 

"My  share  in  the  work  of  the  world 
may  be  limited  but  the  fact  that  it  is 
work  makes  it  precious.  I  long  to  ac- 
complish a  great  and  noble  task  but  it 
is  my  chief  duty  and  joy  to  accomplish 
my  humble  tasks  as  though  they  were 
great  and  noble." 

The  desire  for  superior  achievement 
comes  from  our  Father  in  heaven. 
However,  too  many  people  are  im- 
bued with  the  spirit  of  "just  getting 
by."  This  spirit  comes  from  the  evil 
one.  Let  us  avoid  the  habit  of  "just 
getting  by,"  as  it  will  rob  us  of  the 
choicest  rewards. 

Whether  our  work  is  mainly  mental 
or  physical  or  is  a  combination  of  both, 
we  should  learn  to  do  it  well,  culti- 
vate the  proper  attitude,  and  develop 
work  habits  that  will  produce  superior 
results.  These  habits  will  become  a 
part  of  us. 

Paying  the  price 

Superior  achievement  comes  when 
one  makes  up  his  mind  to  be  successful 
and  is  willing  to  pay  the  price  or  to 
magnify  his  calling. 

This  involves  the  development  of 
faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  faith 
in  ourselves,  always  remembering  that 
we  are  spirit  children  of  God.  It  in- 


volves study  and  training,  coupled  with 
planning,  discipline,  and  hard  work — 
yes,  going  the  extra  mile. 

Paying  the  price  also  involves  living 
the  gospel  principles.  Let  me  empha- 
size the  need  for  humility  and  prayer  as 
well  as  hard  work  to  keep  in  tune  with 
the  Holy  Spirit,  which  will  guide  and 
direct  us  in  time  of  need. 

Work  brings  missionary  success 

This  is  brought  out  in  an  interesting 
letter  received  from  a  lady  missionary 
in  which  she  stated: 

"  With  hard  work,  deep  humility, 
and  sincere  prayer,  you  will  succeed.' 
As  I  read  this  sentence  on  my  first  day 
in  the  mission  field,  I  thought,  I  want 
to  be  a  successful  missionary. 

"I  found  that  to  me  hard  work  has 
meant  going  the  extra  mile,  in  doing 
more  than  is  required.  One  experience 
I  shall  never  forget  is  the  day  my  com- 
panion and  I  found  three  really  golden 
families  because  we  asked  the  golden 
questions  20  times  instead  of  15  times. 
If  we  had  not  asked  more  than  the 
required  15,  we  would  not  have  been 
blessed  in  finding  them,  because  they 
were  the  16th,  18th,  and  19th  families 
that  we  asked.  My  companion  and  I 
were  given  the  blessings  of  teaching 
two  of  these  families.  Satan  was  really 
working  hard  on  these  choice  families, 
and  then  I  again  learned  the  impor- 
tance of  sincere  prayer.  Sincere  prayer, 
fasting,  and  our  testimonies  of  the 
true  gospel  were  really  the  only 
weapons  we  had  to  fight  Satan.  But 
the  Lord  does  answer  our  prayers. 

"I  was  truly  humbled  as  my  com- 
panion and  I  watched  these  lovely 
people  baptized  by  the  true  authority. 
Tears  of  happiness  came  into  my  eyes 
as  I  realized  the  blessings  that  the 
Lord  had  given  to  those  coming  into 
the  Church  and  to  my  companion  and 
me  through  hard  work." 

Someone  has  said  that  genius  is  ten 
percent  talent  and  90  percent  work. 
This  I  believe,  and  it  is  clearly  brought 
out  in  this  missionary's  experience. 

It  is  our  responsibility  to  teach 
young  and  old  the  value  of  work  and 
the  wisdom  of  superior  achievement. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


124 

Sunday,  October  5 

Opportunities  for  work 

The  Church  furnishes  many  oppor- 
tunities for  work  and  service,  regardless 
of  age.  One  of  the  happiest  persons 
I  have  seen  recently  was  an  86-year-old 
woman,  busily  engaged  in  doing  tem- 
ple work  in  the  Salt  Lake  Temple.  It 
was  evident  that  she  loved  her  work. 
To  her,  work  itself,  with  a  sense  of 
accomplishment,  was  the  way  to  avoid 
getting  old. 

I  will  be  eternally  grateful  to  the 
stake  president  of  the  stake  in  which 
I  was  raised  as  a  young  man.  His 
motto  was  "Be  there."  "Be  there" 
meant  to  work  effectively,  to  magnify 
your  calling.  This  teaching  as  a  young 
man  has  had  a  great  effect  in  my 
life. 

Teaching  children  to  work 

Teach  children  the  importance  of 
work  and  assist  them  in  preparing  for 
superior  achievements;  don't  deprive 
them  of  the  blessings  that  come  from 
proper  work  habits. 

Eleanor  Roosevelt  once  remarked 
that  "the  surest  way  to  make  it  hard 
for  children  is  to  make  it  easy  for 
them." 

Teach  children  to  recognize  their 
obligations.  Teach  them  to  be  loyal 
to  their  families,  to  their  employers,  to 
the  Church;  to  their  country,  and  to 
any  worthy  cause  they  espouse. 

How  can  you  find  time  to  teach  these 
things  to  your  children,  and  what  is  the 
best  way  to  do  it?  you  ask.  You  will 
find  the  time  and  a  most  effective  way 
as  you  hold  your  weekly  family  home 
evening,  as  you  have  been  counseled  to 
do. 

Proper  balance 

In  searching  for  ways  to  develop  a 
love  of  work,  we  must  not  overlook  the 
matter  of  relaxation.  Although  work  is 
absolutely  essential  to  achievement,  re- 


Third  Day 

laxation  and  proper  rest  are  likewise 
necessary.  The  power  to  pace  one's 
self  is  an  important  factor  in  develop- 
ing a  love  of  work.  The  Lord  expects 
each  of  us  to  work  out  a  proper  balance 
between  work  and  relaxation  as  well 
as  the  physical  and  spiritual  aspects 
of  life. 

The  secret  of  progress 

It  will  be  to  our  eternal  advantage 
to  recognize  that  work  is  the  secret  of 
growth,  progress,  and  happiness  in  both 
temporal  and  spiritual  fields. 

I  encourage  you  to  set  worthwhile 
and  realistic  objectives  and  be  satisfied 
with  only  superior  achievement. 

The  philosophy  of  work  and  the 
extra  mile  is  a  sound  philosophy;  it  is 
a  vital  part  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
that  will  lead  us  to  eternal  life. 

Accept  every  opportunity  to  serve  in 
building  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  I 
bear  you  my  witness  that  as  you  do 
your  part,  the  Lord  will  make  you 
equal  to  every  task  that  you  are  called 
upon  to  perform. 

Let  me  conclude,  as  I  commenced, 
by  quoting  the  inspiring  words  of 
President  McKay:  "Let  us  realize  that 
the  privilege  to  work  is  a  gift,  that  the 
power  to  work  is  a  blessing,  that  the 
love  of  work  is  success." 

May  the  Lord's  choice  blessings  be 
with  you,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen.  O 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Frank- 
lin D.  Richards,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve. 

Elder  Henry  D.  Taylor,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  will  be  our  next  speaker. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Paul  H. 
Dunn  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy, 
who  at  the  present  time  is  presiding 
over  the  New  England  Mission. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  TAYLOR 


125 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  TAYLOR 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


•  The  month  was  July;  the  year,  1959. 
My  family  and  I  were  on  a  vacation 
trip  in  western  Canada.  On  Thursday. 
July  2,  we  were  visiting  with  friends  in 
Lethbridge  when  the  telephone  rang. 
The  long  distance  operator  had  in- 
quired for  me.  Upon  picking  up  the 
receiver,  I  became  aware  of  a  familiar 
voice  that  said  something  like  this: 
"Henry,  this  is  Marion  G.  Romney. 
Congratulations." 

I  was  greatly  startled  and  replied: 
"Thanks  very  much,  Brother  Romney, 
but  for  what?" 

Call  to  Welfare  Program 

He  continued:  "I  have  just  come  from 
a  meeting  of  the  First  Presidency  and 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  You  were 
named  to  be  the  managing  director  of 
the  General  Church  Welfare  Program 
to  succeed  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee.  I  have 
been  selected  to  be  chairman  of  the 
committee  to  succeed  Elder  Henry  D. 
Moyle,  who,  as  you  are  aware,  is  now 
a  member  of  the  First  Presidency."  He 
went  on  to  say:  "I  have  been  autho- 
rized by  the  Brethren  to  advise  you  of 
this  appointment  before  you  read  it  in 
the  newspapers.  I  will  talk  with  you 
further  when  you  return  to  Salt  Lake." 

It  has  been  a  wonderful  ten  years 
since  this  calling  came  to  me.  While 
I  have  had  a  constant  and  continuing 
appreciation  for  the  Welfare  Program 
ever  since  its  inception,  this  apprecia- 
tion has  increased  and  deepened  as  I 
have  become  more  intimately  ac- 
quainted with  its  operations,  with  its 
many  ramifications,  its  lofty  purposes 
and  objectives. 

Care  of  poor  and  needy 

It  is  pleasing  to  the  Lord  that  the 
poor  and  needy  be  provided  for.  Run- 
ning like  a  golden  thread  through  the 
scriptures,  which  contain  the  word  of 
the  Lord,  comes  a  message  loud  and 
clear:  "Thou  shalt  remember  the  poor 
and  the  needy." 

The  Lord  has  affirmed  and  re- 
affirmed that  it  is  his  purpose  to  see 
that  they  are  cared  for,  but  he  has 


made  it  equally  plain  and  clear  that 
it  must  be  done  in  the  way  and  man- 
ner that  he  will  indicate  or  prescribe. 

In  spite  of  the  Lord's  concern  for 
the  well-being  of  the  needy,  he  has 
pointed  out  and  proclaimed  emphat- 
ically that  they  themselves  have  a 
responsibility,  and  if  they  find  it 
necessary  to  seek  assistance  from  the 
Church,  they  are  under  obligation  to 
work  to  the  extent  of  their  physical 
ability  for  that  assistance.  Idleness  has 
been  designated  by  the  Lord  as  being 
a  curse,  and  to  receive  without  giving 
is  contrary  to  his  desires.  The  beauti- 
ful and  vital  principle  of  work  removes 
the  Welfare  Program  from  the  cate- 
gory of  a  dole,  which  has  been  de- 
nounced as  an  evil.  To  re-enthrone 
work  and  make  it  a  ruling  principle  in 
the  lives  of  the  Church  members  is  one 
of  the  primary  purposes  of  the  Wel- 
fare Program. 

Rewarding  principle  of  work 

A  man  over  30  years  of  age  had  never 
been  able  to  work,  due  to  cerebral 
palsy,  from  which  he  had  suffered 
since  birth.  He  was  brought  by  his 
bishop  to  a  Deseret  Industries  plant, 
where  someone  with  love  and  kindness 
patiently  taught  him  to  cut  the  buttons 
from  old  clothes  that  were  brought 
daily  into  the  Deseret  Industries  plant. 
This  became  something  he  could  do, 
and  fairly  skillfully,  too.  For  the  first 
time  in  his  life  this  man  felt  he  was 
a  useful  member  of  society.  With  joy 
and  pride  he  turned  each  day  to  his 
humble  task.  And  then  came  the  day 
that  he  received  his  first  pay  check. 
With  trembling,  uncontrolled  move- 
ments he  took  the  check,  read  the 
amount  eagerly,  and  proudly  placed  it 
in  his  wallet  as  he  had  seen  others  do, 
but  which  he  had  never  been  able  to  do 
in  all  his  30  years  until  this  great 
moment.  What  a  blessed  privilege  is 
the  rewarding  principle  of  work! 

People  to  help  themselves 

The  Lord  expects  each  individual  to 
care  for  himself.    Faithful  Latter-day 


126  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  October  5 

Saints  have  traditionally  taken  pride 
in  maintaining  their  own  indepen- 
dence. The  aim  of  the  Church  is  to 
help  the  people  to  help  themselves. 
Each  individual  will  strive  to  live 
within  his  income.  He  will  avoid  debt 
as  he  would  a  plague.  When  times  are 
good  he  will  lay  a  little  aside  each 
month  in  storage  of  commodities  and 
cash,  to  provide  for  the  "rainy  days." 
Then,  in  the  event  of  ill  health,  unem- 
ployment, or  other  justifiable  condi- 
tions, he  will  have  the  satisfaction  of 
knowing  that  he  has  done  all  possible 
to  provide  for  himself.  But  after  he 
has  exhausted  his  own  resources,  his 
family  then  has  not  only  the  responsi- 
bility and  obligation,  but  also  the 
privilege  of  helping  him.  When  the 
individual  and  his  family  have  done 
all  within  their  power  to  provide  for 
his  needs,  he  may  then  look  to  the 
Church  for  assistance. 

Preferential  claim  on  funds 

It  would  seem  that  the  care  of  the 
needy  has  always  had  a  preferential 
claim  on  the  funds  of  the  Church, 
President  Heber  J.  Grant,  as  he  in- 
structed a  stake  presidency,  gave  the 
comforting  assurance  that  "before  the 
Church  would  allow  its  members  to 
suffer  want,  it  would  close  every 
Church  School,  every  Seminary  and 
every  Temple."  (Albert  E.  Bowen,  The 
Church  Welfare  Plan,  p.  144.) 

The  bishop  is  the  key  figure  in  the 
Welfare  Program,  and  its  success  de- 
pends upon  him.  The  Lord  by  reve- 
lation has  placed  upon  him  the 
responsibility  for  determining  those 
who  are  to  receive  Church  assistance 
and  to  what  extent. 

In  this  way  the  Lord  has  outlined 
his  way  of  caring  for  the  poor  and 
needy. 

A  sense  of  security 

Although  we  are  presently  living  in 
prosperous  times  and  all  seems  well  in 
Zion,  the  situation  could  change  and 
change  rapidly.  In  our  lifetime  we 
have  seen  the  nations  of  the  world  in 
death  struggles,  have  seen  a  devastating 
depression  and  several  economic  reces- 
sions. The  Lord's  way — the  noble 
Welfare  Plan  of  the  Church — gives  to 


Third  Day 

each  of  us,  especially  the  fathers,  who 
are  usually  the  breadwinners,  and  the 
widows,  a  solid  sense  of  security.  For 
we  know  that  the  Church  stands  ready, 
in  the  background,  to  assist  in  a  crisis 
or  emergency. 

Blesses  people  spiritually 

As  we  view  the  operation  of  the 
many  types  of  welfare  projects — the 
farms,  the  cattle  ranches,  fruit  orchards, 
citrus  groves  and  poultry  flocks,  the 
canneries,  the  coal  mine  and  flour 
mill,  the  cheese  and  soap  factories,  the 
Deseret  Industries  plants — we  get  the 
impression  that  all  these  are  physical 
and  temporal  in  nature.  But  Presi- 
dent McKay  has  reminded  us  that  to 
the  Lord  nothing  is  temporal;  to  him 
all  things  are  spiritual,  and  the  Wel- 
fare Program  must  do  more  than  just 
feed  the  hungry  and  clothe  the  naked 
if  it  is  to  achieve  its  intended  purposes 
It  must  uplift,  build,  and  bless  the 
people  spiritually.  There  are  un- 
doubtedly more  persons  in  the  world 
today  who  are  spiritually  hungry  than 
who  are  physically  starving. 

It  has  been  a  rich  and  rewarding  ex- 
perience to  associate  during  these  many 
years  in  the  welfare  cause  with  Presi- 
dent McKay,  President  J.  Reuben 
Clark,  Jr.,  and  President  Moyle;  with 
Elder  Lee  and  Elder  Romney,  our  ad- 
visers; with  the  First  Presidency;  and 
with  Bishop  Vandenberg  and  his 
counselors. 

I  am  deeply  grateful  for  my  associa- 
tion with  the  personnel  in  the  welfare 
office.  These,  my  colleagues,  are  faith- 
ful, devoted,  loyal,  and  dedicated 
workers  in  the  program. 

An  inspired  program 

The  Welfare  Program  is  an  inspired 
program  because  it  is  of  the  Lord  and 
not  of  man.  Brethren  who  are  in  a 
position  to  know  have  borne  testimony 
that  as  a  result  of  inspiration  and 
revelation  through  the  Holy  Ghost  to 
President  Grant,  the  Welfare  Program 
was  introduced  back  in  1936.  It  is 
truly  the  gospel  in  action. 

In  the  early  days  of  the  program, 
President  McKay  made  this  prophetic 
promise:  "The  Church  Security  [now 
Welfare]  Plan  has  not  come  up  as  a 


ELDER  PAUL  H.  DUNN 


127 


mushroom  overnight.  It  is  the  result 
of  inspiration,  and  that  inspiration  has 
come  from  the  Lord.  .  .  .  Those  who 
have  selfishness  in  their  heart  would 
like  to  see  it  fail,  but  it  is  not  going 
to  fail." 

And  to  these  testimonies  I  would  add 


mine:  that  this  unselfish,  wonderful 
program  is  an  inspired  plan,  and  I  bear 
witness  that  I  know  it  is  the  Lord's 
way  for  providing  for  the  poor  and 
needy  in  this,  our  day,  to  which  I 
testify  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen.  O 


ELDER  PAI 

Of  the  First  Coui 

•  President  McKay,  my  beloved  broth- 
ers and  sisters,  and  friends  everywhere: 
This  is  always  a  most  humbling  ex- 
perience, and  I  too  seek  an  interest  in 
your  prayers  in  my  behalf  as  I  attempt 
to  share  some  of  the  feelings  of  my 
heart.  I  was  so  edified  last  evening,  as 
I  have  been  throughout  this  conference, 
with  the  missionary  zeal  and  spirit 
that  has  been  evident.  Last  night  we 
of  the  priesthood  were  able  to  recom- 
mit ourselves  to  building  the  kingdom 
of  our  Heavenly  Father  in  a  missionary 
cause. 

I  am  thankful  for  you  parents  who 
sacrifice  so  much  in  so  many  ways  to 
send  into  the  mission  field  the  young 
people  you  do  in  a  way  that  we  might 
work  together.  They  are  tremendous, 
and  you  can  be  very  proud. 

Gratitude  for  optimism 

I  have  been  uplifted  today  and  the 
previous  days  by  the  optimistic  sermons 
of  those  who  have  preceded  me.  I  am 
grateful  for  a  happy  church,  a  church 
that  brings  security  and  understanding 
and  faith  in  the  lives  of  its  people. 
This  is  a  church  that  is  not  only  opti- 
mistic but  also  has  a  firm  foundation. 
It  has  been  reiterated  many  times  al- 
ready. 

The  optimism  of  this  conference 
brought  to  my  mind  the  little  experi- 
ence of  two  Vermont  farmers.  It  seems 
that  in  Vermont  we  get  a  great  deal  of 
rain,  and  the  hills  are  green  as  a 
result.  One  day  a  farmer  was  walk- 
ing down  a  back  road,  and  it  was 
very  muddy,  and  suddenly  he  came 
upon  a  large  puddle,  and  in  the  middle 
of  the  puddle  he  saw  a  straw  hat.  He 
thought  he  recognized  it.  He  tiptoed 
over  and  lifted  it  up,  and  lo  and  be- 
hold under  it  was  his  friend  Zeb,  and 


L  H.  DUNN 

il  of  the  Seventy 

he  was  right  up  to  his  neck  in  the  mud. 

He  said,  "Zeb,  it  looks  like  you 
have  a  problem.  Do  you  need  some 
help?" 

Zeb  said,  "No  thanks,  Zeke,  I'll  be 
all  right.  I  have  got  a  good  horse 
under  me." 

Well,  I  have  felt  that  kind  of  opti- 
mism throughout  this  conference.  Spir- 
itually speaking,  we  have  some  great 
horses  under  us,  and  I  am  grateful  for 
that  kind  of  faith  and  testimony. 

Has  God  spoken  today? 

Just  the  other  day  Sister  Dunn  and  I 
had  a  sweet  experience  in  the  mission 
home  in  Cambridge.  A  very  wonderful 
couple  sat  before  us  investigating  the 
Church,  seeking  answers  to  searching 
questions.  In  the  course  of  our  con- 
versation the  question  was  raised,  Has 
God  really  spoken  to  man  today? 

I  would  like  in  these  moments  al- 
lotted to  me  to  answer  that  question 
again  for  other  honest  seeking  people. 

It  was  Tuesday — three  days  before 
the  crucifixion.  Standing  in  the  court- 
yard of  the  temple,  the  Savior  looked 
down  upon  the  dark  faces  of  those  who 
were  plotting  to  take  his  life.  Said  he: 
"Wo  unto  you,  scribes  and  Phari- 
sees, hypocrites!  for  ye  are  like  unto 
whited  sepulchres,  which  indeed  ap- 
pear beautiful  outward,  but  are  within 
full  of  dead  men's  bones,  and  of  all 
uncleanness."  (Matt.  23:27.) 

And  while  he  was  on  the  subject  of 
dead  men,  Jesus  pointed  out  to  these 
eople  that  they  had  no  capacity  to 
onor  God's  prophets,  until  they  were 
dead.  He  said  again: 

".  .  .  ye  build  the  tombs  of  the 
prophets,  and  garnish  the  sepulchres 
of  the  righteous, 

"And  say,  If  we  had  been  in  the 


h 


128  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  October  5 

days  of  our  fathers,  we  would  not  have 
been  partakers  with  them  in  the  blood 
of  the  prophets." 

But  then  Jesus  added:  "Wherefore  ye 
be  witnesses  unto  yourselves,  that  ye 
are  the  children  of  them  which  killed 
the  prophets."  (Matt.  23:29-31.) 

A  moment  later  from  the  heights  of 
the  temple  Jesus  looked  down  upon  the 
city  and  poured  forth  the  sorrow  of  his 
soul: 

"O  Jerusalem,  Jerusalem,  thou  that 
killest  the  prophets,  and  stonest  them 
which  are  sent  unto  thee,  how  often 
would  I  have  gathered  thy  children 
together,  even  as  a  hen  gathereth  her 
chickens  under  her  wings,  and  ye 
would  not."  (Matt.  23:37.) 

Failure  to  recognize  living  prophets 

Here  is  an  amazing  paradox.  Jesus 
was  emphasizing  one  of  the  lessons  of 
history,  that  the  majority  of  the  people 
have  never  been  able  to  recognize  a 
living  prophet.  In  each  generation  they 
have  idolized  the  prophets  of  the  past, 
while  they  stoned  the  living  prophets 
of  the  present. 

Can  you  believe  with  me  that  God 
could  speak  to  men  who  were  the  com- 
mon clay  of  our  generation?  If  you 
do,  you  are  unusual,  because  the  rest 
of  the  people  follow  the  human  ten- 
dency to  look  back  and  honor  only  the 
prophets  who  are  dead.  And  look  at 
the  way  they  usually  honor  them: 

They  place  these  prophets  of  the 
past  on  imaginary  pedestals. 

They  make  a  selection  from  their 
teachings  that  suit  their  own  particu- 
lar fancy. 

And  while  honoring  a  few  popular 
phrases  that  identify  them  with  these 
great  servants  of  God,  they  smugly  go 
along  their  own  way. 

But  you  cannot  do  this  with  living 
prophets.  Why?  Because  living  proph- 
ets will  denounce  those  who  profess 
allegiance  to  God,  but  follow  the  rash- 
ness of  their  own  selfish  lives.  They 
will  not  allow  men  to  pick  their  teach- 
ings to  pieces  and  construct  a  crazy- 

Suilt  pattern  of  personal  interpretation 
lat  suits  fashion  and  private  folly. 
Perhaps  that  is  why  prophets  are 
never  very  popular  while  they  are 
alive  to"  defend  the  teachings  that  God 
has  given  to  them. 


Third  Day 

Things  will  begin  to  happen 

Do  you  know  what  your  task  and 
mine  is?  It  is  to  discover  whether  or 
not  God  has  raised  up  living  prophets 
for  our  generation. 

The  Bible  teaches  that  whenever 
prophets  are  raised  up,  things  will  be- 
gin to  happen.  Doctrines  will  be  made 
clear.  New  truths  will  be  revealed. 
Prophecies  will  be  pronounced.  The 
kingdom  of  God  will  be  revitalized — 
and  every  honest  seeker  after  truth 
will  be  able  to  see  the  power  with 
which  the  prophets  of  the  past  and  of 
the  present  carry  out  their  missions. 

You  see,  that  is  what  convinced 
Israel,  when  Moses  came  down  to  them. 
This  is  what  aroused  Judah  when  Jere- 
miah appeared  in  their  midst.  Even  in 
the  days  of  the  Savior,  the  antagonistic 
teachers  of  the  law  were  "astonished 
at  his  doctrine:  For  he  taught  them  as 
one  having  authority."  (Matt  8:28-29.) 
And  those  who  followed  Jesus  observed 
great  power  in  his  ministry. 

This  is  also  the  way  to  find  out 
whether  or  not  there  are  living  proph- 
ets of  God  on  the  earth  today.  If  there 
are,  things  will  begin  to  happen.  There 
will  be  new  revelation,  the  power  of 
prophecy,  the  authority  of  the  priest- 
hood, and  the  capacity  to  revitalize  the 
faith  of  every  honest  soul  who  hungers 
for  a  message  from  God  for  our  genera- 
tion. 

The  calling  of  a  prophet 

Do  you  think  it  is  difficult  to  be  a 
prophet?  As  you  read  the  scriptures, 
you  cannot  help  but  be  impressed  with 
the  fact  that  the  calling  of  a  prophet  is 
a  most  difficult  assignment.  In  fact, 
you  will  be  astonished  to  find  that 
when  some  of  the  prophets  first  re- 
ceived their  callings  they  pleaded  with 
the  Lord  not  to  send  them  forth.  This 
was  the  case  with  Moses,  who  said, 
".  .  .  they  will  not  believe  me.  ...  I 
am  not  eloquent."  (Exod.  4:1,  10.)  This 
was  the  case  with  Moses,  who  said, 
".  .  .  all  the  people  hate  me;  for  I  am 
slow  of  speech;  wherefore  am  I  thy 
servant?"  (Moses  6:31.)  And  this  was 
also  the  case  with  Jeremiah,  who  said, 
".  .  .  behold,  I  cannot  speak:  for  I  am 
a  child."  (Jer.  1:6.) 

These  men  felt  incapable.  They  felt 
there  were  others  who  would  be  more 


ELDER  PAUL  H.  DUNN 


129 


readily  accepted.  But  in  spite  of  their 
own  feelings  to  the  contrary,  they  went 
forth  and  delivered  their  messages  be- 
cause God  had  called  them. 

The  same  principle  applied  when 
Jesus  selected  his  twelve  apostles.  He 
said  to  them,  "Ye  have  not  chosen  me, 
but  I  have  chosen  you,  and  ordained 
you."  (John  15:16.) 

And  here's  the  clue  to  the  way 
prophets  are  raised  upl 

In  the  holy  writ  you  will  not  find 
a  single  instance  where  God  ever  se- 
lected a  professional  holy  man  to  be 
one  of  his  prophets.  In  every  case,  the 
call  came  like  a  bolt  out  of  the  blue, 
often  to  men  who  considered  them- 
selves weak  and  incapable,  and  were 
amazed  that  God  should  honor  them 
with  revelation  and  a  prophetic  calling. 

So  now  we  come  to  the  crucial  ques- 
tions: Have  prophets  of  God  been 
raised  up  in  modern  times?  Have  any 
revelations  been  recorded?  Has  any 
new  light  come  back  to  the  earth  to 
solve  the  problems  of  our  day? 

The  calling  of  Joseph  Smith 

I  suppose  time  would  not  permit  in 
this  conference  to  mention  the  many 
revelations  that  are  contained  in  mod- 
ern scripture  declaring  this  very  thing. 
Perhaps  no  headlines  in  any  newspaper 
could  do  justice  to  the  thrilling  an- 
nouncement that  came  during  the  past 
century  to  reaffirm  the  word  of  God 
to  the  children  of  men.  Beginnning  in 
the  spring  of  1820,  the  restoration  of 
the  gospel  began.  And  notice  how  it 
came  forth: 

God  bypassed  all  the  professional 
proponents  of  religion  throughout  the 
world  and  spoke  to  a  humble,  14-year- 
old  boy.  Jewish  tradition  has  it  that 
this  was  exactly  the  age  of  Jeremiah 
when  he  received  his  first  call.  And, 
like  Jeremiah,  the  young  prophet  was 
overwhelmed  by  his  assignment.  He 
was  a  youth.  His  education  was  limit- 
ed, his  means  were  very  modest.  And 
he  had  a  most  ordinary  name — Joseph 
Smith. 

But  within  three  years,  important 
things  began  to  happen.  Others  were 
raised  up  to  assist.  New  knowledge 
began  to  pour  forth.  Doctrines  began 
to  be  clarified.  Revelations  were  re- 
corded. 


The  original  organization  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  was 
lost  sometime  after  the  first  century, 
was  soon  restored.  The  gospel  came 
back  into  the  earth  in  great  power,  just 
as  Jesus  had  promised  it  would  when 
his  disciples  asked  him  concerning  the 
last  days. 

At  first,  the  work  progressed  slowly. 
People  said  God  would  not  speak  to  a 
mere  boy.  They  held  aloft  their  scrip- 
tures containing  the  writings  of  proph- 
ets from  the  past  and  said  that  was  all 
the  revelation  they  wanted.  They  said 
the  new  young  prophet  was  making  up 
his  revelations — that  they  were  not 
from  God. 

But  this  could  have  been  expected. 
These  people  could  not  recognize  a 
living  prophet  any  more  than  the  peo- 
ple at  the  time  of  Christ.  Nevertheless, 
Joseph  Smith  recorded  the  prophecies 
and  revelations  that  were  given  him. 

God's  message  for  today 

Ever  since  the  gospel  was  restored, 
there  have  been  living  prophets  of  God 
upon  the  earth.  They  are  with  us  to- 
day, and,  of  course,  President  McKay 
is  listening  with  us.  What  is  their 
calling?  To  strengthen  our  faith,  to 
record  the  will  of  God  for  our  genera- 
tion, to  place  peace  in  troubled  hearts, 
and  to  prepare  us  to  meet  the  chal- 
lenge of  evil  among  men  in  the  world 
today. 

The  same  God  of  Abraham,  Isaac, 
and  Jacob  has  a  message  for  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth  in  this  modern,  jet- 
propelled  era  in  which  we  live.  It  is 
as  thrilling  and  vital  as  the  message 
that  came  to  Judah  from  Jeremiah,  or 
to  Israel  from  Moses. 

A  time  for  new  revelation 

Recently  I  reread  of  an  American 
boy — one  of  the  several  thousand  who 
died  in  the  battle  of  Iwo  Jima,  a  place 
he  probably  had  never  heard  of  before 
the  war  took  him  there — who  wrote 
in  a  little  ten-cent  notebook  his  last 
words,  his  survey  of  the  world  situa- 
tion, as  follows: 

"This  is  the  time  for  new  revela- 
tion. People  don't  think  much  about 
religion  nowadays,  but  we  need  a  voice 
from  on  high,  brother,  and  I  don't 
mean  maybe. 


130 

Sunday,  October  5 

"This  thing  has  got  out  of  human 
ability  to  run.  I'm  no  religious  fanatic, 
but  we  are  in  a  situation  where  some- 
thing better  than  human  brains  has 
got  to  give  us  advice." 

This  was  the  last  will  and  testament 
of  a  20-year-old  boy  who  died  with 
the  thought  that  mankind's  predica- 
ment was  one  that  only  divine  help 
might  solve.  That  boy  cried  for  new 
revelation,  for  a  voice  of  spiritual 
authority  from  on  high. 

God  speaks  to  his  children 

More  and  more  thoughtful  people, 
each  year,  conclude  that  mankind  needs 
new  authority  and  revelation  from 
God.  My  friends,  it  has  come! 

I  am  honored  today  in  this  pulpit 
to  declare  to  you  and  all  who  would 
be  my  listeners  that  God  speaks  to  his 
children.  He  lives;  he  cares;  and  to 
those  of  you  who  have  not  yet  had 
that  special  witness  in  your  hearts,  if 
you  will  be  in  tune  with  me  now,  as 
I  declare  to  you  with  all  the  fervor  of 
my  soul  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

the  Christ,  that  there  is  a  living  proph- 
et in  the  world  today  who  reveals  his 
mind  and  will,  and  that  seated  before 
you  are  the  living  oracles  of  that  same 
divine  Father,  you  will  know  that  I 
speak  the  truth.  In  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen.  O 


President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

Elder  Paul  H.  Dunn  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  spoken  to 
us. 

The  choir  and  congregation  will  now 
join  in  singing,  "I  Know  that  My  Re- 
deemer Lives,"  conducted  by  Jay  E. 
Welch. 

After  the  singing,  Elder  A.  Theodore 
Tuttle  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 
will  address  us. 


The  congregation  and  choir  joined 
in  singing  "I  Know  that  My  Redeemer 
Lives." 


ELDER  A.  THEODORE  TUTTLE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


•  This  has  been  a  glorious  conference. 
Brothers  and  sisters,  I  have  thrilled  as 
I  have  listened  to  the  counsel  of  in- 
spired men.  I  have  made  many  resolu- 
tions to  do  and  be  better. 

I  am  grateful  beyond  expression  for 
having  been  reared  in  a  home  of  faith 
where  testimony  was  nurtured  early 
and  continually.  Today  I  bear  you 
my  testimony  that  I  know  that  God 
lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet,  and  that 
President  David  O.  McKay  is  a  living 
prophet  today. 

Importance  of  the  family 

Frequently  we  perform  marriages  in 
the  temple.  These  marriages  are  proper- 
ly called  celestial  marriages,  temple 
sealings,  or  eternal  marriages.  The 
thing  that  we  really  do  is  to  organize 
the  most  basic  unit  in  the  Church — the 
family.  The  family  is  the  most  impor- 
tant relationship  in  this  life.  In  reality, 
the  bride  and  groom  are  called  to  as- 


signments in  the  family  from  which 
they  are  never  released,  except  by 
transgression.  This  is  the  one  eternal 
unit  which  can  exist  in  the  presence 
of  God. 

A  man's  home  is  his  most  important 
consideration;  not  his  business  nor 
farm  nor  political  office,  not  even  his 
church  or  civic  service.  It  is  his  fam- 
ily. These  other  things  only  provide 
the  means  to  become  a  provident  hus- 
band and  exemplary  father.  The  most 
noble  achievement  of  God  or  man  is 
the  glorified  family  unit.  "No  other 
success,"  President  McKay  has  empha- 
sized, "can  compensate  for  failure  in 
the  home."  (The  Improvement  Era, 
June  1964,  p.  445.) 

A  divine  institution 

The  family  is  a  divine  institution. 
The  first  family  unit  was  organized  by 
our  Heavenly  Father:  "And  the  Lord 
God  said,  It  is  not  good  that  the  man 


ELDER  A.  THEODORE  TUTTLE 


131 


should  be  alone;  I  will  make  him  an 
help  meet  for  him. 

"Therefore  shall  a  man  leave  his 
father  and  his  mother,  and  shall  cleave 
unto  his  wife:  and  they  shall  be  one 
flesh."  (Gen.  2:18,  24.) 

The  Lord  has  instructed  his  children 
in  the  basic  family  relationships. 

"Thou  shalt  love  thy  wife  with  all 
thy  heart,  and  shalt  cleave  unto  her 
and  none  else."  (D&C  42:22.) 

"Husbands,  love  your  wives,  and  be 
not  bitter  against  them."  (Col.  3:19.) 

"Wives,  submit  yourselves  unto  your 
own  husbands,  as  it  is  fit  in  the  Lord." 
(Col.  3:18.) 

"Thou  shalt  live  together  in  love. 
. .  ."  (D&C  42:45.) 

"Fathers,  provoke  not  your  children 
to  anger,  lest  they  be  discouraged." 
(Col.  3:21.) 

"Children,  obey  your  parents  in  all 
things:  for  this  is  well  pleasing  unto 
the  Lord."  (Col.  3:20.) 

The  home  is  the  source  of  happiness, 
serenity,  and  peace.  Only  in  a  home 
filled  with  unity  and  love  can  man  or 
woman  find  the  pure,  undiluted  heav- 
enly joys.  There  is  no  substitute,  though 
Lucifer  would  tell  men  otherwise. 

Home  the  teaching  unit 

The  home  is  the  teaching  unit  of  the 
Church.  The  parents  are  the  teachers. 
The  course  is  more  extensive  than  a 
university  curriculum.  Always  parents 
are  venturing  through  it  for  the  first 
time.  The  classes  start  at  birth  and 
never  terminate.  There  are  some 
graduations,  but  the  schooling  con- 
tinues. 

Some  mistakenly  suppose  that  while 
children  are  young,  they  do  not  need 
their  mother.  Hence,  she  seeks  employ- 
ment outside  the  home.  Few  things 
could  be  more  detrimental  to  the  fam- 
ily at  any  time.  Bloom's  study  of  a 
thousand  children  reveals  that  "it  is 
especially  noteworthy  that  for  a  num- 
ber of  the  most  significant  human 
characteristics  the  most  rapid  period  of 
development  appears  to  be  in  the  first 
five  years  of  life.  . .  . 

"The  child  enters  first  grade  after 
having  gone  through  perhaps  the  most 
rapid  period  of  development  which  will 
take  place  throughout  his  life.  .  .  . 


Much  of  the  variation  of  children  at 
the  beginning  of  the  first  grade  can  be 
attributed  to  variations  in  the  home 
environments  as  well  as  to  hereditary 
influence."  (Benjamin  S.  Bloom,  Sta- 
bility and  Change  in  Human  Char- 
acteristics.) 

Truths  to  be  taught 

Someone  is  to  teach  children  to  pray, 
to  walk  uprightly  before  the  Lord,  to 
seek  earnestly  the  riches  of  eternity,  to 
teach  faith,  repentance,  baptism,  and 
the  Holy  Ghost,  and  to  observe  the 
Sabbath  day.  Children  are  to  be  taught 
to  observe  the  Word  of  Wisdom — to 
abstain  from  the  use  of  alcohol,  to- 
bacco, tea,  and  coffee.  Children  are  to 
be  taught  obedience  to  parents  and  the 
law. 

Somewhere  they  are  to  learn  to  be 
honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtu- 
ous, and  to  do  good  to  all  men.  They 
are  to  be  taught  to  honor  their  par- 
ents. They  are  to  learn  the  meaning 
of  integrity  and  work  and  service. 

The  responsibility  to  teach  all  these 
things  rests  in  the  home. 

Testimony  to  be  inculcated 

Children  are  not  born  with  testi- 
monies of  the  divinity  of  this  work. 
Testimony  must  be  inculcated  into 
their  lives  early  and  continually.  The 
scriptures  must  be  studied  if  we  are  to 
develop  a  generation  of  believers. 

Recently  I  was  in  the  home  of  a  fine 
stake  president  and  participated  in  their 
daily  scripture  class. 

For  the  past  year,  he  and  his  family 
have  been  reading  the  scriptures  to- 
gether for  15  minutes  each  morning.  In 
that  time,  they  have  completed  their 
study  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  and  half  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  What  a  joy.  What 
an  example.  A  wise  father.  A  sustain- 
ing mother.  Fortunate  children. 

Help  for  the  family 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  is  organized  to  help 
the  family.  No  other  organization  pro- 
vides more  help.  The  whole  program 
of  the  Church  is  correlated  to  supple- 
ment the  teachings  of  the  home.  The 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


132 

Sunday,  October  5 

Church  speaks  out  boldly  against  the 
common  evil  of  this  day — the  deliberate 
limiting  of  families  by  birth  control.  It 
teaches,  rather,  the  sacred  obligation 
resting  upon  husband  and  wife  to  bring 
children  into  the  world. 

"Lo,  children  are  an  heritage  of  the 
Lord:  and  the  fruit  of  the  womb  is  his 
reward. 

"As  arrows  are  in  the  hand  of  a 
mighty  man;  so  are  children  of  the 
youth. 

"Happy  is  the  man  that  hath  his 
quiver  full  of  them.  .  .  ."  (Ps.  127:3-5.) 

Church  program  assists  home 

The  Church  counsels  members  to  set 
aside  one  night  each  week  to  meet  in 
a  home  night,  to  study  and  have  fun 
and  regulate  the  home  affairs.  Only 
those  who  follow  this  wise  counsel 
know  how  eagerly  youngsters  respond 
to  such  an  occasion. 

The  Church  sends  home  teachers  to 
visit  families  at  least  monthly.  They 
carry  a  message  of  encouragement. 
They  are  a  second  witness  in  the  home. 

To  assist  families,  the  Church  has 
organized  a  wide  range  of  activities 
where  young  people  can  find  whole- 
some companionship  and  personal 
development  for  all  ages. 

It  is  a  cardinal  teaching  of  the 
Church  that  the  man  is  the  head  of 
the  family.  He  is  to  be  the  bread- 
winner. It  teaches  him  how  to  preside 
in  that  home  through  his  priesthood 
power.  It  teaches  that  the  wife  is  to 
be  a  companion  to  her  husband  and 
stand  by  his  side.  There  is  to  be  no 
confusion  as  to  the  roles  of  husband 
and  wife.  Children  are  to  identify 
with  a  strong,  manly  father.  They 
identify  with  a  lovely  mother  who 
sustains  and  supports  but  does  not 
usurp  the  leadership  of  the  father.  The 


Third  Day 

mother  is  queen  of  the  home.  The 
Church  teaches  that  womanhood  is 
glorified  by  motherhood.  President 
McKay  has  said,  "Wherever  a  woman 
is,  or  whatever  a  woman  does,  she  is  at 
her  best,  her  divinest  best,  at  home! 
There  is  the  center  of  her  power." 

Challenge  to  the  family 

The  family  as  an  institution  is  under 
tremendous  pressure.  It  is  important 
to  know,  therefore,  that  the  family  is 
a  problem-solving  unit.  The  husband 
and  wife  cannot  generate  more  prob- 
lems than  they  can  solve  if  they  will 
follow  the  counsel  the  Lord  has  given. 
The  solution  to  family  problems  is  not 
separation,  but  repentance. 

Couples  are  to  continue  to  court,  to 
pray,  to  be  one.  They  are  to  keep  alive 
the  magic  and  thrill  of  romance  and 
learn  how  to  express  love.  Couples 
young  and  old  must  learn  to  com- 
municate with  one  another.  This  one 
thing  alone  can  solve  most  marital 
problems. 

The  challenge  to  the  family  is  great. 
We  are  here  to  practice  successful 
family  living.  Proper  family  living 
makes  heaven  on  earth  and  develops 
Gods  in  embryo.  Success  in  the  home 
leads  to  the  abundant  life  with  our 
Eternal  Father.  May  we  all  seek,  ever 
more  earnestly,  for  the  eternal  riches 
of  a  wholesome,  honorable  home,  I 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  O 


President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  A. 
Theodore  Tuttle  of  the  First  Council 
of  Seventy. 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Bishop 
Victor  L.  Brown,  second  counselor  in 
the  Presiding  Bishopric. 


BISHOP  VICTOR  L.  BROWN 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

•  My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  grate-  something  that  will  have  meaning, 
ful  to  be  with  you  today  and  to  have       A  few  weeks  ago  while  I  was  travel- 
been    taught    by    these    wonderful  ing  abroad,  a  headline  caught  my  eye. 
brethren.  I  pray  for  an  interest  in  your  It  was  a  report  of  a  gathering  of  many 
faith  and  prayers  that  I  might  say  thousands  of  young  people  in  the  state 


BISHOP  VICTOR  L.  BROWN 


133 


of  New  York.  It  was  not  a  report 
that  most  Americans  would  be  proud 
of.  A  reporter  describing  some  other 
like  gatherings  pictured  them  in  these 
words: 

"En  masse,  the  gaily  bedecked  faith- 
ful presented  an  unsettling  aspect,  a 
ragtag  mosaic  of  humanity  suggesting 
anything  from  the  Children's  Crusade 
to  the  Vandals  sacking  Rome." 

Lesson  on  eternal  life 

As  I  read  the  report  and  contemplated 
the  deplorable  exhibition,  I  could  not 
help  but  recall  a  conversation  I  had  had 
with  my  15-year-old  son,  a  junior  high 
school  student.  He  said  to  me,  "I  am 
a  different  person  now  than  I  was  at 
the  beginning  of  school."  I  asked  in 
what  way,  to  which  he  replied,  "I  have 
a  testimony  that  the  gospel  is  true, 
which  I  did  not  have  before."  This  had 
been  his  first  year  in  seminary.  I  asked 
what  the  highlight  of  the  year  had 
been.  He  replied  without  hesitation, 
"The  lesson  on  eternal  life."  He  said 
the  only  thing  wrong  was  the  time  had 
been  too  short — they  had  only  spent 
two  weeks  studying  the  subject. 

I  must  admit  I  was  surprised  that  a 
15-year-old  teenager  would  show  such 
interest  in  this  profound  subject.  Being 
curious  as  to  the  reaction  of  other 
young  people  of  this  same  age,  I  ar- 
ranged a  visit  with  a  group  of  them. 
They  were  of  the  same  opinion.  The 
plan  of  life  and  salvation  had  affected 
them  and  many  of  the  other  students 
in  a  similar  manner.  It  was  interesting 
to  note  that  these  young  people  were 
thrilled  with  the  knowledge  that  they 
had  existed  as  intelligences  and  then 
as  spirit  children  of  their  Heavenly 
Father  before  they  were  born  into  this 
life.  They  expressed  a  great  relief  to 
know  that  there  were  rewards  and 
blessings  resulting  from  righteous  liv- 
ing that  would  last  far  beyond  this  life 
into  the  eternities.  To  them  this  gave 
real  meaning  and  purpose  to  the  estab- 
lishment of  personal  goals  in  life.  This 
knowledge  seemed  to  startle  them  into 
a  realization  that  their  individual  con- 
duct would  have  a  significant  effect  on 
what  happened  to  them  not  only  in 
this  life  but  in  the  life  after  death. 


It  seems  that  the  lesson  taught  by 
Jacob,  the  brother  of  Nephi,  as  re- 
corded in  the  Book  of  Mormon  became 
more  meaningful  to  them: 

"But,  behold,  the  righteous,  the 
saints  of  the  Holy  One  of  Israel,  they 
who  have  believed  in  the  Holy  One  of 
Israel,  they  who  have  endured  the 
crosses  of  the  world,  and  despised  the 
shame  of  it,  they  shall  inherit  the  king- 
dom of  God,  which  was  prepared  for 
them  from  the  foundation  of  the  world, 
and  their  joy  shall  be  full  forever." 
(2  Ne.  9:18.) 

Free  agents 

Even  at  this  young  age,  I  believe  they 
understood  this  life  to  be  just  a  mo- 
ment in  eternal  life  and  that  this  is  a 
probationary  period  during  which  each 
person  proves  himself.  It  seemed  very 
encouraging  to  them  to  know  that  they 
were  free  agents  with  respect  to  choices 
in  life — the  kind  of  free  agents  spoken 
of  by  Lehi: 

"Wherefore,  men  are  free  according 
to  the  flesh;  and  all  things  are  given 
them  which  are  expedient  unto  man. 
And  they  are  free  to  choose  liberty  and 
eternal  life,  through  the  great  media- 
tion of  all  men,  or  to  choose  captivity 
and  death,  according  to  the  captivity 
and  power  of  the  devil;  for  he  seeketh 
that  all  men  might  be  miserable  like 
unto  himself."  (2  Ne.  2:27.) 

And  Jacob  said:  "Therefore,  cheer  up 
your  hearts,  and  remember  that  ye  are 
free  to  act  for  yourselves — to  choose  the 
way  of  everlasting  death  or  the  way  of 
eternal  life."  (2  Ne.  10:23.) 

Contrast  between  groups 

The  contrast  between  these  two 
groups  of  young  people  is  obvious.  One 
is  trying  to  escape  from  life;  the  other 
is  anxious  to  be  involved  in  life.  I  do 
not  wish  to  delve  into  the  reasons  why 
one  group  has  chosen  captivity  and  the 
other  liberty,  but  rather  pray  that  I 
may  be  directed  to  say  something  that 
will  cause  those  who  have  chosen  cap- 
tivity, as  well  as  those  who  are  now  at 
the  crossroads  of  making  their  choices, 
to  consider  carefully  their  eternal 
future. 


134  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  October  5 

It  is  my  testimony  that  every  person 
born  into  this  world  is  a  spirit  child  of 
God,  that  we  did  in  very  deed  live  with 
our  Heavenly  Father  before  taking  a 
mortal  body.  This  same  knowledge  is 
available  to  all,  young  and  old,  if  they 
have  a  sincere  desire  to  obtain  it.  A 
proper  understanding  of  where  we  came 
from,  why  we  are  here,  and  where  we 
are  going  should  give  each  of  us  an 
inner  feeling  of  security  and  personal 
worth. 

A  period  of  probation 

As  my  young  friends  have  learned  in 
their  seminary  class,  this  is  a  life  dur- 
ing which  we  prove  ourselves.  It  is  a 
period  of  probation  during  which  we 
earn  our  place  in  the  eternities.  The 
Lord  said  of  this:  "And  thus  did  I,  the 
Lord  God,  appoint  unto  man  the  days 
of  his  probation  "  (D&C  29:43.) 

His  whole  purpose  in  coming  to 
earth  and  submitting  himself  to  be 
crucified  on  the  cross  was  to  loose  the 
bands  of  death  for  all  men — the  righ- 
teous and  the  unrighteous — for  he  said : 
".  .  .  this  is  my  work  and  my  glory — 
to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and 
eternal  life  of  man."  (Moses  1:39.) 
Beyond  this,  however,  he  taught  us 
that  there  are  many  mansions  in  his 
Father's  house  and  that  he  would  pre- 
pare the  way  for  us.  He  describes 
these  mansions  or  degrees  of  glory  by 
referring  to  the  universe — the  bright- 
ness of  the  sun  representing  the  highest 
degree  of  glory;  the  brightness  of  the 
moon,  the  next  degree;  and  the  stars, 
the  lowest  degree.  Eternal  life  means 
achieving  the  highest  degree,  which  is 
the  celestial  kingdom,  or  in  other 
words,  returning  to  the  presence  of  our 
Father  in  heaven.  This  lesson  deeply 
touched  the  hearts  of  the  young  semi- 
nary students  with  whom  I  visited. 

Gift  of  eternal  life 

Of  all  the  blessings  the  Lord  has 
given  us,  this  is  the  greatest.  In  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  we  read:  "And, 
if  you  keep  my  commandments  and 
endure  to  the  end  you  shall  have  eter- 
nal life,  which  gift  is  the  greatest  of  all 
the  gifts  of  God."  (D&C  14:7.)  This 
being  true,  it  would  behoove  all  men 


Third  Day 

to  so  order  their  lives  as  to  be  worthy 
of  exaltation. 

We  further  learn  from  sacred  scrip- 
ture what  must  be  done  to  attain  eter- 
nal life: 

".  .  .  For  the  gate  by  which  ye  should 
enter  is  repentance  and  baptism  by 
water;  and  then  cometh  a  remission  of 
your  sins  by  fire  and  by  the  Holy 
Ghost. 

"And  then  are  ye  in  this  straight  and 
narrow  path  which  leads  to  eternal 
life;  yea,  ye  have  entered  in  by  the  gate; 
ye  have  done  according  to  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Father  and  the 
Son;  and  ye  have  received  .  .  .  the  ful- 
filling of  the  promise  which  he  hath 
made,  that  if  ye  entered  in  by  the  way 
ye  should  receive. 

"And  now,  my  beloved  brethren, 
after  ye  have  gotten  into  this  straight 
and  narrow  path,  I  would  ask  if  all  is 
done?  Behold,  I  say  unto  you,  Nay;  for 
ye  have  not  come  thus  far  save  it  were 
by  the  word  of  Christ  with  unshaken 
faith  in  him,  relying  wholly  upon  the 
merits  of  him  who  is  mighty  to  save. 

"Wherefore,  ye  must  press  forward 
with  a  steadfastness  in  Christ,  having 
a  perfect  brightness  of  hope,  and  a  love 
of  God  and  of  all  men.  Wherefore,  if 
ye  shall  press  forward,  feasting  upon 
the  word  of  Christ,  and  endure  to  the 
end,  behold,  thus  saith  the  Father:  Ye 
shall  have  eternal  life."  (2  Ne.  31:17- 
20.) 

Stability  provided 

These  lessons — where  we  came  from, 
why  we  are  here,  where  we  are  going — 
have  touched  the  hearts  of  many  young 
people.  They  have  provided  a  stability, 
a  feeling  of  security,  a  feeling  of  hu- 
mility and  yet  personal  worth,  that 
give  purpose  and  direction  to  their 
lives.  This  knowledge  helps  them  to 
rise  above  the  confusion,  strife,  and 
evil  that  are  so  prevalent  in  the  world 
today. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  young 
and  old  alike  that  they  too  may  come 
to  the  knowledge  that  these  things  are 
true,  which  I  testify  to  you  as  being 
true,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen.  O 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


135 


President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

closing  message  for  this  conference.  We 
President  David  O.  McKay  has  asked     are   pleased  to  have  Elder  McKay 
his  son,  Robert  R.  McKay,  to  read  his     present  to  fulfill  this  request. 


PRESIDENT  D 

(Read  by  his  son 

•  My  dear  brethren  and  sisters: 

This  has  been  in  a  remarkable 
manner  an  outstanding,  spiritual  con- 
ference. We  have  experienced  the 
spiritual,  the  divine  in  man;  the  su- 
preme crowning  gift  that  makes  him 
king  of  all  created  beings.  Spirituality 
is  the  consciousness  of  victory  over  self, 
the  consciousness  of  being  above  the 
passions,  whether  in  anger  or  jealousy, 
or  envy,  or  hatred.  To  feel  that  you 
can  be  above  those  animal-like  feelings 
is  to  experience  spirituality,  and  every 
man  and  woman  whose  heart  burned 
when  he  or  she  heard  the  testimonies 
of  these  brethren  during  the  sessions 
of  this  conference  experienced  that 
spirituality.  It  is  the  realization  of 
communion  with  Deity.  No  higher 
attainment  can  be  reached  than  that. 

Answers  to  false  ideologies 

We  have  met  during  a  critical  time 
in  the  history  of  our  own  great  coun- 
try and  in  the  history  of  the  world.  I 
have  been  impressed  with  the  answers 
that  have  been  given  through  the 
brethren  to  some  of  the  false  ideologies 
and  teachings  that  are  rampant  in  the 
world.  One  of  these  false  teachings 
is  that  man  is  not  a  spiritual  being, 
but  that  he  is  just  as  any  other  animal, 
subject  to  his  passions,  subject  to  his 
yearnings,  desires,  and  justified  in 
his  ambitions,  no  matter  how  many 
others  may  suffer  in  that  achievement. 

Man  a  dual  being 

We  have  heard  during  the  sessions 
of  this  conference  that  man  is  a  dual 
being:  He  is  physical,  and  has  his 
appetites,  passions,  desires,  just  as  any 
animal  has.  But  he  is  also  a  spiritual 
being;  and  he  knows  that  to  subdue 
the  animal  instincts  is  to  achieve  ad- 
vancement in  his  spiritual  realm;  that 


WID  0.  McKAY 

Robert  R.  McKay) 

a  man  who  is  subjected  to  his  physical 
appetites  and  passions  only,  who  de- 
nies any  reality  of  a  spirit,  is  truly  of 
the  animal  world;  and  that  man  is  a 
spiritual  being,  and  his  real  life  is  the 
spirit  that  inhabits  his  body. 

President  John  Quincy  Adams  gave 
a  good  illustration  of  this  when  he 
was  accosted  on  the  streets  of  Boston 
one  day  and  was  asked,  "How  is  John 
Quincy  Adams  today?" 

He  answered,  as  he  tottered  along 
with  his  cane,  "John  Quincy  Adams  is 
well,  thank  you,  quite  well.  But  the 
house  in  which  he  lives  is  tottering  on 
its  foundations,  the  windows  are  shak- 
ing, the  roof  is  leaking,  the  doors  are 
not  hanging  straight;  and  I  think  John 
Quincy  Adams  will  have  to  move  out 
of  it  soon.  But  John  Quincy  Adams 
himself,  sir,  is  quite  well,  I  thank  you, 
quite  well!"  He  sensed  that  the  real 
John  Quincy  Adams  was  an  immortal 
being,  a  son  of  a  Father  in  heaven. 

That  is  one  great  truth  to  which 
testimony  has  been  borne  in  this  con- 
ference— that  man  is  spirit,  the  son  of 
his  Father,  and  has  within  him  that 
which  will  cause  him  to  yearn  and 
to  aspire  to  become  dignified  as  a  son 
of  God  should  be  dignified.  The  dig- 
nity of  man,  not  the  degradation  of 
man,  has  been  emphasized  throughout 
this  conference. 

Denial  of  God's  existence 

Another  false  ideal  that  has  been 
mentioned  as  rampant  among  people 
in  this  country  and  especially  among 
millions  in  atheistic  countries  in  the 
world  is  the  denial  of  the  existence  of 
God.  Every  man  who  has  spoken  at 
this  conference,  I  think  without  ex- 
ception, has  borne  witness  and  testified 
that  God  lives.  There  has  also  been 
quoted  the  evidence  of  men  who  have 


136  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  October  5 

lived  through  the  ages  who  have  borne 
that  same  testimony.  Many  scientists 
today,  honorable,  honest  men,  who  are 
giving  their  all  to  help  their  fellow 
beings,  testify  that  there  is  a  God.  I 
received  a  visit  in  my  apartment  just 
a  year  ago  from  one  of  our  own  eminent 
scientists — Philo  T.  Farnsworth — who 
testified  to  me  that  he  knows  that  he 
was  directed  by  a  higher  source  in 
gaining  his  scientific  knowledge,  and 
that  he  knows  that  God  lives. 

Thank  heaven  there  are  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  people  who  believe  that 
testimony  and  repudiate  the  claims  of 
the  Communists,  who  boast  that  man 
is  his  own  god,  and  who  have  already- 
poisoned  the  minds  of  their  people  for 
the  past  forty  or  fifty  years  with  the 
thought  that  God  does  not  exist  and 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  a  myth.  I  wish  to 
emphasize  the  fact  that  this  great 
conference  has  testified  to  the  hundreds 
of  thousands  listening  in  from  all  over 
the  world  that  God  lives,  and  further- 
more that  Jesus  is  his  Beloved  Son,  the 
Savior  of  the  world. 

Service  to  others 

We  have  also  testified  to  the  world 
that  man  is  not  living  for  himself,  that 
his  selfish  desires  should  be  overcome 
and  controlled,  and  that  he  should 
render  service  to  others.  One  of  the 
greatest  sayings  of  Jesus  when  he  was 
among  the  Twelve  was  the  one  that 
touched  upon  that  same  principle:  "He 
that  findeth  his  life  shall  lose  it  [that 
is  the  selfish  part]:  and  he  that  loseth 
his  life  for  my  sake  shall  find  it." 
(Matt.  10:39.)  A  paradoxical  state- 
ment, but  oh,  how  true! 

Obligation  of  teaching 

I  am  grateful  for  membership  in  a 
church  whose  religion  fits  men  for  the 
struggle  with  the  forces  of  the  world 
and  enables  them  to  survive  in  this 
struggle.  One  of  these  acting  forces  is 
the  responsibility  of  teaching  and  the 
opportunity  afforded  in  this  church 
for  our  local  officers — stake  presiden- 
cies, bishoprics,  priesthood  quorums, 
and  others — to  share  in  this  responsi- 
bility. The  obligation  of  teaching  is 
placed  by  the  Church  first  upon  the 
parents,  and  the  responsibility  thereof 


Third  Day 

has  been  placed  upon  them  by  divine 
command.  But  besides  parents,  there 
are  tens  of  thousands  of  men  and 
women  who  have  accepted  the  respon- 
sibility of  leading  and  teaching  the 
young  and  the  adults.  In  the  priest- 
hood quorums  alone  the  number  runs 
into  many  thousands.  And  if  we  add 
mothers  and  fathers,  general  officers, 
and  young  men  and  women  in  the 
Sunday  School,  the  Mutual  Improve- 
ment Associations,  the  Primary,  the 
seminaries,  and  women  in  the  Relief 
Society,  we  have  an  army  of  teachers 
who  have  the  privilege  and  responsi- 
bility of  exercising  what  Martin  Luther 
calls  "one  of  the  highest  virtues  upon 
earth." 

Help  to  become  strong 

Think  what  the  Church  is  doing  to 
help  this  army  of  leaders  and  teachers 
as  individuals  to  become  strong  in  the 
battle  against  the  forces  of  the  world! 

First,  it  places  upon  them  the  obliga- 
tion of  teaching  their  fellowmen  by 
example,  and  there  is  no  better  safe- 
guard placed  upon  an  honest  man  or  a 
sincere  woman. 

Second,  it  develops  the  divine  attri- 
bute of  love  for  others.  Jesus  asked  one 
of  his  apostles,  "Simon,  son  of  Jonas, 
lovest  thou  me  more  than  these? 
.  .  .  Yea,  Lord;  thou  knowest  that  I  love 
thee.  .  .  ."  And  Jesus  answered,  "Feed 
my  lambs."  (John  21:15.)  Love  should 
precede  the  responsibility  of  feeding 
those  lambs.  And  these  tens  of  thou- 
sands of  teachers  must  have  in  their 
hearts  the  love  of  teaching,  the  love 
of  their  fellowmen,  and  a  willingness 
to  accept  this  responsibility  with  the 
divine  attribute  of  love. 

The  third  requirement  is  purity  of 
life.  I  cannot  imagine  an  impure 
person  teaching  purity  to  young  boys 
and  girls.  I  cannot  imagine  one  who 
has  doubt  in  his  mind  about  the  ex- 
istence of  God  impressively  teaching 
the  existence  of  Deity  to  young  boys 
and  girls.  He  cannot  do  it!  If  a  leader 
or  a  teacher  acts  the  hypocrite  and 
attempts  so  to  lead  and  teach,  what 
he  is  will  speak  louder  than  what  he 
says;  and  that  is  the  danger  of  having 
doubting  men  as  leaders  and  teachers 
of  our  children.  The  poison  sinks  in, 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


137 


and  unconsciously  they  become  sick  in 
spirit  because  of  the  poison  that  the 
person  in  whom  they  had  confidence 
has  insidiously  instilled  into  their  souls. 
So  the  third  qualification  is  purity  of 
life  and  faith  in  the  gospel. 

Finally,  it  gives  these  leaders  and 
teachers  an  opportunity  to  serve  their 
fellowmen  and  thereby  magnify  the 
calling  that  has  come  to  them  and, 
indeed,  to  prove  that  they  are  real 
disciples  of  Christ.  "Inasmuch  as  ye 
have  done  it  unto  one  of  the  least  of 
these  my  brethren,  ye  have  done  it 
unto  me."  (Matt.  25:40.)  Thus  the 
divine  principle  of  service  is  instilled 
in  their  hearts. 

Blessing  and  testimony 

With  all  my  heart  I  say,  God  bless 
and  guide  you  leaders  and  teachers  of 
our  stakes,  wards,  and  missions,  you 
parents,  you  men  of  the  priesthood,  you 
temple  presidencies,  and  our  mission- 
aries all  over  the  world.  God  bless  and 
protect  our  valiant  young  men  who  are 
in  the  armed  forces  of  our  country;  God 
bless  their  loved  ones. 

I  am  grateful  for  and  pray  that  God 
will  continue  to  direct  and  bless  our 
General  Authorities  who  have  inspired 
us  with  their  messages  during  the  ses- 
sions of  this  great  conference. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  the 
head  of  this  Church  is  our  Lord  and 
Savior,  Jesus  Christ.  He  is  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world.  I  know  of  the 
reality  of  his  existence,  of  his  willing- 
ness to  guide  and  direct  all  who  serve 
him.  I  know  that  in  this  dispensation 
he  restored  with  his  Father,  through 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  in  its  fullness.  I  know  that 
one  of  the  glorious  messages  given  by 
Christ,  our  Redeemer,  is  that  the  spirit 
of  man  passes  triumphantly  through 
the  portals  of  death  into  everlasting 
life.  To  him,  this  earthly  career  is  but 
a  day  and  its  closing  but  the  setting 
of  life's  sun;  death  but  a  sleep,  followed 
by  a  glorious  awakening  in  the  morning 
of  an  eternal  realm. 

May  God  bless  you  all,  and  may  he 
guide  and  help  you  that  righteousness, 
harmony,  and  love  for  one  another  may 
dwell  in  each  home,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen.  O 


President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

And  now,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
as  we  bring  this  conference  to  a  close 
we  desire  to  express  our  sincere  appre- 
ciation to  the  following  who  have  fur- 
nished the  singing  for  this  conference: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  for  their  ex- 
cellent singing  on  the  Saturday  morn- 
ing and  Sunday  morning  broadcast 
sessions,  and  again  this  afternoon. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses,  and  the  Relief  Society 
Singing  Mothers  from  the  Cottonwood, 
Millcreek,  Murray  and  Wilford  Re- 
gions, who  furnished  the  music  for  the 
sessions  on  Friday. 

The  MIA  Girls  Centennial  Chorus, 
who  furnished  the  music  for  the  Satur- 
day afternoon  session,  and  the  Delta 
Phi  Kappa  Chorus  from  the  Logan 
Institute  of  Religion,  who  furnished 
the  music  for  the  Saturday  evening 
priesthood  meeting. 

We  express  the  deepest  of  thanks 
and  appreciation  to  the  conductors  and 
organists  of  these  various  singing 
groups. 

President  McKay  has  especially 
asked  us  to  express  his  appreciation 
also  to  all  who  have  in  any  way  con- 
tributed to  the  success  and  inspiration 
of  this  great  conference: 

He  is,  as  has  already  been  mentioned, 
grateful  to  his  beloved  associates,  the 
General  Authorities,  who  have  de- 
livered such  timely  and  inspirational 
messages. 

We  appreciate  the  careful  and  effi- 
cient attention  given  by  local  and  na- 
tional press  representatives,  and  by 
representatives  of  radio  and  television 
in  reporting  the  sessions  of  this  con- 
ference; the  cooperation  of  city  officials, 
the  city  traffic  officers  in  handling  care- 
fully and  ably  the  increased  traffic; 
the  Fire  Department  and  Red  Cross, 
who  have  been  on  hand  to  render  as- 
sistance— these  services  are  acknowl- 
edged with  appreciation. 

The  courtesy  and  consideration 
shown  by  the  Tabernacle  ushers  in 
seating  the  audiences  of  the  conference 
sessions  has  not  gone  unnoticed,  and 
has  added  much  to  the  orderliness  of 
the  meetings. 


138  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  October  5 

We  again  express  grateful  apprecia- 
tion to  the  owners  and  managers  of  the 
many  radio  and  television  stations 
throughout  the  nation  and  in  other 
countries,  who  have  carried  the  sessions 
of  this  conference  from  coast  to  coast 
in  the  United  States,  to  Hawaii,  Alaska, 
Mexico,  Central  and  South  America, 
and  Canada,  and  by  short-wave  to  lis- 
teners in  many  other  countries  of  the 
world  also. 

We  thank  the  translators,  and  al- 
though they  have  been  unseen  during 
the  conference,  they  have  rendered  an 
unselfish  service  in  translating  the  mes- 
sages of  the  conference  for  the  various 
people  with  different  languages  in  the 
world. 

Through  the  extensive  radio  and 
television  coverage,  millions  have  been 
able  to  participate  in  this  Semi-Annual 
Conference. 

It  is  understood  where  possible  that 
ward  sacrament  meetings  will  be  held 
this  evening  in  the  various  wards. 

Again  we  remind  you  to  drive  care- 
fully, as  you  leave  this  conference. 


Third  Day 

Please  obey  traffic  rules,  and  be  alert 
every  moment  while  you  are  driving 
on  city  streets  and  on  the  highways. 

And  now  to  close  our  conference  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  will  favor  us  with  "I 
Will  Give  Thanks  Unto  the  Lord,"  and 
"Sing  We  Now  at  Parting." 

The  benediction  will  be  offered  by- 
Elder  Ronald  E.  Phair,  president  of  the 
Klamath  Stake,  after  which  this  con- 
ference will  stand  adjourned  for  six 
months. 


In  closing  the  conference,  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  sang  the  following  three 
numbers:  "How  Lovely  Is  Thy  Dwell- 
ing Place,"  "I  Will  Give  Thanks  Unto 
the  Lord,"  and  "Sing  We  Now  at 
Parting." 

The  benediction  was  offered  by 
President  Ronald  E.  Phair  of  the 
Klamath  Stake. 

The  General  Conference  was  ad- 
journed for  six  months. 


TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST  139 
SALT  LAKE  TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


The  following  broadcast,  written  and 
announced  by  Richard  L.  Evans,  and 
originating  with  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  was  presented  from  9:35 
to  10  a.m.  Sunday,  October  5,  1969, 
through  the  courtesy  of  the  Columbia 
Broadcasting  System's  network  through- 
out the  United  States,  parts  of  Canada, 
and  through  other  facilities  to  several 
points  overseas. 

(Organ  begins  playing  "As  the  Dew" 
on  signal  at  9:34:00  continuing  until 
9:34:50) 

(At  9:35:10  on  signal  Organ  and 
Choir  break  into  "Gently  Raise"  sing- 
ing words  to  end  of  second  line,  and 
humming  to  end  of  verse  for  an- 
nouncer's background) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome 
you  within  these  walls  with  Music  and 
the  Spoken  Word  from  the  Crossroads 
of  the  West. 

CBS  and  its  affiliated  stations  bring 
you  at  this  hour  another  presentation 
from  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake 
City,  with  Richard  Condie  conducting 
the  Tabernacle  Choir,  Alexander 
Schreiner,  Tabernacle  Organist,  and  the 
spoken  word  by  Richard  Evans. 

From  the  words  of  the  Master  as 
recorded  in  Matthew,  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  sings  music  from  the  Messiah: 
"His  yoke  is  easy;  His  burden  is  light." 

(Choir:  "His  Yoke  Is  Easy" — 
Handel) 

Organ  background) 

Announcer:  Alexander  Schreiner  pre- 
sents today  on  Temple  Square  "Toccata 
in  C  Major"  by  Edward  D'Evry. 

(Organ:  "Toccata  in  C  Major" — 
D'Evry) 

(Organ  background) 

Announcer:  "The  bread  that  bringeth 
strength  I  want  to  give,  the  water  pure 
that  bids  the  thirsty  live;  I  want  to 
help  the  fainting  day  by  day,  I'm  sure 


I  shall  not  pass  again  this  way.  ...  I 
want  to  give  to  others  hope  and  faith, 
I  want  to  do  all  the  Master  saith,  I 
want  to  live  aright  from  day  to  day, 
I'm  sure  I  shall  not  pass  again  this 
way.  .  .  ." 

(Choir:  "I  Shall  Not  Pass  Again  This 
Way" — Effinger) 

(Organ  background) 

THE  SPOKEN  WORD 

Take  time  for  your  children  .  .  . 

By  Richard  L.  Evans 

We  "shall  not  pass  again  this  way" — 
and  in  these  swift  passing  scenes 
and  seasons  there  seems  to  come — in- 
sistently, almost  above  all  else — this 
compelling  cry:  Take  time  for  your 
children.  More  and  more,  professional 
people  are  telling  us  that  children 
are  shaped  and  molded  at  a  very  early 
age — so  early  that  it  is  a  sobering  fact 
to  face.  Home,  parents,  early  impres- 
sions set  the  pattern  for  the  future — 
and  the  evidence  is  overwhelming  that 
nothing  in  this  world  is  ever  going  to 
take  the  place  of  wholesome,  happy 
homes.  And  there  is  more  to  this  than 
food,  shelter,  and  physical  sustenance. 
There  is  the  shaping  of  attitudes,  of 
minds,  of  morals;  opening  avenues  of 
interest  and  activity;  instilling  hon- 
esty, respect,  reverence;  prayers  at  a 
mother's  knee;  correction  with  fairness 
and  firmness  "showing  forth  afterwards 
an  increase  of  love"1  and  kindness.  All 
this  we  cannot  be,  all  this  we  cannot 
do,  by  not  being  there,  by  living  sepa- 
rate lives,  by  an  overabsorption  in 
outside  interests.  Take  time  for  your 
children.  They  are  so  soon  grown,  so 
soon  gone.  "Is  mother  home?"  Where 
is  mother?"  are  the  questions  asked 
when  they  come  home  from  anywhere. 
Oh,  let  them  have  the  blessing  of  your 
being  there.  Take  time  for  open  arms; 
for  talking,  for  reading,  for  family 
prayer,  for  home  evenings  and  hours. 


1Doctrine  and  Covenants,  121:43 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


140 

Sunday,  October  5 

As  one  discerning  poet  put  it:  "Richer 
than  I  you  can  never  be — I  had  a 
mother  who  read  to  me."2  Take  time 
for  making  memories,  for  fixing  sure 
foundations  that  will  last  long  after 
less  essential  things  are  far  forgotten. 
Mothers  need  to  be  home.  A  mother,  a 
father,  waiting  is  a  source  of  safety 
and  assurance.  Parents  need  to  give 
their  children  wholesomeness  and 
wholeness  by  the  very  lives  they  live. 
Oh,  the  blessedness  of  coming  home 
and  finding  mother  there,  with  love 
and  kindness  a  nd  encouragement.  Life 
goes  quickly.  Don't  brush  them  off  and 
turn  them  over  to  others.  Take  time  for 
your  children — before  they're  grown, 
before  they're  gone.  Oh,  take  time  for 
your  children. 

(Organ:  Without  Announcement) — 
"Come  Unto  Jesus" — Huish) 
(Organ  background) 

Announcer:  With  Alexander  Schrei- 
ner  at  the  Tabernacle  Organ  we  have 
heard  a  hymn  tune  by  O.  P.  Huish: 
"Come  Unto  Jesus." 

With  the  worshipful  music  of  an  old 
French  melody  the  Choir  sings  Gustav 
Hoist's  arrangement  of  these  words 
taken  from  a  Greek  text:  "Let  all 
mortal  flesh  keep  silence,  and  with 
fear  and  trembling  stand;  .  .  .  Christ 
our  Lord  to  earth  descendeth  our  full 
homage  to  demand.  .  .  ." 


2Strictland  Gillilan,  The  Reading 
Mother 


Third  Day 

(Choir:  "Let  All  Mortal  Flesh  Keep 
Silence"— Hoist) 

(Organ  background) 

Announcer:  And  now  with  a  Welsh 
hymn  melody  by  John  Hughes  we  hear 
the  Choir  recall  the  solid,  reassuring 
words  of  Robert  Robinson:  "Guide  us, 
O  Thou  Great  Jehovah,  guide  us  to 
the  promised  land;  we  are  weak,  but 
Thou  art  able — hold  us  with  thy 
powerful  hand.  When  the  earth  begins 
to  tremble,  bid  our  fearful  thoughts  be 
still;  when  thy  judgments  spread  de- 
struction, keep  us  safe  on  Zion's  hill." 

(Choir:  "Guide  Us,  O  Thou  Great 
Jehovah" — Hughes) 

(As  the  Dew)  begin  by  27:30 

Announcer:  (Begin  by  27:55)  Again 
we  leave  you  within  the  shadows  of  the 
everlasting  hills.  May  peace  be  with 
you  this  day — and  always. 

This  concludes  the  two  thousand 
and  ninety-fourth  presentation  con- 
tinuing the  41st  year  of  this  traditional 
broadcast  from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle 
on  Temple  Square,  brought  to  you  by 
CBS  and  its  affiliated  stations,  originat- 
ing with  KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

Richard  Condie  conducted  the  Tab- 
ernacle Choir,  Alexander  Schreiner  was 
at  the  Organ,  the  Spoken  Word  by 
Richard  Evans. 

In  another  seven  days,  at  this  same 
hour,  Music  and  the  Spoken  Word 
will  be  heard  again  from  the  Crossroads 
of  the  West. 

This  is  the  CBS  Radio  Network. 


CONFERENCE  MUSIC 


141 


SUMMARY  OF  CONFERENCE 
MUSIC 

The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir 
furnished  the  musical  numbers  for  the 
Saturday  morning  and  Sunday  morning 
and  afternoon  sessions  of  the  confer- 
ence; Richard  P.  Condie,  conductor; 
and  Jay  E.  Welch,  assistant  conductor. 
The  choral  music  for  the  Friday  morn- 
ing session  was  provided  by  the  Brig- 
ham  Young  University  Combined 
Choruses,  under  the  direction  of  Ralph 
Woodward.  The  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers  from  the  Cottonwood,  Mill 
Creek,  Murray  and  Wilford  Regions, 
with  Ellen  N.  Barnes  conducting,  fur- 
nished the  special  musical  numbers  for 
the  Friday  afternoon  session. 


The  singing  for  the  Saturday  after- 
noon session  was  furnished  by  the  MIA 
Girls'  Centennial  Chorus.  Margrit  F. 
Lohner  conducted  the  chorus. 

The  Delta  Phi  Kappa  Chorus,  with 
James  L.  Bradley  conducting,  furnished 
the  choral  music  for  the  General  Priest- 
hood meeting  on  Saturday  evening. 

Richard  P.  Condie  directed  the  sing- 
ing of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  on  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broadcast 
Sunday  morning. 

Accompaniments  on  the  Tabernacle 
Organ  were  played  by  Alexander 
Schreiner,  Robert  N.  Cundick  and  Roy 
M.  Darley,  Tabernacle  Organists. 

JOSEPH  ANDERSON 
Clerk  of  the  Conference 


Index 


Ashton,  Elder  Marvin  J  

"Ye  are  my  friends"  28;  Incident  of  newspaper  boy,  28;  Living  as 
close  friends,  28;  Appreciation  for  confidence,  29. 


Page 

..  28 


Authorities  Present 


1 


Authorities  Sustained 


24 


Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft 


60 


Fear  for  free  world,  61;  Insidious  evils  widespread,  61;  Courageous 
action  needed,  62;  Eternal  verities,  62;  Astronauts'  praise  of  God,  62; 
War  against  religion,  62;  Strategy  of  godless  forces,  63;  Recognition  of 
Russia,  63;  Works  of  atheism,  63;  America's  belief  in  God,  64;  Start 
working  and  praying,  64. 

Brockbank,  Elder  Bernard  P   69 

Statements  of  Jesus,  69;  Miracles  performed  by  Jesus,  69;  First  to  be 
resurrected,  70;  God  is  light,  70;  Spiritual  darkness  today,  70;  Blessings 
available,  70;  Prophets  on  the  earth,  71;  Temple  marriage,  71;  The 
power  of  choice,  71. 


The  power  of  faith,  104;  Practical  value  of  faith,  105;  Meaning  of 
eternal  life,  105;  Faith  appropriates  spiritual  values,  105;  What  faith 
is  not,  106;  Confidence  in  life,  106;  Faith  makes  the  difference,  106; 
Story  of  woman  of  faith,  106;  Faith  in  hereafter,  107;  Faith  a  road  to 
truth,  107;  Faith  to  endure  to  end,  107. 

Brown,  Bishop  Victor  L  132 

Lesson  on  eternal  life,  133;  Free  agents,  133;  Contrast  between  groups, 
133;  A  period  of  probation,  134;  Gift  of  eternal  life,  134;  Stability 
provided,  134. 

Burton,  Elder  Theodore  M   33 

Christ's  plea  for  unity,  33;  Necessity  for  unity,  33;  Causes  of  disunity, 
33;  Example  of  William  W.  Phelps,  34;  Gospel  a  united  whole,  34; 
Appreciation  for  others,  34;  Consideration  in  discussions,  34;  Role  of 
peacemakers,  35;  Plea  for  unity,  35. 


Brown,  President  Hugh  B. 


.3,  4,  9,  12,  14,  16,  18,  23,  24, 
27,  47,  48,  53,  56,  57,  60,  64 


Brown,  President  Hugh  B.  (Priesthood  Meeting)  ... 

A  spotless  future,  103;  Continue  to  serve  God,  103. 

Brown,  President  Hugh  B  


103 


104 


144 


INDEX 


Page 


Cullimore,  Elder  James  A   71 

Passing  of  John  Longden,  71;  God's  plan  of  salvation,  72;  Passing  of 
parents,  72;  The  meaning  of  death,  72;  A  code  of  living,  72;  Proper 
conformity  in  life,  73;  Divine  instructions,  73;  Peace  from  conviction, 
73;  A  new  gospel  dispensation,  73. 

Dunn,  Elder  Loren  C   12 

Challenges  to  standards,  12;  Self-mastery  not  indulgence,  12;  Time 
on  side  of  integrity,  13;  Remorse  for  wrong-doing,  13;  Repentance 
brings  forgiveness,  14;  "Wickedness  never  was  happiness,"  14. 

Dunn,  Elder  Paul  H.   127 


Gratitude  for  optimism,  127;  Has  God  spoken  today?  127;  Failure 
to  recognize  living  prophets,  128;  Things  will  begin  to  happen,  128; 
The  calling  of  a  prophet,  128;  The  calling  of  Joseph  Smith,  129;  God's 
message  for  today,  129;  A  time  for  new  revelation,  129;  God  speaks  to 
his  children,  130. 

Dyer,  President  Alvin  R  23,  24,  27,  29,  33,  35,  38,  40,  42,  46,  120, 

121,  124,  130,  132,  135,  137 

Dyer,  President  Alvin  R.   53 

Panacea  for  dangerous  trends,  53;  Repentance,  54;  Prophets  cried 
repentance,  54;  Jesus  taught  repentance,  54;  Revealed  in  modern  time, 
54;  "Say  nothing  but  repentance,"  55;  Principle  of  eternal  growth, 
55;  The  need  of  repentance,  56;  Genuine  sorrow  for  sin,  56;  Declare 
repentance,  56. 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   66 

MIA  theme,  66;  Important  commitment  of  marriage,  66;  Statements  on 
morality,  66;  Laws  of  life  in  force,  67;  The  question  of  love,  67; 
Faith  in  God's  word,  67;  Principle  of  repentance,  68;  The  burden  of 


sin,  68;  Laws  that  can  be  counted  on,  68. 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L.  (The  Spoken  Word)   139 

Fifth  Session    85 

First  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    23 

First  Day — Morning  Meeting   3 

First  Session  .-   3 

Fourth  Session    65 

General  Authorities  and  General  Officers  Sustained   24 

General  Officers  and  Other  Authorities  Present   2 

General  Priesthood  Meeting   85 

Hanks,  Elder  Marion  D.  (Priesthood  Meeting)   97 


Latter-day  Saints  Student  Association,  97;  Underlying  principles,  97; 
The  worth  of  souls,  98;  Situation  on  college  campuses,  98;  Majority 


INDEX 


145 


Page 

want  to  do  well,  98;  Number  in  missionary  and  military  service,  99; 
Interest  in  university  students,  99;  Results  from  student  program,  100; 
Sheltering  wing  for  LDS  students,  100;  Student  council,  100;  Priest- 
hood leadership,  100;  Need  for  correlation,  100;  Support  of  other 
groups,  101;  University  of  Utah  campus,  101;  Testimony  of  returned 
missionary,  101;  Appeal  for  support,  102. 


Hinckley,  Elder  Gordon  B  113 

Optimism  concerning  Lord's  work,  113;  "Be  not  afraid,  only  believe," 
114;  Kingdom  to  stand  forever,  114;  Belief  in  youth,  114;  Service  of 
missionaries,  114;  Miracle  of  devotion,  114;  Appreciation  for  parents, 
115;  Enthusiasm  of  converts,  115;  Work  requires  faith,  115;  The  words 
of  eternal  life,  116. 

Hunter,  Elder  Howard  W  Ill 

Faith  in  fellowmen,  111;  A  sense  of  right  and  wrong,  111;  A  code  of 
ethics,  111;  Meaning  of  true  religion,  112;  Religion  a  vibrant  influence, 
112;  Church  restored  in  latter  days,  112;  Peace  from  living  gospel,  113. 

Hunter,  Elder  Milton  R   77 


Life  beyond  the  grave,  77;  The  resurrection  and  the  life,  77;  What 
is  death?  78;  Vision  of  judgment  day,  78;  Modern  revelations,  78;  Three 
degrees  of  glory,  78;  The  celestial  degree,  79;  Other  degrees  of  glory, 
79;  Where  we  go  after  death,  79. 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W   18 

A  stirring  challenge,  18;  Training  makes  the  difference,  19;  Impor- 
tance of  water,  19;  Dams  and  reservoirs,  19;  Many  kinds  of  reservoirs, 
20;  The  work  of  parents,  20;  Gratitude  for  parents,  20;  Lehi  and 
Sariah,  20;  Abraham  built  reservoir,  21;  Enos's  testimony,  21;  Example 
of  two  families,  21;  Reservoirs  of  two  brothers,  21;  Building  good 
homes,  22;  Damaged  reservoir  mended,  22;  A  spiritual  umbrella,  23. 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R   79 

True  religion  revealed,  80;  Priesthood  administers  gospel,  80;  Salva- 
tion is  personal,  80;  Personal  revelation,  80;  A  testimony  of  the  gospel, 
81;  Gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  81;  Revelation  to  prophets,  81;  Revelation 
for  all  men,  81;  The  brother  of  Jared,  82;  Personal  righteousness,  82; 
The  course  to  glory,  83;  Witnesses  of  the  truth,  82;  Obligation  to 
testify,  83;  Testimony  a  living  thing,  83;  Valiant  in  testimony,  84. 

McKay,  President  David  0   5 

Era  of  great  progress,  5;  Message  from  Apollo  8,  5;  Man  walks  on  moon, 
5;  Numberless  creations  of  God,  6;  Moses'  great  vision,  6;  Present- 
day  turmoil,  7;  Use  of  drugs  and  liquor,  7;  Self-mastery  urged,  7; 
The  spiritual  road,  8;  The  worth  of  souls,  8;  Church  furthers  welfare 
of  man,  8;  Perfecting  the  individual,  8;  Eternal  truths  apply  today,  9. 

McKay,  President  David  O.  (Priesthood  Meeting)    86 

Responsibilities  of  priesthood,  86;  Teaching  by  personal  contact,  86; 
Challenge  to  priesthood,  87;  Responsibility  of  personal  influence,  87; 
A  light  set  upon  a  hill,  87;  Story  of  ancient  king,  88;  Message  of  peace, 
89;  Responsibility  to  preach  gospel,  89;  Divine  Sonship  of  Christ,  89; 
Testimony,  90. 


146 


INDEX 


Page 

McKay,  President  David  0  135 

Answers  to  false  ideologies,  135;  Man  a  dual  being,  135;  Denial  of 
God's  existence,  135;  Service  to  others,  136;  Obligation  of  teaching, 
136;  Help  to  become  strong,  136;  Blessing  and  testimony,  137. 

Monson,  Elder  Thomas  S.  (Priesthood  Meeting)    92 

".  .  .  teach  all  nations,"  92;  Requirements  for  ministry,  93;  Inexperi- 
enced missionaries,  93;  Requires  devotion,  93;  Formula  for  success, 
93;  Search  the  scriptures,  93;  Sons  of  Mosiah,  94;  Plan  with  purpose, 
94;  The  missionary  call,  94;  Mission  a  family  affair,  94;  Missionary 
opportunities,  95;  Teach  with  testimony,  95;  Missionary  experience, 
95;  Serve  with  love,  96;  Letters  from  home,  96;  Great  joy  promised, 
97. 

Music,  Summary  of  Conference  141 

Packer,  Elder  Boyd  K   36 

Unquenched  spiritual  desire,  36;  Thirst  for  life's  meaning,  36;  Escape 
from  futility,  36;  Advice  to  young  people,  36;  Cast  net  on  right  side,  37; 
Finding  the  true  light,  37;  Facing  issues  with  new  light,  37;  Quench 
spiritual  thirst,  38. 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E  116 

Doctrines  challenged  traditions,  116;  Disbelief  in  resurrection,  117; 
Divisions  in  Christianity,  117;  Need  for  better  understanding,  117; 
Call  to  rediscover  Christ,  118;  Riches  of  divine  revelation,  118;  Impor- 
tant message  for  mankind,  118;  Gospel  restored  in  its  purity,  118;  A 
new  and  sacred  book,  119;  Great  modern  revelation,  119;  Glad  news 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  119. 

Priesthood  Meeting,  General    85 

Rector,  Jr.,  Elder  Hartman   74 

Man  to  be  like  God,  74;  Root  cause  of  problems,  74;  Selfishness  to  be 
overcome,  75;  Qualifications  for  ministry,  75;  Meaning  of  godliness, 
75;  Why  God  loves  us,  76;  Quality  of  unselfish  love,  76;  Good  in 
every  man,  76. 

Richards,  Elder  Franklin  D  121 

No  place  for  idler,  121;  The  Welfare  Program,  121;  Love  of  work, 
122;  Long-term  objective,  122;  Day-to-day  goals,  122;  Compatibility 
and  loyalty,  122;  Superior  achievement,  123;  Paying  the  price,  123; 
Work  brings  missionary  success,  123;  Opportunities  for  work,  124; 
Teaching  children  to  work,  124;  Proper  balance,  124;  The  secret  of 
progress,  124. 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand   29 

Expression  of  love,  29;  Words  of  the  prophets,  29;  Two  great  events 
foretold,  29;  Time  of  restitution,  30;  Marvelous  work  and  a  wonder, 
30;  Coming  of  Elijah,  30;  Gathering  of  Israel,  31;  Ensign  for  the  na- 
tions, 31;  Statement  at  Washington  conference,  31;  Comments  of 
visitors,  32;  Hope  for  the  world,  32;  The  restored  gospel,  32. 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G   57 

Crucible  of  adversity,  57;  Savior  not  exempt,  57;  Intensity  of  suffer- 
ing, 57;  Men  must  prove  themselves,  58;  Afflictions  of  Prophet  Joseph, 


INDEX 


147 


Page 


58;  Tried  in  crucible,  58;  Soul  heightened  by  endurance,  59;  Courage 
to  bear  afflictions,  59;  Blessings  follow  tribulation,  59;  Glory  in  tribu- 
lations, 60;  Growth  through  adversity,  60. 

Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  139 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    65 

Second  Day — Morning  Meeting   47 

Second  Session   23 

Seventh  Session  120 

Sill,  Elder  Sterling  W   16 

Remember  the  Sabbath,  16;  A  command  of  opportunity,  16;  Paul's 
prediction,  17;  Benefits  of  Sabbath,  17;  Renewal  of  covenants,  17; 
Rewarding  associations,  17;  What  is  man,  18. 

Simpson,  Bishop  Robert  L   9 

A  satisfying  experience,  9;  Hopelessly  lost,  10;  A  child's  song,  10; 
Effect  of  church  hymns,  10;  Help  of  home  teachers,  11;  The  glorious 
road  back,  11. 

Sixth  Session  104 

Smith,  Elder  Alan  J.  (Priesthood  Meeting)    90 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G   38 

Temples  are  holy  edifices,  38;  Necessity  of  baptism,  38;  All  to  par- 


take of  gospel  ordinances,  39;  Vicarious  work  for  the  dead,  39; 
Revealed  instructions,  39;  Temples  built,  40;  Sealing  ordinances  per- 
formed, 40. 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding  65,  66,  69,  74,  77,  84 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding  108 

Responsibility  to  the  Lord,  108;  A  mission  to  accomplish,  108;  Obedi- 
ence to  law  of  the  Lord,  109;  Spirit  of  forgiveness,  109;  Be  true  to 


the  faith,  109;  Improvement  of  musical  talents,  109;  Seek  after  salva- 
tion, 110;  Acknowledge  hand  of  the  Lord,  110. 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma    14 

Relationship  to  God,  14;  Belief  in  the  prophets,  14;  Religious  founda- 
tions, 15;  Prophetic  calling  of  Joseph  Smith,  15;  Early  history  preserved, 
15;  Reliable  history  kept,  15. 

Stapley,  Elder  Delbert  L   43 


Retrenchment  Society  established,  43;  President  Young's  instruction, 
43;  Challenge  accepted,  43;  Program  for  young  men,  44;  Thoughts 
for  today's  youth,  44;  Standards  never  change,  44;  The  faith  that 
saves,  44;  "...  a  standard  for  the  nations,"  45;  Resistance  to  tempta- 
tion, 45;  Purposes  of  the  YWMIA,  45;  Service  to  youth,  46;  Alma's 
counsel,  46;  Blessing  of  MIA,  46. 


148  INDEX 

Page 

Sustaining  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers   24 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  139 

Tanner,  President  N.  Eldon  85,  86,  90,  92,  97,  102,  104,  108, 

110,  111,  113,  116,  119 

Tanner,  President  N.  Eldon    48 

Questions  answered  in  scriptures,  48;  Ignorance  of  the  truth,  49; 
This  is  life  eternal,  49;  Premortal  existence,  49;  Lord's  word  to  Moses, 
49;  Spiritual  children  of  God,  50;  Mission  of  only  begotten  Son,  50; 
Testimony  of  Paul,  50;  Defense  before  King  Agrippa,  51;  Prophets  bear 
witness,  51;  Gospel  teachings  benefit  mankind,  52;  The  great  com- 
mandment, 52;  Choices  determine  happiness,  52. 

Taylor,  Elder  Henry  D  125 

Call  to  Welfare  Program,  125;  Care  of  poor  and  needy,  125;  Reward- 
ing principle  of  work,  125;  People  to  help  themselves,  125;  Preferential 
claim  on  funds,  126;  A  sense  of  security,  126;  Blesses  people  spiritually, 
126;  An  inspired  program,  126. 

Third  Day— Afternoon  Meeting  120 

Third  Day— Morning  Meeting  104 

Third  Session   47 

Tuttle,  Elder  A.  Theodore  130 

Importance  of  the  family,  130;  A  divine  institution,  130;  Home  the 
teaching  unit,  131;  Truths  to  be  taught,  131;  Testimony  to  be  incul- 
cated, 131;  Help  for  the  family,  131;  Church  program  assists  home, 
132;  Challenge  to  the  family,  132. 

Young,  Elder  S.  Dilworth   40 

Financing  of  mission,  40;  Quorum  assistance,  41;  Missionaries  out- 
side United  States,  4i;  Seventies  assistance  to  missionaries,  41;  Dis- 
charging responsibility,  42;  The  calling  of  the  Seventy,  42;  Stake 
missions,  42;  Large  field  to  be  harvested,  42. 


; 


Printed  by 


in  the  United  Stotes  of  America 


