OnsL  diuundhsxL  TunsJtsanJth. 
ANNUAL 

confffifnct 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

OpJiiL  3,  If  and.  6,  1%9 

With  Report  of  Discourses 

Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-Day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Printed  in  the  United  States  of  America 


disL  idu  jcatl&cL . . . 

"THE  ENIGMA  OF  PALMYRA" 

For  more  than  100  years  vigorous,  but  futile  attempts  have 
been  made  to  explain  him  away,  only  to  be  rejected,  dis- 
credited or  abandoned. 

One  explanation  survives  the  tests  of  time  and  truth.  Read  it, 
and  its  many-sided  manifestations  in  these  books: 

JOSEPH  SMITH,  AN  AMERICAN  PROPHET....$3.25 


By  John  Henry  Evans 

JOSEPH  SMITH,  THE  PROPHET  $3.25 

By  Preston  Nibley 

TEACHINGS  OF  THE  PROPHET 

JOSEPH  SMITH   $2.75 

By  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

PROPHECIES  OF  JOSEPH  SMITH  AND 

THEIR  FULFILLMENT   $1.75 

By  Nephi  L.  Morris 


One  significant  and  impressive  fact  to  consider  about  him  is 
the  caliber  of  men  whose  love  and  loyalty  he  won,  and  what 
they  accomplished  under  the  motivation  and  enthusiasm  of 


their  testimonies: 

BRIGHAM  YOUNG,  THE  MAN  AND 

HIS  WORK   $2.75 

By  Preston  Nibley 

BRIGHAM  YOUNG  THE  COLONIZER   $3.00 

By  Milton  R.  Hunter 

HEBER  C.  KIMBALL  $3.00 

By  Orson  F.  Whitney 

DANIEL  HANMER  WELLS   $2.50 

By  Bryant  S.  Hinckley 

EZRA  T.  BENSON   $3.00 


By  John  Henry  Evans  and  Minnie  Egan  Anderson 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 
44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


The  One  Hundred  Nineteenth  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 

The  One  Hundred  Nineteenth  Annual  Conference  of  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Taber- 
nacle, Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Sunday,  Monday  and  Wednesday, 
April  3,  4,  and  6,  1949. 

General  sessions  of  the  conference  were  held  at  10:00  a.m. 
and  2:00  p.m.,  Sunday,  Monday  and  Wednesday,  and  the  General 
Priesthood  meeting  convened  Monday  evening,  April  4  at  7:00. 

The  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast  was  presented  Sunday  morning, 
April  3,  at  8:30  over  Radio  Station  KSL  and  the  Columbia  Broad- 
casting System,  a  report  thereof  appearing  in  this  record. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broadcast,  which  was  pre- 
sented over  KSL  and  through  the  courtesy  and  facilities  of  the 
Columbia  Broadcasting  Company's  system,  throughout  the  United 
States,  on  Sunday  morning  at  9:30  is  also  made  a  part  of  this  report. 

By  means  of  Television  equipment,  many  who  were  unable  to 
find  accommodation  in  the  Tabernacle  assembled  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  immediately  south  of  the  Tabernacle  where  they  were  enabled 
to  see  and  hear  the  speakers  as  well  as  those  who  presented  musical 
numbers.  Large  numbers  of  others  who  could  not  be  accommodated  in 
either  of  these  buildings  listened  to  the  services  by  means  of  amplify- 
ing equipment  upon  the  grounds. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  having  recently  passed  through 
an  illness,  from  which  he  was  still  convalescing,  was  unable  to  be 
present  at  all  the  sessions.  He  was  in  attendance  at  the  Sunday 
morning,  Monday  morning,  Wednesday  morning  and  Wednesday 
afternoon  sessions.  He  was  also  present  at  the  General  Priest- 
hood meeting  Monday  evening. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  Present 

The  First  Presidency:  George  Albert  Smith,  J.  Reuben  Clark, 
Jr.,  and  David  O.  McKay. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:* ,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith, 
Stephen  L  Richards,  John  A.  Widtsoe,  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  Albert  E. 
Bowen.  Harold  B.  Lee,  Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson, 
Mark  E.  Petersen,  Matthew  Cowley,  and  Henry  D.  Moyle. 

Patriarch  to  the  Church:  Eldred  G.  Smith. 

Of  the  Assistants  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve:  Marion  G.  Rom- 
ney,  Thomas  E,  McKay,  Clifford  E.  Young,**. 

*  President  George  F.  Richards  absent  because  of  illness. 
**  Elder  Alma  Sonne  presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 


2  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  3  First  Day 

The  First  Council  of  Seventy:  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R. 
Ivins,  Richard  L.  Evans,  Oscar  A.  Kirkham,  S.  Dilworth  Young, 
Milton  R.  Hunter,  and  Bruce  R.  McConkie. 

The  Presiding  Bishopric:  LeGrand  Richards,  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin, 
and  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson. 

Officers  and  Other  Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  and  A. 
William  Lund,  assistant. 

Members  of  the  General  Welfare  Committee,  Church  Welfare 
Program. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Education,  Commissioner  of 
Education,  and  Seminary  Supervisors. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Counselors,  Bishops  of  Wards 
and  their  Counselors,  Presidents  of  Temples,  Patriarchs,  High 
Priests,  Seventies,  Elders,  General,  Stake  and  Ward  officers  of 
Auxiliary  associations,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

Mission  Presidents:  Richard  L.  Evans,  Temple  Square,  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah;  George  Q.  Morris,  Eastern  States;  S.  Dilworth 
Young,  New  England;  Creed  Haymond,  Northern  States;  John  B. 
Hawkes,  North  Central  States;  Francis  W.  Brown,  Central  States; 
Thomas  W.  Richards,  East  Central  States;  J.  Robert  Price,  Central- 
Atlantic  States;  Albert  Choules,  Southern  States;  Glenn  G.  Smith 
Texas-Louisiana;  Francis  A.  Child,  Western  States;  Oscar  W. 
McConkie,  California;  German  E.  Ellsworth,  Northern  California; 
Joel  Richards,  Northwestern  States;  Floyed  G.  Eyre,  Canada;  Glen 
G.  Fisher,  Western  Canada;  Lorin  F.  Jones,  Spanish- American; 
Arwell  L.  Pierce,  Mexico;  S.  Eugene  Flake,  Southwest  Indian.*** 


***Name  of  Navajo-Zuni  Mission  changed  to  Southwest  Indian  Mis- 
sion. 

CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

Preliminary  to  the  commencement  of  the  Sunday  morning  session 
of  the  General  Conference,  which  convened  at  10  o'clock  a.m.,  the 
regular  Sunday  morning  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broadcast 
was  presented  from  9:30  to  10:00. 

This  broadcast,  which  was  presented  through  the  courtesy  and 
facilities  of  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  System's  coast-to-coast  net- 
work, throughout  the  United  States,  was  written  and  announced 
by  Richard  L.  Evans  and  orginated  with  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City. 
It  was  as  follows: 

(Organ  began  playing  "As  the  Dew"  and  on  signal  the  organ 
and  choir  broke  into  "Gently  Raise,"  singing  words  to  end  of  second 
line,  and  humming  to  end  of  verse  for  announcer's  background. ) 


CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST  3 


Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome  you  within  these  walls  with 
music  and  the  spoken  word  from  the  Crossroads  of  the  West. 

The  Columbia  Broadcasting  System  and  its  affiliated  stations 
bring  you  at  this  hour  another  presentation  from  Temple  Square  in 
Salt  Lake  City,  with  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  Frank  W.  Asper,  Tabernacle  Organist,  and  the  spoken  word 
by  Richard  Evans. 

We  open  with  a  majestic  chorus  from  Mendelssohn's  "Elijah." 
The  text,  taken  from  1st  Kings,  contrasts  the  commotion  of  violent 
physical  forces  with  the  quiet  whisperings  of  the  still  small  voice: 
"Behold!  God  the  Lord  passed  by! — And  a  mighty  wind  rent  the 
mountains — the  sea  was  upheaved,  the  earth  was  shaken.  .  .  .  But  yet 
the  Lord  was  not  in  the  tempest,  but  ...  in  that  still  small  voice,  on- 
ward came  the  Lord."  "Behold,  God  the  Lord  Passed  By." 

( Choir  sang  "Behold,  God  the  Lord  Passed  By" — Mendelssohn ) 

Announcer:  With  Dr.  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  Tabernacle 
Organ,  we  recall  "The  Lost  Chord"  by  Sir  Arthur  Sullivan.  It  is  a 
song  of  the  searching  for  once  familiar  sights  and  sounds  and  scenes, 
now  masked  from  memory,  but  which  men  shall  once  more  behold. 
"It  may  be  that  death's  bright  angel  will  speak  in  that  chord  again. 
It  may  be  that  only  in  heaven  I  shall  hear  that  grand  Amen." 

(Organ  presented  "The  Lost  Chord" — Sullivan) 

Announcer:  Eliza  R.  Snow's  hymn  of  man's  eternal  march  is 
sung  now  by  the  men's  chorus  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  to  the  music 
of  James  McGranahan,  as  arranged  by  Mr.  Cornwall:  "O  My 
Father." 

("Men's  chorus  sang  "O  My  Father" — Arr.  Cornwall) 
Announcer:  There  are  some  fine  distinctions  to  be  found  in  the 
now  immortal  phrase,  "Life,  liberty,  and  the  pursuit  of  happiness." 
Life  is  an  eternal  fact;  liberty,  an  inalienable  right.  But  with 
happiness — we  are  offered  only  the  right  to  pursue  it!  We  can  give 
a  man  his  liberty.  He  may  not  use  it  well  or  keep  it  long,  but  we  can 
give  it  to  him.  But  not  so  his  happiness.  We  can  help,  but  ultimately 
he  has  to  help  himself  to  happiness.  But  this  all  men  have  in  com- 
mon: we  are  all  looking  for  it.  No  one  wants  to  be  unhappy;  no 
one  deliberately  sets  out  to  try  to  make  a  muddle  of  his  life. 
But  some  of  us  may  be  so  hotly  in  pursuit  of  some  counterfeit  kind 
that  the  real  thing  isn't  recognized.  Some  of  us  may  be  looking 
for  the  right  thing  in  the  wrong  way.  And  among  the  many  mis- 
conceptions concerning  this  thing  so  much  pursued  are  these:  (One) 
That  money  makes  happiness.  False.  It  may  help  or  it  may  hinder. 
Some  men  have  sold  their  happiness,  but  no  one  was  ever  able  to 
buy  it.  ( Two )  That  pleasure  is  the  same  as  happiness.  False.  You 
can  wear  yourself  ragged  in  pursuit  of  pleasure  —  and  still  wake 
up  in  dull  despair.  (Three)  That  fame  brings  happiness.  False. 
The  record  eloquently  indicates  otherwise.  (Four) That  happiness 
must  be  found  in  far  places.   False  again.   We  carry  it  with  us — > 


4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sundag,  April  3  First  Day 

or  we  don't  have  it.  And  sometimes  after  we've  pursued  it  in  far 
places  we  find  that  we  have  left  our  happiness  behind.  There  is  a 
long  list  of  things  that  have  helped  to  make  men  happy — from 
which  we  mention  these:  A  quiet  conscience;  useful  work  well  and 
willingly  done;  an  awareness  of  being  wanted  and  needed;  an  earnest 
appreciation  of  other  people;  conformity  to  the  laws  of  honor  and  of 
honesty,  to  the  laws  of  the  land  and  the  laws  of  God.  If  there  were 
no  reasonable  chance  of  finding  happiness,  we  had  just  as  well  ring 
down  the  curtain  on  time  and  eternity,  for  happiness  is  properly  the 
chief  business  and  ultimate  aim  of  life.  "Men  are  that  they  might 
have  joy."  But  there  is  no  point  in  pursuing  it  where  it  never  was  and 
never  will  be  found.  No  one  ever  overtook  anything — including  hap- 
piness —  by  pursuing  it  on  the  wrong  road.  If  we  want  it,  we  had 
better  look  for  it  where  it  is. 

(Without  announcement  organ  presented  "Beside  the  Still 
Waters" — Marsh ) 

Announcer:  Dr.  Asper  has  presented  a  sacred  song  by  C.  H. 
Marsh  which  takes  its  title  from  the  23rd  Psalm:  "Beside  the  Still 
Waters." 

And  now  there  is  time  to  hear  from  the  organ  a  hymn  by  George 
Careless,  "He  Died,  the  Great  Redeemer  Died." 

(Organ  presented  "He  Died,  the  Great  Redeemer  Died") 

Announcer:  We  close  this  day  from  Temple  Square  with  a 
thoughtful  theme  from  Wagner's  Tannhauser:  The  choir  recalls  the 
"Pilgrim's  Chorus." 

(Choir  sang  "Pilgrim's  Chorus"  —  Wagner) 

Anouncer:  Once  more  we  leave  you  within  the  shadows  of  the 
everlasting  hills.   May  peace  be  with  you,  this  day  —  and  always. 

This  concludes  the  one  thousand  and  twenty-fourth  presentation 
continuing  the  20th  year  of  this  traditional  broadcast  from  the 
Mormon  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  brought  to  you  by  the 
Columbia  network  and  its  affiliated  stations,  originating  with  Radio 
Station  KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducted  the  singing  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir.  Frank  W.  Asper  was  at  the  organ.  The  spoken  word  by 
Richard  Evans. 

I        _  FIRST  DAY 

\  :  MORNING  MEETING 

The  first  session  of  the  Conference  convened  in  the  great 
Tabernacle  at  10:00  a.m.,  Sunday,  April  3,  1949. 

Every  available  space  in  the  Tabernacle  auditorium  and  gal- 
leries was  occupied;  as  many  as  could  be  accommodated  in  the  large 


PRESIDENT  J,  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  $ 

Assembly  Hall  immediately  south  of  the  Tabernacle  listened  to  and 
watched  the  proceedings  by  means  of  television,  and  during  the  Choir 
and  Organ  Broadcast  and  the  regular  Conference  meeting,  thousands 
of  people  assembled  on  the  grounds  where  they  listened  to  the  services 
by  means  of  amplifying  equipment  that  had  been  installed. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  was  present  and  presided.  At 
his  request  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First 
Presidency,  conducted  the  services.  The  meeting  commenced  prompt- 
ly at  10:00  a.m. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

This  is  the  opening  session  of  the  119th  Annual  Conference  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

We  are  greatly  blessed  by  the  presence  here  this  morning  of 
President  George  Albert  Smith,  the  presiding  high  priest  of  the 
Church,  and  we  are  blessed  because  the  Lord,  responsive  to  the 
prayers  of  the  Saints  has  blessed  him.  He  will  preside  at  this 
session  and  he  has  asked  the  speaker,  President  Clark,  to  conduct  the 
services. 

Of  the  General  Authorities  Elder  Matthew  Cowley  is  absent 
visiting  the  Pacific  missions  and  Elder  Alma  Sonne  is  in  Europe  in 
charge  of  the  European  missions.  President  George  F.  Richards 
is  resting  at  home  at  the  suggestion  of  his  doctor. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  is  the  Clerk  of  the  Conference. 

Our  broadcasts  over  other  stations  than  KSL  are  constantly 
increasing.  This  time,  all  or  part  of  the  service  will  be  broadcast  over 
eight  stations  as  follows:  Over  KSL  (as  will  all  the  services  of  this 
Conference);  by  arrangement  through  KSL  these  same  sessions  will 
be  broadcast  over  the  following  stations:  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KID 
at  Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at  Pocatello,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KJAM  at 
Vernal,  and  over  KTYL  at  Mesa  by  transcription.  The  services 
this  morning,  this  afternoon,  and  tomorrow,  Monday,  morning  over 
KEXO  at  Grand  Junction,  Colorado,  by  transcription.  These  serv- 
ices will  also  be  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  over  a  loud  speaking 
system  and  by  television.  All  general  sessions  of  the  Conference 
will  be  heard  and  seen  in  the  Assembly  Hall  in  the  same  way. 

Any  important  messages  and  calls  that  come  to  us  for  persons 
supposed  to  be  in  attendance  at  the  Conference  will  be  announced 
at  the  dismissal  of  this  meeting  over  the  loud  speaking  system  on  the 
grounds.  Every  one  would  do  well  to  listen  carefully  to  such  an- 
nouncements. 

We  have  received  notice  from  the  Fire  Department  of  Salt 
Lake  City  calling  our  attention  to  an  ordinance  of  the  City  which  re- 
quires that  aisles  shall  be  kept  clear  and  likewise  doorways.  These 
doorways  are  very  large  and  those  who  are  there,  in  case  of  accident, 


6  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  3  First  Dag 

should  immediately,  of  course,  retire.  I  hope  you  will  cooperate  with 
the  ushers  so  that  we  may  obey  this  city  ordinance.  We  speak  of 
"honoring,  obeying,  and  sustaning  the  law"  and  we  should  give  an 
example  of  it. 

The  flowers  which  you  see  here,  the  calla  lilies,  came  to  us 
through  the  thoughtful  kindness  of  the  good  Saints  of  Berkeley 
Stake. 

We  will  begin  the  morning  session  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and 
congregation  singing  "Redeemer  of  Israel,"  Elder  Richard  P.  Condie 
conducting. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Herman  C. 
Goates,  president  of  Lehi  Stake. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Redeemer  of 
Israel." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  President  Herman  C. 
Goates,  President  of  Lehi  Stake. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "Come,  Come  Ye 
Saints." 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

You  look  mighty  good  to  me.  I  wonder  if  any  of  you  are  as 
happy  as  I  am,  to  be  at  this  conference.  I  started  praying  about  two 
and  a  half  months  ago  that  I  might  be  here,  and  I  am  grateful  to  the 
Lord  that  he  has  heard  not  only  my  prayers,  but  also  your  prayers, 
and  I  take  this  occasion  to  thank  every  one  of  you  for  the  interest 
you  have  had  in  me  and  for  the  kind  words  that  have  been  written, 
and  the  prayers  that  have  been  offered. 

Gratitude  for  Return 

I  would  like  at  this  time  to  thank  all  those  who,  out  of  the  kind- 
ness of  their  hearts,  have  sent  cards  of  greeting  and  letters  of  en- 
couragement. It  isn't  possible  for  me  to  answer  them  all,  but  I  am 
sure  that  those  who  have  sent  them  will  receive  comfort  because  of 
what  they  have  done. 

I  have  just  come  back  from  California.  We  have  a  large  con- 
gregation of  people  there  and  particularly  in  the  place  where  I  have 
just  been,  the  Los  Angeles  area.  It  is  remarkable  how  many  kind 
people  there  are  there,  people  who  are  not  members  of  the  Church, 
but  who  are  interested  in  what  we  are  seeking  to  do. 

Los  Angeles  Temple 

My  visit  to  California  this  time  was  in  the  interest  of  building 
another  temple.  There  are  many  people  down  there  who  didn't  know 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  7 


what  it  meant.  They  thought  it  was  just  another  meetinghouse. 
They  didn't  realize  that  while  a  meetinghouse  serves  a  small  com- 
munity, a  temple  serves  a  larger  community  for  a  different  purpose. 
We  were  anxious  to  have  everything  adjusted  so  everybody  would 
be  happy. 

May  I  say  that  we  have  received  excellent  cooperation  from 
people  who  are  down  there.  Our  own  brethren  who  live  there  have 
made  such  a  fine  record  that,  when  they  visited  individuals  in  regard 
to  the  matter,  they  have  been  received  with  consideration  and  kind- 
ness, and  I  want  to  take  this  occasion  to  thank  them,  particularly, 
Brother  Preston  D.  Richards,  who  spent  so  much  of  his  time  doing 
the  thing  that  I  went  down  to  do  and  visiting  those  who  would  be 
of  importance  in  helping  us  to  make  our  adjustments. 

The  word  comes  from  the  missionary  field  that  the  Lord  has 
opened  our  way  in  numerous  places.  It  is  marvelous  what  a  change 
there  has  been  in  many  cases.  The  magazines  and  newspapers  of 
the  world  are  going  out  of  their  way  now  to  be  complimentary  to  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  They  sometimes  don't 
understand  the  beauty  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  but  they  have 
discovered  that  we  have  some  of  the  best  basketball  players  in  all 
the  world.  And  that  draws  us  a  little  nearer.  The  great  Choir  and 
Organ  advertise  us  in  the  world,  and  it's  a  joy  to  many  who  are  away 
to  listen  in  to  this  great  Choir. 

Met  to  Worship 

We  are  met  here  this  morning  not  just  to  talk  and  visit.  We 
have  come  together  to  worship  in  the  most  earnest  manner.  We 
are  here  in  the  Lord's  house  to  wait  upon  him.  Many  of  you  have 
come  thousands  of  miles  just  to  be  present.  If  each  of  us  today  is 
here  to  worship,  if  we  have  come  for  that  purpose  and  will  exercise 
our  faith,  the  Lord  will  not  fail  us,  and  we  will  conclude  this  con- 
ference feeling  that  he  has  blessed  us  marvelously. 

I  wish  that  many  more  of  our  people  could  be  present  on  an 
occasion  of  this  kind.  Our  house  is  not  large  enough.  Even  now 
we  have  to  begin  to  think  of  a  larger  place  for  our  general  con- 
ferences, but  today  we  are  thankful  to  him  who  gave  us  this  house 
and  these  surroundings. 

We  are  thankful  to  him  who  is  the  Author  of  our  being,  and 
grateful  that  he  came  down  to  earth  and  brought  with  him  his  Be- 
loved Son  to  begin  a  new  dispensation — the  Dispensation  of  the  Full- 
ness of  Times.  This  is  not  the  Church  of  Joseph  Smith  or  of  any  oth- 
er leader  who  followed  him.  This  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  and 
it  was  our  Heavenly  Father  who  gave  it  its  name. 


8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  3  First  Day 

Privilege  of  Church  Membership 


I  wonder  sometimes  if  we  realize  what  an  honor  it  is  to  have 
membership  in  this  great  organization.  Even  in  our  business  affairs 
and  in  our  social  affairs  we  should  carry  with  us  the  feeling,  "I  am 
a  part  of  the  work  of  the  Lord,  and  I  desire  to  be  worthy  of  the  bless- 
ings that  have  come  to  me."  There  has  never  been  a  time  in  the 
history  of  the  world  when  the  opportunity  of  disseminating  the  truth 
has  been  so  great  as  now. 

In  our  own  land  people  are  glad  to  hear  our  missionaries, 
pleased  to  learn  something  more  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Some 
people  have  worshiped  the  sun;  some  have  worshiped  other  lumi- 
naries; and  some  have  worshiped  mountains  and  other  things,  with 
the  thought  that  it  was  worship.  But  the  worship  in  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  a  devoted  life,  a  desire  to  be 
worthy  of  him  in  whose  image  we  have  been  created  and  who  has 
given  us  all  that  the  world  has  that  is  worth  while — the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ. 

Contribution  of  Schools 

When  I  think  of  the  fine  development  that  is  being  made  in  our 
schools,  I  am  grateful.  I  refer  particularly  to  the  Church  schools 
(and  I  wouldn't  overlook  the  public  schools).  There  are  many 
teachers  in  the  public  schools  who  have  done  their  best  to  teach  our 
sons  and  daughters  concerning  correct  principles.  But  there  are  many 
people  identified  with  the  education  of  the  youth  of  this  great  land 
who  do  not  have  any  faith  in  God. 

We  are  fortunate  to  have  so  many  who  not  only  have  the  educa- 
tion that  comes  from  the  universities,  not  only  have  the  benefits  that 
are  derived  from  science,  but  in  addition  to  that,  also  have  a  testi- 
mony that  God  lives  and  that  we  are  his  children.  It  hasn't  been 
very  long  since  I  saw  a  letter  written  by  an  educated  man  who  con- 
cluded his  letter  with  a  suggestion  that  all  religion  was  a  myth.  All 
of  it!  And  yet  that  man  has  a  position  teaching  the  children  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints. 

Obligation  of  Parents 

Brothers  and  sisters,  we  must  depend  not  only  upon  the  institu- 
tions of  learning,  but  also  we  must  follow  the  admonition  of  our 
Heavenly  Father  when  he  says  that  it  is  our  duty  to  teach  our  chil- 
dren when  eight  years  of  age,  faith  in  God,  repentance,  and  baptism. 

He  refers  there  to  parents.  He  doesn't  turn  that  over  to  school 
teachers. 

If  parents  in  Zion  or  any  of  her  stakes  which  are  organized  fail 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  9 


to  teach  their  children  these  things  when  eight  years  of  age — not 
waiting  until  they're  grown— but  when  they  are  eight  years  of  age, 
the  sin  be  upon  the  heads  of  the  parents. 

And,  my,  how  grateful  I  am,  that  there  are  so  many  of  the  mem- 
bers of  this  Church  who  believe  that,  and  who  prize  the  children  who 
have  come  into  their  homes,  and  devote  themselves  to  teaching  them. 

Example  of  Latter-day  Saints 

When  I  observe  as  I  travel  and  as  I  mingle  among  the  people  at 
home  and  abroad,  the  character  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  the  fine  ex- 
ample that  they  set,  the  manner  in  which  they  live,  I  wonder  some- 
times if  we  appreciate  that  our  boys  and  girls  are  among  the  greatest 
missionaries  that  this  Church  has — if  they  have  been  properly  taught. 
They  love  to  share  the  gospel  with  others  when  they  understand  it, 
and  they  desire  to  understand  it.  We  have  just  had  a  great  con- 
ference here  of  the  Primary  Association  of  this  Church.  I  was  unable 
to  be  present  with  them  in  this  house,  but  I  understand  it  was  filled 
with  those  who  work  with  the  young  people,  as  well  as  some  of  the 
young  folk  themselves.  Nobody  will  ever  realize  the  great  worth 
of  the  Primary  Association  unless  he  familiarizes  himself  with  what 
it  has  done  in  this  Church  through  the  fine  leadership  of  God-fearing 
women. 

These  organizations  add  to  what  we  should  teach  in  our  homes 
other  things  that  our  children  should  know  and  inspire  in  them  a  de- 
sire to  do  what  the  Lord  would  have  them  do. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  a  joy  to  be  here.  I  thank  my  Heavenly 
Father  for  this  privilege.  I  am  grateful  for  your  companionship,  and 
I  would  like  to  cooperate  with  you,  from  this  time  forth,  realizing 
that  we  have  special  blessings  from  our  Heavenly  Father,  and  that 
if  we  will  be  unselfish  with  those  blessings  and  share  them  with  those 
who  do  not  understand  and  who  do  not  enjoy  what  we  appreciate, 
great  will,  be  our  joy. 

Missionary  Efforts 

This  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  Millions  of  our  Father's 
children  do  not  know  anything  about  it,  but  they  are  his  children  just 
the  same,  and  he  expects  us  to  do  our  very  best.  Since  the  close  of 
the  war,  we  have  had  as  many  as  five  thousand  missionaries  in  the 
world.  Many  of  them  have  done  wonderful  work.  They  have  found 
the  hearts  of  people  softened  and  ready  to  hear  the  message. 

Many  of  our  missions  have  used  the  singers  in  their  groups, 
and  they  have  held  concerts  among  the  people  where  they  could  sing 
the  gospel  as  well  as  teach  it  by  other  means.  Many  of  you  brethren 
and  sisters  are  in  charge  of  institutions  of  learning  and  are  teachers 
of  these  young  people.    I  pray  that  not  only  may  you  have  the  joy 


10  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  3  First  Dag 

of  feeling  that  your  intellectual  opportunities  have  been  better  than 
many,  but  also  that  you  may  draw  near  enough  to  the  Lord  that  you 
will  feel  his  presence  and  the  inspiration  of  his  spirit  while  you  teach 
the  most  precious  of  all  his  gifts  to  man,  the  sons  and  daughters  who 
come  into  our  homes.  I  feel  to  bless  these  men  and  women  who  are 
giving  their  time  in  the  mission  field  and  in  the  schools  and  among 
the  auxiliary  organizations  outside  of  their  regular  ordinary  work 
of  life.  I  feel  like  blessing  them  and  asking  God  to  bless  them  for 
their  faithfulness. 

Love  for  Neighbor 

This  is  the  Lord's  house.  We  are  his  guests  today.  It  is  he 
who  made  it  possible  for  us  to  be  here,  and  now,  while  we  are  as- 
sembled together  and  while  we  are  mingled  during  the  conference, 
let  us  evidence  by  our  conduct,  by  our  gentleness,  by  our  love,  by 
our  faith,  that  we  do  keep  that  great  commandment  that  the  Savior 
said  was  like  unto  the  first  great  commandment,  "Thou  shalt  love 
thy  neighbor  as  thyself." 

I  can  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  happiest  people  in 
this  world  are  those  who  love  their  neighbors  as  themselves  and 
manifest  their  appreciation  of  God's  blessings  by  their  conduct  in 
life.  May  the  Lord  add  his  blessing,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

We  have  just  listened  to  President  George  Albert  Smith,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  who  has 
again  addressed  us  with  his  admonitions  that  we  should  love  our 
neighbors  and  share  our  blessings  with  them. 

We  shall  now  hear  from  President  David  O.  McKay  of  the 
First  Presidency. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Choose  you  this  day  whom  ye  will  serve;  whether  the  gods  which 
your  fathers  served  that  were  on  the  other  side  of  the  flood,  or  the  gods 
of  the  Amorites,  in  whose  land  ye  dwell:  but  as  for  me  and  my  house, 
we  will  serve  the  Lord.    (Joshua  24:15.) 

Sensing  keenly,  brethren  and  sisters,  the  responsibility  of  this 
moment,  facing  this  vast  audience,  seen  and  unseen,  I  ask  for  your 
sympathetic  attitude  and  for  your  prayers. 

I  was  just  thinking  how  quickly  time  has  passed  since  we  met 
six  months  ago  under  similar  circumstances.    We  could  very  ap- 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


11 


propriatley  sing  this  morning  that  old  hymn  now  eliminated  from  our 
hymn  books  ".  .  .  how  swift  the  months  have  passed  away;  'tis  con- 
ference again,  and  Zion's  untold  thousands  come  to  sing  the  joyful 
strain." 

Progress  of  the  Church 

With  you  I  rejoice  in  the  presence  of  President  Smith  at  this  con- 
ference. I  am  grateful  with  you  for  the  progress  of  the  Church.  Its 
growth  in  the  organized  stakes  and  in  the  missions  is  most  satisfac- 
tory. As  President  Smith  has  already  indicated,  among  thinking  men 
and  women  throughout  the  world,  the  purposes  of  the  Church  are 
now  better  understood  with  the  resultant  lessening  of  prejudice.  Its 
means  are  more  adequate  for  the  promulgation  throughout  the  world 
of  the  restored  gospel  of  peace  and  love  and  universal  brotherhood. 

But  the  enemy  is  active  also.  He  is  cunning  and  wily  and  seeks 
every  opportunity  to  undermine  the  foundations  of  this  Church  and 
strikes  wherever  it  is  possible  to  weaken  or  to  destroy. 

A  Wise  Choice 

The  scripture  I  read  by  way  of  inroduction  you  will  recognize 
as  the  avowed  and  unalterable  resolution  of  Joshua  whose  nobility 
of  character  and  outstanding  leadership  won  for  him  the  title  "the 
servant  of  the  Lord."  Just  before  his  death  he  called  upon  Israel 
"to  put  away  the  strange  gods"  that  were  among  them,  and  to  be 
faithful  and  obedient  to  the  God  of  Israel.  The  people  in  Joshua's 
day  evidently  made  a  wise  choice,  for,  we  are  told,  that  Israel 

.  .  .  served  the  Lord  all  the  days  of  Joshua,  and  all  the  days  of  the 
elders  that  overlived  Joshua.  .  .  .  (Joshua  24:31.) 

To  every  normal  person  God  has  given  "the  freedom  of  choice." 
Our  moral  and  spiritual  progress  depends  upon  the  use  we  make  of 
that  freedom. 

The  Real  Test 

The  real  test  of  any  church  or  religion  is  the  kind  of  men  it 
makes.  I  am  very  happy  and  deeply  grateful  for  the  high  type  of 
young  manhood  and  womanhood  being  reared  in  the  Church  as  in- 
dicated recently  by  a  report  of  6,556  prospective  missionaries  in 
their  medical  examination  including  serological  tests  preparatory  to 
their  going  on  missions. 

In  1946  there  were  2,263  so  examined.  In  1947,  2,134;  likewise 
in  1948,  2,159,  or  a  total,  as  I  say,  of  6,556,  6,554  showed  negative 
tests;  only  one  in  1946  and  one  in  1947  were  positive — one  in  more 
than  three  thousand. 


12 

Sunday,  April  3 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 
False  Ideals 


Firs*  Day 


But  as  I  said,  there  are  other  reports  which  are  more  disquiet- 
ing— reports  of  the  influence  of  false  ideals.  I  think  it  is  what  Joshua 
had  in  mind,  in  a  way,  when  he  spoke  about  false  gods.  False  ideals, 
if  accepted,  are  even  more  destructive  of  spirituality  than  was  the 
worship  of  the  Amorite  gods. 

These  reports  pertain  to  wild  parties  held  by  young  people  in 
the  Church,  of  objectionable,  not  to  say  lewd  clubs,  organized  among 
a  certain  group;  of  actions  of  girls  whose  parents  permit  them  to 
come  to  the  city  unchaperoned  to  attend  sport  contests.  Such  reports 
lead  us  to  believe  that  not  a  few  parents  and  some  of  our  young  peo- 
ple need  to  be  warned  against  enticing  evil  practices,  indulgences 
in  which  end  only  in  disillusionment  and  sorrow. 

There  can  be  little  doubt  that  war  and  materialistic  science  have 
had  a  deadening  effect  upon  the  moral  sensibilities  of  too  many  of 
our  youth.  One  critic  goes  so  far  as  to  say:  "Self-interest  alone  re- 
mains as  a  motive,  and  pleasure  as  the  sole  end  of  life." 

I  commend  President  Richard  L.  Evans  in  his  excellent  sermon 
over  the  air  this  morning  about  choosing  the  wrong  way  in  seeking 
happiness. 

It  is  the  duty  of  parents  and  of  the  Church  not  only  to  teach  but 
also  to  demonstrate  to  young  people  that  living  a  life  of  truth  and 
moral  purity  brings  joy  and  happiness,  while  violations  of  moral  and 
social  laws  result  only  in  dissatisfaction,  sorrow,  and,  when  carried 
to  extreme,  in  degradation. 

An  Old  Story 

There  is  an  old  story,  which  I  think  many  of  you  read  in  a  re- 
cent magazine,  which  told  of  the  experience  of  a  great  artist  who 
was  engaged  to  paint  a  mural  for  the  cathedral  in  a  Sicilian  town. 
The  subject  was  the  life  of  Christ.  For  many  years  the  artist  la- 
bored diligently,  and  finally  the  painting  was  finished  except  for  the 
two  most  important  figures,  the  Christ  Child  and  Judas  Iscariot.  He 
searched  far  and  wide  for  models  for  those  two  figures. 

One  day  while  walking  in  an  old  part  of  the  city  he  came  upon  some 
children  playing  in  the  street  Among  them  was  a  twelve-year-old  boy 
whose  face  stirred  the  painter's  heart.  It  was  the  face  of  an  angel — 
a  very  dirty  one,  perhaps,  but  the  face  he  needed. 

The  artist  took  the  child  home  with  him,  and  day  after  day  the  boy 
sat  patiently  until  the  face  of  the  Christ  Child  was  finished. 

But  the  painter  failed  to  find  a  model  for  Judas.  For  years,  haunted 
by  the  fear  that  his  masterpiece  would  remain  unfinished,  he  continued 
his  search. 

One  afternoon,  in  a  tavern,  the  painter  saw  a  gaunt  and  tattered 
figure  stagger  across  the  threshold  and  fall  to  the  floor,  begging  for  a 
glass  of  wine.  The  painter  lifted  him  up  and  looked  into  a  face  that 
startled  him.    It  seemed  to  bear  the  marks  of  every  sin  of  mankind. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY  13 


"Come  with  me,"  the  painter  said,  "I  will  give  you  wine,  food,  and 
clothing." 

Here  at  last  was  his  model  for  Judas.  For  many  days  and  parts  of 
many  nights  the  painter  worked  feverishly  to  complete  his  masterpice. 

As  the  work  went  on,  a  change  came  over  the  model.  A  strange 
tension  replaced  the  stuporous  languor,  and  his  bloodshot  eyes  were 
fixed  with  horror  on  the  painted  likeness  of  himself.  One  day,  perceiving 
his  subject's  agitation,  the  painter  paused  in  his  work,  saying,  "My  son, 
I'd  like  to  help  you.  What  troubles  you  so?" 

The  model  sobbed  and  buried  his  face  in  his  hands.  After  a  long 
moment  he  lifted  pleading  eyes  to  the  old  painter's  face. 

"Do  you  not  then  remember  me?  Years  ago  I  was  your  model  for 
the  Christ  Child!" 

Well,  the  story  may  be  fact  or  fiction,  but  the  lesson  it  teaches 
is  true  to  life. 

The  dissipated  man  made  a  wrong  choice  in  his  youth,  and  in 
seeking  gratification  in  indulgence  sank  ever  lower  and  lower  until 
he  wallowed  in  the  gutter. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  only  recently  I  met  this  unfortunate  man's 
counterpart — a  man  with  bleary  eyes  and  dissipated  features  whom 
I  knew  years  ago  as  a  brilliant,  open-countenanced  youth  with  a 
promising  future. 

Dual  Nature  of  Man 

Man  has  a  dual  nature;  one,  related  to  the  earthly  or  animal 
life;  the  other,  akin  to  the  divine.  Whether  a  man  remains  satisfied 
within  what  we  designate  the  animal  world,  satisfied  with  what  the 
animal  world  will  give  him,  yielding  without  effort  to  the  whim  of 
his  appetites  and  passions  and  slipping  farther  and  farther  into  the 
realm  of  indulgence,  or  whether,  through  self-mastery,  he  rises  to- 
ward intellectual,  moral,  and  spiritual  enjoyments  depends  upon  the 
kind  of  choice  he  makes  every  day,  nay,  every  hour  of  his  life. 

"Man  has  two  creators,"  says  William  George  Jordan,  "his 
God  and  himself.  This  first  creator  furnishes  him  the  raw  material 
of  his  life — the  laws  in  conformity  with  which  he  can  make  that 
life  what  he  will.  The  second  creator — himself — has  marvelous 
powers  he  rarely  realizes.  It  is  what  a  man  makes  of  himself  that 
counts." 

The  Strait  Gate 

We  need  not  shut  our  eyes  to  the  fact  that  too  many  of  our 
young  folk  respond  to  the  call  of  the  physical,  because  it  seems  the 
easy  and  natural  thing  to  do.  Too  many  are  vainly  seeking  short- 
cuts to  happiness.  It  should  always  be  kept  in  mind  that  that  which 
is  most  worth  while  in  life  requires  strenuous  effort. 

Enter  ye  in  at  the  strait  gate:   for  wide  is  the  gate,  and  broad  is 
the  way,  that  leadeth  to  destruction,  and  many  there  be  which  go  in 
.  thereat.   . 


14  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  3  First  D*g 

Because  strait  is  the  gate,  and  narrow  is  the  way,  which  leadeth  unto 
life,  and  few  there  be  that  find  it.   (Matthew  7:13-14.) 

As  in  the  days  of  old,  so  there  are  today  some  who  prefer  to 
revel  in  what  I  have  heard  President  George  Albert  Smith  designate 
as  "the  devil's  territory"  rather  than  to  strive  for  the  higher  and 
better  things  of  life.  Persons  who  condemn  their  will  to  the  service 
of  their  appetites,  suffer  the  penalties.  In  the  words  of  Charles 
Wagner: 

Let  your  needs  rule  you,  pamper  them — you  will  see  them  multiply 
like  insects  in  the  sun.  The  more  you  give  them,  the  more  they  demand. 
He  is  senseless  who  seeks  for  happiness  in  material  prosperity  alone. 

The  Baser  Side 

It  is  said  that  one  Roman  emperor  offered  a  reward  to  anybody 
who  would  invent  a  new  pleasure.  Nero  set  Rome  on  fire  for  the 
mere  pleasure  of  a  new  form  of  diversion.  Rome  fell  because  of 
extravagance,  luxury,  and  dissipation.  In  personal,  as  in  national 
life,  these  are  unfailing  signs  of  decline  and  decay.  Truly, 

...  he  that  soweth  to  his  flesh  shall  of  the  flesh  reap  corruption; 
but  he  that  soweth  to  the  Spirit  shall  of  the  Spirit  reap  life  everlasting. 
(Gal.  6:8.) 

In  their  yearning  for  a  good  time,  young  people  are  often  tempt- 
ed to  indulge  in  the  things  which  appeal  only  to  the  baser  side  of 
humanity,  five  of  the  most  common  of  which  are:  First,  vulgarity 
and  obscenity;  second,  drinking  and  petting  parties;  third,  unchastity; 
fourth,  disloyalty;  and  fifth,  irreverence. 

Vulgarity 

Vulgarity  is  often  the  first  step  down  the  road  to  indulgence. 
To  be  vulgar  is  to  give  offense  to  good  taste  or  refined  feelings.  A 
young  man  who  would  tell  a  vulgar  joke  in  the  presence  of  ladies  dis- 
closes a  nature  leaning  towards  that  which  is  low  and  coarse.  A 
girl  who  would  encourage  it  and  laugh  at  it  is  taking  a  step  toward 
that  which  is  crude  and  unrefined. 

Most  of  you  have  read  David  Starr  Jordan's  denunciation  of 
this  vice.  He  concludes  it  by  saying : 

We  find  the  corrosion  of  vulgarity  everywhere,  and  its  poison  enters 
every  home.  The  billboards  of  our  cities  are  covered  with  its  evidence; 
our  newspapers  are  redolent  with  it;  our  story  books  reek  with  it;  our 
schools  are  tainted  by  it;  and  we  cannot  keep  it  out  of  our  homes,  or 
our  churches,  or  our  colleges. 


It  is  only  a  step  from  vulgarity  to  obscenity.  The  executive 
secretary  of  a  committee  appointed  to  curtail  the  distribution  of 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


15 


obscene  literature  put  on  my  desk  only  recently  a  most  vile  plaque, 
covertly  cast  reportedly  here  in  our  city,  and  sold  to  our  young 
people  at  a  nominal  price.  The  best  way  to  rid  society  of  such  base- 
ness is  for  parents,  businessmen,  and  especially  every  decent  young 
person,  to  refuse  to  tolerate  it  and  to  report  the  vendors  to  the  officers 
of  the  law. 

Drinking  and  Petting  Parties 

It  is  right,  indeed  essential,  to  the  happiness  of  our  young  people 
that  they  meet  in  social  parties,  but  it  is  an  indication  of  low  morals 
when  for  entertainment  they  must  resort  to  physical  stimulation  and 
debasement.  Such  indulgence  weakens  your  character;  discredits 
your  family  name;  robs  your  future  wife  or  husband  of  a  priceless 
treasure,  and  sows  seed  that  may  ripen  into  bitter  fruit  of  marital  su- 
spicion, unhappiness,  and  divorce.  A  girl  who  sacrifices  self-respect 
for  social  popularity  debases  true  womanhood. 

A  spotless  character,  founded  upon  the  ability  to  say  no  in  the 
presence  of  those  who  mock  and  jeer,  wins  the  respect  and  love  of 
men  and  women  whose  opinion  is  most  worth  while.  Drinking  and 
petting  parties  form  an  environment  in  which  the  moral  sense  be- 
comes dulled,  and  unbridled  passion  holds  sway.  It  then  becomes 
easy  to  take  the  final  step  downward  in  moral  disgrace. 

Chastity 

The  test  of  true  womanhood  comes  when  woman  stands  inno- 
cent at  the  court  of  chastity.  All  qualities  are  crowned  by  this  most 
precious  virtue  of  beautiful  womanhood.  It  is  the  most  vital  part  of 
the  foundation  of  a  happy  married  life.  There  is  a  general  idea 
throughout  the  world  that  young  men  may  sow  their  wild  oats,  but 
that  young  women  should  be  chaperoned  and  guarded.  But  even 
in  this  matter  of  chaperonage,  there  is  too  much  laxity  on  the  part  of 
parents,  if  recent  reports  are  to  be  relied  upon. 

In  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  there  is  but  one  standard  of  mo- 
rality. No  young  man  has  any  more  right  to  sow  his  wild  oats  in 
youth  than  has  a  young  girl.  He  who  comes  to  his  bishop  to  ask  for 
a  recommend  to  take  a  pure  girl  to  the  altar  is  expected  to  give  the 
same  purity  that  he  hopes  to  receive. 

A  woman  crowned  with  virtue  is  the  "highest,  holiest,  most 
precious  gift  to  man,"  excepting  only  salvation  offered  in  the  gospel, 
and  that  forms  part  of  it.  But  a  woman  who  barters  her  virtue  "is  not 
one  of  the  least  of  man's  shames." 

Disloyalty 

When,  instead  of  high  moral  principles,  a  life  of  immoral  indul- 
gence is  chosen,  and  man  or  woman  gets  far  down  in  the  scale  of 


16  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  3  First  Day 

degeneracy,  disloyalty  is  an  inevitable  part  of  his  or  her  nature. 
Loyalty  to  parents  becomes  quenched;  obedience  to  their  teachings 
and  ideals  abandoned;  loyalty  to  wife  and  children  smothered  in  base 
gratification;  loyalty  to  Church  impossible,  and  is  often  supplanted 
by  sneers  at  its  teachings,  and  that  means  the  perpetrator  is  "left  to 
himself  to  kick  against  the  pricks  and  to  fight  against  God." 

At  this  stage,  irreverence  is  an  inevitable  consequence,  a  pretty 
sure  sign  of  moral  weakness.  No  man  will  rise  high  who  jeers  at 
sacred  things.  It  is  said  that  when  Mr.  Melville  D.  Landon  (Eli 
Perkins)  was  preparing  his  volume  on  Kings  of  the  Platform  and 
Pulpit,  he  wrote  to  Colonel  Robert  G.  Ingersoll  for  a  copy  of  his 
most  famous  lecture.  In  a  letter  which  accompanied  the  manuscript, 
Mr.  Ingersoll  said: 

Whatever  you  do,  do  not  put  anything  into  the  book  against  Christ. 
I  may  have  said  silly  things  about  him  when  a  boy  in  Peoria,  Illinois,  but  I 
now  regard  him  as  the  one  Perfect  Man. 

Importance  of  Spirituality 

I  said  in  the  beginning  that  man  is  a  dual  being — a  physical  and 
spiritual  entity,  but  his  spiritual  side  is  the  all-important  part.  The 
real  tragedy  of  following  false  ideals  is  that  by  so  doing  we  stifle  and 
sometimes  choke  out  spirituality  completely.  Rudolph  Eucken  truly 
asserts  that  without  a  consciousness  of  a  spiritual  relation  to  the 
Infinite — note  this — that  without  a  consciousness  of  a  spiritual  re- 
lation 

No  true  civilization  is  possible.  A  civilization  declining  all  contact 
with  a  supernatural  life  and  refusing  to  establish  those  mysterious  inner 
relations,  gradually  degenerates  into  a  mere  human  civilization,  and 
becomes  a  parody  of  civilization. 

The  body  with  its  five  or  more  senses,  with  its  appetites  and 
passions,  is  essential  to  life  and  happiness,  but  in  the  ultimate  analysis 
it  is  only  a  means  to  a  higher  end.  When  man  makes  its  gratification 
an  end  in  itself,  he  frustrates  the  purpose  and  descends  to  sensuality. 
"Choose  you  this  day  whom  ye  will  serve." 

John  P.  Altgeld  expresses  more  than  mere  imagination  when 
he  savs: 

Young  man,  life  is  before  you.  Two  voices  are  calling  you — one 
coming  out  from  the  swamps  of  selfishness  and  force,  where  success 
means  death;  and  the  other  from  the  hilltops  of  justice  and  progress, 
where  even  failure  brings  glory.  .  .  .  Two  ways  lie  open  to  you — one 
leading  to  an  ever  lower  and  lower  plain,  where  are  heard  the  cries  of 
despair  and  the  curses  of  the  poor,  where  manhood  shrivels  and  pos- 
session rots  down  the  possessor;  and  the  other  leading  to  the  highlands 
of  the  morning,  where  are  heard  the  glad  shouts  of  humanity  and  where 
honest  effort  is  rewarded  with  immortality. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 
Expanding  the  Soul 


17 


Brethren  and  sisters,  spirituality  is  the  consciousness  of  victory 
over  self,  and  of  communion  with  the  Infinite.  Spirituality  impels  one 
to  conquer  difficulties  and  acquire  more  and  more  strength.  To  feel 
one's  faculties  unfolding  and  truth  expanding  the  soul  is  one  of  life's 
sublimest  experiences. 

Being  "honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and  in  doing 
good  to  all  men,"  are  attributes  which  contribute  to  spirituality,  the 
highest  acquisition  of  the  soul.  It  is  "the  divine  in  man,  the  supreme, 
crowning  gift  that  makes  him  king  of  all  created  things,  the  one  final 
quality  that  makes  him  tower  above  all  other  animals. 

Divine  is  that  admonition  and  promise  given  to  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith: 

".  .  .  let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts  unceasingly;" — a  wonder- 
ful statement — 

.  .  .  then  shall  thy  confidence  wax  strong  in  the  presence  of  God;  and 
the  doctrine  of  the  priesthood  shall  distil  upon  thy  soul  as  the  dews  from 
heaven. 

The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  constant  companion,  and  thy  scepter  an 
unchanging  scepter  of  righteousness  and  truth;  and  thy  dominion  shall 
be  an  everlasting  dominion  and  without  compulsory  means  it  shall 
flow  unto  thee  forever  and  ever.    (D.  &  C.  121:45-46.) 

God  help  us  to  keep  that  admonition  and  to  follow  the  ideals  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  established  by  direct  revelation  in  this 
day,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  congregation  joined  in  singing 
the  hymn:  "Come,  O  Thou  King  of  Kings,"  Elder  Richard  P.  Condie 
conducting. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

O/  the  First  Council  o/  the  Seventy 

The  young  men  and  women  in  our  schools  and  colleges  are  con- 
fronted with  many  conflicting  ideas  concerning  religion  and  life. 
They  become  unsettled  in  their  minds  as  they  study  our  present-day 
problems.  Attacks  are  made  on  their  religious  beliefs  which  have 
been  held  sacred  by  them  ever  since  they  were  children  in  their 
homes.  They  often  come  to  wonder  about  the  teachings  of  the  Holy 
Bible,  particularly  the  belief  in  God  and  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
They  often  become  indifferent  to  what  is  right  in  their  daily  living. 
They  have  just  cause  to  wonder!  The  fires  of  revolution  are  burn- 
ing everywhere — I  fear  even  at  our  very  doors.  In  America,  and  of 
course  in  the  whole  world,  we  are  in  need  of  a  spiritual  awakening, 


18  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  3  First  Dag 

an  awakening  that  makes  men  respect  old  truths,  the  finer  lessons  of 
history,  and  the  word  of  God;  a  realization  that  a  man  owes  a  lot 
more  to  his  country,  than  his  country  owes  him:  a  return  to  the  old 
standards  of  character  that  makes  it  easy  for  a  man  to  become  indig- 
nant over  corruption,  and  to  hate  sin  and  wrong.  A  study  of  the  word 
of  God,  faith,  and  prayer  will  bring  about  a  better  feeling  in  the  minds 
of  the  youth,  and  it  is  up  to  the  fathers  and  mothers  to  be  patient 
with  their  children,  for  they  are  living  in  a  new  age. 

The  Discovery  of  America 

Every  household  should  keep  in  mind  the  two  divinely  appoint- 
ed events  in  modern  history  around  which  must  be  centered  our  fu- 
ture lives  as  a  people.  The  discovery  of  America  was  for  a  divine 
purpose,  and  the  formation  of  this  Republic  was  an  event  ordered  of 
God  for  a  glorious  new  day.  The  Prophet  Nephi  some  six  centuries 
before  the  birth  of  the  Savior  wrote: 

And  I  looked  and  beheld  a  man  among  the  Gentiles,  who  was  sepa- 
rated from  the  seed  of  my  brethren  by  the  many  waters;  and  I  beheld  the 
Spirit  of  God,  that  it  came  down  and  wrought  upon  the  man;  and  he  went 
forth  upon  the  many  waters,  even  unto  the  seed  of  my  brethren,  who 
were  in  the  promised  land. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  beheld  the  Spirit  of  God,  that  it  wrought 
upon  other  Gentiles;  and  they  went  forth  out  of  captivity,  upon  the  many 
waters.    (I  Nephi  13:12-13.) 

How  deeply  did  Christopher  Columbus  feel  that  inspired  direc- 
tive purpose  of  God  when  he  wrote  of  his  discovery  of  America: 

But  these  great  and  marvelous  results  are  not  to  be  attributed  to  any 
merit  of  mine,  but  to  the  holy  Christian  faith,  for  that  which  the  unaided 
intellect  of  man  could  not  compass,  the  Spirit  of  God  has  granted  to 
human  exertions.  For  God  is  wont  to  hear  the  prayers  of  his  servants 
who  live  his  precepts  even  to  the  performance  of  apparent  impossibilities. 
.  .  .  Let  Christ  rejoice  on  earth,  as  he  rejoices  in  heaven  in  the  prospect  of 
the  salvation  of  the  souls  of  so  many  nations  hitherto  lost. 

With  what  inspired  knowledge  did  John  Winthrop,  one  of  the 
old  Puritan  fathers,  write: 

It  will  be  a  service  to  the  Church  of  great  consequence  to  carry  the 
gospel  into  those  parts  of  the  world  to  help  on  the  coming  of  the  fulness 
of  the  Gentiles. 

Washington's  Acknowledgement 

In  his  first  inaugural  address,  Washington  said: 

Such  being  the  impressions  under  which  I  have,  in  obedience  to  the 
public  summons,  repaired  to  the  present  station,  it  would  be  peculiarly 
improper  to  omit,  in  this  first  official  act,  my  [ervent  supplications  to  that 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG  19 


Almighty  Being  who  rules  over  the  universe,  who  presides  in  the  councils 
of  nations,  and  whose  providential  aids  can  supply  every  human  defect, 
that  his  benediction  may  consecrate  to  the  liberties  and  happiness  of  the 
people  of  the  United  States  a  government  instituted  by  themselves  for 
these  essential  purposes,  and  may  enable  every  instrument  employed  in  its 
administration  to  execute  with  success  the  functions  allotted  to  his  charge. 
In  tendering  this  homage  to  the  great  Author  of  every  public  and  private 
good,  I  assure  myself  that  it  expresses  your  sentiments  not  less  than  my 
own;  nor  those  of  my  fellow-citizens  at  large,  less  than  either.  No 
people  can  be  bound  to  acknowledge  and  adore  the  invisible  hand  which 
conducts  the  affairs  of  men,  more  than  the  people  of  the  United  States. 

The  people  whom  Columbus  found  in  America,  and  to  whom 
Washington  was  the  means  of  bringing  a  knowledge  of  an  Old 
World,  were  a  deeply  religious  people.  In  a  recent  visit  to  the  Mari- 
copa Stake,  I  was  impressed  with  the  group  of  Indians  that  was  pres- 
ent. Noble-looking  people,  they  were.  Some  of  them  were  Navajos, 
some  Zunis,  and  a  few  Apaches.  In  speaking  to  them,  I  recalled  a 
visit,  made  to  Boston  many  years  ago,  of  some  Zunis.  We  are  told 
that  they  were  taken  down  the  harbor,  that  they  might  worship. 
Landing  on  an  island,  the  Indians  disappeared  for  a  time,  and  on 
their  return  they  walked  into  the  sea,  and,  with  deep  solemnity,  sang 
their  mystic  chant.  They  then  threw  out  upon  the  air  from  their 
uplifted  hands  the  grain  they  offered  to  the  god  of  waters,  and  let  it 
float  away  as  a  thanks  offering.  That  was  worship  of  the  Great 
Spirit. 

Ambassadors  of  Truth 

When  Jesus  sent  forth  the  Twelve  and  Seventy  as  his  ambas- 
sadors of  the  divine  truths  which  he  was  teaching,  he  charged  them 
to  reproduce  the  miracles  of  his  own  personal  ministry.  Such  an  ex- 
tension of  his  work  was  a  part  of  his  original  project  of  evangelizing 
the  country  roundabout  Palestine  and  eventually  the  world. 

After  these  things,  the  Lord  appointed  other  seventy  also,  and  sent 
them  two  and  two  before  his  face  into  every  city  and  place,  whither 
he  himself  would  come. 

Therefore  said  he  unto  them,  the  harvest  truly  is  great,  but  the 
labourers  are  few:  pray  ye  therefore  the  Lord  of  the  harvest,  that  he 
would  send  forth  labourers  into  his  harvest. 

Go  your  ways:  behold,  I  send  you  forth  as  lambs  among  wolves. 

And  into  whatever  house  ye  enter,  first  say,  Peace  be  to  this  house. 
(Luke  10:1-3,  5.) 

Some  days  afterward,  we  read  in  the  gospel  of  St.  Luke: 

And  the  seventy  returned  again  with  joy,  saying,  Lord,  even  the 
devils  are  subject  unto  us  through  thy  name. 

And  he  turned  .  .  .  unto  his  disciples,  and  said  privately,  Blessed  are 
the  eyes  which  see  the  things  that  ye  see.    (Ibid.,  10:17,  23.) 

To  Jesus  it  was  a  provocation  of  purest  happiness  that  God  had 
chosen  these  men,  unlearned  and  simple  men,  in  preference  to  intel- 


20  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  3  First  Day 

lectual  and  aristocratic  leaders.  Throughout  his  ministry,  peasants 
and  fishermen,  the  unlearned  and  landless  were  called  and  he  re- 
joiced that  their  mission  had  been  sealed  by  God:  that  through  the 
faith  of  the  Twelve  and  the  Seventy  they  had  been  invested  with 
mysterious  gifts  of  his  Spirit.  Jesus  lifted  up  the  ideal  of  life  in  the 
kingdom  of  God  to  inspire  his  disciples  to  heightened  aspirations  and 
endeavor.  He  did  not  lay  down  a  rigid  legalism,  but  as  one  English 
writer,  Dr.  Church,  in  his  Essays  and  Reviews  has  written: 

He  wooed  his  pupils  by  persuasive  ideals.  He  transferred  the  source 
of  happiness  and  the  understanding  of  the  gospel  from  external  circum- 
stances to  the  inward  tile  of  man.  Goodness,  morals,  ideals  depend  upon 
one's  attitude  toward  God.  It  was  fundamental  to  the  ethic  of  Jesus. 
For  this  reason  the  Beatitudes  are  conjoined  with  purity  of  heart.  It 
denotes  simplicity,  a  singleness  of  aim  in  allegiance  to  the  divine  teach- 
ings of  the  Master.  The  ethical  and  religious  teachings  pervading 
Christ's  instructions  to  these  first  Christian  missionaries  has  become  the 
foundation  of  the  inner  light  of  the  Seventies  of  today.  Their  lives 
exhale  the  aroma  of  complete  consecration.  They  are  the  salt  of  the 
earth,  the  Light  of  the  world. 

God's  Servants 


God's  first  demands  of  his  servants  are  pure  hearts,  upright  lives, 
truthfulness,  mercy,  and  honesty.  Good  manners  were  regarded  as 
matters  of  religion  and  morality.  Boasting,  ostentation,  conceit,  were 
of  old  considered  the  patent  evidence  of  vulgarity.  These  are  con- 
demned by  the  scriptures.  The  Seventies  must  always  keep  in  mind 
the  grandeur  of  the  First  Article  of  Faith,  which  is  the  greatest  state- 
ment of  Truth  since  the  days  of  Christ  our  Redeemer.  They  must 
keep  in  mind  the  supreme  test  of  religion,  which  is  revelation.  No 
religion  can  be  persuasive  unless  it  relies  on  the  principle  of  revela- 
tion. All  true  men  reveal  God,  but  the  completest  carrier  of  revela- 
tion can  be  no  other,  or  less  than  a  chosen  personality.  This  is  the 
Christian  conception.  The  nobler  the  person,  the  truer  the  revela- 
tion. 

It  will  be  a  noble  resolution  for  every  Seventy  to  say  to  him- 
self: "I  shall  read  more  diligently  and  more  deeply  the  Holy  Scrip- 
tures than  ever  before."  The  Holy  Bible,  Book  of  Mormon,  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  and  Pearl  of  Great  Price  are  not  intended  for 
the  few.  Their  subject-matter  constitutes  truth,  necessary  for  us 
all.  Every  quorum  of  seventy  will  from  now  on  become  a  study 
group,  where  vital  truths  are  discussed.  It  is  within  such  a  group  that 
men  are  stimulated  to  think  and  to  converse  in  preparation  for  the 
teaching  of  the  gospel.  At  a  time  when  so  much  of  our  world  litera- 
ture is  strangely  blind  to  the  glory  and  excellence  of  human  nature 
at  best,  we  should  dedicate  ourselves  again  to  the  study  of  the  truths 
and  the  beauties  and  holiness  of  the  sacred  word  of  God. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG  21 
Mission  of  Seventies 

The  Seventies,  because  of  their  calling,  have  a  high  mission  set 
before  them.  They  should  resolve  that  they  will  develop  their  mental 
and  spiritual  powers  toward  maturity  and  learn  to  have  communion 
with  great  souls  through  the  reading  of  their  messages  of  truth.  The 
habit  of  reading  must  be  formed  as  early  in  life  as  possible.  A  few 
minutes  every  day  will  soon  be  a  great  many  hours.  Do  not  miss 
the  thoughts  of  men  who  have  lived  in  former  times.  Broaden  your 
understanding,  enliven  your  sympathy  for  other  peoples  and  their 
ways  of  living.  Make  your  own  lives  richer  and  deeper  by  learning 
other  ideas  and  visions  of  people.  Read  good  books.  Read  them 
again  and  again  until  you  have  drawn  the  essence  of  thought  and 
feeling  from  them.  These  are  some  of  the  reasons  why  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  wrote: 

.  .  .  seek  ye  diligently  and  teach  one  another  words  of  wisdom;  yea, 
seek  ye  out  of  the  best  books  words  of  wisdom;  seek  learning,  even  by 
study  and  also  by  faith.    (D.  &  C.  88:118.) 

Joy  will  be  the  characteristic  of  the  quorums  of  Seventy  so  long 
as  they  are  growing,  expanding,  and  creating  healthfully.  When 
they  cease  to  grow,  they  cease  to  live.  God  sent  us  into  the  world  to 
create  and  to  enrich  our  own  personality  in  the  process.  Yet  we 
have  to  rely  on  God's  help  to  make  anything  worth  making.  If  we 
devote  ourselves  to  God,  we  must  see  to  it  that  we  have  ourselves 
to  devote.  "Self  consecration  is  not  a  negative  thing:  it  is  a  very 
positive  thing,"  says  a  noted  evangelist.  This  leads  us  to  the  knowl- 
edge that  what  we  are  is  more  important  than  what  we  do  or  say. 
If  we  are  really  wise  in  our  concepts  of  God,  then  our  thoughts  lie 
deeply,  though  often  misunderstood.  It  takes  deep  thoughts  to  under- 
stand the  depths  of  the  message  of  divine  truth.  For  this  reason  the 
brethren  can  hear  God  speak,  and  those  whose  hearts  God  has 
touched  can  find  their  way  easily  to  the  hearts  of  others. 

True  to  Revealed  Word 

In  the  difficult  times  that  surround  us  today,  the  brethren  hold- 
ing the  priesthood  of  God  must,  above  all  things,  be  true  to  the  word 
of  God  as  revealed  by  the  Master  and  as  revealed  today.  The  words 
of  truth  are  ever  the  same.  Love,  joy,  peace,  faith,  humility;  these 
are  the  characteristic  Christian  ideas.  How  beautiful  are  the  words 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  when  he  said: 

...  O  ye  that  embark  in  the  service  of  God,  see  that  ye  serve  him 

with  all  your  heart,  might,  mind,  and  strength,  that  ye  may  stand  blameless 

before  God  at  the  last  day. 

*  *  *  * 

And  faith,  hope,  charity  and  love,  with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory 
of  God,  qualify  him  for  the  work. 


22  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  3  First  Day 

Remember  faith,  virtue,  knowledge,  temperance,  patience,  brotherly 
kindness,  godliness,  charity,  humility,  diligence.  (D.  &  C.  4:2,  5-6.) 

Herein  is  the  Prophet  conveying  the  charm  of  his  teachings  and 
an  heroic  conception  of  the  good  in  life.  His  concept  of  the  Christian 
virtues  and  graces  is  noble  and  comprehensive.  He  exalted  and 
glorified  the  principles  of  morals  as  given  by  the  Savior  of  the  world, 
and  aroused  the  adoration  of  men  for  the  gospel  which  is  the  only 
road  to  peace.  It  is  the  mission  of  the  Seventies  and  all  who  hold  the 
priesthood  to  stimulate  healthy  and  majestic  ideals  through  self- 
discipline  and  the  knowledge  that  in  "pure  religion  and  undenled," 
is  life  eternal. 

A  testimony,  my  brethren,  of  the  truthfulness  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  is  a  sacred  trust.  It  can  come  only  to  one  who  has 
opened  his  heart  and  mind  to  hallowed  living  with  earnest  prayer 
and  deep  faith  in  the  Living  God.  It  is  the  most  divine  gift  of  all. 
"For  it  is  faith  and  not  wisdom  which  carrieth  the  key  to  the  kingdom 
of  heaven,"  says  Sholem  Asch. 

Sir  Francis  Drake  in  admonishing  his  men,  said: 

Men  pass  away,  but  people  abide.  See  that  ye  hold  fast  the  heritage 
we  leave  you,  yea,  and  teach  your  children  its  value,  that  never  in  the 
coming  centuries  their  hearts  may  fail  them,  or  their  hands  grow  weak. 
Hitherto  we  have  been  too  much  afraid.  Henceforth,  we  will  fear  only 
God. 

ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

As  President  McKay  indicated  in  his  opening  remarks,  at  times 
these  conferences  seem  to  come  rather  close  together,  and  this  is  one 
of  those  times.  I  earnestly  hope  and  pray  to  be  given  utterance  on 
this  occasion.  I  feel  at  home  within  these  walls,  but  the  impact  of 
this  congregation  is  something  for  which  I  am  never  quite  prepared. 
It  has  been  my  privilege  for  many  years  to  frequent  this  building  and 
these  grounds,  and  I  have  a  growing  love  of  them  and  a  growing 
feeling  of  peace  and  appreciation  here.  They  speak  of  great  things  of 
the  past  and  of  great  things  of  the  future — and  I  have  great  faith  in 
the  future.  I  have  great  faith  in  the  ultimate  accomplishment  of  the 
purposes  of  Providence,  in  spite  of  the  foolishness  of  men.  It  is  a 
glorious  world  in  spite  of  many  man-made  troubles. 

Arrivals  and  Departures 

One  of  the  things  that  happens  in  this  world  every  day  of  which 
I  think  we  are  not  too  well  aware  is  the  going  and  coming  of  tens  of 
thousands  of  people — the  arrivals  of  newcomers  and  the  departures 
of  those  who  have  finished  their  sojourn  here,  for  a  time  at  least.  It 
;«s  an  ever-startling  fact  to  me  that  about  one  hundred  fifty  thousand 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


23 


people  arrive  in  this  world  every  day,  and  that  more  than  eighty 
thousand  leave  this  world  every  day,  leaving  a  total  increase  in 
world  population  every  day  of  some  seventy  thousand.* 

President  Smith  has  spoken  this  morning  of  the  number  of  peo- 
ple we  have  in  the  southern  California  area.  There  are  more  than 
that  who  are  added  (increase  in  population,  that  is),  to  this  scene 
every  day,  and  more  than  three  times  that,  maybe  four  times  that,  who 
are  newcomers.  Think  what  that  means  in  terms  of  reaching  and 
teaching  some  hundred  and  fifty  thousand  new  arrivals  every  day! 

I  am  reminded  of  another  physical  fact  to  which  I  invited  the 
attention  of  some  of  my  brethren  a  few  weeks  ago:  Hendrick  Van 
Loon  has  dramatized  the  fact  that  physically,  in  bulk  at  least,  men 
don't  amount  to  much.  Mr.  Van  Loon  invites  our  attention  to  the 
fact  that  if  someone  were  to  make  a  crate  measuring  one-half  mile  in 
all  dimensions,  in  other  words,  a  one-half  mile  hollow  cube,  all  the 
human  family  now  living  could  be  put  into  it,  and  it  could  be  dropped 
into  the  Grand  Canyon  and  wouldn't  be  noticed  very  much. 

If  someone  had  actually  done  that,  this  world  would  have  been 
saved  a  good  deal  of  trouble;  but  we  also  would  have  been  deprived 
of  much  glorious  living  and  accomplishment  and  achievement  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  plans  and  purposes  of  our  Father  in  heaven.  It 
is  his  declared  purpose  to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal 
life  of  man,  and  he  has  been  patient  with  our  imperfections,  and  long- 
suffering,  and  has  given  us  the  ever-present  possibility  of  repentance. 
I  hope  we  shall  all  be  as  patient  and  understanding  with  the  imper- 
fections of  one  another  as  our  Father  has  been  with  us. 

Time  is  the  Essence 

There  is  another  physical  fact  that  comes  to  mind,  and  that  is 
that  time  is  the  essence  of  all  our  opportunities.  It  is  the  dimension 
in  which  we  live.  We  can't  speed  it  up,  and  we  can't  slow  it  down. 
We  can't  save  it,  and  we  can't  hoard  it.  It  is,  in  a  sense,  like  manna 
from  heaven.  The  Lord  allots  us  a  day's  supply  at  a  time;  and  in  the 
ordinary  course  of  life,  allowing  man  his  traditional  scriptural  three 
score  and  ten,  we  may  calculate  that  each  of  us  might  expect  on  an 
average  about  twenty-five  thousand  days.  I  think  when  we  reduce 
our  life-span  and  our  opportunities  here  to  twenty-five  thousand 
days,  we  may  think  more  seriously  of  some  of  the  things  to  which 
we  give  our  time.  We  can  spend  it  doing  one  thing  or  doing  another, 
reading  some  things  or  reading  other  things,  with  some  people  or 
with  other  people,  and  I  earnestly  hope  that  we  may  give  the  time 
test  to  all  we  do  and  to  all  we  think  and  to  all  our  goings  and  com- 
ings. 

*Some  authorities  put  these  figures  higher  and  some  lower.  These  are  esti- 
mated by  Claron  E.  Nelson,  University  of  Utah,  from  the  United  Nations  Monthly 
Bulletin  of  Statistics,  April  1949,  and  from  other  sources. 


24 

Sunday,  April  3 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 
The  Use  of  Truth 


First  Dag 


Another  fact  that  I  should  like  to  speak  of  in  passing  is  that  there 
is  no  assurance  of  superiority  so  far  as  I  know,  to  any  person  or  to 
any  people,  except  on  the  basis  of  a  superior  performance.  I  know 
of  no  assured  blessings  except  on  conditions  of  obedience,  and  I 
hope  we  shan't  take  undue  pride  in  the  mere  possession  of  truth.  Our 
pride  should  come,  if  indeed  it  should  come  at  all,  and  our  grattude 
likewise,  in  the  use  of  truth,  and  not  merely  in  its  possession. 

I  am  reminded  of  a  story  that  President  Grant  frequently  told, 
quoting  from  old  Bishop  Hunter:  "Don't  get  the  bighead.  The  big- 
head  has  ruined  more  people  in  this  Church  than  any  one  thing — 
except  sin."  There  is  no  more  virtue  in  the  mere  possession  of  truth 
than  there  is  in  the  mere  possession  of  food.  Neither  will  save  a  man 
unless  he  uses  it,  and  uses  it  wisely,  and  I  earnestly  pray  that  we 
may,  as  a  people,  with  the  knowledge  that  we  have,  demonstrate 
that  we  know  what  to  do  with  it  by  living  a  superior  way  of  life, 
individually  and  as  a  group. 

I  earnestly  hope,  in  closing,  that  our  young  people  may  be  en- 
couraged as  they  go  forth  to  live  their  lives.  I  repeat  that  I  have 
great  faith  in  the  future  and  in  the  ultimate  purposes  of  our  Father 
in  heaven  and  in  the  future  accomplishments  of  our  young  people. 
As  Thomas  Carlyle  wrote  one  time:  "The  crash  of  the  whole  solar 
and  stellar  systems  could  only  kill  you  once" — but  we  certainly  don't 
want  to  sit  around  waiting  for  it  to  happen! 

I  hope  that  our  young  people  will  go  forth  and  prepare  and  plan 
and  live  their  lives  and  make  their  homes  and  rear  their  families  with 
faith  in  God  and  with  faith  in  the  future.  No  doubt  men  will  make 
more  trouble  (to  paraphrase  an  old  saying,  "People  are  more  trouble 
than  anyone") ,  but  no  doubt  also,  we  will  gain  much  always  by  living 
our  lives,  by  building  on  a  solid  basis,  and  keeping  our  houses  in  or- 
der and  preparing  solidly  for  all  future  events;  and  whatever  the 
eventualities  are,  we  can  accept  them  with  faith  and  confidence  in 
the  promises  and  purposes  of  our  Father  in  heaven. 

May  God  help  us  so  to  do,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Brethren,  sisters,  and  radio  listeners:  It  is  unlikely  that  any  of 
you  listening  to  addresses  made  in  this  conference  expect  to  hear  any 
new  doctrine  announced  at  this  time;  yet  we  do  teach  that  God  "will 
yet  reveal  many  great  and  important  things  pertaining  to  the  King- 
dom of  God"  (Ninth  Article  of  Faith)  when  it  suits  his  purpose.  We 
already  have  doctrines,  principles,  and  policies  enough  to  challenge 
the  best  and  ablest  among  us  to  learn  and  live  in  harmony  with  them. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


25 


But  we  need  to  be  reminded  of  them  frequently  and  encouraged  to 
be  more  diligent  in  implementing  them  in  our  lives.  The  Lord  well 
knew  this  need  when  he  required  us  to  attend  sacrament  meetings 
frequently  and  renew  our  covenants.  I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  help 
me  in  an  effort  to  stir  us  up  to  remembrance. 

Characteristic  Doctrines 

As  is  generally  known,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  is  set  off  from  all  other  churches — Christian  and  non-Christ- 
ian alike — by  many  characteristic  doctrines  and  teachings.  We  hold 
firmly  to  the  doctrine  that  the  Holy  Trinity  is  made  up  of  three  sep- 
arate and  distinct  personal  Beings — Father,  Son,  and  Holy  Ghost — 
in  whose  image  we  ourselves  are  created,  as  declared  in  Genesis 
1:27.  Notwithstanding  the  vast  majority  of  civilized  people,  includ- 
ing nearly  all  Christians,  reject  the  teaching  that  God  is  a  personal 
Being,  the  truth  of  the  matter  is  not  in  the  least  affected  by  this  re- 
jection. 

In  the  fifteenth  century  the  world  believed  the  earth  was  flat, 
Columbus,  that  it  was  round.  Who  was  right?  The  claim  that  Jo- 
seph Smith,  a  fourteen-year-old  boy  actually  saw  and  heard  two 
glorious  personal  Beings — the  Father  and  the  Son,  who  appeared  in 
answer  to  his  humble  prayer  for  wisdom — is  a  basic  truth  in  Mor- 
monism,  the  validity  of  which  is  not  affected  even  though  disbelieved 
by  the  vast  majority  of  civilized  men.  Can  any  unbiased,  intelligent 
mind,  untouched  in  the  matter  by  the  teachings  of  others,  reading  the 
Bible  from  cover  to  cover,  get  any  other  idea  of  God  than  that  he  is  a 
personal  Being  in  the  image  of  which  we  ourselves  were  created? 
Yet  I  quote  the  following  from  a  book  that  aims  to  teach  a  worldwide 
accepted  view: 

God  is  spirit,  or  the  creative  energy  which  is  the  cause  of  all  visible 
things.  God  as  spirit  is  the  invisible  life  and  intelligence  underlying  all 
physical  things.  .  .  .  God  is  not  a  being  or  person  having  life,  intelligence, 
love  power.  God  is  that  invisible,  intangible,  something  we  call  life. 
.  .  .  Childlike,  untrained  minds  say  God  is  a  personal  being.  The  state- 
ment that  God  is  principle  chills  them,  and  in  terror  they  cry  out,  "They 
have  taken  away  my  Lord  and  I  know  not  where  they  have  laid  him!" 
Broader  and  more  learned  minds  are  always  cramped  by  the  thought  of 
God  as  a  person,  for  personality  limits  to  place  and  time.  God  is  the 
name  we  give  to  that  unchangeable,  inexorable  principle  at  the  source 
of  all  existence.  {Lessons  in  Truth.  H.  Emilie  Cady.) 

-  New  Revelation  Given 

Between  this  idea  of  God  and  that  taught  by  Joseph  Smith,  there 
is  the  wide  difference  that  exists  between  fancy  and  fact,  between 
the  false  and  the  true.  And  because  the  modern  world  was  engulfed 
in  this  stupefying  fancy  and  falsehood,  it  was  absolutely  necessary 
that  God  should  give  a  new  revelation  of  himself  that  his  children  here 


26  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  3  First  Day 

in  mortality  might  have  a  true  and  solid  basis  for  their  faith  in  him. 
But  why  did  he  not  give  this  revelation  through  some  world-re- 
nowned scholar  instead  of  an  obscure,  worldly-ignorant  fourteen- 
year-old  boy — to  one  whom  the  world  would  accept  rather  than  re- 
ject? Was  there  such  a  scholar  who  could  qualify  as  to  the  state- 
ment of  the  Apostle  James  which  says: 

If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to  all  men 
liberally,  and  upbraideth  not;  and  it  shall  be  given  him? 

However,  there  was  a  condition  attached: 

But  let  him  ask  in  faith,  nothing  wavering.  For  he  that  wavereth 
is  like  a  wave  of  the  sea  driven  with  the  wind  and  tossed. 

For  let  not  that  man  think  he  shall  receive  any  thing  of  the  Lord. 
(James  1:5-7.) 

The  humble,  unspoiled  boy  Joseph,  could  qualify.  What  re- 
nowned scholar  could?   The  Lord  said  to  Joseph: 

...  I  raised  you  up,  that  I  might  show  forth  my  wisdom  through 
the  weak  things  of  the  earth."  (D.  6  C.  124:1.) 

Yes,  as  I  have  formerly  said  in  this  pulpit,  in  answer  to  his 
humble  prayer,  Joseph  Smith  received,  so  far  as  the  records  indicate, 
the  most  glorious  vision  ever  given  to  man  in  mortality.  For,  look- 
ing up  in  the  pillar  of  light  enveloping  him,  he  both  saw  and  heard 
the  Father  and  the  Son,  two  highly  glorious  Personages,  in  the  very 
image  in  which  we  are  created.  This  is  a  fact;  this  is  the  truth,  the 
world  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding.  In  great  humility  and  ex- 
treme thankfulness  we  accept  of  these  things  and  testify  most  sincere- 
ly of  their  reality. 

Knowledge  of  Truth 

But  how  may  we  know?  the  doubter  may  ask.  When  in  an- 
swer to  the  Master's  question,  Peter  replied,  ". .  .Thou  art  the  Christ, 
the  Son  of  the  living  God,"  what  did  Jesus  say? 

.  .  .  Blessed  art  thou  Simon  Bar-jona:  for  flesh  and  blood  hath  not 
revealed  it  unto  thee,  but  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven.  (Matt.  16:16-17.) 

And  Moroni  wrote  in  the  last  chapter  of  the  Book  of  Mormon: 

And  when  ye  shall  receive  these  things,  I  would  exhort  you  that 
ye  would  ask  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  in  the  name  of  Christ,  if  these 
things  are  not  true;  and  if  ye  shall  ask  with  a  sincere  heart,  with  real 
intent,  having  faith  in  Christ,  he  will  manifest  the  truth  of  it  unto  you,  by 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

And  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  ye  may  know  the  truth  of  all 
things.    (Moroni  10:4-5;  see  also  I  Cor.  2:11-13.) 

It  is  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  that  great  multitudes  of 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL  27 


Church  members  testify  that  they  really  know  that  God  lives.  And 
I  am  one  of  that  number.  Did  not  Jesus  have  this  method  of  know- 
ing in  mind  when  he  said: 

.  .  .  My  doctrine  is  not  mine,  but  his  that  sent  me. 
If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall  now  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it 
be  of  God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself.  (John  7:16-17.) 

Satan  the  Devil 

Now  there  is  another  personality  of  which  I  desire  to  speak,  one 
that  the  world  calls  by  a  name,  but  in  whose  reality  as  a  personal 
Being  it  does  not  believe  and  that  person  is  Satan,  the  Devil.  But 
according  to  our  understanding  and  teaching,  Satan  is  a  person  with 
a  spirit  body,  in  form  like  that  of  all  other  men.  He  is  a  spirit  brother 
of  ours  and  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  who  is  our  Elder  Brother  in  the 
spirit  world.  The  earth  was  in  course  of  development  for  the  abode 
of  man  in  mortality.  A  Redeemer  was  to  be  sent  down  and  make  it 
possible  for  the  Father's  children  to  return  to  him.  Lucifer,  a  son  of 
the  morning,  a  bright  and  certainly  very  ambitious  individual,  said 
to  the  Father: 

.  .  .  here  I  am,  send  me  .  .  .  and  I  will  redeem  all  mankind,  that  one 
soul  shall  not  be  lost  .  .  .  ;  wherefore  give  me  time  honor  [power]. 

Lucifer's  offer  was  rejected;  it  involved  taking  from  man  his  God- 
given  free  agency  which  is  granted  to  everyone  born  into  mortality. 
Jesus  said  to  the  Father,  send  me, 

.  .  .  thy  will  be  done  and  the  glory  be  thine  forever.  (Moses  4:1-2.) 

And  Jesus  became  our  Redeemer.  Lucifer,  his  name  was  changed  to 
Satan,  the  Devil,  and  his  sympathizers  rebelled  and  were  cast  out 
down  to  earth  where  they  have  been  ever  since.  (See  Rev.  12:7-9.) 

Now,  the  means  Lucifer  proposed  to  use  to  get  all  the  Father's 
children  returned  to  him — force — has  been  the  means  he  has  used 
ever  since,  whenever  he  has  had  the  power.  But  of  course  he  operates 
through  those  whom  he  can  influence.  An  Omaha  evening  paper 
carried  a  lead  editorial  in  its  issue,  of  the  last  Saturday  in  August, 
1941,  entitled  "Hitler,  the  Devil  Incarnate."  Hitler,  as  all  the  world 
now  know,  taught  and  believed  in  the  use  of  power  whenever  it  was 
necessary  to  reach  his  objectives.  Satan,  through  his  agents,  has 
always  done  and  is  doing  the  same  thing  today.  We  see  it  being 
done  in  many  different  places  and  in  various  ways — locally,  national- 
ly, and  internationally.  Struggles  for  power  and  staying  in  positions 
of  power  are  everywhere  in  evidence.  And  when  power  is  obtained 
it  is  commonly  used  to  force  obedience  to  unrighteous,  if  not  positive- 
ly wicked,  demands.  Needless  to  specify,  for  we  see  cases  in  evi- 
dence somewhere  every  day,  in  this  country,  as  well  as  abroad.  But 
wherever  they  exist  they  will  generally  be  found  on  close  examina- 


28  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  3  First  Day 

tion  to  stem  from  sources  where  selfish,  greedy,  and  unrighteous  mo- 
tives dominate — to  sources,  therefore,  that  are  Satan  inspired.  And 
the  agencies  operating  under  this  wicked  influence  are  steadily  grow- 
ing more  numerous  and  more  powerful,  making  the  future  of  Ameri- 
ca more  dark  and  precarious.  Unless  this  rapidly  developing  ten- 
dency changes  for  the  better,  the  time  is  prboably  not  far  away  when 
the  America  of  the  fathers,  the  America  where  free  enterprise  with 
all  its  associated  blessings  of  personal  freedom  and  liberty  for  its 
citizens,  will  have  been  relegated  to  the  pages  of  history.  And  is  it 
not  strange,  very  strange,  from  the  standpoint  of  reason  and  logic, 
that  the  means  and  the  conditions  by  which  and  under  which  Ameri- 
ca has  grown  to  be  the  greatest,  the  most  powerful,  and  the  most 
prosperous  nation  on  earth  have  become  odious  to  vast  numbers  of 
our  people,  who  therefore  are  scheming,  planning,  working,  hoping, 
even  praying,  for  changes  that  would  put  an  end  to  America  as  "the 
land  of  the  free  and  the  home  of  the  brave"?  Among  all  the  un- 
righteous organized  agencies  now  working  in  the  world  to  further 
the  cause  of  Satan,  perhaps  the  largest  and  most  wicked  are  those 
given  to  the  cause  of  communism.  Communism  is  organized  wicked- 
ness and  crime  of  the  blackest  type.  Harsh  terms,  certainly!  Its 
objectives  are  confiscation  of  property,  robbery  of  those  who  have, 
slavery  of  its  productive  workers,  and  death  to  its  opponents.  Its 
beneficiaries  are  ne'er-do-wells,  those  who  own  nothing,  but  want 
everything,  especially  power  and  its  emoluments. 

Satan's  Purpose 

What  is  the  explanation  of  all  this?  I  think  that  it  lies  in  the  fact 
that  Satan  has  more  influence  and  power  in  the  world  today  than  ever 
before.  And  Satan's  purpose  is  to  overcome  righteousness,  to  entice 
God's  children  into  ways  of  sin,  misery,  and  suffering,  to  handicap 
those  who  would  do  good,  and  to  darken  the  minds  of  those  who 
would  like  to  know  what  is  best  in  the  great  confusion  of  conflicting 
ideas.  And  so  struggles  and  conflicts  multiply  with  the  result  that 
men's  hearts  are  failing  them.  Selfishness  is  growing.  Demands  are 
increasing  for  more  and  more  for  less  and  less — more  pay,  less  work 
— for  more  privileges,  but  fewer  responsibilities.  Merit  as  a  condi- 
tion for  reward  is  disappearing  and  Satan  is  riding  high. 

Now  Latter-day  Saints,  what  shall  we  do,  conditions  being  what 
they  are?  Shall  we  compromise  our  principles  and  standards,  give 
up  the  struggle  against  sin  and  evil  and  let  life  move  on  more  smooth- 
ly in  this  sinful  world?  No,  never.  Our  faith  is  immovably  based 
upon  truth  and  reality — a  living,  personal  God,  who  through  Joseph 
Smith  and  his  associates,  set  up  his  Church,  gave  it  principles,  laws, 
standards,  and  his  priesthood  (authority  to  act  for  him),  thus  qualify- 
ing it  to  work  for  him  and  his  righteous  ways  for  the  good,  benefit, 
and  blessing  of  his  children.  But  we  need  more  faith  in  these  real- 
ities, more  devotion  to  the  cause  which  we  are  privileged  to  repre- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


29 


sent,  stronger  wills  to  resist  the  allurements  of  evil,  and  more  per- 
sistent, unselfish  efforts  to  live  righteously  every  day.  I  repeat,  our 
religion  is  a  very  practical  thing,  for  it  must  enter  into  every  phase 
of  our  daily  lives  if  we  would  live  in  harmony  with  its  teachings  and 
receive  the  rewards  of  obedience.  And  failing  to  do  this,  we  more 
or  less  forfeit  God's  promise  of  blessings;  for  he  has  said: 

I,  the  Lord,  am  bound  when  ye  do  what  I  say;  but  when  ye  do  not 
what  I  say,  ye  have  no  promise.  (D.  &  C.  82:10.) 

Moral  Standards 

We  must  ever  keep  in  mind  the  moral  standards  of  the  Church 
as  expressed  in  articles  eleven,  twelve,  and  thirteen  of  our  faith  which 
require  us  to  be  tolerant  (Article  11),  loyal  to  the  country  under  the 
flag  of  which  we  live,  to  obey,  honor,  and  sustain  the  law  (Article 
12),  and  to  be 

. . .  honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and  in  doing  good  to  all 
men.    (Article  13.) 

Indeed  the  moral  standards  of  the  Church  require  us  to  set  up  the 
Golden  Rule  as  an  ideal  which  we  should  diligently  try  to  live  in  all 
of  our  relations  with  our  fellow  men.  These  are  not  things  of  which 
we  just  talk  on  Sunday,  but  things  we  are  required  to  implement  in 
our  daily  lives. 

Now  I  warn  again  that  Satan,  a  personal  being,  is  very  alert 
and  with  a  mighty  host  of  his  angels — spirit  relatives  of  ours — in 
trying  to  overcome  us  and  all  others  who  would  serve  God  and  live 
righteously.  As  examples  of  yielding  to  evil  influences,  we  have  des- 
ecration of  the  Sabbath  day,  the  use  of  harmful  narcotics,  failure  to 
live  sexual  moral  standards  and  indulgence  in  other  wicked  ways — 
all  on  the  increase  among  us.  Latter-day  Saints  may  not  go  on  Sun- 
day to  movies,  to  baseball,  football,  or  basketball  games,  or  to  any 
other  kind  of  commercial  entertainments,  or  engage  in  avoidable 
commercial  activities,  or  go  hunting,  fishing,  golfing,  or  skiing  on  this 
day  without  violating  the  holiness  of  the  Sabbath.  Who  said  so? 
The  First  Presidency  of  the  Church.  They  said  so  in  an  editorial  pub- 
lished in  The  Deseret  News,  September  1,  1928.  And  when  the  First 
Presidency  speak  unitedly  on  any  question  of  our  religious  doctrines, 
or  how  we  should  live  in  harmony  with  these  doctrines,  that  is  the 
voice  of  the  Church,  the  voice  of  authority.  To  loyal.  Latter-day 
Saints,  it  is,  in  a  sense,  the  voice  of  God;  for  he  has  said  "if  ye  are 
not  one  ye  are  not  mine."  (D.  &  C.  38:27.) 

Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  be  honest  with  ourselves  and  with 
our  God  and  strive  with  more  determination  and  persistence  to  do 
his  will  that  life  may  be  more  full  and  happy,  with  righteous  living 
more  in  evidence.  I  pray  that  God  will  help  us  to  do  these  things  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen.  


30  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  3  First  Dag 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

This  afternoon's  session  will  be  broadcast  over  the  same 
stations  that  I  named  this  morning  as  carrying  the  full  day's  sessions. 
We  should  like  the  audience  to  be  seated  not  later  than  ten  minutes 
before  the  session  begins  this  afternoon.  We  would  like  to  caution 
all  of  you,  and  particularly  those  of  you  who  come  from  out  of 
town,  drive  carefully.  Winter  has  left  its  ravages  in  our  streets. 
They  are  being  repaired  as  rapidly  as  possible  but  you  are  likely 
to  come  upon  places  that  are  in  bad  condition  unawares  and  so 
drive  carefully  so  as  to  avoid  accidents. 

Messages  that  have  come  during  the  conference  will  be  broad- 
cast over  the  air  on  the  grounds  at  the  conclusion  of  these  services. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing  "The  Lord's  Prayer."  The 
closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Whitaker,  president  of 
the  Pocatello  Stake. 


The  Choir  sang  "The  Lord's  Prayer." 

President  William  P.  Whitaker  of  the  Pocatello  Stake  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 

FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  at  2:00  p.m.,  Sunday,  April  3,  1949. 

Again  the  Tabernacle  was  crowded  to  capacity,  and  as  was  the 
condition  at  the  morning  meeting,  the  Assembly  Hall  immediately 
south  of  the  Tabernacle  was  crowded  with  people  who  listened  to  and 
watched  the  services  in  the  Tabernacle  as  they  were  broadcast  and 
televised.  Thousands  of  others  assembled  on  the  grounds  and  en- 
joyed the  services  by  means  of  amplifying  equipment  that  had  been 
installed. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  was  at  home,  resting.  President 
David  O.  McKay,  second  counselor  in  the  First  Presidency,  con- 
ducted the  services. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  the  second  session  of  the  1 19th  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

President  Smith  thinks  it  wise  for  him  to  rest  this  afternoon 
and  has  asked  his  second  counselor  to  conduct  the  exercises. 

Of  the  General  Authorities  Elder  Matthew  Cowley  is  absent  in 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY  31 

New  Zealand  at  the  present  time;  Elder  Alma  Sonne  is  in  Europe  in 
charge  of  the  European  Mission;  President  George  F.  Richards  is 
resting  at  home  at  the  suggestion  of  his  doctor. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  station 
KSL,  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangements  with  KSL  over  the  fol- 
lowing stations:  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls,  KVNU 
at  Logan,  KEYY  at  Pocatello,  KSVC  at  RichBeld,  KJAM  at  Vernal, 
and  over  KTYL  at  Mesa  and  KEXO  at  Grand  Junction,  by  trans- 
cription. 

Any  important  messages  and  calls  that  come  to  us  for  persons 
supposed  to  be  in  attendance  at  the  Conference  will  be  announced  at 
the  dismissal  of  this  meeting  over  the  loudspeaking  system  on  the 
grounds.  Everyone  will  do  well  to  listen  carefully  to  such  announce- 
ments and  may  I  call  your  attention  particularly  to  the  announce- 
ment regarding  "The  Vigil,"  a  very  appropriate  play  for  this  season, 
being  presented  Tuesday  afternoon  and  evening  at  Kingsbury  Hall 
by  the  University  Players.  It  pertains  to  the  resurrection  of  Christ. 

The  singing  for  this  session  will  be  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir, 
Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting  and  Elder  Alexander 
Schreiner  will  be  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  render- 
ing "Halleluja." 

Following  that  the  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  Presi- 
dent George  M.  Anderson  of  the  Moroni  Stake. 

Singing  "Halleluja"  by  the  Choir. 

Elder  George  M.  Anderson,  president  of  Moroni  Stake  offered 
the  invocation. 

Singing  by  the  Choir  "Hosanna." 

ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  o/  the  Twelve 

Such  inspirational  music  as  our  wonderful  choir  always  furn- 
ishes brings  us  near  to  our  Father  in  heaven. 

I  was  impressed  also,  as  were  you,  with  the  opening  prayer.  I 
trust  it  may  be  answered,  especially  in  my  behalf.  I  believe  in 
prayer,  the  power  of  prayer;  and  I  sincerely  desire,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  and  would  appreciate  a  silent  prayer  at  this  time  by  all  of 
you  in  my  behalf. 

I  am  happy  that  the  mission  presidents  and  their  wives  are 
with  us  in  this  conference.  The  mission  presidents  depend  so  much 
upon  their  wives  that  I  am  sure  they  are  all  happy  that  their  wives 
were  also  invited  to  come  to  this  conference.  The  more  I  associate 
with  you  mission  presidents  and  you  stake  presidencies,  the  more 
convinced  I  am  that  the  leaders  who  are  responsible  for  calling  you 
are  inspired  of  God. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

First  Dag 

Mexican  Mission 

Sister  McKay  and  I  just  recently  returned  from  a  tour  of  the 
Mexican  Mission  where  President  Arwell  L.  Pierce  and  his  lovely 
wife  are  in  charge.  They  have  done  and  are  doing  a  wonderful 
work.  It  was  one  delightful  surprise  after  another  to  go  through 
their  mission  with  them.  We  were  delighted  to  meet  so  many  fine 
missionaries  there — 142  of  them — and  twenty  of  those  142  we  were 
glad  to  find  were  native  Mexicans,  full-time  missionaries,  and  doing 
a  splendid  work.  With  the  experience  that  these  young  people  are 
getting,  I  am  sure  they  will  be  future  leaders,  not  only  of  the  Church 
but  will  also  perhaps  occupy  state  and  federal  positions. 

We  were  delighted  also  to  find  several  very  fine  meetinghouses 
with  chapels  not  too  large,  commodious  recreation  halls,  classrooms, 
baptismal  font,  Relief  Society  rooms  with  modern  kitchens  adjoining. 
The  architecture  is  Spanish  and  with  the  red-tiled  roofs  and  the 
white  walls  these  meetinghouses  stand  out  as  monuments  of  good 
fellowship.  The  new  chapel  at  Cuautla  dedicated  last  year  by  Presi- 
dent McKay  has  now  been  parked  with  a  hedge,  shrubbery,  trees, 
and  lawn,  under  the  direction  of  Brother  Abegg,  who  has  supervision 
of  the  buildings  and  grounds,  and  it  is  now  referred  to  proudly  by 
the  citizens  as  the  "House  Beautiful."  Splendid  progress  is  being 
made  especially  by  applying  the  program  of  the  M.I.A.,  supervised 
recreation.  The  Spanish  people  love  to  sing  and  to  dance.  Their 
Gold  and  Green  balls  are  outstanding,  as  are  also  their  quartets, 
their  choruses,  and  their  athletics.  Basketball  has  swept  into  the 
Mexican  republic,  and  our  missionaries  are  leading  in  that  sport. 
They  have  played  in  two  leagues  and  won  the  championship  in  both. 
The  last  one  was  in  Mexico  City.  The  final  game  of  the  series  was 
being  played.  The  score  had  been  tied  several  times;  and  now  with 
only  four  minutes  to  play,  our  team  was  behind.  The  captain,  a 
sweet  character,  called  time  out.  He  said,  "We  got  our  heads  to- 
gether, Brother  McKay,  and  we  prayed."  God  bless  him.  They  won 
the  game  by  one  point.  They  are  making  many  friends  also  with 
their  English  classes.  In  Morelia,  for  example,  a  college  town  where 
they  have  been  working  less  than  a  year,  a  meeting  was  arranged, 
and  a  program  given  by  investigators.  We  have  only  two  members 
there.  They  have  an  advanced  English  class  and  a  beginners  class. 
There  were  sixty-two  at  that  meeting  so  they  are  making  fine  pro- 
gress. 

The  mission  home  is  a  credit  to  the  Church,  beautifully  located 
in  a  new  residential  section.  It  is  what  I  call  an  ideal  mission  home, 
not  just  a  place  for  the  mission  president  and  his  wife,  but  a  place 
where  the  missionaries  are  made  to  feel  at  home.  Sister  Pierce  in 
her  quiet,  generous  way,  looking  after  everybody,  can  always  make 
room  for  one  more  When  missionaries  are  ailing,  they  are  brought 
to  the  home  and  nursed  back  to  health.  They  are  made  to  feel  wel- 
come.   Each  morning  at  seven  o'clock  a  class  in  Spanish  is  held  for 


32 

Sunday,  April  3 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 


33 


the  office  force  and  those  who  are  there  recuperating.  At  eight 
o'clock  the  gong  sounds;  they  come  to  breakfast;  they  sing  a  song 
around  the  piano  and  stand  in  a  circle,  and  each  one  repeats  in 
Spanish  a  passage  of  scripture  he  must  learn  by  heart,  then  ,  they 
kneel  in  a  circle  in  prayer.  I  think  that  prayer  circle  does  more  for 
these  missionaries  who  are  recuperating  and  probably  a  little  dis- 
couraged and  homesick,  maybe  lovesick,  than  almost  anything  else. 

Power  In  Prayer  ~ ; 

Yes,  there  is  power  in  prayer.  I  thought  while  participating  in 
the  fine  spirit  of  those  mission  home  prayers  of  an-  evil  that  has  been 
referred  to  here  already — the  divorce  evil.  A  menace  to  the  Very 
foundation  of  our  government,  of  our  civilization;  it  seems  that  the 
devil  is  using  this  weapon  of  divorce  overtime,  and  I  believe  that  if  a 
survey  were  made,  very  few,  if  any;  of  those  thousands  of  couples 
who  are  applying  for  divorce  would  be  found  praying  together,  or 
who  are  having  family  prayer.  I  think  prayer  is  a  remedy  for 
divorce.  , 

One  writer,  in  speaking  of  prayer,  puts  it  this  way,  and  I  like  it: 

The  most  unused  resource  in  the  world  today  is  prayer.  The  greatest 
undeveloped  resource  is  faith  and  the  greatest  unused  resource  is  prayer. 

I  like  that,  referring  to  faith  and  prayer  as  resources.  I  hope,  in 
our  Church,  that  is  not  true,  but  that  prayer  as  a  resource  is  used,  and 
I  am  sure  it  is.  Quite  a  number  of  articles  are  being  written  in  our 
leading  magazines  and  even  books  on  "Back  to  God,"  "The  Need 
of  Religion,"  etc.  I  think  it  is  a  wholesome  indication.  I  received 
something  the  other  day  from  one  of  my  very  dear  friends,  who  calls 
on  me  occasionally  and  always  brings  me  something  worth  while; 
he  is  ninety-two  years  old  now.  He  said  he  has  had  ninety-two 
birthdays  but  is  not  nearly  that  old.  He  said,  "I  have  here  some- 
thing, Brother  McKay,  that  I  think  you  will  like  on  prayer."  He  said, 
"It  is  a  clipping  from  one  of  our  local  papers."  It  is  from  Dr.  Alexis 
Carrel,  who  is  famed  the  world  over  after  thirty-three  years  of  bio- 
logical research  work  in  the  famous  Rockefeller  Institute. 

Quotations  on  Prayer  ■ 

He  says: 

Prayer  is  not  only  worship,  but  it  is  also  the  most  powerful  form 
of  energy  that  one  can  generate.  The  influence  of  prayer  on  the  human 
mind  and  body  is  as  demonstrable  as  that  of  secreting  glands.  Its  re- 
sults can  be  measured  in  terms  of  increased  physical  buoyancy,  greater 
intellectual  vigor,  moral  stamina,  and  a  deeper  understanding  of  the 
realities  underlying  human  relations. 

If  you  make  a  habit  of  sincere  prayer  your  life  will  be  very  noticeably 
and  profoundly  altered.  Prayer  stamps  with  its  indelible  mark  our 
actions  and  demeanor.   A  tranquility  of  bearing,  a  facial  and  bodily  re- 


34  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  3  Day 
pose  are  observed  in  those  whose  inner  lives  are  thus  enriched.  Within 
the  depths  of  his  consciousness  a  flame  kindles,  and  man  sees  himself — 
his  selfishness,  his  silly  pride,  his  fear,  his  blunders.  He  develops  a  sense 
of  moral  obligation,  intellectual  humility.  Thus  begins  a  journey  of  the 
soul  toward  the  realm  of  peace. 

Prayer  is  a  force  as  real  as  terrestrial  gravity.  As  a  physician  I  have 
seen  men,  after  all  other  therapy  had  failed,  lifted  out  of  disease  and 
melancholy  by  the  serene  effort  of  prayer. 

Prayer  is  the  effort  of  man  to  reach  God,  to  commune  with  an  invisible 
being,  creator  of  all  things,  supreme  wisdom,  truth,  beauty  and  strength, 
father  and  redeemer. 

Today  as  never  before,  prayer  is  a  binding  necessity  in  the  lives  of 
men  and  nations.  The  lack  of  emphasis  on  the  religious  sense  has  brought 
the  world  to  the  edge  of  destruction.  Our  deepest  sense  of  power  and 
perfection  has  been  left  miserably  undeveloped.  Prayer,  the  basic 
exercise  of  the  spirit,  must  be  actively  practiced  in  our  lives.  The 
neglected  soul  of  man  must  be  made  strong  enough  to  assert  itself  once 
more.  For  if  the  power  of  prayer  is  again  released  and  used  in  the  lives 
of  common  men  and  women,  if  the  spirit  declares  its  aims  clearly  and 
boldly,  there  is  yet  hope  that  our  prayers  for  a  better  world  may  be 
answered. 

That  from  a  scientist,  brothers  and  sisters. 

This  same  dear  friend  of  mine  called  my  attention  to  an  article, 
in  the  December  number,  I  think,  of  the  Arizona  Highways  on  "Look 
to  the  Skies."  It  is  a  very  well-written  article,  well  worth  reading, 
and  in  speaking  of  the  skies,  it  reminded  me  of  a  poem  that  I  read 
and  used  just  at  the  close  of  the  war.  It  is  a  poem  that  was  found  on 
the  body  of  a  dead  soldier.  He  wrote  it  just  before  the  zero  hour.  It 
refers  to  the  skies  and  to  the  power  of  prayer  in  taking  away  fear. 

...  And  God  Was  There 

Look,  God,  I  have  never  spoken  to  you. 
But  now  I  want  to  say,  "How  do  you  do?" 
You  see,  God.  they  told  me  you  didn't  exist. 
And.  like  a  fool.  I  believed  all  this. 

Last  night  from  the  shell  hole  I  saw  your  sky — 

I  figured  right  then  they  had  told  me  a  lie. 

Had  I  taken  time  to  see  things  you  made, 

I'd  have  known  they  weren't  calling  a  spade  a  spade. 

I  wonder,  God,  if  you'd  shake  my  hand. 
Somehow  I  feel  that  you  will  understand. 
Funny  I  had  to  come  to  this  hellish  place 
Before  I  had  time  to  see  your  face. 

Well,  I  guess  there  isn't  much  more  to  say. 
But  I'm  sure  glad,  God,  I  met  you  today 
I  guess  the  "zero  hour"  will  soon  be  here. 
But  I'm  not  afraid  since  I  know  you're  near. 

The  signal!  Well,  God   I'll  have  to  go; 
I  like  you  lots,  this  I  want  you  to  know. 
Look,  now,  this  will  be  a  horrible  fight — 
.   Who  knows,  I  may  come  to  your  house  tonight. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


35 


Though  I  wasn't  friendly  to  you  before. 
I  wonder,  God.  if  you'd  wait  at  your  door. 
Look,  I'm  crying!  Me!  Shedding  tears — 
1  wish  I  had  known  you  these  many  years 

Well,  I  have  to  go  now,  God,  good-byel 
Strange,  since  I  met  you,  I'm  not  afraid  to  die. 

The  Master's  Prayer 

Our  Master,  just  before  his  zero  hour,  spent  the  night  in  the 
garden  in  prayer.  We  are  told  that  he  shed  drops  of  blood,  but  the 
concluding  words  of  that  prayer  show  that  he  received  his  strength. 
".  .  .  not  my  will,  but  thine,  be  done"  (Luke  22:42)  were  his  con- 
cluding words  and  then  on  the  cross: 

Father  forgive  them;  for  they  know  not  what  they  do.  (Ibid.,  23:- 

34.) 

We  are  here  today,  brethren  and  sisters,  because  this  great 
Church  of  ours  has  been  organized — a  wonderful  organization — 
established  for  the  last  time,  never  to  be  taken  away  from  the  earth 
or  given  to  another  people,  and  all  in  answer  to  a  prayer,  a  prayer 
in  a  garden,  the  Sacred  Grove.  Yes.  there  is  power  in  prayer,  and 
I  trust  that  we  will  look  up  brethren  and  sisters,  look  up  to  the  skies, 
that  from  now  on  that  statement  that  prayer  is  the  most  unused  re- 
source of  the  world  will  not,  at  least,  apply  to  Latter-day  Saints  and 
also  the  saying  that  people  use  their  prayers  very  much  as  a  spare 
tire,  only  in  times  of  emergency,  when  we  are  sick  or  have  trouble. 
May  that  also  not  be  true  of  us,  but  may  we  pray  always  and  live,  as 
we  pray  so  that  we,  too,  can  say,  "Not  my  will,  O  Lord,  but  thine 
be  done,"  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  o/  the  Twelve 

In  1832,  in  what  is  designated  a  revelation  on  priesthood,  the 
Lord  spoke  rather  sharply,  referring  to  the  whole  Church  as  being 
under  condemnation  because  of  their  unbelief  and  because  they  had 
treated  lightly  the  things  they  had  received;  and  this  condemnation 
he  said, 

.  .  .  resteth  upon  the  children  of  Zion,  even  all. 

And  they  shall  remain  under  this  condemnation  until  they  repent 
and  remember  the  new  covenant,  even  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the  former 
commandments  which  I  have  given  them,  not  only  to  say,  but  to  do  ac- 
cording to  that  which  I  have  written.  (D.  6  C.  84:56-57.) 

Gospel  Fundamentals 

Brother  Merrill's  statement  this  morning  that  he  was  not  going 
.  to  teach  anything  new,  recalled  to  my  mind  a  conversation  he  and 


36  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sixndag.  April  3  First  Dap 

I  had  on  the  way  home  from  a  conference  assignment  a  few  weeks 
ago.  I  said,  "Brother  Merrill,  have  you  a  subject  for  me  to  discuss 
at  the  general  conference?" 

"Well,  Brother  Romney,"  he  answered,  "I  can  tell  you  this,  that 
neither  you  nor  I  are  under  any  responsibility  to  teach  any  new  doc- 
trine. I  am  going  to  talk  about  some  fundamental  principle  of  the 
gospel." 

In  thinking  over  the  fundamentals  of  the  gospel,  the  fundament- 
als of  the  restoration,  I  remembered  that  in  point  of  time  the  first  great 
fundamental  received  was  the  vision  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
Following  that  vision  came  the  Book  of  Mormon,  given  to  the  world 
as  a  revelation  from  God.  I  remembered,  too,  that  six  months  ago 
President  George  Albert  Smith,  speaking  to  the  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church  and  mentioning  some  subjects  that  might  be  discussed 
at  conference  time,  referred  to  the  Book  of  Mormon.  It  is  about  the 
Book  of  Mormon  I  want  to  talk  today.  I  do  so  with  just  one  ob- 
jective in  mind:  To  get  you  to  read  it. 

I  have  read  it  a  little,  I  believe  in  it,  and  I  love  it.  I  recommend 
that  every  person  within  the  sound  of  my  voice  read  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  I  can  testify,  as  did  Nephi,  that  the  things  written  therein 
persuadeth  all  men  to  do  good.  It  will  enrich  the  life  of  every  person 
who  will  read  it,  unless  he  is  in  rebellion  against  the  truth;  and  in 
that  event  it  will  advise  him  of  his  awful  fate  unless  he  changes  his 
ways. 

Very  early  in  my  life  I  became  somewhat  acquainted  with  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  The  other  day  while  going  through  some  old 
records,  I  found  a  notebook  I  had  used  while  in  high  school  in  one 
of  the  Church  academies.  In  it  I  had  written  a  short  outline  of  each 
chapter  in  the  Book  of  Mormon.    I  appreciate  that  training. 

The  Book  of  Mormon 

A  few  years  ago  as  I  began  to  practice  law,  members  of  my  fam- 
ily were  a  little  uneasy.  They  were  afraid  I  would  lose  my  faith. 
I  wanted  to  practice  law,  but  I  had  an  even  greater  desire  to  keep 
my  testimony,  and  so  I  decided  upon  a  little  procedure  which  I 
recommend  to  you.  For  thirty  minutes  each  morning  before  I 
began  the  day's  work  I  read  from  the  Book  of  Mormon — I  read 
also  from  all  the  other  standard  works  of  the  Church,  but  I  am 
talking  now  about  the  Book  of  Mormon — and  in  just  a  few  minutes 
a  day  I  read  the  Book  of  Mormon  through,  every  year,  for  nine 
years.  I  know  that  it  kept  me  in  harmony,  so  far  as  I  did  keep 
in  harmony,  with  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

Now  I  want  to  tell  you  a  few  reasons  why  I  think  you  and  I 
should  read  the  Book-of  Mormon.  I  hope  that  while  doing  so,  I  shall 
enjoy  the  spirit  of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

I  do  not  know  any  single  verse  which  impresses  the  spirit  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon  on  me  more  than  the  first  verse  of  the  last 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY  37 


chapter  of  Second  Nephi.  As  that  great  prophet  approached  the 
close  of  his  record,  he  said: 

And  now  I,  Nephi,  cannot  write  all  the  things  which  were  taught 
among  my  people;  neither  am  I  mighty  in  writing,  like  unto  speaking; 

My,  how  I  would  have  enjoyed  hearing  him  speak!  When  I 
read  his  writings,  they  well-nigh  overcome  me.  In  the  following 
words  he  gives  the  key  to  his  powerful  speaking: 

.  for  when  a  man  speaketh  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  carrieth  it  unto  the  hearts  of  the  children  of 
men.  (II  Nephi  33:1.) 

I  pray  that  while  I  speak  I  shall  have  the  spirit  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  and  I  pray  that  you  will  have  the  same  spirit,  that  we 
may  all  be  edified. 

The  first  reason  for  reading  the  Book  of  Mormon  which  I 
want  to  mention  is  that  it  is  approved  by  the  highest  authority 
in  the  universe,  the  Lord  himself.  He  said  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  "Behold,  thou  wast  called  and  chosen  to  write  the  Book 
of  Mormon."  (D.  &  C.  24:  1.)  Later  on,  when  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  received  the  record,  the  Lord  said  that  he  was  given 
i 

.  .  .  power  to  translate  through  the  mercy  of  God,  by  the  power 
of  God.  the  Book  of  Mormon.  (Ibid..  1:29.) 

After  the  Prophet  Joseph  had  translated  that  part  of  the 
record  which  he  had  been  told  to  translate,  the  Lord  said:  ".  .  .  and 
as  your  Lord  and  Your  God  liveth  it  is  true,"  (Ibid.,  17:6)  and 
".  .  .  contains  the  truth  and  the  word  of  God."  (Ibid.,  19:26.) 

Here  are  some  more  things  the  Lord  said  about  it:  i 

...  a  record  of  a  fallen  people,  and  the  fulness  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  to  the  Gentiles  and  to  the  Jews  also.  (Ibid.,  20:9.) 

And  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the  holy  scriptures  are  given  of  me 
for  your  instruction.     (Ibid.,  33:16.) 

...  the  elders,  priests  and  teachers  of  this  Church  shall  teach  the 
principles  of  my  gospel,  which  are  in  the  Bible  and  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
(Ibid..  42:12.) 

Witness  for  Bible 

Another  reason  I  like  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  want  you 
to  read  it  is  that  it  will  sustain  you  against  attacks  being  made 
by  the  modernists  against  that  other  great  scripture,  the  Bible. 
The  Book  of  Mormon  is  not  only  a  new  witness  for  God;  it  is  also 
a  witness  to  the  truth  of  the  Bible.  If  I  had  the  time,  I  could  give 
you  many  specific  instances  on  that  point.  The  Book  of  Mormon 
accepts  the  Bible  unreservedly  as  the  word  of  God.  It  accepts 
the  five  books  of  Moses  as  having  been  written  by  Moses.  This 
the  modernists  deny.  It  accepts  the  great  prophecies  of  Isaiah  as 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


the  prophecies  of  the  son  of  Amos.  The  resurrected  Lord  himself 
said,  as  recorded  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  "Great  are  the  words 
of  Isaiah,"  and  he  advises  us  to  read  them.  Further,  this  Book  of 
Mormon,  the  doctrines  in  it  will  sustain  you  against  many  false 
doctrines  that  are  current  in  the  world  today. 


About  two  weeks  ago,  I  sat  in  a  group  where  a  learned  man 
was  directing  a  discussion.  He  presented  the  modern  doctrine  that 
there  is  no  personal  responsibility  for  wrongdoing.  I  have  heard 
that  doctrine  pressed  so  far  as  to  hold  that  if  a  man  commits  a 
crime — lies,  steals,  commits  adultery,  or  even  murders — he  has 
no  personal  responsibility  for  his  act,  but  that  it  is  the  responsi- 
bility of  society.  I  compared  that  evil  doctrine  with  the  teachings 
Lehi  gave  to  his  sons  as  he  was  about  to  go  down  into  his  grave. 
I  remember  how  he  taught  his  sons  that  men  were  placed  upon 
the  earth  between  good  and  evil,  that  they  were  sufficiently 
taught  to  know  the  difference  between  them,  that  they  were  en- 
dowed by  their  Creator  with  power  to  act  for  themselves,  and 
that  they  are  held  responsible  for  their  decisions  and  actions. 
And  as  the  Lord  liveth,  that  doctrine  is  true.  Lehi  carefully  instruc- 
ted his  sons  on  these  important  principles  under  which  they  were  to 
live  and  under  which  all  people  on  the  earth  are  to  live.  He  taught 
them  that  there  was  an  opposition  in  all  things,  as  Brother  Merrill 
explained  this  morning,  the  power  of  evil  and  the  power  of  good. 
He  told  them  that  they  were 

.  .  .  free  according  to  the  flesh;  and  all  things  are  given  them  which 
are  expedient  unto  man.  And  they  are  free  to  choose  liberty  and  eternal 
life;  ...  or  to  choose  captivity  and  death.  (II  Nephi  2:27.) 

This  doctrine  that  man  is  not  morally  responsible  for  his  own 
acts,  which  is  gaining  wide  acceptance  in  the  world  today,  is  the  doc- 
trine of  the  evil  one.  If  you  will  read  the  Book  of  Mormon,  you  will 
be  convinced  of  that,  and  you  will  have  a  defense  against  it  if  you 
will  accept  the  Book  of  Mormon. 


Now,  I  like  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  you  will  like  it,  because 
it  is  a  great  American  book.  It  was  written  in  America,  by  Ameri- 
cans, for  Americans.  It  has  peculiar  application  to  America.  It  is 
not  full  of  foreign  ideologies  and  uninspired  interpretations  of  men. 
I  believe  that  I  am  within  the  mark  when  I  say  that  between  the 
pages  of  that  great  book  there  is  more  ultimate  truth  about  the  over- 
all history  of  America  than  there  is  in  any  other  book  and,  I  will  go 
so  far  as  to  say,  more  than  in  all  the  libraries  of  the  world  where 
there  isn't  a  Book  of  Mormon. 


Man's  Moral  Responsibility 


Great  American  Book 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


39 


In  it  the  history  of  this  great  land  of  America  is  foretold.  Up 
until  420  A.D.  the  coming  to  pass  of  the  history  as  it  was  foretold 
was  faithfully  recorded  by  the  historians  who  witnessed  it.  We  who 
are  acquainted  with  the  Book  of  Mormon  know  that  the  history  of 
America  from  421  A.D.  to  the  present  time  is  clearly  foretold  therein 
— the  long  withholding  of  the  knowledge  of  the  land  from  the  Gen- 
tiles, the  coming  of  Columbus  as  referred  to  by  President  Levi  Edgar 
Young  this  morning,  the  coming  of  the  Pilgrim  fathers,  the  establish- 
ment of  this  great  nation,  the  ushering  in  of  this  great  last  dispensa- 
tion. All  these  things  are  there  foretold  as  clearly  as  anyone  can 
write  them  now  after  they  have  transpired.  The  coming  to  pass  of 
these  great  prophecies  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  an  evidence  of  its 
divinity  which  the  world  cannot  destroy. 

Of  the  future  of  America  the  Book  of  Mormon  gives  some  won- 
derful views.  I  have  not  time  to  go  into  them  in  detail,  but  I  would 
to  our  Father  in  heaven  that  the  people  who  have  the  management 
of  this  nation  would  become  acquainted  with  them.  The  Book  of 
Mormon  advises  us  that  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer,  is  the  God  of 
this  land  and  that  he  has  said  some  very  definite  things  about  the 
future  of  America.  Our  own  nation  has  a  great  stake  in  that  future. 
If  we  will  live  the  laws  that  the  God  of  this  land  teaches  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  we  can  participate  in  the  realization  of  the  marvelous 
promises  made  for  the  future  of  America.  Here  the  New  Jerusalem 
shall  arise,  and  Christ  shall  come  and  bring  peace  to  the  earth. 

Inspiration  of  Teaching 

Now,  I  like  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  you  will  like  it,  too,  for 
the  courage  and  the  strength  it  inspires  in  times  of  discouragement 
and  stress.  Consider  as  an  example  a  few  incidents  from  the  life  of 
Nephi,  whom  I  love  and  whom  you  will  love,  too,  I'm  sure,  if 
you  become  well  acquainted  with  him. 

You  will  recall  how,  when  he  came  down  from  the  mountain 
where  he  had  been  praying  to  the  Lord,  he  found  his  elder  brothers 
whining  because  the  Lord  had  told  them  to  go  up  to  Jerusalem  and 
get  the  brass  plates.  He  did  not  join  in  their  whining.  When  he 
learned  of  the  commandment,  he  said  unto  his  father: 

...  I  will  go  and  do  the  things  which  the  Lord  hath  commanded, 
for  I  know  that  the  Lord  giveth  no  commandments  unto  the  children  of 
men,  save  he  shall  prepare  a  way  for  them  that  they  may  accomplish 
the  thing  which  he  commanded  them.  (I  Nephi  3:7.) 

When  they  reached  Jerusalem,  Laman  was  chosen  to  go  into 
the  city  and  get  the  record  from  Laban.  He  did  not  get  it,  however, 
because  he  knew  he  could  not  get  it.  When  Laban  said  to  him, 
"You  are  a  robber,  and  I  will  slay  thee,"  he  ran.  Arriving  outside 
the  city  walls,  Laman,  with  Lemuel,  wanted  to  go  down  into  the  wil- 
derness to  their  father  without  the  record,  but  Nephi  said: 


40  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  3  First  Day 

'  ...  As  the  Lord  liveth,  and  as  we  live,  we  will-  not  go  down  unto 
our  father  in  the  wilderness  until  we  have  accomplished  the  thing  which 
the  Lord  hath  commanded  us.  [Ibid.,  3:15.) 

Yielding  to  Nephi,  they  went  to  their  former  home  and  gathered 
up  their  precious  possessions  which  they  offered  for  the  records. 
Pursued  by  Laban's  guard,  they  abandoned  their  wealth  and  fled  for 
their  lives.  Again  the  elder  brothers  desired  to  return  to  their  father 
in  the  wilderness.  They  spoke  harsh  words  to  Nephi  and  so  severely 
whipped  him  that  an  angel  came  and  corrected  them.  After  the  angel 
had  departed,  Laman  and  Lemuel  continued  to  murmur,  saying : 

. . .  How  is  it  possible  that  the  Lord  will  deliver  Laban  into  our  hands? 
Behold,  he  is  a  mighty  man,  and  he  can  command  fifty,  yea,  even  he  can 
slay  fifty;  then  why  not  us? 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  [Nephi]  spake  unto  my  brethren,  saying:  Let 
us  go  up  again  unto  Jerusalem,  and  let  us  be  faithful  in  keeping  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord;  for  behold  he  is  mightier  than  all  the  earth, 
then  why  not  mightier  than  Laban  and  his  fifty,  yea,  or  even  than  his 
tens  of  thousands.  [Ibid..  3:31;  4:1.) 

Nephi  finally  went  in  alone  and  came  back  with  the  plates.  He 
had  faith;  he  had  courage;" and  with  the  help  of  Almighty  God  he 
accomplished  the  thing  which  he  had  been  sent  to  do. 

One  of  the  most  outstanding  faith-promoting  statements  of  Ne- 
phi was  made  when  they  reached  the  border  of  the  sea  after  they 
had  been  in  the  wilderness  for  eight  years.  The  Lord  told  him  to 
build  a  ship.  He  did  not  have  any  ore  or  tools  or  material  with  which 
to  build  the  ship  but,  nothing  daunting,  he  went  into  the  mountain 
and  dug  out  the  required  ore.  From  the  skins  of  animals  he  made 
a  bellows  with  which  to  blow  the  fire,  which  he  started  by  striking 
two  stones  together.  As  he  made  preparations  to  build  the  ship,  his 
brothers  said  of  him: 

.  .  .  Our  brother  is  a  fool,  for  he  thinketh  that  he  can  build  a  ship; 
yea,  and  he  also  thinketh  that  he  can  cross  these  great  waters.  [Ibid.. 
17:17.) 

Mistaking  his  sorrowing  over  their  misconduct  for  discourage- 
ment, they  taunted  him.  He  then  stood  up  in  the  power  of  the  spirit 
and  said  unto  them: 

...  If  God  had  commanded  me  to  do  all  things  I  could  do  them.  If 
he  should  command  me  that  I  should  say  unto  this  water,  be  thou  earth, 
it  should  be  earth;  and  if  I  should  say  it,  it  would  be  done.  [Ibid.,  17:- 
50.) 

Here  is  an  example  of  faith  and  courage  which,  if  we  can  emu- 
late, will  do  much  to  help  us  through  our  doubting  and  discourage- 
ment, for  we  serve  the  same  God  that  Nephi  served,  and  He  will 
sustain  us  even  as  he  sustained  Nephi  if  we  will  serve  him  even  as 
Nephi  served  him.  , 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


41 


Reading  Enjoined 

I  urge  you  to  get  acquainted  with  this  great  book.  Read  it  to 
your  children;  they  are  not  too  young  to  understand  it.  I  remember 
reading  it  with  one  of  my  lads  when  he  was  very  young.  On  one 
occasion  I  lay  in  the  lower  bunk  and  he  in  the  upper  bunk.  We  were 
each  reading  aloud  alternate  paragraphs  of  those  last  three  marvel- 
ous chapters  of  Second  Nephi.  I  heard  his  voice  breaking  and 
thought  he  had  a  cold,  but  we  went  on  to  the  end  of  the  three  chap- 
ters. As  we  finished  he  said  to  me,  "Daddy,  do  you  ever  cry  when 
you  read  the  Book  of  Mormon?" 

"Yes,  Son,"  I  answered.  "Sometimes  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  so 
witnesses  to  my  soul  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  true  that  I  do  cry." 
"Well,"  he  said,  "that  is  what  happened  to  me  tonight." 

I  know  not  all  of  them  will  respond  like  that,  but  I  know  that 
some  of  them  will,  and  I  tell  you  this  book  was  given  to  us  of  God 
to  read  and  to  live  by,  and  it  will  hold  us  as  close  to  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  as  anything  I  know.   Won't  you  please  read  it? 

God  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 

I  wish  to  acknowledge  all  that  has  been  said  so  far  in  this  con- 
ference and  ask  that  I  shall  also  have  a  portion  of  your  faith  and 
prayers  in  my  behalf,  as  has  been  requested  in  the  prayers  of  this 
conference. 

I  am  sure  there  is  no  happier  gathering  than  we  have  here  today, 
for  I  don't  think  there  are  any  happier  people  than  those  who  are 
active,  faithful  members  of  the  Church.  Inasmuch  as  we  have  gath- 
ered here  together  to  receive  of  more  encouragement  and  help  in 
performing  our  responsibilities  in  the  work  of  the  Lord,  I  am  sure 
the  Lord  will  answer  that  prayer  for  us. 

I  am  happy  in  my  testimony  of  the  gospel,  in  the  knowledge  of 
the  gospel  with  which  the  Lord  has  blessed  me. 

Goal  of  Happiness 

As  has  been  said,  happiness  has  been  the  goal  of  man  since  the 
beginning  of  time,  for  man  is  that  he  might  have  joy.  When  Moses 
reached  the  age  of  120  and  it  was  time  for  him  to  depart  this  life, 
he  commanded  that  all  the  children  of  Israel  be  gathered  together 
that  he  might  speak  to  them.  He  said,  "Come,  therefore,  let  me  sug- 
gest to  you  by  what  means  you  may  be  happy." 

Moses  had  been  an  instrument  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord,  to  bring 
many  blessings  to  the  children  of  Israel.  Through  Moses  they  had 
been  released  from  bondage  and  delivered  from  Egypt.  He  had  trav- 


42  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  3  First  Day 

eled  with  them  for  forty  years  in  the  wilderness,  teaching  them  the 
will  of  the  Lord.  He  had  gone  through  many  trials  and  hardships 
with  them  and  for  them.  Together  they  had  suffered  hunger,  thirst, 
and  had  fled  before  their  enemy.  Now  at  the  end  of  his  life,  when 
men  are  most  serious,  he  called  them  together  to  give  them  instruc- 
tions. Uppermost  in  his  mind  for  the  hosts  of  Israel  was  their  hap- 
piness.  He  continued: 

O  children  of  Israel!  There  is  but  one  source  of  happiness  for  all 
mankind,  the  favor  of  God;  for  he  alone  is  able  to  give  good  things  to 
those  that  deserve  them,  and  to  deprive  those  of  them  that  sin  against 
him;  towards  whom,  if  you  behave  yourselves  according  to  his  will,  and 
according  to  what  I,  who  well  understand  his  mind,  do  exhort  you  to,  you 
will  both  be  esteemed  blessed,  and  will  be  admired  by  all  men;  and  will 
never  come  into  misfortunes,  nor  cease  to  be  happy  .  .  .  (Josephus,  Book 
4:8.) 

» 

Obedience  Insures  Happiness 

After  standing  the  test  of  thousands  of  years,  it  is  still  just  as 
true  today  for  all  mankind;  for  true  happiness  and  joy  come  from  the 
favor  of  God.  How  can  we  obtain  the  favor  of  God  in  our  everyday 
walks  of  life?  The  Lord  has  given  us  commandments,  obedience  to 
which  will  insure  our  happiness,  if  we  will  only  heed  them.  First 
and  foremost,  ".  .  .  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thine  heart,  and 
with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  might."  (Deut.  6:5.)  If  our  hearts 
are  filled  with  love  for  God,  then  they  are  also  filled  with  love  for  our 
fellow  men.  We  will  be  glad  to  lend  a  helping  hand  or  give  a  cheer- 
ing word  to  a  neighbor.  And  right  here  let  me  say,  that  love,  like 
charity,  begins  at  home.  If  you  are  fortunate  enough  to  have  a  home 
and  a  family,  your  chances  for  happiness  are  unlimited.  But  it  takes 
love — plenty  of  love  to  make  a  home  happy.  The  more  we  give  in 
understanding,  sympathy,  and  service  to  others,  the  happier  we  are. 
And  love  is  kind — it  is  ready  to  overlook  failures  and  try  again.  If 
we  could  only  keep  our  hearts  filled  with  love,  this  earth  would  be 
a  heaven  of  happiness.  Do  you  remember  the  song  in  our  hymn 
book — "Love  at  Home"?  It  is  such  a  beautiful  song.  Next  time 
you  are  tempted  to  let  something  other  than  love  creep  into  your 
heart,  sing  it  and  see  if  it  doesn't  help.  There  is  a  sure  method  of 
keeping  in  the  favor  of  the  Lord.  When  we  are  in  constant  communi- 
cation, we  cannot  go  far  astray.  Each  morning,  throughout  the  day, 
and  at  night,  we  ask  God  to  let  his  Spirit  be  with  us  to  guide  us  in  all 
that  we  do.  It  is  like  the  beam  that  guides  the  pilot  of  an  airplane.  As 
long  as  he  is  on  the  beam,  he  knows  that  everything  is  all  right,  but 
he  must  not  stray  too  far  or  he  loses  the  beam.  We  have  a  con- 
science, each  of  us,  that  will  tell  us  if  we  are  not  on  the  beam.  There 
is  no  surer  way  to  unhappiness  than  to  carry  a  guilty  conscience  con- 
stantly for  a  companion.  Don't  do  it.  Get  on  the  beam.  There  are 
many  other  things  which  contribute  to  our  happiness,  and  God  has 
given  us  instruction  concerning  these  things.   Our  capacity  for  en- 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH  43 

joying  life  is  greater  if  our  health  is  good.  It  is  hard  to  be  happy  if 
we  are  always  tired.  The  Lord  told  us  how  to  keep  from  being 
weary  and  keep  our  minds  invigorated.   He  said: 

.  .  .  retire  to  thy  bed  early,  that  ye  may  not  be  weary;  arise  early, 
that  your  bodies  and  your  minds  may  be  invigorated.  (D.  &  C.  88:124.) 

With  every  blessing,  however,  the  Lord  has  put  a  price  or  a 
law  upon  which  each  blessing  is  predicated.  For  keeping  the  Word 
of  Wisdom  he  promises: 

And  all  saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking  in 
obedience  to  the  commandments,  shall  receive  health  in  their  navel  and 
marrow  to  their  bones; 

And  shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden 
treasures; 

And  shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and  shall  walk  and  not  faint 
And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a  promise  that  the  destroying  angel  shall 
pass  by  them,  as  the  children  of  Israel,  and  not  slay  them.  (D.  6  C.  89:18- 
21.) 

The  nineteenth  verse  is  to  me  most  important.  They  "shall  find 
wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden  treasures." 
Is  there  any  greater  happiness  that  can  be  given  to  man  than  the 
testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  gospel  and  the  plan  of  life  and  sal- 
vation? That  knowledge  comes  only  from  the  Holy  Ghost.  Again 
the  Lord  promises,  ".  .  .  prove  me  now  herewith,  ...  if  I  will  not 
open  you  the  windows  of  heaven,  and  pour  you  out  a  blessing,  that 
there  shall  not  be  room  enough  to  receive  it."  For  the  price  of  this 
source  of  happiness,  the  Lord  says: 

Bring  ye  all  the  tithes  into  the  storehouse,  that  there  may  be  meat  in 
mine  house,  .  .  .  (Mai.  3:10.) 

The  Price  of  Prosperity 

The  Book  of  Mormon  records  the  promises  of  prosperity  to 
those  who  live  in  this  the  promised  land.  The  price  for  prosperity 
is  keeping  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  There  were  many  times 
when  Israel  of  old  was  not  in  the  favor  of  the  Lord.  Then  the  Lord 
withdrew  his  blessings,  and  they  became  humbled  again,  and  the 
blessings  of  the  Lord  were  again  given  to  the  people.  We  find  the 
same  repetition  among  the  descendants  of  Lehi  on  this  continent. 

What  about  us?   Can  we  profit  by  their  experience? 

The  Lord  also  promised,  "All  that  my  Father  hath  shall  be 
given,  .  . ."  To  whom?  And  why? 

And  also  all  they  who  receive  this  priesthood  receive  me,  saith  the 
Lord; 

For  he  that  receiveth  my  servants  receiveth  me; 

And  he  that  receiveth  me  receiveth  my  Father; 

And  he  that  receiveth  my  Father,  receiveth  my  Father's  kingdom; 
therefore  all  that  my  Father  hath  shall  be  given  unto  him.  (D.  &  C  84:35- 
38.) 


44  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  3  First  Day 

The  reward  for  keeping  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  is 
happiness. 

Happiness  certainly  does  not  come  from  just  idle  goodness.  The 
Savior  said,  "But  he  that  is  greatest  among  you  shall  be  your  serv- 
ant." (Matt.  23:11.)  He  could  have  said,  "He  that  is  happiest 
among  you  shall  be  your  servant."  Active  service  to  others  is  serv- 
ing God.  That  missionary  is  happiest  who  is  truly  seeking  to  serve 
his  fellow  man  by  declaring  to  him  the  message  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Active  members  of  the  Church  everywhere  experience 
the  same  happiness.  Nor  does  happiness  stop  with  this  life.  For 
those  who  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  to  the  full,  and  enter 
into  the  new  and  everlasting  covenant,  and  are  sealed  together  as 
husband  and  wife  for  time  and  all  eternity,  shall  enjoy  the  greatest 
degree  of  happiness. 

Thus,  as  Moses  declared:  "The  source  of  happiness  for  all  man- 
kind," in  this  life  and  the  life  to  come  throughout  all  eternity,  "is  the 
favour  of  God." 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  obtain  it,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn:  "High 
On  the  Mountain  Top,"  Elder  Richard  P.  Condie  conducting. 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  would  like  to  introduce  the  few  remarks  that  I  shall  make  by 
recalling  a  few  scriptures,  one  of  which  has  been  repeated  by  two 
previous  speakers  today. 

The  Lord  declared: 

All  truth  is  independent  in  that  sphere  in  which  God  has  placed  it, 
to  act  for  itself,  as  all  intelligence  also;  otherwise  there  is  no  existence. 
(D.  6  C.  93:30.) 

Freedom  of  Choice 

And  the  other,  quoted  by  Elder  Romney  as  one  of  the  great 
teachings  from  the  Book  of  Mormon,  was  Father  Lehi's  explana- 
tion of  this  same  great  principle  to  his  son  Jacob: 

And  to  bring  about  his  eternal  purposes  in  the  end  of  man,  after  he  had 
created  our  first  parents,  and  the  beasts  of  the  field  and  the  fowls  of  the 
air,  and  in  fine,  all  things  which  are  created,  it  must  needs  be  that  there 
was  an  opposition;  even  the  forbidden  fruit  in  opposition  to  the  tree  of 
life;  the  one  being  sweet  and  the  other  bitter. 

Wherefore,  the  Lord  God  gave  unto  man  that  he  should  act  for 
himself.  Wherefore,  man  could  not  act  for  himself  save  it  should  be  that 
he  was  enticed  by  the  one  or  the  other.  (II  Nephi  2:15-16.) 

There  were  those  who  seemingly,  as  evidenced  bv  their  con- 
duct, think  of  this  principle  of  free  agency  as  a  matter  of  license  to 
do  what  they  please  to  do.  But  again  Father  Lehi  explains  this  mat- 
ter to  his  son: 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


45 


Wherefore,  men  are  free  according  to  the  flesh:  and  all  things  shall 
be  given  them  which  are  expedient  unto  man.  And  they  are  free  to 
choose  liberty  and  eternal  life,  through  the  great  mediation  of  all  men, 
or  to  choose  captivity  and  death,  according  to  the  captivity  and  power  of 
the  devil;  for  he  seeketh  that  all  men  might  be  miserable  like  unto  him- 
self. (Idem  27.) 

We  must  teach  men  everywhere  that  liberty  and  freedom  are 
to  be  obtained  only  by  yielding  obedience  to  truth.  We  must  teach 
Latter-day  Saints  the  meaning  of  the  words  of  the  Savior: 

And  ye  shall  know  the  truth,  and  the  truth  shall  make  you  free. 
(John  8:32.) 

Anyone  who  looks  about  him  and  thinks  about  this  matter  will 
see  great  evidence  of  the  power  of  evil  enticing  men  to  do  evil.  It 
must  be  understood  by  us  as  a  Church  that  if  we  are  to  build  a  force 
that  will  nullify  the  power  of  evil,  we  must  develop  the  God-given 
agencies  placed  in  his  Church  to  entice  men  to  seek  the  paths  that 
lead  to  eternal  life. 

General  Servicemen's  Committee 

I  have  recalled  these  scriptures  I  have  quoted  many  times  during 
the  last  few  years  because  of  the  feeling  and  weight  of  responsibility 
that  has  rested  upon  me  in  the  assignment  of  the  First  Presidency 
as  a  member  of  the  general  servicemen's  committee  directing  the 
work  of  the  Church  among  our  Latter-day  Saint  boys  in  military 
service  and  as  a  member  of  the  general  priesthood  committee.  It 
was  with  a  prayer  of  relief  that  we  thanked  the  Lord  that  we  had 
come  through  the  war  with  as  few  casualties,  spiritually  speaking,  as 
we  did,  but  it  was  with  considerable  anxiety  that  we  again  saw  mar- 
shaled into  the  ranks  of  the  military,  our  young,  untrained  boys, 
many  of  them  without  experience  and  with  not  too  much  faith  de- 
veloped, in  a  so-called  peacetime  draft.  We  came  soon  to  see  and 
learn,  to  our  dismay,  that  the  moral  hazards  in  such  a  situation  were 
even  greater  than  during  the  fighting  part  of  the  war.  Then  there 
was  something  of  a  moral  discipline  that  boys  had  when  ahead  of 
them  there  was  the  prospect  of  imminent  death. 

It  is  true  today  that  the  draft  situation  has  eased  somewhat,  but 
we  view  with  fear  and  anxiety  the  forces  that  are  at  work  which 
would  have  a  universal  military  draft  of  all  able-bodied  young  men 
in  this  country,  which  will  come  except  God  in  his  mercy  shall  deliver 
us  therefrom.  It  is  because  of  that  anxiety  and  that  possibility  and 
the  fact  that  we  still  have  many  of  our  young  men  in  service  that 
have  caused  me  to  think  of  these  matters  which  the  Lord  has  called 
to  our  attention. 

Views  of  Chaplain 

With  respect  to  the  matter  of  war  and  the  processes  of  war,  a 
chaplain  who  served  in  two  wars  and  longer,  writes  this: 


46  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sundag.  April  3  First  Day 

War  (and  by  inference  the  training  for  it)  makes  for  few  conversions. 
War  only  makes  people  more  strongly  what  they  were  when  the  struggle 
began.  If  they  were  intemperate  when  they  went  into  uniform,  they  will 
usually  have  become  much  harder  drinkers  by  the  time  they  come  back 
home.  If  they  were  careless  in  sex  morality,  they  are  almost  sure  to  have 
become  more  slimy  in  that  respect.  If  they  were  noisy  braggarts,  you 
may  expect  them  to  return  intolerable  boasters.  If  they  were  selfish, 
their  selfishness  will  have  increased.  If  they  were  honest,  decent,  modest 
men,  the  war  will  usually  have  improved  those  qualities.  If  they  despised 
God,  they  will  have  come  out  more  sure  in  scorn;  if  they  loved  God  a 
little,  they  will  have  learned  to  love  him  a  lot.  But  there  will  be  no  more 
conversions  than  in  peacetime,  rather  less.  All  history  shows  it  true  that 
no  religious  revival  ever  began  or  was  fostered  by  battle. 

What  is  said  here  by  this  chaplain  about  those  away  from  their 
homes  in  military  service  might  in  part  be  said  about  all  who  are 
away  from  their  homes  and  away  from  the  influence  of  the  Church. 

As  we  scan  the  priesthood  reports  from  quarter  to  quarter,  there 
is  evidence  that  there  are  many  of  our  priesthood  members  not  in  mil- 
itary service  but  likewise  away  from  home  and  away  from  the  ties 
and  influences  of  the  Church.  There  are  also  reports  of  many  girls 
who  are  away  from  their  homes  at  school  and  at  work  and,  therefore, 
shorn  of  the  influences  that  otherwise  would  tie  them  close  to  the 
influence  of  the  Church. 

Place  of  Refuge 

When  the  Lord  revealed  the  name  by  which  his  Church  was  to 
be  called,  he  gave  some  other  instructions  as  to  what  that  Church 
was  to  do.  He  said: 

And  that  the  gathering  together  upon  the  land  of  Zion,  and  upon  her 
stakes,  may  be  for  a  defense,  and  for  a  refuge  from  the  storm,  and  from 
wrath  when  it  shall  be  poured  out  without  mixture  upon  the  whole 
earth.  (D.  &  C.  115:6.) 

As  I  have  thought  of  that  refuge  which  the  Lord  designed  his 
organization  to  be,  I  have  thought  of  those  agencies  within  it,  one 
of  which  Elder  Benson  spoke  so  eloquently  about  in  his  Church  of 
the  Air  address  this  morning,  the  home.  He  quoted  the  scripture 
which  we  have  had  repeated  time  and  time  again  as  a  quotation  from 
the  revelation  of  the  Lord.  After  the  Lord  had  declared  it  a  sin  upon 
the  heads  of  the  parents  if  they  failed  to  teach  the  law  of  repentance 
and  have  their  children  baptized  when  eight  years  of  age,  he  said: 

And  they  shall  also  teacn  their  children  to  pray,  and  to  walk  up- 
rightly before  the  Lord. 

And  the  inhabitants  of  Zion  shall  also  observe  the  Sabbath  day  to  keep 
it  holy. 

And  the  inhabitants  of  Zion  also  shall  remember  their  labors,  inas- 
much as  they  are  appointed  to  labor,  in  all  faithfulness;  for  the  idler 
shall  be  had  in  remembrance  before  the  Lord.  (D.  &  C.  68:28-30.) 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE  47 
Purposes  of  Church  Organization 

The  Apostle  Paul  has  defined  another  one  of  the  purposes  of 
the  Church  organization  in  his  writings  to  the  Ephesians.  He  de- 
clared that  the  Lord  gave  this  organization  ". .  .  to  edify  the  body  of 
the  church,"  (or,  in  other  words  to  educate  the  members  of  the 
Church  until  they  would)  "all  come  unto  a  unity  of  faith."  (See  Eph- 
esians 4:12-13.) 

Clearly  the  Apostle  Paul  saw  the  importance  of  the  teacher  and 
those  who  would  instruct  our  members  in  the  doctrines  of  the  Church 
as  another  of  those  divine  agencies  in  the  Church  to  entice  against 
the  power  of  evil.  It  would  be  well  if  all  the  teachers  would  under- 
stand what  the  Apostle  Paul  meant  when  he  said  to  the  Corinthians: 

And  I  .  .  .  came  to  you,  came  not  with  excellency  of  speech  or  of 
wisdom,  declaring  unto  you  the  testimony  of  God. 

For  I  determined  not  to  know  any  thing  among  you,  save  Jesus 
Christ,  and  him  crucified.  (I  Cor.  2:1-2.) 

Objective  of  Teachers 

That  should  be  the  only  objective  of  instructors  and  teachers  in 
this  Church  to  teach  "Jesus  Christ,  and  him  crucified."  We  need  not 
the  "excellency  of  speech  nor  of  wisdom,"  but  we  need  the  testimony 
of  God,  as  Paul  said.  And  then  this  warning  came  in  his  later  writ- 
ings: 

For  if  the  trumpet  give  an  uncertain  sound,  who  shall  prepare  him- 
self to  the  battle?    (Ibid.,  14:8.) 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  in  commenting  about  this  and  decry- 
ing the  fact  that  there  were  some  apparently  trying  to  confuse  our 
people  and  lead  them  away  by  destroying  faith  rather  than  by  build- 
ing a  testimony  of  God,  said: 

Among  the  Latter-day  Saints  the  preaching  of  false  doctrine  dis- 
guised as  truths  of  the  gospel  may  be  expected  from  people  of  two  classes 
and  practically  from  these  only;  they  are:  First,  the  hopelessly  ignorant, 
whose  lack  of  intelligence  is  due  to  their  indolence  and  sloth,  who  make 
but  feeble  effort,  if  indeed  any  at  all,  to  better  themselves,  by  reading  and 
study;  those  who  are  afflicted  with  a  dread  disease  that  may  develop  into 
an  incurable  malady — laziness. 

Second,  the  proud  and  self-vaunting  ones,  who  read  by  the  lamp  of 
their  own  conceit;  who  interpret  by  rules  of  their  own  contriving;  who  have 
become  a  law  unto  themselves,  and  so  pose  as  the  sole  judges  of  their 
own  doings,  more  dangerously  ignorant  than  the  first. 

Beware  of  the  lazy  and  the  proud;  their  infection  in  each  case  is 
contagious;  better  for  them  and  for  all  when  they  are  compelled  to  display 
the  yellow  flag  of  warning,  that  the  clean  and  uninfected  may  be  pro- 
tected. 

I  wish  that  we  could  have  in  all  our  classes  and  meetings  the 
spirit  which  characterized  one  of  our  missionary  meetings  down  at 


48  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  3  First  Day 

Ventura,  California,  where  I  visited  recently  with  President  Oscar 
W.  McConkie,  of  the  California  Mission,  when  a  woman  who  had 
sat  in  one  of  our  Latter-day  Saint  meetings  for  the  first  time  in  her 
life  made  this  comment  at  the  close  of  the  meeing: 

I  have  studied  the  scriptures  all  my  life,  but  today  the  words  of  the 
scriptures  have  been  made  to  live. 

So  can  be  all  the  instructions  of  inspired  teachers  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ. 

Duties  of  the  Priesthood 

And  now  there  is  a  third  agency  in  the  Church  to  entice  men 
away  from  evil. 

The  Lord  has  set  up  the  priesthood,  and  to  them  he  gave  the 
injunction  to  elders,  priests,  teachers,  deacons,  that  they  were  to 
"watch  over  the  Church" — and  in  more  detailed  explanation  to  the 
teachers — "to  see  that  there  is  no  iniquity,  no  evil  speaking,  and  that 
all  Church  members  do  their  duty."  (See  D.  &  C.  20:54.) 

But,  even  after  instructions  have  gone  out  from  the  General 
Authorities,  concerning  the  servicemen,  to  our  bishops  and  stake 
presidents  as  how  the  boys  away  from  home  may  be  contacted  and 
directed;  and  after  our  instructions  have  gone  out  about  the  girls  who 
likewise  are  away  from  home,  and  how  we  ought  to  shepherd  them 
and  keep  in  touch  with  them;  and  how  the  quorums  should  look  after 
their  absent  members,  we  regret  to  say  our  reports  indicate  that 
sometimes  quorum  leaders  take  too  lightly  the  exercise  of  those 
agencies  which  our  Heavenly  Father  has  caused  to  be  set  up  here 
for  the  enticement  to  do  good  of  those  who  otherwise  are  being  en- 
ticed by  evil. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  war  there  was  an  interesting  newspaper 
account  of  a  boy  flying  in  from  a  training  trip  over  the  air  field  who 
suddenly  shouted  through  his  radio  device  to  the  man  in  the  control 
tower  below:  "I  can't  see.  I've  lost  my  eyesight." 

And  the  man  in  the  control  tower  said:  "Now,  Son,  you  get  a 
grip  on  yourself,  and  I  will  tell  you  what  to  do." 

Quietly  the  man  in  the  control  tower  guided  him  and  had  him 
circle  the  field  many  times,  losing  altitude  by  manipulating  the  con- 
trols, and  finally  the  pilot  rolled  to  a  stop  safely  in  front  of  the  con- 
trol tower  on  the  ground. 

It  is  that  kind  of  calm  wisdom  and  counsel  that  we  need  so  much 
today.  I  would  like  to  illustrate  what  I  mean  by  bringing  you  parts 
of  two  letters  from  two  of  our  boys  who  came  through  a  period  of 
spiritual  "blindness"  because  of  the  steadying  influence  of  wise  coun- 
selors in  the  Church.  One  of  these  boys  wrote  a  letter  just  recently 
and  began  his  letter  by  saying: 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


49 


Experience  of  Serviceman 

"My  bishop  is  the  best  bishop  in  this  Church."  He  then  ex- 
plained that  when  he  became  a  priest,  his  bishop  taught  him,  among 
the  first  things,  that  God  answered  prayer.  So  the  bishop  instructed 
him  before  he  went  away  into  military  service,  and  he  went  away 
strengthened  by  these  teachings,  but  when  he  got  out  there,  he 
learned  to  his  dismay  that  some  of  those  who  claim  membership  in 
the  Church  did  not  act  as  the  servants  of  the  Lord  should.  They 
were  rowdy.  There  was  irreverence.  And  he  got  to  thinking,  "Could 
it  be  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  if  they  don't  reverence  his  name  and 
are  irreverent  in  his  house?"  He  went  to  visit  other  churches  and 
found  a  spirit  of  worship  that  sometimes  was  not  to  be  found  in  his 
own.  In  his  own  way  he  formed  the  conclusion  that  therefore  the 
Church  must  be  wrong.  He  wrote  home  to  his  bishop  and  said: 
"Bishop,  I  have  decided  to  join  another  church.  I  feel  that  this  must 
be  wrong  or  our  people  would  be  more  reverent  in  their  meetings." 

His  bishop  wrote  back  and  said:  "Well,  my  boy,  do  not  act  too 
hastily.   You  study  about  this  matter,  and  think  about  it.   You  pray 
to  your  Heavenly  Father,  and  everything  will  be  all  right." 
The  boy  then  wrote  this: 

"On  Thanksgiving  night,  I  was  very  tired  as  I  had  just  come  off 
a  watch  at  night,  and  when  I  had  gone  to  bed,  all  I  wanted  to  do  was 
sleep.  That  night  God  answered  my  prayer.  It  was  late,  and  what 
to  me  was  a  vision  and  to  the  common  people  would  be  a  dream  came 
to  me.  I  saw  a  beautiful  garden,  and  in  the  middle  of  this  garden 
was  a  golden  path.  Coming  down  the  path  was  my  grandfather  who 
had  died  in  1937.  On  the  other  side  was  my  uncle  who  had  died  on 
a  mission  in  1939. 

"Now  I  had  gone  to  bed  very  tired,  and  I  had  never  thought  of 
my  uncle  or  my  grandfather  as  they  had  died  when  I  was  still  under 
ten  years  of  age. 

"But  that  was  not  all.  In  the  middle  of  them  was  Joseph  Smith. 
They  all  talked  to  me,  and  the  final  thing  that  I  can  remember  dis- 
tinctly as  being  said  was  Joseph  Smith  telling  me  to  stick  to  the  truth, 
no  matter  what  the  other  people  said  or  did  and  to  listen  to  the  truth 
even  though  others  did  not  listen  to  it. 

"Then  he  said  that  there  was  still  work  to  be  done  there  as  I 
had  work  to  do  here,  and  they  faded  away,  and  it  seemed  that  I  was 
in  the  garden  alone  until  the  garden  began  to  fade,  and  I  seemed 
to  fall. 

"When  I  awoke,  it  was  still  the  middle  of  the  night,  and  it  was 
also  cold,  yet  I  had  a  feeling  of  warmth  within  me,  and  I  knew  that 
God  had  answered  my  prayers.   I  finished  the  night  in  restful  sleep. 

"Now  you  may  think  I  was  dreaming,  too,  but  I  still  feel  and 
know  that  I  had  an  answer  to  my  prayer." 

I  recalled  that  boy's  letter  when  we  heard  a  group  of  mission- 
aries down  in  the  California  Mission  say:  "When  we  get  discouraged 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Dag 


and  downcast  and  blue,  we  have  made  a  practice  to  go  away  fasting 
into  the  mountains  before  daylight  and  stay  there  all  day  and  return 
after  dark  at  night,  and  we  have  never  failed  to  come  from  that  ex- 
perience strengthened  by  the  power  of  God." 


Another  of  our  men  coming  back  from  combat  service  overseas 
was  thrown  into  the  middle  of  the  ocean  when  his  ship  was  torpe- 
doed. He  was  seriously  burned  and  was  sent  to  a  sanitarium,  with 
his  mind  greatly  disturbed  and  upset.    He  writes  this  testimony: 

"While  in  the  hospital,  word  came  to  me  that  my  son  had  been 
gravely  wounded  in  the  South  Pacific.  I  could  not  go  to  him.  My 
world  had  collapsed.  No,  again,  it  is  not  the  usual  story.  I  did  not 
remain  steadfast  in  the  faith.  I  became  rebellious.  I  blamed  my 
Heavenly  Father  for  all  of  the  misery  and  distress  which  was  mine. 
I  concluded  that  he  had  let  me  down.  I  turned  away  from  him.  I 
even  got  to  the  point  where  I  could  no  longer  pray.  It  seemed  as  if 
my  line  of  communication  had  been  broken,  and  I  had  lost  all  contact 
with  God.  That  was  the  depth  of  human  misery.  Utter  futility  and 
resentment  were  mine.  There  is  no  destitution  like  that  of  being  out 
of  contact  with  our  Heavenly  Father.  It  is  like  receiving  a  busy  sig- 
nal when  you  call  your  doctor  in  an  emergency. 

"But  then  a  miracle  happened!  My  friends  in  the  Church  had 
not  forgotten  me!  They  prayed  with  faith  for  my  recovery.  My 
name  was  placed  in  the  temples  of  our  Lord  where  prayer  was  said 
in  my  behalf.  My  children  continued  to  pray  even  as  I  had  taught 
them  to  do.   My  parents  prayed  with  an  unwavering  faith. 

"The  elders  of  the  Church  sought  me  out  and  gave  me  a  bless- 
ing. I  had  little  faith  in  them,  but  God  had  not  forgotten  me.  He 
heard  those  prayers,  and  he  turned  not  away.  And  health  soon  re- 
turned to  my  body." 

I  ask  you  members  and  leaders  of  the  Church:  Suppose  that  the 
bishop  had  been  too  busy  to  write  to  his  boy  who  was  disturbed 
by  the  irreverence  of  many  who  attended  meetings  where  he  had 
been.  Suppose  that  he  had  not  been  taught  as  a  priest  the  things 
which  the  bishop  had  taught  him  about  prayer  and  how  he  could  get 
an  answer  to  his  problems.  Suppose  that  this  other  man's  elders' 
quorum  had  failed,  and  they  had  forgotten  to  pray  back  home.  I 
ask  you  to  consider  the  seriousness  of  our  responsibility  in  these 
matters. 


Today  is  a  day  of  clever  deception,  a  day  when  the  Master 
declared  one  of  the  signs  of  his  coming  should  be  that  even  the  very 
elect,  according  to  the  covenant,  would  be  deceived. 

One  of  our  boys  now  studying  in  a  large  university  on  the  coast 


Wounded  Man  Remembered 


Day  of  Deception 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


51 


declared  that  the  "thing  that  had  kept  him  from  losing  faith  in  the 
Bible  which  the  higher  critics  have  decimated  almost  to  a  point  of 
non-recognition,"  he  said,  "the  thing  that  has  kept  my  faith  is  that 
I  know  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  true,  and  because  of  that  testimony 
I  know  that  what  they  are  saying  about  the  Bible  is  false  and  not  the 
truth." 

The  Lord  has  given  us  a  sure  guide  as  to  how  we  might  discern 
truth  from  error.  He  said: 

And  that  which  doth  not  edify  is  not  of  God.  .  .  . 

That  which  is  of  God  is  light;  and  he  that  receiveth  light  and  con- 
tinueth  in  God,  receiveth  more  light;  and  that  light  groweth  brighter 
and  brighter  until  the  perfect  day.    (D.  &  C.  50:22-24.) 

Keep  God's  Commandments 

I  wish  we  could  take  a  lesson  from  the  testimony  of  a  man  in 
this  city  who  conducts  a  business  here,  who  wrote  and  told  me  about 
a  little  experience  he  had  when  during  the  so-called  depression  of 
the  past  years,  he  thought  he  was  going  to  lose  everything  that  he 
had,  and  so  he  fasted  and  prayed  that  the  Lord  would  show  him  how 
to  save  his  business,  and  he  said:  "One  morning  just  as  it  was  break- 
ing daylight  I  felt  the  still  small  voice  which  said  to  me:  'If  you  will 
only  but  keep  God's  commandments,  you  will  be  given  all  the  wis- 
dom necessary  to  save  your  business.'  " 

Simple,  but  a  great  powerful  truth — if  we  will  only  keep  God's 
commandments,  the  wisdom  sufficient  to  our  needs  will  be  given  us! 

In  the  words  of  one,  may  we  not  forget  the  great  truth  which  he 
has  put  in  these  words: 

Isn't  it  strange  that  princes  and  kings 

And  clowns  that  caper  in  sawdust  rings 
And  just  plain  folks  like  you  and  me 

Are  builders  for  eternity? 

To  each  is  given  a  bag  of  tools, 

A  shapeless  mass  and  a  book  of  rules, 
And  each  must  build  ere  life  has  flown, 
A  stumbling-block  or  a  steppingstone. 

("Stumbling-Block  or  Stepping 
Stone,"  by  R.  L.  Sharpe.) 

God  grant  us  strength.  May  we  rise  to  our  responsibilities, 
to  do  our  job,  to  entice  the  membership  of  this  Church  and  the  world 
to  seek  the  things  that  bring  eternal  life  and  happiness  here  and  in 
the  world  to  come,  I  pray  humbly,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


52  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  3  First  Day 

BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

I  am  very  happy,  brothers  and  sisters,  to  have  the  privilege  of 
attending  this  conference  with  you.  I  am  sure  we  have  all  rejoiced 
in  the  testimonies  and  the  instructions  of  our  brethren,  and  I  thank 
the  Lord  for  them  and  for  my  association  with  them,  and  I  am  very 
grateful,  as  you  are,  that  he  has  permitted  President  Smith  to  be 
here  with  us  today  and  to  instruct  us  as  he  has  done. 

I  humbly  pray  that,  in  the  few  moments  that  are  mine,  I  may 
leave  some  thought  with  you  that  will  help  inspire  you  and  help  you 
feel  compensated  for  the  great  work  you  are  doing  in  the  Church  of 
our  Father  in  heaven. 

The  Things  That  Matter 

It  has  been  said  that  there  are  two  kinds  of  things  in  this  world, 
the  things  that  matter  and  then  the  other  things,  and  I  believe  that 
if  any  people  have  learned  to  know  the  things  that  matter,  it  is  the 
Latter-day  Saints. 

You  will  recall  that  a  teacher  among  the  Jews  went  to  Jesus  by 
night,  the  Great  Teacher,  to  learn  from  him  the  things  that  matter, 
and  when  he  met  the  Savior,  he  said: 

.  .  .  Rabbi,  we  know  that  thou  are  a  teacher  come  from  God:  for  no 
man  can  do  these  miracles  that  thou  doest,  except  God  be  with  him. 
(John  3:2.) 

Jesus  did  not  reply  with  some  great  philosophy  of  men,  but  said 
to  Nicodemus:  ".  .  .  Except  a  man  be  born  again,  he  cannot  see  the 
kingdom  of  God." 

And  of  course  Nicodemus  did  not  understand,  and  said:  "How 
can  a  man  be  born  when  he  is  old?  Can  he  enter  the  second  time 
into  his  mother's  womb,  and  be  born?" 

And  Jesus  replied:  "Except  a  man  be  born  of  water  and  of  the 
Spirit,  he  cannot  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God." 

A  great  many  people,  as  Jesus  instructed  the  teacher  of  the  Jews, 
have  been  born  again.  Take  as  an  illustration  the  Apostle  Paul. 

There  was  a  man  who  did  not  understand  the  truth.  On  the 
way  to  Damascus,  our  Savior  appeared  to  him  and  informed  him  of 
the  mistake  he  was  making,  and  said:  "Saul,  Saul,  why  persecutest 
thou  me? 

".  .  .  it  is  hard  for  thee  to  kick  against  the  pricks."  (Acts  9:4-5.) 

Paul  and  Peter 

And  you  know  the  life  of  Paul,  from  that  time  forward  until  he 
went  to  Rome  and  there  appeared  before  Festus  and  King  Agrippa. 
When  he  bore  his  testimony  to  them  he  told  them  how  he  had  seen 


BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS  53 


a  light  and  heard  the  voice  of  the  Savior  speak  unto  him,  but  they 
just  could  not  understand  it.  And  Festus  said  with  a  loud  voice: 
".  .  .  Paul,  thou  art  beside  thyself;  much  learning  doth  make  thee 
mad."  (Acts  26:24.) 

To  which  Paul  replied:  "I  am  not  mad,  most  noble  Festus;  but 
speak  forth  the  words  of  truth  and  soberness." 

And  then  Agrippa  said:  "Almost  thou  persuadeth  me  to  be  a 
Christian." 

And  while  Paul  stood  before  them  in  chains,  he  said:  "I  would 
to  God,  that  not  only  thou,  but  also  all  that  hear  me  this  day,  were 
both  almost,  and  altogether  such  as  I  am,  except  these  bonds." 

Paul  had  found  the  thing  that  mattered  in  this  world,  and  he 
was  willing  to  give  his  life  for  it. 

And  Peter,  that  great  exponent  of  truth,  after  he  had  received 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  was  commanded  that  he  should  no  longer 
preach  Christ  and  him  crucified  in  the  streets  of  Jerusalem,  but  he 
replied:  "Whom  shall  men  obey,  God  or  man?" 

And  he  went  on  about  his  work  as  he  had  been  commanded, 
because  he  had  been  born  again  and  he  knew  the  thing  that  was 
really  worth  while. 

Alma's  Conversion 

Now  consider  Alma,  the  son  of  Alma,  who  went  about  persecut- 
ing the  Saints,  until  the  angel  of  the  Lord  appeared  to  him  and  told 
him  of  his  error,  and  the  earth  trembled  as  the  angel  spake  to  him, 
but  after  that,  when  Alma  went  forth  to  preach  the  gospel,  he  just 
could  not  take  unto  himself  the  power  that  he  would  like  in  order 
that  he  might  be  able  to  cry  repentance  to  all  the  world.  And  he  said: 
"O  that  I  were  an  angel,  and  could  have  the  wish  of  mine  heart,  that 
I  might  go  forth  and  speak  with  the  trump  of  God,  with  a  voice  to 
shake  the  earth,  and  cry  repentance  unto  every  people"  (Alma  29:1 ) , 
because  he  knew  that  when  the  angel  spake  to  him  it  literally  did 
shake  the  earth. 

And  so  Alma  found  the  thing  that  was  really  worth  while,  the 
thing  that  mattered,  and  that  was  the  thing  to  which  he  devoted  his 
life;  and  so  it  was  with  the  prophets  of  that  day  and  this  day. 

Joseph  Smith's  Testimony 

When  the  Prophet  Joseph  wrote  his  own  story  he  said  that  he 
marveled  that  a  boy,  obscure  as  he  was,  a  farmer  boy  without  edu- 
cation, should  become  the  subject  of  such  discussion  and  concern  by 
the  great  men  of  his  community,  and  he  said: 

I  had  actually  seen  a  light,  and  In  the  midst  of  that  light  I  saw  two 
personages,  and  they  did  in  reality  speak  to  me;  and  though  I  was  hated 
and  persecuted  for  saying  that  I  had  seen  a  vision,  yet  it  was  true;  and 
while  they  were  persecuting  me,  reviling  me,  and  speaking  all  manner  of 


4 


54  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  3  First  Dag 

evil  against  me  falsely  for  so  saying,  I  was  led  to  say  in  my  heart: 
"Why  persecute  me  for  telling  the  truth?  I  have  actually  seen  a  vision; 
and  who  am  I  that  I  can  withstand  God,  or  why  does  the  world  think 
to  make  me  deny  what  I  have  actually  seen?"  For  I  had  seen  a  vision;  I 
knew  it,  and  I  knew  that  God  knew  it,  and  I  could  not  deny  it,  neither 
dared  I  do  it;  at  least  I  knew  that  by  so  doing  I  would  offend  God, 
and  come  under  condemnation. 

And  so,  being  born  again,  as  the  Prophet  was,  and  learning  the 
thing  that  mattered  and  was  really  worth  while,  his  whole  life  was 
devoted  to  his  testimony,  until  he  sealed  his  testimony  win  his  blood. 


Brigham  Young 

It  took  Brigham  Young  about  two  years  to  make  up  his  mind 
to  join  the  Church  after  he  first  heard  the  gospel,  and  then  for  the 
next  ten  years,  we  are  told,  he  spent  almost  his  entire  time  in  the 
missionary  service  of  the  Lord.  And  when  he  went  on  his  first  mis- 
sion he  did  not  even  have  an  overcoat,  and  he  took  a  quilt  from  the 
trundle  bed,  and  his  wife  made  him  a  cap  out  of  a  pair  of  old  panta- 
loons, and  at  the  end  of  ten  years,  he  said,  all  he  had  ever  had  as  a 
reward  of  his  service  was  the  half  of  a  small  pig  that  the  Prophet 
Joseph  had  received  from  one  of  the  brethren  and  divided  with  him. 
And  then,  in  this  great  Tabernacle  later  he  said  that  he  had  studied 
the  gospel  as  any  student  of  science  had  studied  any  branch  of 
science  for  thirty  years  as  he  traveled  by  day  and  by  night,  by  land 
and  by  sea,  and  he  had  only  reached  the  ABC's:  his  study  lead  him 
into  the  eternities. 

That  is  what  it  does  for  a  man  when  he  finds  the  thing  that  mat- 
ters and  is  really  worth  while  in  this  life,  and  it  marks  the  life  of  that 
man  just  as  the  lives  of  you,  my  brethren,  have  been  marked  because 
of  the  testimony  that  has  come  to  you. 

I  like  the  statement  that  President  Clark  made  from  this  stand, 
I  think  about  a  year  ago,  when  he  said  that  a  testimony  is  the  mortar 
that  holds  this  Church  together,  and  if  we  did  not  have  a  testimony 
we  would  not  be  doing  the  things  we  are  doing  today. 

All  of  you,  as  you  look  back  over  the  history  of  your  own  people 
and  your  own  families,  are  no  doubt  proud  of  your  forebears  and 
the  sacrifices  they  have  made,  and  their  integrity  and  devotion  to 
the  faith,  and  if  you  will  pardon  me  for  being  a  bit  personal,  I  would 
like  to  refer  to  some  of  mine. 


Faith  in  Own  Family 

My  grandfather,  Franklin  D.  Richards,  recorded  in  his  diary, 
after  he  had  been  a  member  of  the  Church  for  nine  years,  that  he 
had  come  up  in  that  time  through  the  grades  of  the  priesthood  to 
the  office  of  high  priest,  that  he  had  received  his  endowments  in 
the  Nauvoo  Temple,  that  he  had  filled  five  missions  in  the  United 
States,  and  he  was  then  serving  as  counselor  in  the  Presidency  of 


BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS  55 


the  British  Mission  with  a  membership  of  over  sixteen  thousand. 
Then  he  states: 

Most  of  all  things,  this  day,  I  desire  the  Holy  Spirit,  which  giveth 
life,  yea  life  more  abundantly  to  both  body  and  spirit. 

He  traded  his  home  in  Nauvoo,  as  many  of  the  other  brethren 
did,  for  a  team  of  horses  and  a  wagon;  loaded  on  it  all  his  possessions 
he  could  take  with  him;  took  his  two  wives  (that  was  permissible  in 
those  days)  and  one  little  girl,  and  went  to  join  the  Saints  at  Winter 
Quarters.  When  he  arrived  there,  the  Prophet  Brigham  Young  sent 
him  back  to  England.  And  while  he  was  there  again  in  the  mission 
field,  one  of  his  wives  died,  his  little  girl  died,  and  his  brother  who 
was  with  the  Mormon  Battalion  died.  Previously  he  had  lost  a 
brother  in  the  Haun's  Mill  Massacre,  and  he  wrote  in  his  journal 
something  like  this: 

I  hope  that  no  matter  what  sacrifice  may  be  required  at  my  hands 
that  God  will  give  me  the  strength  to  stand  so  that  when  the  battle  is 
fought  and  the  race  is  run  I  may  come  out  not  one  whit  behind  my 
brethren. 

You  know,  that  is  when  we  know  the  things  that  matter  and 
the  other  things,  when  we  have  been  born  again  with  the  spirit  of 
this  great  latter-day  work. 

I  would  like  also  to  refer  to  Grandfather  Willard  Richards, 
cousin  Stephen  L's  grandfather.  He  was  in  jail  in  Carthage  with 
the  Prophet  Joseph  and  his  brother  Hyrum,  and  John  Taylor.  Grand- 
father Willard  did  not  have  to  go  there,  there  was  no  subpoena  for 
him  or  warrant  of  arrest.  The  Prophet  Joseph  turned  to  him  and 
said:  "If  we  go  into  the  cell,  will  you  go  with  us?" 

Dr.  Richards  replied:  "Brother  Joseph,  you  did  not  ask  me  to 
cross  the  river  with  you;  you  did  not  ask  me  to  come  to  Carthage 
with  you;  you  did  not  ask  me  to  come  to  jail  with  you.  Do  you  think 
I  would  forsake  you  now?  I  will  tell  you  what  I  will  do.  If  you  are 
condemned  to  be  hanged  for  treason,  I  will  be  hanged  in  your  stead, 
and  you  shall  go  free." 

The  Prophet  replied:  "You  cannot  do  that." 

Dr.  Richards  replied:  "But  I  will." 

That  is  the  kind  of  faith  and  testimony  that  has  built  this  king- 
dom of  God,  because  they  have  known  the  things  that  matter,  and 
the  other  things  have  been  of  little  consequence  to  them. 

I  would  like  to  be  pardoned  for  referring  to  my  own  father  who 
is  deprived  of  the  privilege  of  being  here  today  because  of  illness, 
President  George  F.  Richards  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  A  few 
weeks  ago  I  sat  by  his  side  when  he  was  in  great  pain  and  distress 
and  I  sympathized  with  him  and  he  said:  "My  son,  it  does  not  matter 
what  happens  to  me  as  long  as  the  kingdom  of  God  can  go  for- 
ward." 

And  I  felt  grateful  for  a  father  with  that  kind  of  faith. 


56  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  3  First  Dag 

To  these  testimonies,  many  of  you  brethren  can  add  experiences 
of  your  own  and  your  forebears.  I  remember  when  I  was  a  boy  I 
said  to  my  father:  "Father,  how  is  a  person  to  know  when  he  gets  a 
testimony?" 

"Well,"  he  said,  "my  boy,  you  just  keep  going  the  way  you 
have  been;  you  will  not  need  to  worry  about  that." 

There  is  not  time  today  to  relate  my  own  experiences  but  I 
want  to  tell  you  that  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  work  is  the 
most  treasured  gift  of  my  life,  and  I  would  rather  have  it  burn  in  the 
hearts  and  souls  of  my  children  and  my  grandchildren  than  any 
other  thing  in  all  the  world. 

Testimony  of  Indian  Sister 

Could  I  be  excused  for  reading  a  testimony  of  an  Indian  sister, 
that  appeared  in  the  Church  section  of  The  Deseret  News,  a  few 
weeks  ago,  to  show  you  that  the  Lord  gives  to  the  poor  and  the 
humble  of  the  earth  just  as  well  as  he  does  to  any  others: 

T  joined  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  have 
never  had  any  doubt  in  my  heart  but  that  I  have  joined  the  right  Church. 
Before  I  joined  the  Latter-day  Saint  Church,  everything  that  was  pure 
and  sweet  seemed  so  far  away,  as  if  there  were  a  deep  gap,  and  I  could 
never  get  the  edges  together.  But  when  the  elders  came  and  I  heard  the 
real  truth,  everything  seemed  so  clear  and  beautiful.  I  wanted  to  be  sure, 
and  I  would  pray  nights  for  God  to  guide  me  and  show  me  the  right  thing 
to  do.  He  showed  me  the  right  way,  and  I  just  cannot  explain  the  won- 
derful feeling  I  had.  I  was  at  peace  with  the  world.  I  keep  thanking 
God  for  the  privilege  of  being  able  to  be  a  member  of  the  true  Church. 
I  want  to  bear  my  testimony  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  had  the  privilege  of  meeting  that  dear  sister  not  long  ago,  and 
she  was  just  like  an  angel  from  heaven  to  me.  I  learned  that  she  had 
taken  the  beads  and  little  trinkets  that  her  mother  bequeathed  to  her, 
amounting  in  value  to  a  few  hundred  dollars,  and  sold  them  in  order 
that  she  might  erect  a  room  in  which  the  elders  could  hold  meetings 
in  the  vicinity  where  she  lives. 

In  closing,  I  would  like  to  read  the  words  of  Nephi: 

And  the  angel  said  unto  me:  Behold  the  Lamb  of  God,  yea,  even  the 
Son  of  the  Eternal  Father!  Knowest  thou  the  meaning  of  the  tree  which 
thy  father  saw? 

And  I  answered  him,  saying:  Yea,  it  is  the  love  of  God,  which 
sheddeth  itself  abroad  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men;  wherefore, 
it  is  the  most  desirable  of  all  things. 

And  he  [the  angel]  spake  unto  me  saying:  Yea,  and  the  most  joyous 
to  the  soul.   (I  Nephi  11:21-23.) 

I  bear  you  my  testimony,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  there  is 
nothing  in  this  world  to  compare  with  the  love  of  God  and  the  testi- 
mony of  the  truth  that  comes  through  being  born  again  and  knowing 
the  things  that  matter  and  are  worth  while,  and  then  you  will  not 
need  to  worry  about  the  other  things. 

God  bless  you  all,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  DESLA  S.  BENNION 


57 


ELDER  DESLA  S.  BENNION 

Formerly  President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission 

I  suppose  that  this  is  an  honor  that  every  missionary,  every 
elder,  should  aspire  to,  and  again  I  suppose  that  any  of  you  who 
have  been  called  up  as  I  have  been  will  understand  the  prayer  that 
has  been  running  through  my  heart  for  the  past  few  moments  when 
I  was  asked  to  "be  on  deck."  I  realize  that  unless  I  enjoy  in  that 
prayer  the  spirit  which  Brother  Romney  talked  about,  that  you  will 
not  be  able  to  hear  or  remember  the  things  which  I  might  say. 

In  all  humility,  I  do  want  to  bear  my  testimony,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  God  lives  and  that  we  have  the  truth.  The  Lord 
does  hear  and  answer  our  prayers  and  gives  us  strength  when  we  are 
called  upon  to  do  something  by  those  in  authority  over  us. 

I  was  greatly  thrilled  last  night  at  our  missionary  reunion  when 
President  Joel  Richards  told  of  the  splendid  missionary  efforts  that 
are  being  put  forth  and  the  number  of  baptisms  per  missionary  that 
are  being  accomplished  in  the  Northwestern  States  Mission.  The 
thought  came  to  me  as  I  listened  to  Brother  Merrill  this  morning, 
and  it  comes  to  me  very  often,  that  when  these  many  people  that 
are  listening  to  the  gospel  today  have  been  baptized  into  our  church 
and  been  born  again,  we  as  members  have  a  great  responsibility. 
The  Prophet  Mosiah  told  us  that  when  we  went  into  the  waters  of 
baptism  that  we  did  have  that  responsibility  towards  those  members 
who  had  accepted  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  we  were  to  bear 
with  them  in  their  sorrows  and  in  their  troubles,  and  we  were  com- 
manded to  teach  them. 

Most  of  my  life  I  have  spent  away  from  the  Church,  out  in  the 
world,  and  I  have  seen  these  people  who  are  being  baptized  into  the 
Church,  and  many  of  those  who  have  drifted  out  into  the  world  or 
out  into  the  mission  fields,  get  lost  and  drift  away  and  become  in- 
active and  finally  lost  entirely.  I  do  not  believe  the  Lord  is  pleased 
with  waste.  We  have  a  great  responsibility  to  conserve  our  mem- 
bership. We  listen  to  and  know  about  national  conservation  but 
still  when  these,  our  brethren  and  sisters,  accept  the  gospel  it  is  just 
the  same  as  the  top  soil,  which  very  often  is  taken  from  the  top  of 
the  earth  and  washed  away  to  the  sea.  They  become  lost  and  much 
of  the  responsibility  is  ours,  because  we  do  owe  them  our  helping 
hand.  As  Mosiah  said,  we  must  bear  their  burdens  with  them,  and 
only  in  bearing  their  burdens  and  knowing  that  we  have  the  truth 
can  we  discharge  that  covenant  which  we  have  made.  Most  of  us 
who  are  here  listening  to  these  services  today  made  a  covenant  that 
we  would  do  anything  for  the  Gospel,  even  to  the  giving  up  our  lives, 
if  we  were  called  upon  to  do  so,  and  we  do  need  to  carry  this  truth, 
which  I  bear  witness  and  testimony  of  today.  We  have  the  re- 
sponsibility to  carry  that  truth  to  the  hearts  of  the  membership  of 
our  Church. 


58  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  3  First  Dag 

So  many  of  our  people  come  ino  the  world  and  they  drift  away; 
they  come  away  from  the  stakes  of  Zion,  get  a  good  job,  become 
part  of  the  world  and  forget  that  the  greatest  honor  they  can  have  is 
membership  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  bear  witness  to  you  that  the  greatest  inheritance  that  I  have 
and  the  biggest  blessing  that  I  have  is  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and 
my  membership  in  the  Church. 

The  Lord  bless  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  all  of  us,  that  we 
may  do  our  part  to  conserve  the  membership  of  our  Church,  to  keep 
our  sons  and  our  daughters  from  drifting  away,  and  these  people 
who  are  coming  into  the  Church  each  day,  on  whom  our  missionaries 
spend  so  much  time  and  effort,  with  such  great  success,  to  bring  into 
the  Church.  May  we  do  our  part  to  keep  them  faithful  in  the  Church 
and  to  teach  them  the  Gospel.  This  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

After  singing  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  benediction  by  Presi- 
dent Walter  R.  Holdaway  of  the  Orem  Stake,  this  Conference  will 
stand  adjourned  until  10:00  o'clock  tomorrow  morning. 

We  take  pleasure  in  announcing  that  the  Deseret  Sunday  School 
Union's  Centennial  Conference  will  be  held  this  evening  at  7:00 
o'clock  here  in  this  building. 

The  choir  music  for  the  session  and  this  morning's  session  has 
been  furnished  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall 
conducting  and  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ  this  morning 
and  Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  console  this  afternoon. 

Tomorrow  morning  the  audience  should  be  in  their  seats  not 
later  than  ten  minutes  before  the  time  of  beginning. 

The  Choir  will  now  sing:  "And  Then  Shall  Your  Light  Break 
Forth,"  after  which  President  Walter  R.  Holdaway  will  offer  the 
benediction. 


Singing  by  the  Choir,  "And  Then  Shall  Your  Light  Break 
Forth." 

Elder  Walter  R.  Holdaway,  president  of  the  Orem  Stake  of- 
fered the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Monday  morning,  April  4,  at  10:00 

a.m. 

SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  third  session  of  the  Conference  convened  Monday  morning, 
April  4,  at  10:00. 


ELDER  DESLA  S.  BENNION 


59 


President  George  Albert  Smith  was  present  and  presided.  Presi- 
dent J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  conducted  the  services. 

The  Choir  singing  for  this  meeting  was  by  the  Ricks  College 
Choir,  Elder  Alma  Dittmer,  conducting. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

This  is  the  third  session  of  the  119th  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  City. 

We  are  blessed  again  this  morning  with  the  presence  of  Presi- 
dent George  Albert  Smith,  President  of  the  Church  and  presiding 
high  priest  of  the  Church,  and  I  am  sure  that  all  those  of  us  who 
are  here  and  those  who  are  listening  on  the  air  would  like  to  wish 
him,  on  this  his  birthday,  many  happy  returns  and  offer  a  prayer 
that  he  will  be  spared  to  bless  us  with  his  presence  and  his  counsel 
for  yet  many  years  to  come. 

Of  the  General  Authorities  Elder  Matthew  Cowley  is  absent 
visiting  the  Pacific  missions  and  Elder  Alma  Sonne  is  in  Europe  in 
charge  of  the  European  missions.  President  Richards  is  again 
resting  at  home  at  the  suggestion  of  his  doctor. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL, 
Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the  follow- 
ing stations:  KSUB  at  Cedar  City  KID  at  Idaho  Falls.  KEYY  at 
Pocatello,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KJAM  at  Vernal  and  over  KEXO  at 
Grand  Junction  and  KTYL  at  Mesa  by  transcription. 

These  services  will  also  be  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall 
over  the  loud  speaking  system  and  by  television.  All  general 
sessions  of  the  Conference  will  be  heard  and  seen  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  in  the  same  way. 

I  wish  to  say  to  you  that  the  Assembly  Hall,  if  you  cannot  get 
seats  in  here,  provides  a  very  comfortable  place  in  which  to  see  and 
hear  the  Conference. 

The  choir  singing  during  this  morning's  session  will  be  by  the 
Ricks  College  Choir,  Elder  Alma  Dittmer  conducting  and  Elder 
Roy  M.  Darley  at  the  organ. 

We  will  begin  the  morning  services  by  the  Ricks  College 
Choir  singing  "How  Beauteous  Are  Their  Feet." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  William  Bliss 
Daniels  of  South  Sevier  Stake,  Utah. 


The  Ricks  College  Choir  sang  "How  Beauteous  Are  Their 
Feet." 

Elder  William  Bliss  Daniels,  president  of  the  South  Sevier 
Stake  offered  the  opening  prayer. 


60  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  3  First  Dag 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

I  apologize  for  my  failure  to  announce  a  fact  that  is  apparent  to 
you  here,  namely,  that  President  George  Albert  Smith  is  presiding 
and  that  he  has  asked  me,  President  Clark,  to  conduct  the  services. 

The  Ricks  College  Choir  will  now  sing  "Come,  Holy  Spirit," 
after  which  Elder  Henry  D.  Moyle  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will 
speak  to  us. 

The  Ricks  College  Choir  sang:  "Come,  Thou  Holy  Spirit." 

ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  wish  it  were  possible  this  morning 
for  me  to  express  to  my  Heavenly  Father  the  gratitude  there  is  in 
my  heart  for  the  restoration  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  these 
latter  days.  I  am  sure  that  if  we  serve  all  the  days  of  our  life  and 
render  to  this  work  the  utmost  of  our  ability  in  furthering  its  pro- 
gress, that  we  will  not  have  shown  fully  the  appreciation  which  I 
know  we  all  hold.  It  is  glorious  for  me  to  contemplate  the  possibili- 
ties that  the  gospel  gives  to  us  in  life,  the  blessings  that  it  has  be- 
stowed upon  us  thus  far  in  our  lives.  I  marvel  as  I  go  through  the 
Church  and  receive  of  your  kindness  and  your  hospitality  and  your 
faith  and  prayers  in  my  ministry,  at  the  growth  and  the  development 
which  I,  in  turn,  see  in  you,  who  are  faithful  to  the  offices  and  call- 
ings which  you  fill  and  who  are  rendering  the  service  that  you  do 
render  to  the  children  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  I  am  certain  that  I  can 
never  do  enough  in  my  life  to  compensate  my  Heavenly  Father  for 
the  testimony  that  he  has  given  me  of  the  divinity  of  the  work  in 
which  we  are  engaged.  More  priceless  than  all  else  is  the  knowl- 
edge that  I  have  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  Living  God, 
and  that  he  called  upon  the  boy  Joseph  Smith  to  be  his  prophet  in 
these  latter  days  and  to  restore  to  this  earth  his  gospel  for  the  sal- 
vation, and,  through  our  obedience,  the  exaltation  of  mankind. 

Adversary  at  Work 

We  may  sometimes  feel  that  this  work  is  purely  spiritual  but 
there  is  no  phase  of  life  that  we  can  afford  to  overlook  in  fulfilling 
our  obligations  to  our  Heavenly  Father  and  to  the  priesthood  which 
we  hold.  We  must  be  conscious  of  the  fact  that  the  adversary  is  at 
work,  utilizing  every  agency  of  which  he  can  conceive.  I  am  sure 
we  are  all  agreed  that  his  imagination  is  almost  limitless,  to  bring 
about  the  downfall  of  the  work  of  truth  and  righteousness  here  upon 
this  earth.  Where  he  finds  us  to  be  vulnerable  either  in  our  think- 
ing or  in  our  lives,  there  is  where  he  is  going  to  get  in  his  work  most 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE  61 

effectively.  He  is  causing  us  in  our  thinking  to  be  led  to  adopt  the 
philosophies  of  the  world.  We  are  easily  led.  I  am  sure  that  flat- 
tery is  one  of  the  greatest  implements  or  tools  that  the  adversary  has 
at  his  command.  You  and  I,  today,  must  fortify  ourselves  against 
unrighteous  flattery,  in  fact,  I  feel  to  say,  any  kind  of  flattery  at  all, 
to  keep  our  feet  on  the  ground  and  our  thinking  clear  and  to  see  to  it 
that  we  devote  our  spare  time  to  studying  the  principles  of  the  gos- 
pel, that  no  philosophies  of  men  will  have  any  room  in  our  thinking, 
nor  shall  we  have  time  to  devote  to  the  reading  of  such. 

Rights  of  Citizenship 

We  are  called  upon  in  our  daily  lives,  in  this  great  country  in 
which  we  live,  to  exercise  our  rights  of  citizenship.  I  wonder  some- 
times if  all  of  us  are  conscious  of  the  power  that  we  possess  in  this 
respect.  We  have  had  a  great  deal  said  at  this  conference,  to  which 
I  can  very  happily  say  amen,  concerning  the  family.  I  wish  we 
could  all  take  to  heart  every  word  that  Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  said 
in  his  address  on  the  "Church  of  the  Air."  I  rejoice  in  his  courage 
to  tell  the  people  of  the  world  that  which  is  destroying  the  home. 
To  point  out  to  them  the  way  in  which  the  home  can  be  built  up 
and  strengthened.  What  I  want  to  emphasize  today,  if  I  may,  is  the 
fact  that  the  home  in  which  we  live  and  in  which  we  rear  our  chil- 
dren is  located  in  a  community  or  vicinity,  or  city.  We  cannot  keep 
out  of  our  home  the  influences  which  we  find  in  these  centers  in 
which  we  live.  We  need  to  call  upon  our  Heavenly  Father  to  give 
us  the  inspiration  and  the  foresight,  first  of  all,  to  know  what  to  do 
and  then  the  courage  to  accomplish  it. 

State  Legislature 

I  want  to  say  a  commendatory  word  to  those  who  sat  in  our 
last  state  legislature.  May  the  Lord  bless  them  for  their  efforts  to 
make  of  our  state  and  of  our  communities  a  better  place  in  which  to 
live  and  a  better  place  in  which  to  rear  our  families.  I  owe  a  debt 
of  gratitude  beyond  measure  to  my  parents,  to  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters who  lived  in  this  state  when  I  was  a  boy  for  the  fact  that  they 
kept  the  town  in  which  I  was  reared  as  clean  as  it  was  kept.  It  is 
now  our  duty  to  keep  the  youth  of  Zion  from  as  many  temptations 
as  possible  and  to  give  them  the  same  opportunity  that  many  of  us 
have  had  to  develop  faith  and  to  grow  in  righteousness  and  to  over- 
come the  weakness  of  the  flesh  in  an  atmosphere  peculiarly  adapted 
to"  such  purposes.  I  feel  to  commend  all  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  to- 
day for  the  efforts  that  they  have  extended  to  make  of  their  com- 
munities, in  a  civic  sense,  a  proper  place  to  live.  But  I  am  certain 
that  you  will  all  agree  with  me  that  we  still  have  a  great  work  to 
perform  in  this  connection,  and  we  cannot  delay  nor  overlook  the 
slightest  opportunity. 


62 

Sunday,  April  3 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 
Community  Life 


First  Dag 


We  sometimes  permit  ourselves,  around  election  time,  to  be- 
come concerned  with  politics.  We  should  always  be  active.  Now 
is  the  time  to  prepare  for  the  next  election.  It  is  upon  politics  we 
must  rely  in  large  measure  for  the  kind  of  government  that  we  have. 
In  turn  we  must  rely  upon  that  government  for  the  protection  of  our 
rights,  for  the  enforcement  of  our  laws,  and  for  the  protection  of  our 
principles.  Now  these  things  go  to  the  very  root  of  life  itself  and  of 
our  growth  and  development  in  the  gospel.  We  cannot  afford  to  neg- 
lect to  do  our  duty  as  citizens  of  this  great  United  States  and  as 
citizens  of  the  state  in  which  we  live.  Those  of  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  who  come  from  the  countries  outside  the  United  States,  so 
far  as  the  laws  of  those  countries  permit,  should  exercise  the  same 
influence  there  as  we  undertake  to  exercise  here  under  our  laws. 
We  have  the  power,  we  have  the  leadership  and  the  strength  in  this 
Church  to  make  our  views  known.  Even  though  we  may  be  a  mi- 
nority, in  some  places,  we  have  the  power  to  convert  every  person 
who  thinks  right  and  who  desires  the  right,  to  our  cause.  I  have  the 
abiding  conviction  within  me  that  there  are  none  of  us  living  in  any 
communities  anywhere  but  what  the  great  majority  of  the  people — 
our  friends,  our  neighbors,  our  associates — even  though  they  be  not 
of  our  faith,  nevertheless  they,  the  majority,  desire  righteousness 
rather  than  evil  to  predominate  in  the  communities  in  which  they 
live.  And  so  it  is  up  to  you  and  me,  where  we  are  minorities,  to  make 
ourselves  majorities  by  converting  those  who  need  converting  to 
these  specific  programs,  programs  which  we  have  in  mind  to  bring 
about  the  kind  of  suitable  conditions  under  which  we  can  establish 
our  homes  and  rear  our  children.  Our  efforts  should  not  be  confined 
to  the  times  of  political  elections.  We  should  be  on  duty  always. 

I  want  to  say  again,  I  commend  the  legislature  from  the  bottom 
of  my  heart.  Our  fine  stalwart  brethren  stood  in  this  last  state  legis- 
lature and  raised  their  voices  under  the  inspiration  of  their  priest- 
hood to  uphold  and  sustain  righteousness  in  the  enactment  of  laws. 
We  had  a  conflict,  in  our  own  legislature  here  last  time,  which  I  want 
to  mention  for  a  moment,  on  two  or  three  issues,  specifically  which 
came  before  them.  We  should  have  them  in  mind  as  we  go  back  to 
our  homes  and  begin  to  devise  ways  and  means  by  which  we  can  ac- 
complish our  righteous  purposes.  I  might  say  at  the  outset  that  what 
we  undertake  to  do  for  ourselves  is  not  with  any  selfish  purpose  in 
mind.  It  is  not  to  obtain  any  power  or  dominion  over  others.  It  is 
to  bring  to  them,  in  effect,  the  same  blessings  that  we  seek  for  our- 
selves, those  God-given  rights  secured  to  us  by  the  laws  of  this  gfeat 
nation.  And  so  we  can  go  forward.  If  any  of  us  have  any  doubts 
as  to  our  rights  in  this  matter,  we  need  only  to  read  the  134th  section 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  to  find  all  of  the  instruction  and  in- 
spiration that  any  righteous  man  needs  to  go  forth  and  do  his  duty. 
We  must  all  strengthen  the  community  in  which  we  live,  from  a  civic 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


63 


and  political  as  well  as  a  religious  standpoint.  I  tell  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  when  we  exercise  this  kind  of  faith  and  courage  in 
behalf  of  our  neighbors  as  well  as  our  own  members  we  will  ac- 
complish a  great  missionary  work  in  this  world.  There  will  be  men 
and  women  brought  to  investigate  the  principles  of  the  gospel  be- 
cause they  will  see  the  kind  of  fruits  in  us  which  this  gospel  has 
borne.  Their  doors  will  be  opened  to  us  through  our  civic  activities 
to  preach  the  gospel  of  the  restored  kingdom  and  to  bring  the  same 
joy  and  happiness  into  the  hearts  of  our  neighbors  with  which  the 
Lord  has  blessed  us  all  our  lives. 

Observance  of  Sabbath 

We  had  a  conflict  up  there  in  the  legislature  about  the  Sabbath 
day.  I  would  like  to  go  into  some  of  the  things  that  have  been  said 
about  the  Sabbath  day  from  the  time  of  Adam  on.  So  far  as  I  know 
the  Lord  has  never  changed  the  law  of  the  Sabbath.  In  the  days  of 
early  Israel  with  all  of  Israel's  faults  they  kept  the  Sabbath  day  holy, 
and  they  did  the  Lord's  work  on  the  Sabbath  day.  They  literally 
closed  the  gates  of  Jerusalem.  They  did  not  permit  vendors  to  bring 
their  wares  to  the  gates  to  be  sold  on  the  Sabbath  day.  We  have 
had  the  gospel  of  the  Sabbath  day  proclaimed  to  us  through  all  gen- 
erations of  time.  Should  there  be  any  doubt  in  our  minds  as  to  what 
course  the  Latter-day  Saints  should  take  with  reference  to  the  Sab- 
bath day?  Are  we  to  open  our  stores,  are  we  to  carry  on  our  com- 
mercial transactions  on  the  Sabbath  day  the  same  as  we  do  on  a 
weekday,  or  are  we  to  close  our  establishments?  Well,  the  answer 
is  obvious.  Now,  why  isn't  any  law  which  has  for  its  purpose  the 
maintaining  of  the  Sabbath  day  sacred,  a  law  which  we  should  up- 
hold and  sustain  and  support  and  vote  for  on  every  occasion  that  we 
have  a  legal  right  so  to  do?  To  hold  otherwise  would  be  to  tell  us 
that  we  have  not  the  right  to  use  our  own  free  agency  so  far  as  the 
affairs  of  government  are  concerned. 

Liquor  Law 

We've  had  another  law  on  our  books  with  reference  to  liquor, 
and  there  was  an  effort  made  to  expand  the  present  liquor  law  to  the 
detriment  of  the  people.  Nobody  had  to  ask  anybody  any  questions 
as  to  where  the  right  and  the  wrong  were  to  be  found.  If  there  are 
any  Latter-day  Saints  today  who  think  that  the  old  open  saloon  is 
uplifting  or  would  help  us  build  a  better  community,  it  must  be  be- 
cause they  are  not  old  enough  to  remember  the  days  when  we  had 
those  institutions  in  our  midst  and  saw  from  actual  experience  the 
results  and  the  evils,  the  deterioration  that  set  in,  the  sorrow  and 
the  hardships,  that  such  places  of  vice  brought.  So  I  feel  again  to 
commend  those  in  our  state  legislature  who  saw  fit  to  vote  against 
any  act  which  had  for  its  purpose  the  bringing  back  of  the  open 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Dag 


saloon.  They  do  not  call  it  that  now,  but  that  is  what  it  would  have 
been  had  we  had  sale  of  liquor  by  the  drink,  and  do  not  let  any  of 
us  forget  that.  Let  us  raise  our  voices  whenever  we  have  the  oppor- 
tunity, and  create  the  opportunity,  my  brothers  and  sisters.  Let  us 
elect  men  to  office  who  will  be  opposed  to  the  institution  in  our  midst 
of  such  places  of  vice  as  the  open  saloon.  It  is  bad  enough  to  have 
to  traffic  in  liquor  at  all.  We  certainly  should  not  go  farther  than  we 
have.  If  it  is  necessary,  in  order  to  fight  this  evil,  to  meet  the  opposi- 
tion on  the  other  side,  why,  then  I  say  to  you  from  the  bottom  of  my 
heart,  let  us  start  fighting  for  prohibition,  for  after  all,  that  is  what 
we  ought  to  have  to  maintain  the  kind  of  communities  our  Heavenly 
Father  would  have  us  maintain  in  this  world,  and  on  this  continent, 
and  in  this  land  of  his.  We  cannot  hope  to  receive  the  blessings  of 
our  Heavenly  Father  here,  in  as  rich  abundance  as  he  is  willing  to 
give  them  to  us  if  we  do  not  exercise  every  power  that  we  have  to 
make  this  a  land  choice  above  all  others.  Prohibition  would  help 
to  make  it  that,  and  the  open  saloon  would  make  it  the  contrary. 


We  had  one  other  bill  that  I  would  like  to  speak  about  in  con- 
clusion and  that  is  the  horse  racing  bill.  I  suppose  there  is  no  harm 
in  horse  racing,  but  there  is  no  more  insidious  vice  on  earth  than 
gambling.  It  is  destructive  of  the  morals.  The  man  does  not  live 
who  is  strong  enough  in  the  faith,  I  do  not  care  what  his  past  record 
has  been,  to  start  in  gambling  and  continue  therein  and  keep  the 
faith.  If  there  are  any  people  in  this  state  who  desire  horse  racing 
and  the  gambling  that  is  incident  thereto,  we  invite  them  to  leave  and 
to  go  to  places  where  those  things  can  be  had.  We  do  not  have  to 
have  them  in  our  midst.  I  feel  to  say  that  no  man  can  maintain  his 
full  standing  in  this  Church  and  keep  his  faith  and  at  the  same  time 
have  anything  to  do  with  horse  racing  and  gambling. 

Now,  brethren,  let  us  take  this  seriously.  In  those  communities, 
in  this  state,  where  horse  racing  and  gambling  have  become  more  or 
less  of  an  institution,  let  us  use  our  faith  and  our  courage  to  eradicate 
them  as  such  and  to  elect  men  to  the  legislature  who  will  not  open 
the  doors  to  the  element  that  follows  horse  racing  with  all  the  vice 
and  corruption  that  would  come  into  this  state. 

Well,  now,  my  brethern  and  sisters,  I  hope  that  you  will  accept 
this  admonition  in  the  spirit  in  which  it  has  been  given.  I  love  the 
Latter-day  Saints;  I  am  indebted  to  all  of  you  for  your  faith  and 
prayers  and  the  support  that  you  have  given  me  as  I  have  gone 
through  the  Church  attending  your  quarterly  conferences.  I  have 
learned  to  love  you.  I  look  forward  with  the  greatest  of  pleasure 
every  week  of  my  life  to  coming  into  your  stakes  and  into  your 
homes  and  enjoying  your  spirit.  I  want  our  communities,  in  which 
we  live,  to  be  maintained  in  keeping  with  the  spirit  which  we  have 


Horse  Racing  Bill 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


65 


here  in  these  conferences  and  in  our  quarterly  conferences  and  the 
spirit  that  we  can  have  in  our  homes  if  we  will  say  our  prayers  daily. 
May  the  Lord  bless  us  to  this  end,  I  humbly  pray  in  Jesus'  name. 
Amen. 

ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

It  is  indeed  a  sobering  experience,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
to  occupy  this  position  and  to  look  into  the  faces  of  this  vast  multi- 
tude of  Latter-day  Saints  who  have  come  here  to  worship  the  Lord. 
I  humbly  trust  and  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  the'  Lord  will  attend  me 
in  what  I  say  this  morning. 

I,  like  the  other  brethren  who  have  spoken,  have  a  testimony 
of  this  great  work.  I  appreciate  the  privilege  I  have  of  being  a 
member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  my  one  great  desire 
in  life  to  serve  the  Lord  to  the  best  of  my  ability  and  always  to  do 
what  he  wants  me  to  do. 

Immortality  of  Man 

Deep  in  the  heart  of  practically  every  person  who  has  lived  in 
this  world,  God  has  implanted  a  hope — yes,  more  than  that-^even 
a  strong  desire,  that  he  will  live  on  after  death.  The  immortality 
of  man  is  a  universal  concept.  The  study  of  ancient  religions  re- 
veals the  fact  that  any  religion  that  was  popular  with  its  devotees 
and  became  a  religion  of  prominence  attained  that  popularity  and 
prominence  as  a  result  of  assuring  its  members  that  following  their 
sojourn  on  this  earth  they  would  experience  a  happy,  glorious, 
and  blessed  immortality.  The  same  fact  holds  true  today. 

When  Father  Adam  and  Eve  were  upon  this  earth,  through 
his  Only  Begotten  Son,  God  revealed  to  them  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ;  and  as  one  of  the  most  important  doctrines  in  that  gospel 
he  gave  them  the  assurance  that  if  they  and  their  posterity  would 
live  in  accordance  with  all  the  teachings,  doctrine,  and  ordinances 
revealed  to  them  that  some  day  they  would  be  able  to  come  back 
into  his  presence.  There  they  would  not  only  experience  immortal- 
ity but  they  would  also  enjoy  the  great  blessing  of  eternal  life. 

Throughout  the  various  ages  when  God  has  revealed  gospel 
principles  to  his  holy  prophets,  he  has  always  given  them  that  one 
great  idea  that  men  will  live  on  throughout  the  eternities. 

A  little  over  a  hundred  years  ago  when  the  gospel  plan  of  salva- 
tion was  being  restored  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  our  dispensa- 
tion, the  various  Christian  denominations  held  the  concept  that  men 
would  live  on  after  death,  and  yet  their  understanding  of  the  unseen 
world  was  very  hazy  and  vague.   They  had  little,  if  any,  information 


66  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Day 

regarding  our  pre-mortal  life,  and  their  post-mortal  life  concepts 
were  very  erroneous  in  many  respects.  It  became  necessary,  there- 
fore, for  our  Father  in  heaven  to  reveal  again  to  earth  an  abundance 
of  knowledge  relative  to  the  immortality  of  man  and  point  out 
the  pathway  to  follow  in  order  to  gain  eternal  life.  As  a  result  of 
God's  concern  over  his  children,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  trans- 
lated the  Book  of  Mormon.  It  contains  much  doctrine  pertaining 
especially  to  post-mortal  life.  He  also  received  the  wonderful 
revelations  recorded  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  Section  seventy- 
six  is  the  greatest  revelation  regarding  post-mortal  life  to  be  found 
recorded  in  any  book  in  the  world.  Joseph  received  the  Pearl  of 
Great  Price  in  which  we  find  much  information  on  the  council  of 
the  gods  and  our  pre-mortal  existence. 

Resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ 

We  not  only  have  the  teachings  of  the  prophets  and  revel- 
ation regarding  the  immortality  of  man,  but  we  have  a  lot  of 
absolute  evidence.  The  greatest  of  all  evidence  that  you  and  I  are 
immortal,  that  we  will  live  on  after  we  leave  this  life,  is  the  fact 
that  Jesus  Christ,  following  his  crucifixion,  rose  from  the  grave. 
He  appeared  to  many  people  in  and  around  Jerusalem,  thereby 
establishing  the  fact  that  he  was  immortal  and  extending  the  promise 
to  humanity  that  as  he  had  risen  from  the  grave  so  would  all  men. 

We  read  in  the  book  of  Matthew  that  at  the  time  of  the  Savior's 
resurrection  the  graves  of  saints  who  had  lived  godly  lives  while 
in  mortality  were  opened,  and  they  appeared  to  many  people  in 
and  around  Jerusalem.  These  saints  could  have  been  such  characters 
as  Father  Abraham,  Isaac,  Jacob,  Joseph,  Noah,  and  the  other 
holy  prophets  and  their  wives  who  belonged  to  "the  Church  of 
the  Firstborn." 

Following  his  resurrection,  Jesus  Christ  also  appeared  to  the 
Nephites  who  lived  in  this  land.  On  one  of  those  occasions  he  told 
them  to  bring  their  records  to  him.  As  he  read  that  record,  he  asked 
them  if  Samuel  the  Lamanite  had  not  prophesied  that  when  Christ 
was  resurrected  the  graves  of  the  ancient  saints  would  be  opened 
and  that  they  would  appear  to  these  Nephite  people.  He  was  in- 
formed that  such  had  been  the  prophecies  and  that  those  prophecies 
have  been  fulfilled.  Thereupon  he  instructed  the  Nephite  historian 
to  write  that  great  prophecy  and  its  fulfilment  in  their  records  in 
order  that  you  and  I  in  the  latter  days  might  know  for  a  surety  that 
we  would  live  on  after  death;  that  we  are  immortal  beings  as  well  as 
mortal. 

Latter-day  Testimony 

Over  one  hundred  years  ago  Jesus  Christ  appeared  to  Joseph 
Smith  on  several  occasions.     Christ  was  a  resurrected,  glorified 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


67 


celestialized  God  when  he  made  those  appearances.  Interspersed 
among  those  visitations,  other  beings  who  had  lived  upon  this  earth 
in  ancient  days  appeared  to  the  Prophet  Joseph.  Such  persons  as 
the  Angel  Moroni,  Peter,  James,  and  John,  John  the  Baptist,  Moses, 
Elias,  Elijah,  Michael,  Raphael,  and  others  visited  Joseph  Smith. 
Each  appearance,  of  course,  added  testimony  upon  testimony  regard- 
ing the  immortality  of  man  and  the  eternal  life  that  the  righteous  ones 
who  live  upon  this  earth  will  eventually  attain. 

In  the  doctrines  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  we  have  a  rather  comprehensive  understanding  of  our  pre- 
mortal life.  We  are  taught  that  you  and  I  are  brothers  and  sisters; 
in  fact,  all  the  men,  women,  and  children  who  have  ever  come  into 
this  world  are  brothers  and  sisters,  and  they  were  all  sons  and  daugh- 
ters of  God  the  Eternal  Father  and  our  Eternal  Mother  in  that  ce- 
lestial spirit  realm  before  we  came  into  mortality.  We  are  taught 
that  we  were  born  into  that  spirit  realm  as  babies,  and  that  we  grew 
to  maturity  there,  undergoing  the  various  experiences  which  were 
there  for  us  prior  to  our  coming  to  mortality.  Also  through  revela- 
tion we  have  learned  that  the  gods  held  a  council  preparatory  to  the 
peopling  of  this  earth  in  which  the  plans  for  mortality  were  discussed 
and  proclaimed. 

Our  Destination 

Probably  of  all  the  human  beings  who  have  lived  upon  this  earth, 
at  least  a  vast  majority  of  them  have  asked  this  question  of  them- 
selves: "Where  do  we  go  when  we  die?"  I  would  say  to  all  Latter- 
day  Saints  on  this  occasion  that  the  place  to  which  you  and  I  go 
when  we  die  will  be  determined,  to  a  great  extent,  upon  how  we  live 
while  we  are  here — I  mean  our  ultimate  destination,  the  goal  that  we 
are  striving  for.  We  have  the  true  plan  of  salvation,  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  with  all  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel,  all  the  teachings, 
including  the  Holy  Priesthood  after  the  Order  of  the  Son  of  God. 
All  of  these  things  which  are  necessary  to  bring  us  back  into  the  pres- 
ence of  God  and  exalt  us  in  celestial  glory  are  ours.  We  know, 
therefore,  what  will  be  our  destination  as  members  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  if  we  will  live  by  every  word  that 
comes  from  the  mouth  of  God.  On  the  other  hand,  with  all  the  pow- 
er, priesthood,  ordinances,  doctrines,  opportunities,  and  blessings 
that  are  ours,  we  also  know  that  if  we  sin  sufficiently,  we  have  the 
power  to  condemn  ourselves  to  the  greatest  of  depths,  even  to  cast 
our  souls  down  to  hell.  The  prophets  have  proclaimed  that  where 
much  is  given  much  is  required  at  our  hands. 

To  the  Latter-day  Saints  death  is  not  such  a  serious  thing.  It 
doesn't  make  a  lot  of  difference  how  long  we  live  in  this  world.  The 
thing  which  is  of  vital  importance,  however,  to  you  and  me  is  how 
we  live.  Are  we  prepared  to  meet  the  Eternal  Father  and  his  Only 
Begotten  Son?  If  death  should  come  upon  us  any  minute,  are  we  pre- 


68  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday.  April  i  Second  Dag 

pared  to  go  into  the  other  world  and  eventually  come  into  the  celes- 
tial kingdom  of  God?  That  should  be  your  goal  and  that  should  be 
my  goal.  We  should  live  such  a  clean  and  pure  life  each  day,  ren- 
dering obedience  to  all  the  principles  and  ordinances  of  the  gospel 
to  such  an  extent  that  we  would  be  ready  to  die  whenever  death 
comes  upon  us. 

Spirit  World 

Every  person  who  dies  will  go  into  a  world  known  as  the  spirit 
world.  Those  who  have  lived  righteous  lives  here  in  mortality  will 
find  there  a  paradise,  a  heaven,  a  place  of  peace,  of  joy,  of  opportuni- 
ties, of  progression.  On  the  other  hand,  those  who  have  lived  wicked 
lives  will  find  themselves  in  the  spirit  world  somewhat  as  if  they  were 
in  prison.  In  fact,  the  prophets  speak  of  that  world  as  a  prison.  We 
read  in  Second  Peter  that  at  the  time  the  Savior's  body  lay  in  the 
tomb,  his  spirit  went  to  the  spirit  world  and  opened  the  doors  of  the 
gospel  to  those  who  were  drowned  in  the  flood  at  Noah's  time. 
Those  people  had  been  detained  from  hearing  the  gospel,  being  in 
prison  during  that  long  period  of  time  of  more  than  two  thousand 
years. 

Some  people  that  I  have  talked  to  have  the  concept  that  when 
they  die  that  suddenly,  their  sins  will  all  be  washed  away,  and  they 
will  become  white  and  glorious,  pure  and  clean,  in  somewhat  of  an 
automatic  or  miraculous  way.  Such  is  not  the  case.  According  to 
the  ancient  prophets,  especially  the  Book  of  Mormon,  sustained  by 
modern  revelation,  when  we  die,  if  we  are  filthy,  we  are  filthy  still. 
The  fact  that  we  die  doesn't  change  us  one  iota.  You  and  I  are  dual 
personages,  possessing  a  spirit  body  which  dwells  in  a  physical  body. 
Death  is  the  separation  of  that  spiritual  body  from  the  physical  body. 
All  of  our  good  deeds,  our  bad  deeds;  the  knowledge  we  have  at- 
tained; our  habits,  our  evil  and  good  inclinations,  are  resident  in  the 
spirit.  The  spirit  personage  contains  the  personality,  or,  in  other 
words,  the  spirit  is  the  real  individual.  Having  an  understanding  of 
this  doctrine,  therefore,  we  know  that  when  we  die  we  take  with  us 
to  the  other  world  exactly  what  we  have  made  of  ourselves  while 
living  in  mortality.  There  is  only  one  way  that  I  know  whereby  you 
and  I  can  purify  ourselves,  and  that  one  way  is  through  repentance. 
The  things  that  we  should  repent  of  here  in  mortality  will  probably 
be  easier  to  repent  of  now  instead  of  putting  them  off  until  we  go  to 
the  other  world  and  have  to  overcome  those  handicaps  at  that  time; 
and  so  I  would  say,  "today  is  the  day  to  prepare  to  meet  God.  Permit 
me  to  quote  the  words  of  an  ancient  Nephite  prophet  on  that  subject: 

For  behold,  this  life'  is  the  time  .for  men  to  prepare  to  .meet  God;;  . 

yea,  behold  the  day  of  this  life  is  the  day  for  men  to  perform  their  labors.  

....  if  we  do  not  improve  our  time  while  in  this  life,  then  cometh  the  , 
night  of  darkness  wherein  there  can  be  no  labor  performed.'  (Book  of 
"•  Mormon,  Alma  34:32-33.)    •  ■  ■  :  • 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


69 


A  Probationary  State 

Every  person  after  he  or  she  leaves  this  life  will  stay  in  the  spirit 
world  a  certain  length  of  time  in  order  to  continue  to  prepare  himself 
to  come  into  the  presence  of  God.  In  that  spirit  world  there  is  a  lot 
of  activity.  The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  being  taught  to  those  who 
have  not  received  the  plan  of  salvation  here  in  mortality,  and  espec- 
ially to  those  who  previously  have  not  had  opportunity.  When  those 
people  in  the  spirit  world  have  received  the  gospel,  the  temple  work 
that  mortals  do  for  them  consummates  the  work  for  their  acceptance 
of  Jesus  Christ  and  the  plan  of  salvation  there  in  the  spirit  world. 
The  spirit  world,  then,  is  another  probationary  state  in  order  that 
the  sons  and  daughters  of  God  who  will  might  prepare  themselves 
to  meet  him. 

Universal  Resurrection 

Following  our  sojourn  in  the  spirit  world  comes  the  resurrection. 
There  will  be  a  universal  resurrection  of  every  man,  woman,  and 
child.  Just  as  we  all  die,  so  must  we  all  rise  from  the  grave.  Amulek 
declared: 

...  I  say  unto  you  that  this  mortal  body  is  raised  to  an  immortal 
body,  that  is  from  death,  even  from  the  first  death  unto  life,  that  they 
can  die  no  more;  their  spirits  uniting  with  their  bodies,  never  to  be  divided; 
thus  the  whole  becoming  spiritual  and  immortal,  that  they  can  no  more 
see  corruption.    (Ibid.  11:45.) 

Jesus  Christ  came  into  the  world  and  died  for  the  sins  of  the 
world.  He  broke  the  bands  of  death  and  was  resurrected,  being  the 
first  fruits  of  the  resurrection.  He  set  into  operation  the  law  of  res- 
urrection and  thereby  gave  as  a  free  gift  to  every  man,  woman,  and 
child,  resurrection,  or,  in  other  words,  immortality.  Thus  we  will 
all,  the  wicked  as  well  as  the  righteous,  enjoy  immortality. 

The  Great  Judgment 

Following  the  resurrection  comes  the  great  judgment.  Every 
person  who  has  lived  and  shall  live  in  this  world — every  man,  wom- 
an, and  chjld- — shall  stand  before  the  judgment  seat  of  God  to  answer 
for  the  life  he  or  she  lived  here  in  mortality,  and  also  to  answer  for 
the  life  lived  in  the  spirit  world. 

Alma,  that  great  Nephite  prophet,  was  preaching  this  doctrine 
one  day  to  his  people.  He  explained  to  them  that  every  man,  woman, 
and  child,  "both  bond  and  free,  .  .  .  both  the  wicked  and  the  right- 
eous," would  be  resurrected  and  required  to  stand  before  the  judg- 
ment seat  of  God.  There  they  would  be  held  accountable  for  the  lives 
they  lived  while  in  mortality,  for  every  act  they  committed,  yea  for 
every  word  they  spoke,  and  for  every  thought  that  they  thought. 


70  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Day 

You  and  I  are  responsible  beings,  accountable  for  the  things  that  we 
think.  To  quote: 

For  our  words  will  condemn  us,  yea,  all  our  works  will  condemn  us; 
we  shall  not  be  found  spotless;  and  our  thoughts  will  condemn  us. 
(Ibid.  12:14.) 

Alma  also  explained  on  that  occasion  that  God  would  divide  the 
people  into  two  groups.  He  would  look  upon  the  members  of  one 
group  and  smile.  They  are  the  righteous.  He  would  proclaim  to 
them  that  they  could  enter  into  his  presence.  Great  would  be  their 
joy.  And  then  he  would  look  upon  those  who  composed  the  other 
group,  and  they  should  be  so  ashamed  because  of  the  lives  they  had 
lived  in  mortality  that  they  would  cry  to  the  mountains  to  come  down 
and  hide  them  from  the  presence  of  God.  But  such  would  not  be  the 
case.  They  would  have  to  stay  in  his  presence  while  being  judged, 
and  every  knee  would  bow  and  every  tongue  would  confess  that  he 
was  the  Christ;  that  his  judgments  were  true  and  just.  And  then 
they  would  hear  the  voice  of  God  tell  them  to  depart  from  him  be- 
cause of  the  sinful  lives  that  they  had  lived.  This  is  the  group  spok- 
en of  in  the  scripture,  declaring  that  they  would  weep  and  wail  and 
gnash  their  teeth  because  they  had  lost  the  great  blessing  of  celestial 
and  eternal  life. 

Three  Degrees  of  Glory 

Following  the  judgment,  according  to  modern  revelation,  a  vast 
majority  of  the  inhabitants  of  this  earth  will  be  assigned  to  one  or 
another  of  three  kingdoms,  worlds,  or  degrees  of  glory.  These  are 
termed  the  telestial,  the  terestrial,  and  the  celestial.  The  law  by  which 
we  are  quickened  at  the  time  of  resurrection  will  determine  the  world 
to  which  we  shall  be  assigned.  Let  us  hear  the  word  of  the  Lord  on 
that  subject: 

For  notwithstanding  they  die,  they  also  shall  rise  again,  a  spiritual 
body. 

They  who  are  of  a  celestial  spirit  shall  receive  the  same  body  which 
was  a  natural  body;  even  ye  shall  receive  your  bodies,  and  your  glory 
shall  be  that  glory  by  which  your  bodies  are  quickened. 

Ye  who  are  quickened  by  a  portion  of  the  celestial  glory  shall  then 
receive  of  the  same,  even  a  fulness. 

And  they  who  are  quickened  by  a  portion  of  the  terrestrial  glory 
shall  then  receive  of  the  same,  even  a  fulness. 

And  also  they  who  are  quickened  by  a  portion  of  the  telestial  glory 
shall  then  receive  of  the  same,  even  a  fulness. 

And  they  who  remain  shall  also  be  quickened;  nevertheless,  they 
shall  return  again  to  their  own  place,  to  enjoy  that  which  they  are  willing 
to  receive,  because  they  were  not  willing  to  enjoy  that  which  they  might 
have  received.    (D.  &  C.  88:27-32.) 

Celestial  Glory 

To  the  Latter-day  Saints  our  interests  lie  in  the  celestial  glory. 
In  fact,  we  don't  have  much  interest  in  the  other  two  degrees  because 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


71 


we  are  assured  through  revelation  that  those  who  go  to  the  celestial 
degree  of  glory  and  receive  exaltation  are  members  of  the  Church 
of  the  Firstborn  who  have  lived  by  every  word  that  has  come  from 
the  mouth  of  God,  being  humble,  and  faithful  in  all  of  their  activities 
here  in  life.  We  are  heirs,  therefore,  of  celestial  glory.  The  gate- 
way into  celestial  glory  is  faith,  repentance,  baptism,  and  confirma- 
tion; and  then,  of  course,  as  the  Saints  enter  the  kingdom  of  God  by 
compliance  with  the  foregoing  requirements,  they  make  their  calling 
and  election  sure  by  rendering  obedience  to  all  the  ordinances  and 
doctrines  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  from  day  to  day  throughout 
the  entire  course  of  this  mortal  life.  These  are  they  who  shall  dwell 
in  the  presence  of  God. 

Exaltation 

In  the  celestial  degree  of  glory  there  are  three  kingdoms  or  three 
degrees.  The  highest  of  these  constitutes  those  who  receive  exaltation 
or  eternal  life.  They  are  they  who  live  the  law  of  the  priesthood  or  the 
new  and  everlasting  covenant  of  marriage,  known  as  celestial  mar- 
riage. The  Latter-day  Saints,  as  well  as  the  people  throughout  the 
various  ages  of  the  world  who  have  belonged  to  the  true  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ,  who  have  been  married  by  the  power  of  the  priesthood 
and  have  obeyed  all  the  priesthood  covenants  that  they  have  entered 
into,  having  lived  in  accordance  with  all  the  teachings  of  the  gospel, 
these  are  they  who  shall  be  exalted  in  the  celestial  realm.  The  Lord 
has  given  his  law  on  this  doctrine  as  follows: 

.  .  .  verily  I  say  unto  you,  if  a  man  marry  a  wife  by  my  word, 
which  is  my  law,  and  by  the  new  and  everlasting  covenant,  and  it  is 
sealed  unto  them  by  the  Holy  Spirit  of  promise,  by  him  who  is  anointed, 
unto  whom  I  have  appointed  this  power  and  the  keys  of  this  priesthood; 
[and  if  they  commit  no  sin  to  break  that  seal] ;  .  .  .  they  shall  pass  by  the 
angels  and  the  gods,  which  are  set  there,  to  their  exaltation  and  glory  in 
all  things,  as  hath  been  sealed  upon  their  heads,  which  glory  shall  be  a 
fulness  and  a  continuation  of  the  seeds  forever  and  ever. 

Then  shall  they  be  gods.    (Ibid..  132:19-20.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  explained  that  this  continuation  of 
"the  seeds"  forever  and  ever,  meant  the  power  of  procreation;  in 
other  words,  the  power  to  beget  spirit  children  on  the  same  principle 
as  we  were  born  to  our  Heavenly  Parents,  God  the  Eternal  Father 
and  our  Eternal  Mother.  Therefore,  a  man  cannot  receive  the  highest 
exaltation  without  a  woman,  his  wife,  nor  can  a  woman  be  exalted 
without  her  husband.  That  is  the  fulness  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  the  plan  of  salvation.  Eternal  life  is  the  greatest  gift  that  God 
has  in  store  for  those  who  love  him  and  keep  his  commandments,  and 
you  and  I  know  how  it  can  be  attained. 

In  the  celestial  degree  of  glory  there  are  two  other  divisions. 
They  are  occupied  by  angels  of  God.    These  angels  are  the  ones 


72  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Dag 

who  did  not  abide  by  the  law  of  celestial  marriage;  however;  they 
accepted  Christ  and  lived  good  lives,  but  they  did  not  accept  all 
the  gospel  ordinances.   This  is  the  word  of  the  Lord  on  that  subject: 

For  these  angels  did  not  abide  my  law;  therefore,  they  cannot  be 
enlarged,  but  remain  separately  and  singly,  without  exaltation,  in  their 
saved  condition,  to  all  eternity;  and  from  henceforth  are  not  gods,  but 
are  angels  of  God  forever  and  ever.    (Ibid.,  132:17.) 

Eternal  Life 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  where  do  we  go  when  we  die?  As 
Latter-day  Saints  we  hope  some  day  to  go  not  only  to  the  celestial 
degree  of  glory  but  also  to  receive  exaltation  in  his  kingdom,  i.e.,  to 
receive  eternal  life.  If  we  accept  all  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  and  obey  all  of  the  teachings  of  the  gospel;  if  we  abide 
by  the  law  of  celestial  marriage;  if  we  pay  our  tithes  and  offerings 
to  the  Lord;  if  we  are  clean  and  pure  in  thought  and  habit,  thereby 
keeping  our  bodies  as  temples  of  God,  clean  and  pure  as  he  wants  us 
to  do;  if  we  live  virtuously  and  in  every  way  serve  him,  then  at  the 
great  judgment  day  we  will  hear  the  voice  of  God  say  to  us,  words  to 
this  effect:  "Well  done,  my  beloved  servants.  You  were  faithful  in  the 
few,  small  things  that  I  gave  you  to  do  in  mortality,  you  may,  there- 
fore, now  come  into  my  presence."  And  to  continue  to  paraphrase  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  "Then  shall  they  pass  by  the  angels  and 
gods  who  are  stationed  there  to  their  exaltation,  and  they  shall  be- 
come priests  and  kings  to  the  Most  High  God.  They  shall  become  as 
he  is."  In  other  words,  they  shall  have  eternal  life.  Then  shall  the  oath 
and  covenant  of  the  priesthood  be  brought  into  effect  which  you  and 
I  have  made,  each  of  us  who  holds  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood.  All 
that  God  has  will  be  ours.   He  will  share  with  us. 

May  this  be  the  lot  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  I  humbly  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

I  think  the  time  is  far  spent.  We  will  change  the  order  and 
will  ask  the  choir  now  and  the  congregation  to  sing  "O,  Say  What  is 
Truth?"  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  will  conduct  the  singing. 

Singing  by  the  choir  and  congregation,  "O,  Say  What  is 
Truth?" 

ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 

I  cannot  tell  you  how  grateful  I  feel  this  morning  for  the  privilege 
of  being  here  and  associating  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in 
this  great  conference. 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 


73 


For  the  past  three  months  I  have  not  participated  actively  in  the 
work  that  is  usually  assigned  to  us  and  I  come  to  you  this  morning 
expressing  my  gratitude  to  my  Heavenly  Father  for  the  degree  of 
health  that  I  enjoy.  There  is  something  so  uplifting  in  the  association 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  when  one  misses  it  for  a  time  he  feels 
that  great  void  that  otherwise  would  not  be  there,  and  so  I  rejoice 
this  morning  with  you  in  the  privilege  of  being  here. 

I  would  like  to  direct  my  remarks  this  morning  to  something  that 
has  been  on  my  mind  for  some  time,  prompted  by  some  of  the  things 
that  have  happened  in  our  nation,  things  that  to  me  are  serious  and 
reflect  rather  a  serious  trend. 

Attitude  of  Hate 

Not  long  ago  there  came  to  our  shores  one  of  the  greatest 
pianists  of  our  time,  perhaps  the  greatest  since  Paderewski.  He  was 
not  permitted  to  remain  here  and  was  told  to  go  back  to  the  country 
from  whence  he  came,  the  reason  being  given  that  he  had  performed 
under  the  Hitler  regime  in  Germany.  And  then,  too,  we  had  a  great 
singer  Come,  one  who  had  been  here  before  but  because  she  had 
joined  her  husband  in  Norway  she,  too,  would  have  been  barred  ex- 
cept for  the  fact  that  she  went  to  Canada  where  she  was  permitted 
to  land  and  then  she  finally  was  admitted  into  our  country.  We  were 
to  have  a  great  symphony  leader  come  as  a  guest  artist,  just  tempor- 
arily but  we  said  "No."  When  the  recent  revolution  in  China  took 
place  and  the  great  leader  of  the  Chinese  forces  was  deposed,  the 
sentiment  was  immediately  expressed  that  he  should  be  brought  to 
trial — they  didn't  say  for  what  crime — they  had  in  mind,  no  doubt, 
the  war  trials  that  we  have  been  reading  about.  All  of  these  things 
are  disturbing  because  they  reflect  an  attitude  of  hate. 

This  attitude  of  hate,  this  spirit  of  revenge  is  not  in  harmony 
with  the  teachings  of  the  gospel  of  Christ.  The  gospel  is  a  message 
of  love  and  tolerance  and  does  not  foster  the  spirit  of  hate  or  intoler- 
ance. 

Intolerance  is  an  evil  that  has  plagued  the  Latter-day  Saints 
since  the  organization  of  the  Church,  founded  in  many  instances  on 
the  fact  that  the  motives  of  the  leaders  of  the  Church  have  been  mis- 
understood. 

Anti-Mormon  Publications 

I  recently  read  a  statement  by  one  of  our  statesmen  in  which  he 
said,  "Every  man  has  a  right  to  his  opinion,  but  no  man  has  a  right 
to  be  wrong  in  his  facts."  Recently  it  was  my  privilege  to  visit  the 
Chicago  Historical  Association  with  my  daughter.  There  they  have 
a  number  of  documents  pertaining  to  the  Mormons,  both  favorable 
and  unfavorable,  many  of  them  are  anti-Mormon,  and  in  looking 
them  over,  almost  without  exception,  they  are  based  on  a  book  that 


74  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Day 

was  written  by  an  apostate  in  the  days  of  the  Prophet  Joseph,  a  book 
written  and  published  by  John  C.  Bennett.  He  had  enjoyed  the 
Prophet's  confidence.  He  had  enjoyed  the  confidence  of  the  Saints 
and  then  had  committed  himself,  had  violated  the  laws  of  the  Church 
and  the  laws  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  was  excommunicated. 
He  then  impugned  the  motives  of  the  Prophet  Joseph.  He  immediate- 
ly began  to  fortify  himself.  He  questioned  the  motives  of  the  lead- 
ers of  the  Church  and  wrote  a  book  that  has  been  the  basis  of 
practically  all  anti-Mormon  books  that  have  been  written  since. 
He  is  quoted  freely  and  these  documents  that  we  had  the  privilege 
of  inspecting  reflect  this  spirit  of  hate,  the  spirit  of  questioning 
motives.  In  early  days,  in  the  days  of  Nauvoo,  it  was  a  time  when 
people  did  question  motives. 

James  G.  Randall  in  his  life  of  Lincoln  has  given  us  a  very  vivid 
picture  of  the  conditions  that  existed  in  Illinois  during  the  period 
from  1840  to  1850.  This  covered  the  period  when  the  Latter-day 
Saints  resided  in  Nauvoo.    I  quote  from  Dr.  Randall's  book: 

Incredible  quantities  of  liquor  were  consumed.  Everybody,  women 
and  preachers  included,  were  drinking  liquor.  Men  were  quick  to  fight  and 
combats  were  brutal.    Profanity  was  general  and  emphatic. 

Motives  Impugned 

Men  impugned  other  people's  motives.  As  an  example  Professor 
Randall  tells  of  Lincoln  being  employed  one  time  as  a  storekeeper. 
In  those  days  liquor  was  sold  over  the  counter  as  were  groceries  and 
other  necessities  and  because  of  this  some  of  Lincoln's  enemies 
charged  that  he  was  a  liquor  seller,  carrying  with  it  the  imputation 
that  he  was  a  young  man  of  questionable  standards.  As  a  matter  of 
fact,  Lincoln  was  known  to  be  a  young  man  of  unquestioned  integ- 
rity, and  he  advocated  and  stood  for  temperance,  and  it  is  said  that 
when  they  came  to  notify  him  officially  of  his  nomination  to  the  presi- 
dency at  his  home  in  Springfield,  he  served  water  instead  of  liquor. 
That  reflected  his  attitude,  and  yet  his  motives  were  questioned.  I 
mentioned  this  because  our  people  in  the  days  of  Nauvoo  were  the 
victims  of  hate,  and  motives  were  questioned  and  much  of  the  perse- 
cution resulted  from  this  unfortunate  spirit  of  the  times  of  which  Doc- 
tor Randall  speaks. 

Now  I  would  like  to  apply  this  thought  on  motives  to  our  pres- 
ent day.  We  have  just  heard  from  Brother  Moyle  and  yesterday 
we  received  from  Brother  Benson  some  sound  counsel  and  from  oth- 
ers, of  course,  in  this  conference,  but  I  have  in  mind  these  two 
addresses.  What  are  we  going  to  do  about  it?  Are  we  going  to 
say,  "Well,  conditions  are  different.  We  are  living  under  different 
circumstances.  Our  environment  in  different.  We  can't  do  these 
things."  My  brothers  and  sisters,  the  laws  of  God  do  not  change. 
We  can  live  just  as  righteously  today  as  could  the  children  of  Israel 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 


75 


under  the  mandate  that  came  from  God  our  Father  to  the  Prophet 
Moses.  They  haven't  changed.  The  words  and  the  counsels  of 
Jesus  Christ  have  not  changed. 

Following  Divine  Counsel 

The  Word  of  Wisdom  was  given  one  hundred  and  sixteen  years 
ago  and  yet  we  have  reservations  in  our  minds  as  to  whether  or  not 
we  should  keep  that  divine  law.  As  Brother  Moyle  pointed  out  to  us 
this  morning,  when  the  issue  came  before  our  legislature  there  was  a 
question  in  the  minds  of  some  of  us  as  to  what  stand  we  should  take. 
Should  there  be  any  question  as  to  the  stand  that  Latter-day  Saints 
should  take  on  these  matters?  If  just  the  Latter-day  Saints  would 
observe  that  part  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  that  has  to  do  with  liquor, 
think  of  the  heartaches,  the  broken  homes,  the  delinquencies  of  both 
children  and  adults,  that  would  be  prevented,  we  would  in  very  deed 
be  as  a  light  upon  a  hill. 

Now,  one  other  matter.  Thirteen  years  ago  we  were  advised 
what  we  should  do  with  reference  to  meeting  the  economical  prob- 
lems of  our  people  and  the  spiritual  problems  for  that  matter.  The 
depression  had  left  serious  scars  and  wounds  everywhere.  The  Lord 
pointed  the  way,  one  hundred  years  ago,  his  way,  as  to  what  we 
should  do  relative  to  taking  care  of  our  own.  Economic  conditions 
had  changed,  membership  increased,  so  that  it  became  necessary  for 
this  plan  that  the  Lord  had  given  a  century  ago,  to  be  enlarged  so 
that  it  could  meet  the  increased  membership  and  changing  condi- 
tions, and  so  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord  from  this  stand  gave  us  direc- 
tions. Subsequently  there  followed  other  instructions  as  to  what  we 
should  do.  Well,  I  remember  when  President  Grant  spoke  in  this 
tabernacle,  I  was  president  of  a  stake  and  sitting  next  to  me  was  a 
man  from  my  stake,  a  good  man,  and  as  we  walked  out  after  Presi- 
dent Grant  had  spoken  and  had  told  us  that  we  should  stand  on  our 
own,  he  said,  "Well,  that  was  a  good  political  talk."  And  so,  it  has 
gone — questioning  motives — we  have  not  learned,  as  I  see  it,  to  con- 
form. It  seems  that  it  takes  us  a  long  time  to  learn.  In  some  stakes  of 
Zion  where  the  welfare  program  has  been  taken  hold  of  wholeheart- 
edly it  has  not  been  difficult,  and  the  men  and  women  of  those  stakes 
bear  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  thing  that  they  have  done  and 
are  doing,  but  in  some  stakes  where  we  have  half-heartedly  under- 
taken to  carry  out  the  instructions  and  the  counsel,  whereby  our 
people  may  stand  independently  upon  their  own  we  have  met  with 
difficulties. 

Way  of  Life  and  Salvation 

I  would  like  to  add  this  in  conclusion.  It  is  said  that  President 
Brigham  Young,  many  years  ago,  made  this  statement: 

When  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  hangs,  as  it  were,  upon  a 
single  thread,  they  will  have  to  call  for  Mormon  elders  to  save  it  from 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


utter  destruction:  and  they  will  step  forth  and  do  it.    (Brigham  Young, 
Journal  o[  Discourses.  2:182.  Feb.  18,  1855.) 

This  is  recorded  in  the  Journal  of  Discourses  and  I  presume  it  is 
accurate,  but  however  it  may  be,  is  it  not  a  possibility,  that  this 
Church,  in  its  great  leadership  and  in  the  power  that  will  come  to  it 
in  advocating  the  things  that  are  divine  and  are  right  and  true  as 
for  example  the  great  welfare  program,  is  not  possible  that  when  we 
as  a  nation  shall  have  exhausted  our  resources — and  we  can  well  do 
that  if  we  do  not  turn  about — when  we  have  reached  that  point  is  it 
not  possible  that  to  us  will  those  who  are  not  of  us  look  for  guidance 
and  we  will  be  held  up  as  a  people  who  are  pointing  an  economic 
way  that  will  mean  for  the  economic  and  spiritual  salvation  and 
blessing  of  our  people. 

I  see  in  this  great  program,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  as  I  see  in 
all  of  the  programs  of  this  Church,  the  way  of  life  and  the  way  of  sal- 
vation and  these  things  are  open  to  you  and  me  and  they  are  for  our 
blessing  and  for  our  benefit  and  God  has  given  them  to  us.  They 
have  not  come  from  man.  May  we  not  question  the  source  and 
when  the  counsel  is  given  to  us  from  time  to  time  may  we  at  least 
recognize  not  only  the  motives  back  of  the  counsel  and  advice  but 
also  the  spirit  and  the  revelation  that  prompt  the  advice  and  counsel. 
May  God  so  bless  us,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


I  will  need  your  faith  and  prayers,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  if  I 
am  able  to  say  anything  that  will  be  helpful  to  any  of  us  today.  I 
realize,  I  believe,  the  responsibility  under  which  I  labor  at  present  in 
taking  your  time  as  you  have  come  here,  so  many  of  you,  to  give  of 
your  spirit  and  to  receive  of  ours. 


We  all  belong  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
I  presume.  We  all  hold  dear  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Some  of  us 
apply  it  rather  narrowly  in  our  lives  but  it  is  a  broad,  general  plan 
for  the  development  of  mankind  in  the  earth.  The  thing  I  like  about 
it  most  is  that  I  am  able  to,  or  should  be  able  to  apply  its  principles 
in  every  activity  of  my  life.  It  is  not  a  thing  to  be  practiced  once  a 
week,  but  it  is  a  daily  program  for  the  development  and  upbuild- 
ing of  men.  It  is  a  positive  thing  in  its  actions  and  in  its  results. 
There  are  some  prohibitions  and  some  negations  to  it,  it  is  true,  but 
every  prohibition  has  come  about  because  men  have  not  seen  fit  to 
follow  its  positive  admonitions. 

There  has  been  reference  made  to  the  fact  that  there  is  good 
and  evil  in  the  world,  and  that  is  true.  It  is  much  like  it  is  with  this 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


A  Daily  Program 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


77 


body  of  ours.  Every  muscle  in  the  body  has  an  opposing  one,  but 
I  call  to  your  attention  the  fact  that  every  bit  of  work  that  the  body 
does  is  the  result  of  a  positively  acting  muscle,  and  no  work  what- 
ever is  ever  done  by  a  relaxing  one.  We  should  be  that  way  in  our 
lives.  We  should  interpret  the  gospel  into  daily  activities.  I  believe 
I  have  told  you  before  of  a  remark  that  was  made  by  a  friend  of  mine 
and  a  friend  of  my  father's,  who  was  a  very  wonderful  man,  not  of 
our  faith,  however,  and  who  was  a  banker.  He  said,  "You  know, 
Antoine,  your  father  came  as  nearly  applying  his  religion  in  his  busi- 
ness, combining  the  two,  as  anybody  I  have  known."  He  said,  "You 
know,  I  can't  do  that,  because  I  am  a  banker  and  I  have  to  be  hard- 
boiled." 

Now,  if  my  religion  doesn't  come  to  my  aid  and  tell  me  how  to 
be  a  banker,  then  I  don't  want  to  be  one. 

Positive  Teachings 

I  believe  that  there  are  in  the  positive  teachings  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  all  the  principles  that  are  necessary  for  the  proper  con- 
duct of  a  banking  business,  and  likewise  I  believe  that  there  are  those 
things,  positive  instructions  for  the  proper  guidance  of  my  relation- 
ship as  a  landlord  with  my  tenants.  I  believe,  furthermore,  that  there 
are  in  the  gospel  those  things  which  should  govern  me  as  a  police 
officer  in  enforcing  the  laws  of  the  land  and  the  city  in  which  I  live. 
In  other  words,  I  believe  that  there  are  positive  instructions  in  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  which  will  enable  us,  if  we  look  for  them  and 
find  them,  and  apply  them  in  our  lives,  to  meet  every  daily  emergen- 
cy that  may  present  itself  to  us.  I  believe  that  those  of  us  who  have 
the  responsibility  to  teach  will  have  better  success  if  we  emphasize 
the  advantages  of  the  positive  side  of  the  gospel  over  the  negative 
side.  It  is  my  belief  also  that  when  we  come  to  teach  the  various 
principles  of  the  gospel  as  we  understand  them,  if  we  search,  we  will 
find  sufficient  and  valid  reasons  for  every  principle  that  we  advo- 
cate. 

Productive  Service 

We  come  here,  as  President  Hunter  has  said,  to  gain  experi- 
ence, and  in  order  to  gain  experience  we  must  work.  The  Lord  said 
when  he  cast  Adam  out  of  the  Garden  of  Eden,  "In  the  sweat  of  thy 
face  shalt  thou  eat  bread,"  and  that  is  a  positive  command,  that  man 
shall  work.  God  knew  what  he  meant  and  what  he  said  when  he 
gave  that  commandment,  for  I  think  that  no  man  ever  grew  in  power 
and  strength,  virtue  and  leadership  in  absolute  idleness.  We  should 
work  every  day  of  our  lives  at  some  productive  effort  in  order  to 
make  the  maximum  progress  that  we  are  entitled  to. 

It  is  true  that  out  of  every  day  we  have  to  sleep  a  certain  time 
to  recover,  but  nonetheless  our  waking  hours  should  be  productive 


78  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Day 

hours.  We  should  never  allow  ourselves,  if  we  can  help  it,  to  be- 
come a  burden  on  society.  I  grant  you  that  there  are  conditions 
which  develop  in  the  lives  of  some  people  which  prevent  their  using 
their  faculties  with  which  they  were  originally  endowed  for  their 
own  sustenance,  and  when  people  fall  into  that  unhappy  situation  it 
is  the  burden  and  obligation  of  the  rest  of  society  to  take  care  of 
them,  but  I  feel  that  it  is  my  duty  as  long  as  I  am  able  to,  in  order 
that  I  may  gain  the  maximum  from  my  experience  in  life,  that  I  should 
be  busily  and  actively  engaged  in  some  productive  service. 

The  Church  is  an  active,  vigorous  Church.  The  Prophet  said 
the  first  great  principle  of  the  Church  is  faith  in  God  our  Eternal 
Father.  Let  us  not  limit  that  principle  of  faith  as  some  might  think 
they  should  in  that  statement,  for  faith  is  an  active,  vigorous,  produc- 
tive power.  Faith  without  works  is  dead.  The  reason  that  was  said 
is  that  there  is  no  faith  where  there  is  no  action.  Faith  is  the  under- 
lying principle  of  all  our  activities.  It  is  the  thing  that  makes  life  go. 
Of  course  in  its  sublimest  and  highest  sense,  it  is  faith  in  God  our 
Heavenly  Father,  but  we  must  also  have  faith  in  ourselves  and  faith 
in  each  other  or  we  can  do  nothing  of  value. 

Eternal  Progress 

Then  we  believe  in  the  principle  of  progress,  eternal  progress, 
if  you  will,  and  that  means  that  as  I  find  better  ways  of  doing  the 
things  my  faith  teaches  me  to  do,  that  I  will  give  up  the  poor  ways 
and  use  the  better,  and  that  again  presents  positive  reaction  to  the 
exigencies  of  life.  If  we  are  going  to  get  the  most  out  of  our  experi- 
ence here  we  will  be  constantly  looking  for  improved  and  better  ways 
of  doing  the  things  that  we  have  to  do  in  our  daily  conduct  of  life. 
We  will  try  to  find  better  ways  of  meeting  our  fellows  in  our  busi- 
ness transactions,  ways  which  will  better  recognize  their  rights  as 
well  as  ours.  We  will  strive  for  better  ways  of  handling  the  boys 
and  girls  that  God  gives  into  our  care,  so  that  we  may  bring  them 
closer  to  him  and  make  them  better  servants  of  him.  Think  what  a 
grave  responsibility  it  is  to  father  a  son  or  a  daughter,  for  that  son 
may  be  the  head  of  a  family  eventually,  if  he  is  fortunate  and  then 
from  him  there  may  stem  forth  a  progeny  that  will  fan  out  in  a  period 
of  time  until  it  includes  thousands  and  thousands  of  people.  Think 
what  a  responsibility  it  is  for  you,  the  father,  to  start  that  son  out  on 
an  evil  path,  for  he  may  pass  that  on  to  his  progeny,  and  it  may  go 
on  indefinitely;  and  it  affects  so  many  people.  And  think  what  a 
wonderful  beneficiary  you  may  be  to  future  generations  of  people  if 
you  start  that  son  out  with  a  full  faith  in  God,  our  Heavenly  Father, 
with  an  active  understanding  of  the  positive  side  of  his  duty,  if  you 
have  trained  him  in  the  good  things  that  he  should  do,  steered  him 
away  from  the  bad  ones  so  that  he  will  pass  those  good  traits  on  to  his 
posterity.  What  a  blessing  you  will  have  been  to  those  unborn  gen- 
erations that  are  yet  to  come. 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


79 


Positive  Values 

I  believe  that  every  waiting  spirit  has  the  right  to  expect  those 
opportunities,  has  the  right  to  expect  a  body  when  he  comes  into  the 
world  that  will  be  free  from  disturbing  elements  that  would  prevent 
his  full  realization  and  development.  I  believe  that  in  teaching  the 
law  of  chasity  to  our  boys  and  girls,  we  should  teach  them  the  posi- 
tive values  of  it,  for  they  are  there,  and  it  is  our  duty  to  search  them 
out  and  understand  them  so  that  we  can  pass  them  on  to  our  boys 
and  girls  and  they  in  turn  to  theirs.   Those  values  are  there. 

That  law  of  chastity  is  not  a  negative  proposition,  but  it  is  a 
positive  one,  because  in  its  observance  there  are  spiritual  values  that 
far  outweigh  the  physical  dangers  that  we  often  emphasize  to  the 
neglect  of  the  others.  I  believe  the  chances  are  that  our  children 
will  respond  to  the  positive  attitude  quicker  and  more  thoroughly 
than  they  do  to  the  negative.  Let's  show  them  the  values  that  there 
are  in  that  law.  Let's  show  them  the  values  there  are  in  the  law  of 
the  Word  of  Wisdom.  Let's  show  them  the  values  there  are  in  the 
law  of  tithing  and  all  those  laws  which  we  hold  up  as  standards  of 
the  Church.  They  have  their  positive  side.  They  are  not  negative 
in  their  nature,  and  neither  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  a  thing 
that  today  and  tomorrow  and  the  next  day,  this  week  and  next  week 
and  next  month,  the  months  of  April,  May,  and  June  and  on  through 
the  years,  we  should  apply  in  our  lives  constantly  and  daily,  not 
sit  idly  by  and  choose  to  do  the  things  we  ought  not  to  do,  but  to 
be  active,  not  in  those  forbidden  things,  but  active  and  vigorous  in 
building  up  the  kingdom  of  God;  in  blessing  and  benefiting  our 
fellow  men. 

".  .  .  inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  it  unto  one  of  the  least  of  these 
my  brethren,  ye  have  done  it  unto  me."  (Matt.  25-40.)  That  is  a 
positive  command,  and  we  must  be  constantly  and  busily  engaged 
in  an  effort  to  serve  our  fellows  and  teach  them  the  positive  side  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  be  most  effective,  I  believe,  as  teachers 
in  Israel.  There  are  many  men  under  my  voice  today  who  have 
that  responsibility  either  in  schools  or  in  wards  or  in  stakes  or  in 
quorums,  and  it  is  our  duty  to  be  positive  in  our  teachings.  I  call  to 
your  attention  the  fact  that  our  teaching  will  have  far  greater  effect 
if  we  are  positive  in  applying  those  teachings  in  our  lives  so  that  men 
who  listen  to  us  can  see  the  effect  of  those  principles  when  they  are 
lived  by  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
or  any  other,  for  that  matter.  Let  us,  as  teachers,  let  us  as  leaders, 
be  positive,  militantly  positive,  in  teaching  these  things  and  living 
them,  and  God  will  bless  our  efforts,  and  may  he  bless  you  and  me 
and  those  who  are  near  and  dear  to  us  who  are  not  here  today,  I  pray 
in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 


80  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Dag 

ELDER  WILLIAM  L.  KILLPACK 

Former  President  of  the  North  Central  States  Mission 

I  should  have  had  sufficient  time  to  get  my  composure.  This 
is  a  great  day  for  me.  I  have  been  coming  for  many  years  now, 
sitting  at  the  fountain  of  inspiration  and  counsel,  but  little  did  I 
ever  think  that  I  would  occupy  this  position. 

I  think  in  the  few  moments  that  I  speak  I  shall  tell  you  something 
of  a  personal  nature  which  has  been  a  testimony  to  me  in  guiding 
my  spiritual  activities  in  life.  I  filled  a  mission  a  number  of  years 
ago  in  the  California  Mission,  returned  home,  was  fortunate  enough 
to  meet  a  lovely  girl,  we  were  married,  parents  of  four  lovely  chil- 
dren, worked  in  the  Mutual,  the  Sunday  School,  thought  we  were 
getting  along  fine  and  doing  a  good  job.  One  day  the  president  of 
the  stake  came  to  me  and  said,  "Brother  Killpack,  the  High  Council 
and  the  Stake  Presidency  have  been  considering  you  and  your  name 
has  been  sent  by  us  to  the  First  Presidency.  We  want  you  to  serve 
as  the  bishop  of  a  ward.  "Well,"  I  said,  "President,"  and  this  fine 
man  is  in  this  audience  today,  "I  will  go  on  a  mission,  and  I  will  go 
anywhere  you  want  me  to  go,"  (I  think  I  said  I  would  go  to  China, 
China,  of  course,  wasn't  open  then)  "but  for  heaven's  sake,  don't 
ask  me  to  be  a  bishop."  That  good  man  said,  "You  think  it  over  for 
a  day  or  two  and  I  will  come  back  for  your  answer,"  and  of  course  I 
thought  it  over  very  seriously.  I  had  been  taught  as  you  have  been 
taught  never  to  turn  down  a  position  in  the  Church,  and  I  accepted 
it,  and  I  want  to  tell  you  that  those  seven  years  that  I  served  as  a 
bishop  were  some  of  the  happiest  years  of  my  life.  I  had  heard  great 
criticism  about  our  bishops,  as  we  hear  them  today,  and  I  felt  that  I 
could  not  take  it  but  when  I  got  into  the  spirit  of  it  and  got  to  work- 
ing with  the  people  that  I  thought  would  probably  give  me  some 
trouble  they  were  the  finest  people  that  I  had  ever  met  and  it  was 
really  a  joy  and  a  pleasure. 

We  left  that  stake  and  went  into  another  stake  and  had  been 
there  only  a  short  while  and  that  good  president  said  the  same  thing 
to  me  in  that  stake:  "We  want  you  to  serve  as  a  bishop."  Having 
had  one  experience  that  was  enjoyable  I  couldn't  very  well  refuse 
another  one  and  I  consented,  and  I  served  in  that  capacity  until  I 
was  called  as  President  of  the  North  Central  States  Mission. 

I  mention  this  to  show  you  brethren  that  so  far  as  I  am  con- 
cerned the  greatest  happiness  and  the  greatest  joy  that  has  come 
into  my  life  has  been  as  the  result  of  Church  service.  All  of  these 
other  things  are  lovely  and  fine,  but  they  do  not  give  you  the  satis- 
faction that  serving  in  the  Church  gives. 

As  we  come  back  from  the  North  Central  States  Mission  after 
spending  five  years  in  one  of  the  greatest  and  most  enjoyable  serv- 
ices of  the  Church,  we  bring  greetings  from  those  fine  young 
men  and  young  women  to  the  First  Presidency  and  to  the  General 


ELDER  WILLIAM  L.  KILLPACK 


81 


Authorities  and  to  the  parents,  and  we  wish  to  tell  you  that  those 
boys  and  girls  are  magnifying  their  callings  and  they  are  represent- 
ing the  Church  and  their  families  in  an  admirable  way.  We  have 
served  with  approximately  four  hundred  young  men  and  women. 
Each  of  them  has  come  to  the  mission  office,  the  mission  home,  and 
incidentally  I  would  like  to  say  that  my  good  wife  has  been  over- 
zealous  in  carrying  the  work  in  cooperation  with  me  and  in  extending 
a  welcome  hand  to  those  missionaries,  trying  to  make  them  feel  that 
the  mission  home  was  their  home.  When  we  have  knelt  with  them 
in  prayer  and  associated  with  them  in  our  class  work  and  in  our 
council  meetings  and  visited  with  them  in  their  district  meetings  and 
testimony,  report  and  missionary  meetings  from  time  to  time,  I  want 
to  tell  you  it  has  been  a  glorious  experience.  We  are  proud  of  them. 
They  are  wonderful  missionaries  and  they  certainly  are  doing  a 
splendid  work. 

We  were  privileged  last  summer  to  have  a  visit  of  a  few  days 
from  President  Smith  in  the  city  of  Minneapolis.  The  people  were 
overwhelmed  when  they  were  given  this  great  blessing.  President 
Smith  was  very  busy  attending  a  convention  and  couldn't  stay  at 
the  mission  home.  He  stayed  at  one  of  the  hotels.  We  had  him  there 
for  a  meal  or  two  and  I  had  the  opportunity  to  associate  with  him  in 
his  convention,  and  I  want  to  tell  you,  brothers  and  sisters,  that 
President  Smith  is  the  greatest  missionary  we  have  in  the  Church. 
It  wasn't  uncommon  to  see  twenty  and  thirty  men  around  him  most 
of  the  time  and  he  was  telling  them  about  the  Book  of  Mormon 
and  about  the  Church,  and  in  many  instances  he  had  his  secretary 
send  the  Improvement  Era  and  the  Book  of  Mormon  to  these  men 
in  the  various  places  where  they  live.  He  did  us  a  great  amount  of 
good  in  the  city  of  Minneapolis. 

Things  are  opening  up  in  that  mission.  In  the  past  five  years 
I  have  seen  considerable  progress  and  advancement  in  the  matter  of 
teaching  the  gospel,  which  I  would  like  to  mention.  The  radio  is 
one  means.  It  was  very  difficult  a  number  of  years  ago  to  get  an 
opportunity  to  present  the  message  over  the  radio.  "Yes,  we  can 
give  you  the  time  if  you  will  pay  the  regular  price  that  is  required, 
you  can  have  all  the  time  you  like."  Of  course  we  are  counseled  not 
to  spend  money  for  radio  programs.  I  advised  the  missionaries  to  go 
back  and  explain  the  gospel  plan  to  these  people  and  to  tell  the 
men  who  operated  the  various  broadcasting  stations  that  they  were 
working  in  the  missionary  field  devoting  their  time  and  their  tal- 
ents for  the  spreading  of  the  gospel.  It  was  not  long  before  these 
stations  began  to  give  them  the  use  of  their  facilities  and  at  the  pres- 
ent time  we  have  fifteen  or  twenty  stations  that  give  us  liberal  time 
and  in  many  instances  the  missionaries  tell  me  they  receive  fan  mail 
from  all  over  the  country  complimenting  them  upon  the  splendid 
programs  that  they  are  giving. 

In  the  city  of  Minneapolis  and  in  St.  Paul  it  isn't  uncommon  to 
have  a  request  for  missionaries  to  come  to  the  great  University  of 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Day 

Minnesota  to  speak  to  the  various  classes  of  students  regarding  the 
Church.  We  have  gone  into  several  churches  in  a  few  cities  by  re- 
quest to  speak  to  their  congregations  and  we  have  had  congregations 
headed  by  their  ministers  come  to  the  branches  in  the  twin  cities  to 
visit  our  Church.  So,  brothers  and  sisters,  it  is  a  great  privilege  and 
a  great  opportunity  that  is  coming  to  us  in  that  great  country. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  say  I  feel  that  there  is  a  great 
undercurrent  in  the  mission  field,  I  can  feel  it  to  some  extent  there 
and  I  have  felt  it  considerably  since  coming  home,  in  the  matter  of 
criticism  of  some  of  the  plans  that  the  General  Authorities  have  in- 
stituted, notably  the  welfare  plan,  and  of  the  General  Authorities 
themselves,  and  I  would  like  to  comment  for  just  a  second  on  that. 
I  would  like  to  read  a  scripture  from  Second  Nephi. 

"Yea,  and  there  shall  also  be  many  which  shall  say:  Eat,  drink, 
and  be  merry;  nevertheless,  fear  God — he  will  justify  in  committing 
a  little  sin;  yea,  lie  a  little,  take  the  advantake  of  one  because  of  his 
words,  dig  a  pit  for  thy  neighbor;  there  is  no  harm  in  this;  and  do 
all  these  things,  for  tomorrow  we  die;  and  if  it  so  be  that  we  are 
guilty,  God  will  beat  us  with  a  few  stripes,  and  at  last  we  shall  be 
saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God." 

And  then  further:  "And  others  will  he  pacify  and  lull  them  away 
into  carnal  security,  that  they  will  say:  All  is  well  in  Zion;  yea,  Zion 
prospereth,  all  is  well — and  thus  the  devil  cheateth  their  souls,  and 
leadeth  them  away  carefully  down  to  hell." 

I  think  that  is  the  condition  that  is  coming  over  many  of  our 
people  in  the  Church  today.  Very  often  people  from  the  mission 
field  come  to  Salt  Lake  City  and  these  other  western  cities,  and  they 
rime  in  contact  with  members  of  the  Church  who  have  been  born 
iu  i  Church,  they  see  things  that  are  not  very  complimentary  to 
the  Church,  and  they  come  back  into  the  mission  field  very  much 
disheartened.  And  occasionally  our  Elders  in  various  sections  of 
the  field  have  much  difficulty  in  preaching  the  gospel  because  of  the 
actions  of  some  member  of  the  Church  who  is  living  in  that  com- 
munity who  isn't  living  as  he  should  live.  So,  brothers  and  sisters, 
if  I  say  nothing  else  today,  let  me  emphasize  and  warn  you  and 
myself  that  we  should  live  exemplary  lives  if  we  do  nothing  else. 
We  can  preach  the  gospel  if  we  will  just  live  as  we  should  live  and 
be  what  we  are  supposed  to  be.  If  you  want  to  help  spread  the  word 
of  the  Lord  in  the  mission  field  you  live  as  you  should  live  if  you 
happen  to  go  out  into  those  sections,  and  that  applies  to  us  at  home. 

The  things  that  have  been  said  here  this  morning  and  through- 
out this  conference  I  certainly  am  in  accord  with  and  I  want  to  thank 
the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  the  General  Authorities — we  have 
had  the  opportunity  of  visiting  with  five  of  them  and  their  wives 
as  they  have  come  to  the  mission,  and  I  have  had  the  opportunity  of 
meeting  with  the  General  Authorities  in  the  Mission  President's 
meeting,  and  it  has  been  a  glorious  experience.  I  thank  the  Lord  for 
it.   And  now  this  new  call  and  responsibility  that  has  come  to  me, 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  83 


I  certainly  pray,  and  I  want  an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers, 
that  we  will  be  able  to  measure  up  to  this  great  responsibility.  I 
thank  the  Lord  for  the  testimony  that  I  have  and  the  spirit  that  has 
come  to  me  and  I  do  it  humbly  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

President  William  L.  Killpack,  formerly  president  of  the  North 
Central  States  Mission  and,  as  he  intimated  in  his  concluding  re- 
marks, soon  to  be  president  of  the  Idaho  Falls  Temple,  has  just 
completed  his  address  to  us. 

This  is  President  Smith's  birthday  and  he  has  indicated  his 
willingness  to  say  something  to  us  and  to  the  Saints  on  this  occasion. 
May  the  Lord  bless  him  that  he  may  be  able  to  say  what  he  wishes 
to  say  and  give  us  the  inspiration  and  wisdom  which  he  alone  can 
give  and  he  alone  has  the  right  to  give. 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Seventy-nine  years  ago  today,  a  baby  boy  came  to  earth  across 
the  street  from  where  I  stand.  There  was  snow  on  the  ground.  The 
boy's  parents  were  living  in  very  humble  circumstances.  I  was  that 
boy,  and  here  in  your  presence  today,  I  praise  my  Maker  and  thank 
him  with  all  my  heart  for  sending  me  into  a  home  of  real  Latter-day 
Saints. 

Early  Life 

I  grew  up  in  this  community.  When  eight  years  of  age,  I  was 
baptized  in  City  Creek  just  a  block  from  here.  I  was  confirmed  a 
member  of  the  Church  in  fast  meeting  in  the  Seventeenth  Ward,  and 
with  the  encouragement  of  one  of  my  dear  aunts,  Lucy  M.  Smith,  I 
stood  up  and  bore  my  testimony.  I  told  that  audience  that  I  was 
glad  to  belong  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  I  believed  it  was 
the  true  Church,  and  I  wanted  to  be  worthy  of  my  membership  in  it. 

Many  things  have  happened  since  then.  I  wish  I  could  give 
you  a  picture  of  what  has  passed  before  my  eyes  and  through  my 
mind  since  I  began  life  here  on  earth.  I  was  privileged  to  go  to 
school.  I  attended  the  Sunday  School  and  the  Mutual  Improvement 
Association  in  the  Seventeenth  Ward.  I  attended  fast  meeting  and 
used  to  come  to  this  building  on  Sunday  to  hear  sermons  delivered 
by  the  great  leaders  of  the  Church.  I  was  permitted  to  go  to  Provo 
and  attend  Brigham  Young  Academy  under  Superintendent  Karl  G. 
Maeser  for  one  year;  and  the  influence  of  that  good  man  on  my  life 
was  so  great  that  I  am  sure  it  will  endure  for  eternity. 

I  was  ordained  a  deacon  and  was  president  of  my  quorum. 
When  I  was  about  fourteen  years  of  age,  I  read  the  fortieth  chapter 
of  Alma  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  in  our  Sunday  School  class.  It 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  4  Second  Dag 

made  an  impression  on  my  mind  that  has  been  helpful  when  death 
has  taken  loved  ones  away.  I  will  not  take  time  now  to  read  it,  but 
it  is  one  place  in  the  scriptures  that  tells  us  where  our  spirits  go 
when  they  leave  this  body,  and  I  have  wanted  to  go  to  that  place 
called  paradise  ever  since. 

Mission  in  Southern  States 

I  was  called  on  a  mission  to  the  Southern  States  in  the  days 
when  great  bitterness  motivated  some  of  the  people  who  lived  there. 
The  most  of  them  were  good  men  and  women,  but  there  were  a  few 
who  objected  to  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  being  taught  as  the  Lord 
desires  us  to  teach  it.  Some  of  our  missionaries  were  brutally 
whipped.  During  the  period  of  time  before  I  went  there,  several 
were  killed.  I  had  the  experience  myself  of  lying  in  bed  while  the 
bullets  whistled  overhead.  A  mob  surrounded  the  building  where 
we  were  sleeping  and  fired  into  the  four  corners.  Splinters  fell  over 
us,  but  nobody  was  hurt.  I  labored  under  the  direction  of  Elder  }. 
Golden  Kimball.  He  was  a  great  mission  president.  I  came  home 
and  continued  my  life  work,  having  been  benefited  by  the  experience 
of  my  missionary  career. 

There  were  saloons  and  gambling  houses  in  Salt  Lake  City  in 
my  youth — not  very  many — but  some,  but  I  never  had  occasion  to 
go  into  them.  I  always  felt  it  would  not  please  my  father  and  mother 
if  I  did,  and  I  was  happy  to  do  the  things  that  they  wanted  me  to  do. 

Further  Activities 

After  my  mission  to  the  Southern  States,  I  was  called  to  work  in 
the  auxiliary  organizations  at  home,  in  both  the  Sunday  School  and 
the  Mutual  Improvement  Association,  and  later  became  one  of  the 
stake  superintendents  of  the  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement 
Association.  I  was  also  a  ward  teacher  and  stake  home  missionary. 
I  also  served  as  a  member  of  the  general  board  of  M.I.A. 

The  President  of  the  United  States,  William  McKinley,  sent 
word  to  me  by  Governor  Arthur  L.  Thomas  that  he  felt  that  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  entitled 
to  a  federal  appointment.  We  had  not  had  one  up  to  that  time, 
and  he  offered  me  the  position  in  the  Land  Office  of  Receiver  of  Pub- 
lic Monies  and  Special  Disbursing  Agent.  Before  that  I  had  worked 
for  the  Grant-Odell  Company  in  the  yard  putting  up  wagons  and 
other  equipment,  and  when  I  was  offered  the  position  of  Receiver  in 
the  United  States  Land  Office.  I  was  working  for  Z.C.M.I.  My  first 
appointment  came  from  President  William  McKinley,  and  the  next 
one  came  from  President  Theodore  Roosevelt. 

-  ■  I  attended  the  general  conferences  that  were  held  semi-an- 
nually in  this  building.  I  used  to  edge  my  way  in  and  sit  down  on 
the  stairs  at  the  left.    The  house  would  be  full,  and  there- weren't 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  85 


seats  for  everybody.  On  the  particular  occasion  to  which  I  refer,  I 
came  in,  as  usual,  and  worked  my  way  through  the  crowd  and  finally 
got  a  seat  down  near  the  bottom  of  the  stairs.  (At  that  time  I  was 
a  married  man  with  a  family,  living  across  the  street,  and  may  I  say 
that  having  a  fine  Latter  day  Saint  wife  was  one  of  the  greatest  bless- 
ings that  ever  came  to  me.)  Presiding  Bishop  Charles  W.  Nibley, 
who  was  my  neighbor,  touched  me  on  the  shoulder  and  said,  "Come 
and  sit  by  me."  "I  said,  "There  is  plenty  of  room  here."  Again  he 
said,  "Come  and  sit  by  me.  It  is  more  comfortable  here."  If  I  had 
known  what  was  going  to  happen  during  that  conference,  you  could 
not  have  pried  me  into  that  seat. 

Call  to  Apostleship 

That  was  on  Sunday.  I  had  to  be  at  my  work  in  the  land  office 
because  people  were  there  from  all  over,  and  I  could  not  go  to  the 
meetings  except  on  Sunday.  The  following  Tuesday,  I  came  home 
from  the  land  office  to  take  my  children  down  to  the  fair  at  four 
o'clock,  and  Sister  Nellie  Colebrook  Taylor  came  across  the  street 
and  said,  "Oh,  Brother  Smith,  I  congratulate  you." 

I  said,  "What  are  you  congratulating  me  about?" 

She  said,  "Don't  you  know?" 

I  replied,  "I  don't  know  what  you  are  talking  about." 

"Why,  she  said,  "you  have  just  been  sustained  as  a  member  of  the 
Quorum  of  the  Twelve."   And  I  talked  her  out  of  it. 

She  apologized  and  said,  "I  am  sorry.  I  hope  you  will  forgive 
me."  Knowing  what  my  father's  experiences  had  been,  and  having 
such  a  nice  position  at  the  land  office,  I  was  not  looking  for  a  place 
such  as  father  had.  It  took  all  his  time  and  kept  him  away  from 
home  so  much. 

I  turned  to  my  wife  and  said,  "I'll  take  the  children  now  and  go 
down  to  the  fair."  But  before  I  could  get  to  the  buggy,  back  came 
Sister  Taylor,  and  she  rushed  up  to  me  and  said,  "It  was  you!  It  was 
you!   Everybody  heard  it." 

I  will  never  forget  how  I  felt.  I  turned  to  my  wife,  and  she  was 
in  tears.  That  is  the  way  I  received  my  notice  that  I  had  been  sus- 
tained as  a  member  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve. 

These  are  some  of  the  experiences  of  a  short  life;  and  I  want  to 
say  to  you  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  a  good  deal  better  to  be  seventy- 
nine  years  young  than  it  is  to  be  fifty  years  old. 

Sharing  the  Gospel 

I  came  into  my  place  as  humble  as  a  man  could  be.  It  took  me 
about  three  weeks  before  I  could  feel  comfortable,  and  that  would 
be  another  interesting  story  if  I  had  the  time  to  tell  it.  During  the 
period  of  time  I  have  held  the  priesthood,  I  have  traveled  more  than 
a  million  miles  in  the  world,  seeking  to  share  the  gospel  of  Jesus 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  4  Second  Day 

Christ  that  is  so  precious  to  me.  It  has  never  been  difficult  for  me 
to  tell  men  about  the  fine  things  that  we  have.  Sometimes  when  men 
belonging  to  other  churches  have  said,  "We  have  this  and  this,"  I 
have  said,  "Keep  all  the  truth  that  you  have,  and  then  let  me  explain 
to  you  some  of  the  things  that  you  do  not  possess  that  have  made  my 
life  rich,  and  I  am  sure  would  make  you  happy." 

I  was  secretary  of  the  Southern  States  Mission,  and  I  presided 
over  the  European  Mission  for  a  term,  and  I  have  been  associated 
with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  many  of  your  fathers  and  moth- 
ers who  have  passed  to  the  other  side,  in  this  marvelous  gospel  t>f 
Jesus  Christ  our  Lord.  I  would  like  to  say  there  has  never  been  one 
hour  in  my  life  that  I  can  remember  that  I  have  had  any  doubt  about 
this  being  the  work  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  It  has  been  a  joy  to  me. 
People  have  been  kind  to  me  wherever  I  have  been — almost  everyone. 
I  -cannot  imagine  that  I  could  have  lived  a  richer  life  if  I  had  planned 
what  I  wanted  to  do  during  these  seventy-nine  years. 

I  take  this  occasion  now  to  thank  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church,  the  stake  authorities,  ward  authorities,  members  of  the 
Church,  to  thank  you  for  your  kindness,  your  love,  your  help,  and 
willingness  to  enable  me  to  do  my  work,  especially  at  times  when  it 
has  been  somewhat  difficult. 


Blessings  to  Be  Earned 

We  have  a  great  responsibility  resting  upon  us  in  the  various 
positions  we  occupy.  I  say  to  you  men  who  are  in  this  audience,  who 
are  elders  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and 
who  have  no  official  position,  the  Lord  expects  just  as  much  from  you. 
If  you  expect  your  blessings  in  the  hereafter,  you  will  have  to  earn 
them  in  the  same  way  that  the  men  who  are  ward  and  stake  and  Gen- 
eral authorities  are  earning  theirs. 

It  is  a  wonderful  thing  to  look  into  the  faces  of  a  group  like  this. 
I  do  not  know  how  soon  the  time  may  come  that  I  will  be  called 
from  this  sphere  of  action,  but  when  that  time  comes,  I  hope  that  I 
will  have  earned  the  right  to  continue  my  associations  with  just  such 
men  and  women  as  are  here  today,  and  those  who  are  scattered 
throughout  the  world  who  are  living  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

To  this  marvelous  choir  of  young  people,  from  Ricks  College  of 
Rexburg,  Idaho,  I  say:  Keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  There 
isn't  any  happiness  worthy  the  name  if  you  fail  to  do  that.  All  hap- 
piness is  on  the  Lord's  side  of  the  line.  We  thank  you  for  coming 
here  to  sing  to  us.  We  hope  that  wherever  you  go  you  will  keep  in 
mind  that  our  Heavenly  Father  loves  you  and  has  offered  you  and 
continues  to  offer  you  opportunity  to  develop  to  be  such  men  and 
women  as  will  be  entitled  to  a  place  in  the  celestial  kingdom  to  have 
the  association  with  those  whom  you  love  throughout  the  ages  of 
eternity. 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  87 


Gratitude  for  Preservation 

I  had  no  idea  when  I  came  this  morning  that  I  was  going  to  talk 
to  you  like  this.  I  am  grateful  for  the  preservation  of  my  life.  Many 
times  when  I  have  been  apparently  ready  to  go  to  the  other  side, 
1  have  been  kept  for  some  other  work  to  be  done.  I  want  every  one 
of  you  to  know  that  I  do  not  have  an  enemy,  that  is,  there  is  no  one 
in  the  world  that  I  have  any  enmity  towards.  All  men  and  all  wom- 
en are  my  Father's  children,  and  I  have  sought  during  my  life  to  ob- 
serve the  wise  direction  of  the  Redeemer  of  mankind,  to  love  my 
neighbor  as  myself.  I  have  had  much  happiness  in  life,  so  much  that 
I  would  not  exchange  with  anybody  who  has  ever  lived,  and  I  do  not 
say  that  boastfully  but  gratefully.  All  the  happiness  that  has  come 
to  me  and  mine  has  been  the  result  of  trying  to  keep  the  command- 
ments of  God  and  of  living  to  be  worthy  of  the  blessings  that  he  has 
promised  those  who  honor  him  and  keep  his  commandments. 

The  Lord's  Side 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  Do  not  make  any 
mistake  in  these  days  of  uncertainty.  Stay  on  the  Lord's  side  of  the 
line.   All  righteousness,  all  happiness  is  on  his  side  of  the  line. 

In  conclusion,  I  pray  that  we  may  all  so  adjust  ourselves  as  we 
pass  through  life's  experiences  that  we  can  reach  out  and  feel  that  we 
hold  our  Father's  hand.  This  is  God's  work.  This  is  his  Church. 
It  is  the  way  that  our  Heavenly  Father  has  provided  to  prepare  us 
for  eternal  happiness.    I  pray  that  we  may  all  be  worthy  of  it. 

I  would  not  feel  right  if  I  failed  now  to  express  to  my  father's 
family,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  my  own  family  who  have  been  so 
close  to  me  all  these  years,  my  gratitude  to  them  for  their  helpful- 
ness. They  have  never  put  anything  in  the  way  of  my  doing  my 
duty.  And  I  take  this  occasion  to  say  to  my  brethren,  the  counselors 
in  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  and  these  other  men  who  are  here 
on  this  stand:  You  will  never  know  how  much  I  love  you.  I  have 
not  words  to  express  it.  And  I  want  to  feel  that  way  toward  every 
son  and  every  daughter  of  my  Heavenly  Father,  and  I  can  feel  that 
way  if  I  observe  his  laws  and  commandments  and  follow  his  advice. 

That  the  Lord  may  enable  us  all  so  to  adjust  ourselves  that  when 
the  time  comes  for  us  to  go  hence  we  may  find  our  names  enrolled 
in  the  Lamb's  book  of  life  entitling  us  to  a  place  in  the  celestial  king- 
dom in  the  companionship  of  the  best  people  that  have  lived  upon 
the  earth,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.  Amen. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

We  have  just  listened  to  President  Smith,  the  president  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  very  grateful 
to  him  for  his  message  and  for  his  blessing.   I  repeat,  may  the  Lord 


88  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday.  April  4  Second  Dap 

richly  endow  him  and  bless  him  with  health  and  strength  sufficient 
to  his  needs  and  in  accordance  with  his  desires. 

After  this  session  has  adjourned  we  will  meet  again  this  after- 
noon at  two  o'clock. 

The  proceedings  of  the  afternoon  session  will  be  broadcast  over 
KSL  and  the  other  stations  that  I  mentioned  at  the  beginning  of  this 
meeting. 

The  audience  should  be  in  their  seats  not  later  than  ten  minutes 
before  two  o'clock  this  afternoon. 

Any  important  messages  that  have  been  received  will  be 
broadcast  over  the  air  on  the  outside  after  this  meeting. 

The  Choir  singing  for  this  session  of  the  Conference  has  been 
by  the  Ricks  College  Choir,  Elder  Alma  Dittmer,  conductor,  Elder 
Roy  M.  Darley  at  the  organ. 

The  Ricks  College  Choir  will  now  sing  "Let  the  Nations  Praise 
the  Lord."  The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  H.  Vearle 
Payne  of  Mt.  Graham  Stake,  Arizona. 


The  Ricks  College  Choir  sang  "Let  All  Nations  Praise  the 
Lord." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  President  H.  Vearle  Payne 
of  the  Mt.  Graham  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 

SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  fourth  session  of  the  Conference  convened  in  the  Tabernacle 
at  2:00  p.m.,  Monday,  April  4. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  was  at  home,  resting.  President 
David  O.  McKay,  at  the  President's  request,  conducted  the  exercises 
of  this  meeting. 

The  choir  singing  for  this  session  was  by  the  Ricks  College 
Choir,  Elder  Alma  Dittmer  conducting. 

President  David  O.  McKay} 

This  is  the  fourth  session  of  the  119th  Annual  Conference  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square. 

President  Smith  thinks  it  advisable  for  him  not  to  come  down 
this  afternoon,  but  to  rest,  and  requests  that  we  proceed  and  that 
I  conduct  the  exercises. 

Of  the  General  Authorities,  Elder  Matthew  Cowley  is  absent 
visiting  the  Pacific  Missions.  He  is  in  New  Zealand  and  will  at- 
tend the  Hui  Tau,  that  is,  the  great  conference  of  the  New  Zealand 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 


89 


Mission.  Elder  Alma  Sonne,  as  you  know,  is  in  Europe.  President 
George  F.  Richards  is  at  home  on  the  advice  of  his  physician. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL 
and  other  stations  as  announced  this  morning.  However,  as  the 
President  of  the  United  States  is  scheduled  to  speak  over  the  radio 
network  of  the  nation  from  approximately  2:30  to  3:00  o'clock  this 
afternoon,  this  conference  will  not  be  broadcast  during  that  period. 

Any  important  messages  and  calls  that  come  to  us  for  persons 
supposed  to  be  in  attendance  at  the  Conference  will  be  announced 
at  the  dismissal  of  this  meeting  over  the  loudspeaking  system  on 
the  grounds.  Everyone  would  do  well  to  listen  carefully  to  such 
announcements. 

The  singing  for  this  occasion  is  furnished  by  the  Ricks  College 
Choir,  Elder  Alma  Dittmer  conducting  and  Elder  Roy  M.  Darley, 
assistant  Tabernacle  organist,  at  the  organ. 

We  will  begin  the  services  by  the  choir's  singing  "O,  Gladsome 
Light,"  following  which  the  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  Presi- 
dent Clarence  D.  Rich  of  the  Morgan  Stake. 


Singing  by  the  choir,  "O,  Gladsome  Light." 
President  Clarence  D.  Rich,  Morgan  Stake,  offered  the  invoca- 
tion. 

The  Ricks  College  Choir  sang  "Savior,  Redeemer  of  My  Soul." 

ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Yesterday  I  had  the  privilege  of  standing  as  a  representative  of 
the  Lord  in  the  baptism  of  my  eldest  son.  After  I  had  acted  pursuant 
to  the  authority  that  I  had,  he  and  I  came  forth  out  of  the  water. 
Then  my  father,  one  of  God's  high  priests,  laid  his  hands  upon  my 
son's  head  and  confirmed  him  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  gave  him  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  This  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  is  the  right  to  the  constant  companionship  of  that  member  of 
the  Godhead,  based  on  righteousness. 

The  Priesthood 

My  father  and  I  each  acted  in  the  authority  of  the  priesthood, 
and  pursuant  to  authorization  given  by  those  who  hold  the  keys  of 
the  priesthood.  Priesthood  is  one  thing;  keys  another.  Priesthood 
is  the  power  and  authority  of  God  delegated  to  man  on  earth  to  act 
in  all  things  for  the  salvation  of  men.  Keys  are  the  directing  power, 
the  right  to  preside  and  govern  in  the  priesthood  and  in  the  Church. 

These  two  things,  the  authority  of  the  priesthood  and  the  di- 
recting power  that  goes  with  the  keys  of  the  priesthood,  distinguish 


90  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday.  April  4  Second  Dag 

us  from  the  world.  The  power  and  authority  of  God  are  found  in 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ;  they  are  not  found  in  the  churches  which 
are  not  of  Jesus  Christ.  The  churches  of  the  world  have  a  form  of 
godliness,  but  they  deny  the  power  thereof.  It  is  in  and  through  the 
authority  of  the  priesthood  that  the  power  of  godliness  is  manifest. 
And  we  are  the  only  people  on  earth  who  have  that  priesthood,  that 
power  to  act  in  the  Lord's  name  and  have  our  acts  approved  and 
acknowledged  both  on  earth  and  in  heaven. 

This  is  a  restored  Church.  In  it  is  found  today,  in  all  essential 
respects,  exactly  and  precisely  what  the  ancients  had.  Just  as  Christ 
gave  Peter  and  the  Apostles  of  old  both  the  authority  of  the  priest- 
hood and  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  or  in  other  words  the 
keys  of  the  kingdom  of  God  on  earth,  which  is  the  Church,  so  has 
he  given  these  things  to  us  in  our  day.  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  is  in  the  most  real  and  actual  sense  the  kingdom 
of  God  on  earth,  and  it  is  designed  to  prepare  and  qualify  men  to  go 
to  the  kingdom  of  God  in  heaven  which  is  the  celestial  kingdom  of 
heaven. 

The  Kingdom  of  God 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  preached  a  glorious  sermon  in  which 
he  defined  the  kingdom  of  God.    From  it  I  read  these  sentences: 

Where  there  is  a  priest  of  God — a  minister  who  has  power  and 
authority  from  God  to  administer  in  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel  and 
officiate  in  the  priesthood  of  God,  there  is  the  kingdom  of  God.  .  .  .  Where 
there  is  no  kingdom  of  God  there  is  no  salvation.  What  constitutes  the 
kingdom  of  God?  Where  there  is  a  prophet,  a  priest,  or  a  righteous 
man  unto  whom  God  gives  his  oracles,  there  is  the  kingdom  of  God;  and 
where  the  oracles  of  God  are  not,  there  the  kingdom  of  God  is  not. 

...  If  we  do  not  get  revelations,  we  do  not  have  the  oracles  of  God; 
and  if  they  have  not  the  oracles  of  God,  they  are  not  the  people  of  God. 

.  .  .  Jesus  in  his  teachings  says,  "Upon  this  rock  I  will  build  my 
church  and  the  gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail  against  it."  What  rock? 
Revelation.  .  .  . 

Whenever  men  can  find  out  the  will  of  God  and  find  an  administrator 
legally  authorized  from  God,  there  is  the  kngdom  of  God;  but  where 
these  are  not,  the  kingdom  of  God  is  not.    {D.H.C.,  vol.  5,  pp.  256-259.) 

Restoration  of  Gospel 

By  the  grace  of  God,  and  through  his  mercy,  we  have  had  re- 
stored to  us  in  this  day  the  fulness  of  the  everlasting  gospel:  all  of 
the  laws,  ordinances,  and  principles  by  obedience  to  which  we  can 
be  both  saved  and  exalted  in  our  Father's  kingdom.  No  other  peo- 
ples have  had  so  much  of  the  light  and  truths  of  heaven  poured  out 
upon  them  as  we  have. 

To  us  has  come  the  Book  of  Mormon — a  record  of  God's  deal- 
ings with  a  people  who  had  the  fulness  of  the  everlasting  gospel — 
and  it  contains,  in  plain  and  simple  form,  the  truths  of  salvation.  We 
have  many  of  the  truths  of  heaven,  and  if  we  will  accept  them  and 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 


91 


then  live  them,  we  can  gain  the  greatest  rewards  that  are  available 
in  eternity.  But  it  is  not  enough  to  have  the  truth  alone.  The  mere 
possession  of  truth  will  not  save  a  man.  It  is  not  enough  to  read  the 
doctrines  of  the  kingdom  and  know  what  they  are.  The  devils  also 
believe  and  tremble.  It  is  not  enough  to  take  the  Book  of  Mormon 
and  read  it  and  believe  it.  We  must  do  all  these  things.  But  there- 
after we  must  accept  the  truth  by  covenant  under  the  hands  of  a  legal 
administrator,  someone  who  can  bind  on  earth  and  in  heaven. 

Covenant  of  Baptism 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  wrote  these  words  in  his  journal  re- 
ferring to  a  discussion  he  had  with  the  Twelve  Apostles: 

I  told  the  brethren  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  the  most  correct 
of  any  book  on  earth,  and  the  keystone  of  our  religion,  and  a  man  would 
get  nearer  to  God  by  abiding  its  precepts,  than  by  any  other  book. 
(Ibid.,  vol.  4,  p.  461.) 

I  agree  with  every  word  that  Brother  Marion  G.  Romney  said 
yesterday.  As  he  has  done,  I  have  read  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
prayerfully  and  carefully,  more  times  than  I  have  fingers;  I  believe 
it,  sincerely  and  wholeheartedly.  I  know  that  it  is  a  true  witness  of 
Christ  and  an  accurate  revealer  of  the  Doctrines  of  Christ. 

But  after  we  have  found  the  truth,  after  we  have  learned  that 
the  Book  of  Mormon  was  translated  by  the  gift  and  power  of  God 
and  is  verily  true,  after  we  have  obtained  the  testimony  of  Christ 
that  comes  by  hearing  the  word  of  God  taught  by  one  having  au- 
thority— and  taught  in  righteousness  and  with  the  power  of  the 
Spirit — we  must  then  accept  that  truth  by  covenant  of  baptism;  and 
we  must  do  it  under  the  hands  of  a  legal  administrator. 

Baptism  is  the  gateway  to  the  kingdom  of  God  both  on  earth 
and  in  heaven.  And  the  kind  of  baptism  that  you  and  I  want  is  one 
which  will  be  recognized  both  on  earth  and  in  heaven.  It  is  one  thing 
to  set  up  a  system  that  will  be  recognized  by  men;  it  is  quite  another 
thing  to  have  a  system  which  God  will  recognize.  The  Lord  said 
to  Peter: 

And  I  will  give  unto  thee  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven;  and 
whatsoever  thou  shalt  bind  on  earth  shall  be  bound  in  heaven.  .  .  . 
(Matt.  16:19.) 

We  want  a  baptism,  (and  this  goes  for  all  ordinances,)  that  will 
be  binding  on  earth  and  in  heaven,  that  will  be  recognized  by  the 
Lord  both  here  and  hereafter. 

Divine  Authority 

Now,  this  sentence  from  the  Prophet's  sermon: 

All  the  ordinances,  systems,  and  administrations  on  the  earth  are  of 
no  use  to  the  children  of  men,  unless  they  are  ordained  and  authorized 


t 


92  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Dag 

of  God;  for  nothing  will  save  a  man  but  a  legal  administrator;  for  none 
others  will  be  acknowledged  by  God  or  angels.    (D.H.C.,  vol.  5,  p.  259.) 

Speaking  of  the  new  and  everlasting  covenant,  which  is  the 
gospel,  the  Lord  said  to  the  Prophet: 

.  .  .  All  covenants,  contracts,  bonds,  obligations,  oaths,  vows,  per- 
formances, connections,  associations  or  expectations  that  are  not  made  and 
entered  into  and  sealed  by  the  Holy  Spirit  of  promise,  of  him  who  Is 
anointed,  both  as  well  for  time  and  for  all  eternity,  and  that  too  most  holy, 
by  revelation  and  commandment  through  the  medium  of  mine  anointed, 
whom  I  have  appointed  on  the  earth  to  hold  this  power,  .  .  .  are  of  no 
efficacy,  virtue  or  force  in  and  after  the  resurrection  from  the  dead;  for 
all  contracts  that  are  not  made  unto  this  end  have  an  end  when  men  are 
dead.    (D.  &  C.  132:7.) 

Then  the  Lord  propounds  a  question  to  all  those  who  have  set 
up  systems  of  religion  on  assumed  authority,  authority  claimed  from 
generations  dead  and  gone.  It  is:  ".  .  .  will  I  receive  at  your  hands 
that  which  I  have  not  appointed?"  (Ibid.,  10.)  Certainly  not.  His 
house  is  a  house  of  order,  and  not  a  house  of  confusion.  No  man  can 
come  unto  him  or  unto  his  Father  except  it  be  by  his  word  which  is 
his  law. 

And  finally,  in  language  so  broad  and  comprehensive  as  to  cover 
all  principles,  doctrines,  ordinances,  and  systems,  the  Lord  says: 

And  everything  that  is  in  the  world,  whether  it  be  ordained  of  men, 
by  thrones,  or  principalities,  or  powers,  or  things  of  name,  whatsoever 
they  may  be,  that  are  not  by  me  or  by  my  word,  saith  the  Lord,  shall  be 
thrown  down,  and  shall  not  remain  after  men  are  dead,  neither  in  nor 
after  the  resurrection,  saith  the  Lord  your  God. 

For  whatsoever  things  remain  are  by  me;  and  whatsoever  things  are 
not  by  me  shall  be  shaken  and  destroyed.    (Ibid.,  13-14.) 

Thus  there  are  only  two  ways  in  which  anything  in  this  world 
can  be  so  ordained  as  to  remain  with  full  force  and  validity  in  the 
spirit  world  and  in  the  resurrection.  Either  God  himself  must  ordain 
it  or  an  agent  of  God,  acting  under  and  in  accordance  with  proper 
authorization  from  him,  must  do  it.  Then  and  then  only  will  the  act 
be  recognized  in  eternity.  There  is  no  other  way. 

Baptism  is  the  gate  to  the  celestial  kingdom  of  heaven,  provided 
it  is  performed  by  a  legal  administrator,  one  whose  administrations 
will  be  recognized  by  God,  and  provided  also  that  the  candidate  has 
made  himself  worthy  and  that  the  ordinance  is  sealed  upon  him  by 
the  Holy  Ghost. 

The  same  principle  applies  to  all  ordinances.  The  Lord  said  of 
the  sacrament: 

Whoso  eateth  my  flesh,  and  drinketh  my  blood,  hath  eternal  life; 
and  I  will  raise  him  up  at  the  last  day.    (John  6:54.) 

But  in  order  to  obtain  that  blessing  we  must  participate  in  the  ordi- 
nance worthily,  with  the  ratifying  approval  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and 
as  it  is  performed  by  a  legal  administrator. 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 


93 


It  is  the  same  with  marriage.  Men  can  ordain  any  system  of 
marriage  that  suits  their  pleasure.  They  can  make  a  man  and  a 
woman  husband  and  wife  in  this  life;  but  when  men  are  dead,  that 
ends  the  marriage.   In  order  for  a  man  and  a  woman  to  be  husband 

•  and  wife  in  the  spirit  world  and  in  the  resurrection,  for  the  family 
unit  to  continue  after  death,  the  sealing  must  be  done  by  God  per- 
sonally or  by  an  authorized  agent  holding  authority  from  him  so  to 
act;  and  it  must  be  sealed  and  approved  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  a  condi- 
tion that  is  fulfilled  only  if  the  participants  are  worthy. 

Restoration  of  Priesthood 

Now  we  have  received  the  same  power  and  authority  that  the 
ancients  had.  In  May  of  1829,  John  the  Baptist  came  and  gave  to 
Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  both  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  and 
the  keys  of  that  priesthood.  Shortly  thereafter  Peter,  James,  and 
John  came  and  gave  to  those  same  worthies  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood and  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  God.  Then  in  1835,  when  the 
first  quorum  of  Apostles  was  called  in  this  dispensation,  those  Apos- 
tles were  given  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  God  on  earth. 

Thereafter  additional  keys  were  given.  Elijah  came  on  April 
the  third  in  1836.  He  gave  the  keys  of  the  sealing  power,  or  in  other 
words,  he  authorized  the  use  of  the  priesthood  to  seal  on  earth  and 
bind  in  heaven.  Moses  came  and  gave  the  keys  of- the  gathering  of 
Israel  from  the  four  parts  of  the  earth,  and  the  leading  of  the  ten 
tribes  from  the  land  of  the  north.  Elias  came  and  gave  the  keys  of 
the  dispensation  of  the  gospel  of  Abraham.  The  Prophet  says  that 
divers  angels  from  Michael  or  Adam  on  down  to  the  present  time 
all  came,  declaring  their  dispensations,  their  rights,  their  keys,  their 
honors,  their  majesty  and  glory,  and  the  power  of  their  priesthood, 
until  we  had  in  this  dispensation,  which  is  the  one  of  the  Fulness  of 
Times,  all  of  the  power  and  authority  that  God  had  ever  given  in 
any  dispensation  that  went  before. 

Keys  of  the  Kingdom 

Then  just  a  few  weeks  before  Joseph  and  Hyrum  went  to  Carth- 
age Jail  to  seal  their  testimony  with  their  blood,  the  Prophet,  in  the 
Nauvoo  Temple,  conferred  upon  the  Apostles  all  of  the  keys  of  the 
kingdom  of  heaven.  After  the  bestowal  of  these  powers  and  keys 
he  said: 

I  have  sealed  upon  your  heads  all  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  God. 
I  have' sealed  upon  you  every  key,  power,  principle  that  the  God  of 
heaven  has  revealed  to  me.    Now,  no  matter  where  I  may  go  or  what 

•  ..;  I  may  do.  the.  kingdom  rests  with  you.  .... 

...  ye  apostles  of  the  Lamb  of  God,  my  brethren,  upon  your  shoulders 
'.'"  "this  kingdom  rests;  now  you  have  got  to  round  up  your  shoulders  and 
•  '  -  bear  off  the  kingdom.  (See,  The  Discourses  of  Wilford  Woodruff,  p.  72.) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


From  that  moment  to  the  present  time,  every  man  who  has  been 
ordained  to  the  holy  apostleship  has  been  given  the  keys  of  the  king- 
dom of  God  on  earth,  or  in  other  words  the  directive  right  to  preside 
over  this  Church  and  this  kingdom.  And  so,  at  this  time,  we  have 
legal  administrators,  brethren  holding  both  priesthood  and  keys.  We 
have  the  truths  of  heaven  to  teach;  we  have  the  power  to  seal  men 
up,  conditioned  on  their  faithfulness,  unto  eternal  life.  Nowhere  else 
in  all  the  world  is  this  found. 

This  morning,  President  Smith  expressed  a  sentiment  which  he 
has  expressed  over  and  over  again.  In  this  sermon  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  from  which  I  have  been  quoting  is  the  same  thought. 
The  sentiment  shows  the  measure,  the  great  capacity,  the  love  that 
prevails  in  the  hearts  of  the  two  men.  The  Prophet  said: 

I  thank  God  for  preserving  me  from  my  enemies;  I  have  no  enemies 
but  for  the  truth's  sake.  I  have  no  desire  but  to  do  all  men  good.  I  feel 
to  pray  for  all  men.  We  don't  ask  any  people  to  throw  away  any  good 
they  have  got;  we  only  ask  them  to  come  and  get  more.  What  if  all  the 
world  should  embrace  this  gospel?  They  would  see  eye  to  eye,  and  the 
blessings  of  God  would  be  poured  out  upon  the  people,  which  is  the 
desire  of  my  whole  soul.    (D.H.C.,  vol.  5,  p.  259.) 

As  as  the  Prophet  prayed,  so  pray  I  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


I  think  it  would  be  wise  for  me  to  report  to  you  a  geographical 
change  which  has  taken  place  in  the  New  England  Mission,  so  that 
it  will  be  on  the  record  of  this  conference. 


Last  summer  the  First  Presidency  assigned  to  our  mission  the 
Island  of  Newfoundland,  a  large  island  lying  off  the  Gulf  of  St. 
Lawrence  in  the  Atlantic  Ocean.  Newfoundland  is  a  province  of 
England  and  has  been  on  its  own,  so  far  as  government  is  concerned, 
for  a  long  time.  Until  now,  it  has  had  its  ruling  power  in  the  hands 
of  three  commissioners.  Three  weeks  ago,  the  British  House  of 
Lords  voted  affirmatively,  and  as  soon  as  the  King  signs  the  bill, 
Newfoundland  will  be  a  province  of  Canada.  Then  all  of  the  rules 
applying  to  goods  and  men  entering  into  the  provinces  of  Canada, 
will  apply  to  Newfoundland.  This  is  not  all,  however,  of  Newfound- 
land. Included  in  the  province  is  Labrador,  the  strip  of  coast  on  the 
northeastern  part  of  the  continent.  So  the  boundary  of  the  New 
England  Mission  now  starts  at  the  lower  part  of  Connecticut,  about 
twenty  miles  out  of  New  York  City,  and  extends  nearly  a  thousand, 


ELDER  S.  DIL WORTH  YOUNG 


o/  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


Work  in  Newfoundland 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG  95 


five  hundred  miles  to  just  opposite  Greenland.  We  can  give  your 
sons  now  any  type  of  climate  they  can  endure. 

The  first  two  elders  to  open  that  land,  so  far  as  I  know  in  the 
history  of  the  Church  (and  I  think  it  has  been  checked  quite  care- 
fully here  in  Salt  Lake  City)  are  Elders  Erza  C.  Page  of  Payson  and 
John  Mayor  Scowcroft  of  Ogden.  They  went  over  to  the  island  last 
fall  and  began  their  work.  They  do  not  as  yet  have  converts,  and 
Elder  Scowcroft  has  since  come  back  to  the  mainland,  but  they  are 
making  progress.  There  are  now  four  elders  there.  I  should  like  it 
in  the  record,  so  that  twenty-five  years  from  now  if  somebody  wants 
to  know  who  started  the  work  in  Newfoundland,  those  two  young 
men  may  have  the  credit. 

Excellent  Missionaries 

I  enjoy  very  much  being  associated  with  the  young  men  and  the 
young  women  who  are  in  the  New  England  Mission.  I  don't  have  a 
great  number — about  two  percent  of  all  the  missionaries  of  the 
Church  are  in  our  mission,  but  I  think  they  are  a  good  cross-section 
of  all  the  others,  and  so  I  feel  as  though  I  know  the  remainder.  They 
are  very  much  alike,  and  they  are  fine  boys  and  girls.  They  become 
excellent  missionaries. 

When  I  was  a  missionary  in  the  Central  States,  I  remember 
President  Samuel  O.  Bennion  said  that  a  good  many  of  the  boys  who 
came  out  at  that  time  could  just  as  well  have  stayed  at  home  for  all 
the  good  he  thought  they  did.  A  number  of  boys  loafed  away  their 
missions.  I  think  I  would  be  safe  in  saying  that  of  the  125  mission- 
aries in  New  England  today  not  more  than  two  could  be  classed  as 
among  those  who  are  not  making  the  most  of  the  effort.  I  believe 
this  generation  of  young  folk  is  the  finest  and  the  cleanest,  the  most 
intelligent,  and  the  best  educated  group  we  have  had  for  as  long  as  I 
know  anything  about  the  missionary  service.  They  have  their  mo- 
ments. A  few  days  ago  one  of  the  elders  in  one  of  our  cities  in 
Massachusetts  walked  up  to  a  door  with  his  companion,  knocked  on 
the  door,  and  to  a  maid  who  came  to  the  door,  he  said,  "Is  the  lady 
of  the  house  in?"  And  she  answered,  "No,  she  isn't,  she's  gone  to 
heaven."  He  said,  "Would  you  mind  giving  her  this  tract  when 
she  comes  back?" 

Gaining  a  Testimony 

If  I  might  have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  with  me,  I  should  like  to 
talk  for  a  moment  about  these  young  missionaries  from  the  view- 
point of  you,  their  parents,  who  sit  in  this  audience.  You  send  them 
to  us,  and  the  First  Presidency  gives  us  instructions  concerning  them. 
In  their  hands  lies  the  awesome  responsibility  of  preaching  and  teach- 
ing to  the  people  of  the  world  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  also,  too, 
of  warning  them,  for  this  is  a  day  of  warning.  But  I  am  sure  that  you 


96  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Secona  Day 

want  these  young  men  and  women  to  get  something  from  their  ex- 
perience besides  that.  If  I  detect  anything  from  the  letters  I  received 
from  parents,  it  is  that  they  have  a  very  great  hope  that  the  boys  and 
the  girls  will  come  home  with  sure  and  abiding  testimonies  of  the 
truth  of  the  gospel.  I  have  never  yet  seen  parents  too  poor  but  what 
the  money  they  spent  to  keep  their  boys  and  girls  in  the  field  is  well 
spent  and  ungrudgingly  spent  if  the  child  comes  home  and  looks  his 
folks  straight  in  the  eye  and  tells  them  that  he  does  have  a  testimony 
and  knows  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  the  happiest 
days  of  his  life  have  been  when  he  has  been  able  to  tell  people  about 
the  gospel. 

Those  things  don't  come  by  chance,  my  friends.  The  business  of 
getting  a  testimony  is  a  growth  which  must  be  taken  step  by  step,  and 
it  comes  rapidly  or  slowly  according  to  how  the  person  who  takes 
those  steps,  moves.  In  the  mission  field,  it  is  necessary  that  mission- 
aries take  them  quite  rapidly.  They  must  have  their  testimony  early 
if  they  expect  to  get  much  done.  I  don't  blame  the  young  folk  for 
saying  before  they  leave  for  the  field  that  they  aren't  quite  sure; 
because  they  don't  yet  know  that  a  testimony  is  a  relative  thing  and 
never  can  quite  be  measured;  that  only  as  a  man  feels  in  his  heart 
and  gives  service  to  his  Church  does  that  whispering  become  more 
and  more  sure  until  the  final  assurance,  for  which  we  all  hope,  comes. 
They  don't  know  that  yet.  They  come  into  the  field,  and  we  send 
them  out.  I  believe  I  know  a  little  about  what  our  Lord  and  Savior 
must  have  felt  on  that  great  day  when  he  called  seventy  to  him  and 
told  them  to  go  forth,  giving  them  authority  to  do  the  things  that  they 
had  seen  him  do.  I  believe  that  the  man  side  of  his  nature  made  him 
worry  about  them.  He  was  hopeful  they  would  all  measure  up  to 
what  he  told  them;  and,  while  I  know  he  had  the  prophetic  view  and 
could  see  ahead,  I  like  to  think  that  he  worried  about  it,  too.  When 
they  came  back  and  said  those  immortal  words  that  even  the  devils 
were  subject  to  them  because  of  his  name,  he  must  have  experienced 
a  thrill  of  satisfaction.  (See  Luke  10:17.)  I  have  had  something  of 
that  kind  of  sensation  when,  after  I  send  these  young  people  out,  they 
send  me  letters  and  say,  "The  houses  have  been  opened  to  us;  we 
have  been  fed  and  we  have  been  clothed,  and  the  way  has  opened  for 
us  to  preach  the  gospel  far  beyond  our  strength  and  ability."  Then 
I  feel  like  saying,  "Yes,  even  the  devils  are  subject  to  you  through 
His  name." 

Losing  Their  Lives 

These  boys  have  some  rights  in  this  business;  and  I  would  like 
to  say  that  these  are  as  much  a  bill  of  rights  for  a  boy  going  into  the 
mission  field  as  is  the  one  in  our  Constitution  for  the  people.  Every 
young  man  in  this  Church  who  goes  on  a  mission — and  I  hope  they'll 
all  want  to  go — has  a  right  to  feel  and  have  the  sensations  which  come 
to  him,  when  he  first  learns  what  it  means  to  lose  his  life  for  the  sake 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG  97 


of  the  gospel.  You  remember,  the  Savior  said  that  those  who  lay 
down  their  lives  or  lose  their  lives  for  the  gospel's  sake  shall  in  no 
wise  lose  their  reward. 

Now,  I  don't  mean  these  boys  are  are  going  to  face  bloodshed 
in  losing  their  lives.  I  mean  it  in  a  sense  that  a  boy  who  goes  into 
the  mission  field  will  be  no  missionary  until  he  learns  that  he  himself 
is  as  nothing;  that  he  is  the  mouthpiece  of  him  who  dwells  on  high, 
and  unless  he  finds  a  way  to  put  himself  in  tune  with  the  Spirit  of 
the  Holy  Ghost  which  is  within  him,  he  will  fail  just  as  surely  as  he 
walks.  But  he  learns  it  very  rapidly,  and  before  long  there  is  no 
amount  of  fatigue  but  what  he  will  face  it.  I  smile  now  as  I  remem- 
ber one  of  the  boys,  who  said  to  me  one  day,  "Brother  Young,  there 
is  a  family  of  Saints  down  the  road  which  hasn't  been  visited  for  a 
long  time."  Said  I,  "How  far  away  do  they  live?"  "Oh,"  he  said, 
"fourteen  miles."  I  said,  "Well,  that's  good.  How  do  you  expect  to 
get  there  to  visit  them?"  "Oh,  there  isn't  any  way  that  I  know  of." 
"Isn't  there  a  bus?"  "No."  I  said,  "Well,  the  walking  isn't  crowded, 
is  it?"  He  looked  at  me  peculiarly  and  said,  "Well,  I  hadn't  thought 
of  that."  And  he  walked  with  his  companion.  In  the  walking  he 
learned  that  he  didn't  count  for  much.  And  in  the  walking,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  they  do  learn  that  they  do  not  count  for  much 
except  as  God  gives  them  guidance.  When  boys  begin  to  write  in 
to  me  and  say,  "Brother  Young,  we  came  to  a  fork  in  the  road  and 
didn't  know  which  way  to  go,  so  we  knelt  down  on  our  knees,  and 
when  we  arose  we  felt  impressed  to  go  to  the  left,"  and  then  they 
would  say,  "and  we  came  to  a  house  where  they  were  willing  to  hear 
the  gospel."  Then,  say  I,  they  are  learning  to  know  what  it  means 
to  lose  their  lives.  If  they  keep  that  sort  of  thing  up  for  the  two  years 
they  are  in  the  mission  field  and  then  keep  it  up  after  they  come  home, 
when  the  bishop  calls  them  to  work  they'll  remember  that  they  don't 
count,  that  the  work  counts.  If  they  say,  "Yes,  bishop,"  then  you 
have  a  member  of  the  Church  who  will  stand  by  you  till  he  dies,  and 
be  a  credit  to  you.  That  right  every  boy  has.  So  does  each  girl, 
even  though  the  girls  don't  quite  do  it  in  the  same  way.  They  catch 
the  same  spirit  if  they  work. 

Realization  of  God's  Promise 

The  second  thing  which  is  their  right  is  to  learn  the  truth  of  some 
words  which  appear  in  the  eighty-fourth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants.  I  am  sure  it's  a  right.  I  think  it's  my  right.  I'm  very 
happy  that  I  was  allowed  by  my  mission  president  to  find  it  out  for 
myself.  I  would  have  been  disappointed  on  my  mission  if  I  hadn't 
been  able  to  prove  the  truth  of  these  words.  I  don't  believe  there  is 
a  boy  in  the  Church  today  who  has  ever  heard  a  story  about  his  fore- 
fathers or  about  anybody  who  ever  went  on  a  mission  and  did  the 
job  well,  who  doesn't  want  to  have  something  happen  to  him  in  such 
a  way  that  he'll  know  also  that  verily  they  are  true.  And  these  are 


98  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Day 

the  words:  "And  any  man" — and  that  means  you  and  me,  since  it 
hasn't  been  revoked  yet, 

And  any  man  that  shall  go  and  preach  this  gospel  of  the  kingdom, 
and  fail  not  to  continue  faithful  in  all  things,  shall  not  be  weary  in  mind, 
neither  darkened,  neither  in  body,  limb,  nor  joint;  and  a  hair  of  his  head 
shall  not  fall  to  the  ground  unnoticed.  And  they  shall  not  go  hungry 
neither  athirst. 

Therefore,  take  ye  no  thought  for  the  morrow,  for  what  ye  shall  eat, 
or  what  ye  shall  drink,  or  wherewithal  ye  shall  be  clothed.  .  .  . 

For  your  Father,  who  is  in  heaven,  knoweth  that  you  have  need  of  all 
these  things. 

Therefore,  let  the  morrow  take  thought  for  the  things  of  itself. 

Neither  take  ye  thought  beforehand  what  ye  shall  say;  but  treasure 
up  in  your  minds  continually  the  words  of  life,  and  it  shall  be  given  you 
in  the  very  hour  that  portion  that  shall  be  meted  unto  every  man. 
(D.  6  C.  84:80-81.  83-85.) 

I  am  a  proud  mission  president,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  when  a 
boy  can  walk  to  a  cottage  meeting  with  his  mind  full  of  the  subjects 
on  which  he  has  studied  long  and  hard  in  the  privacy  of  his  room, 
but  who  has  not  made  up  his  mind  what  he  will  say  at  that  meeting 
until,  having  prayed  before  he  leaves  his  room  that  he  may  be  given 
the  words  to  say,  and  arriving  at  the  meeting,  opens  his  mind  and 
says  to  the  Lord  and  to  the  people,  "I  pray  I  may  be  inspired  to  say 
what  I  should  say  to  you,"  and  then  proceeds  to  say  what  the  Lord 
puts  in  his  mind.  That,  to  my  way  of  thinking,  is  one  of  the  finest 
gifts  which  can  come  to  a  missionary.  He  has  a  right  to  have  that 
experience.  I  pray  to  the  Lord  God  of  Hosts  that  all  of  the  mission- 
aries, the  four  thousand  and  six  hundred  fine  boys  and  girls  whom 
President  McKay  mentioned  yesterday,  may  have  had  that  before 
they  come  home. 


A  Testimony  of  Jesus 


The  third  and  final  right,  of  course,  is  the  great  thing,  a  testi- 
mony of  Jesus.  I  need  not  say  anything  about  that,  because  if  mis- 
sionaries have  done  the  first  two  things  I  have  mentioned,  it  is  as 
sure  as  night  follows  day  that  the  testimony  will  be  theirs.  The 
fervency  of  it  will  thrill  you  when  they  come  home  as  it  thrills  me  and 
my  colleagues  in  the  United  States  and  in  the  other  nations  of  the 
earth,  wherever  our  boys  and  girls  go  in  the  spirit  of  their  calling. 

May  the  Lord  bless  these  great  men  who  are  prophets  and  seers 
and  revelators,  who  send  us  forth  to  do  the  bidding  of  God  as  we  are 
inspired  by  the  Lord  through  his  Holy  Spirit.  May  President  Smith's 
hand  be  upheld  until  he  lives  as  long  as  he  cares  to  with  full  health 
and  strength.  He  is  loved  everywhere.  Wherever  he  goes,  men 
speak  of  President  George  Albert  Smith  with  love  in  their  hearts,  re- 
ciprocative  for  his  great  feeling  of  love  for  them;  men  outside  the 
Church,  I  speak  of.  I  pray  that  he  may  be  upheld  and  sustained  by 
the  hand  of  our  Father  and  given  that  strength  which  he  so  much 


ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON  99 


desires  to  have  to  continue  on  his  great  work.  I  so  pray  for  all  those 
who  preside  with  him. 

My  testimony  is  that  God  lives  and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  restored  in  these  last  days  is  true.  I  bear 
it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

President  Smith,  President  Clark,  President  McKay,  and  my 
other  beloved  brethren  of  the  General  Authorities,  and  my  brothers 
and  sisters:  I  can  assure  you  that  this  is  indeed  a  strain  and  certainly 
a  shock  whenever  one's  name  is  called  who  is  to  speak.  President  Joel 
Richards  just  handed  me  a  note,  as  my  name  was  called,  and  I  hope 
you'll  all  say  the  same  thing  silently,  and  if  you'll  pardon  me,  I'll  read 
his  note:  "Thorpe,"  he  says,  "I'm  praying  for  you,  and  I  know  God 
will  bless  you." 

It  is  always  a  worry  when  one  is  called  upon  to  occupy  this  po- 
sition: it  is  to  me,  at  least.  Sometimes,  I  know  I  shouldn't  envy,  but 
sometimes  I  do  envy  my  brethren  who  can  come  up  here  and  appear 
so  composed  and  so  comfortable,  and  I  only  pray  that  the  Lord  will 
help  me  during  the  next  few  moments  that  I  stand  here. 

I  do  believe  in  prayer,  and  I  realize  that  without  the  help  of  the 
Lord  we  can  do  very  little.  The  first  time  that  I  called  up  here 
the  experience  was  such  that  I  didn't  know  how  I  ever  got  up  those 
steps.  I  thought  it  would  get  a  little  easier  as  experiences  came,  but 
it  doesn't  get  any  easier  for  me. 

Purposes  of  Conference 

We  are  assembled  in  this  great  house  of  the  Lord  so  that  we  can 
partake  of  his  Spirit,  so  that  we  can  be  made  to  feel  more  humble 
and  more  charitable,  so  that  we  can  truly  worship  God,  our  Eternal 
Father.  We  are  here  to  bear  testimony  to  the  goodness  of  our 
Father  in  heaven  to  us.  We  are  here  to  receive  inspiration  and 
counsel.  We  are  here  to  be  advised  and  taught.  Surely  "the  Spirit 
of  God  like  a  fire  is  burning"  here— it  has  been  at  every  session  of 
this  conference.  Words  of  inspiration  and  words  of  revelation  have 
been  spoken  and  will  be  spoken.  We  are  here  so  that  our  faith  in 
God  our  Eternal  Father  may  be  increased.  There  is  great  inspiration 
and  revelation  in  the  Church  today,  and  I  would  like  to  quote  from 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  just  a  few  words  regarding  the  messages 
that  we  have  received  yesterday  and  today  and  that  we  will  receive 
Wednesday,  and  every  time  when  we  meet  in  the  name  of  the  Lord: 

And  whatsoever  they  [our  leaders]  shall  speak  when  moved  upon  by 
the  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  scripture,  shall  be  the  will  of  the  Lord,  shall  be  the 
mind  of  the  Lord,  shall  be  the  word  of  the  Lord,  shall  be  the  voice  of  the 
Lord,  and  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.    (D.  &  C.  68:4.)  ' 


100  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Day 

I  am  sure  that  as  Latter-day  Saints  when  we  sustain  these  prophets, 
seers,  and  revelators,  we  know  they  are  speaking  under  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Almighty.  May  our  faith  be  so  strong  that  we  will 
accept  this. 

Importance  of  Faith 

Sometimes  we  are  inclined  to  question  whether  it  is  revelation 
or  inspiration,  but  that's  because  sometimes  our  faith  may  waver. 
Nothing  in  the  world  can  take  the  place  of  faith.  Yes,  good,  sin- 
cere, simple  faith.  Talent  will  not — nothing  is  more  common  in  our 
world  than  many  unsuccessful  men  who  have  great  talent.  Genius 
will  not — unrewarded  genius  by  the  score  is  almost  a  proverb.  Edu- 
cation will  not — the  world  is  full  of  so-called  educated  men  and  even 
educated  derelicts.  Faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  in  the  mission 
of  his  Son  is  all-powerful.    Carlyle  has  said: 

The  chief  aim  of  man  is  to  glorify  God  and  enjoy  him  forever. 

We  can  enjoy  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  by  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
that  we  have  heard  of,  just  a  moment  ago,  by  President  McConkie, 
if  we  will  only  draw  near  unto  him  and  live  the  commandments  of 
our  Father  in  heaven,  and  if  in  our  thinking,  and  we  must  watch  our 
thinking,  and  in  our  study  and  in  our  work  we  can  understand  the 
love  of  our  Father  in  heaven,  to  that  degree  only  can  we  partake  of 
that  sweet  spirit*  The  Lord  has  said  to  us,  "If  you  will  seek  after  me, 
you  shall  surely  find  me,"  and  if  we  desire  to  partake  of  the  blessings 
of  the  Lord,  we  can  find  the  Lord.  Spirituality  is  as  essential  to  a 
man's  soul  as  vitamins  are  to  a  man's  body. 

The  Search  for  God 

Recently  I  received  a  letter  from  an  inactive  member  of  the 
Church,  and,  oh,  I  love  those  men.  I  know  they  have  become  dila- 
tory and  inactive,  but  if  they  are  given  a  chance,  by  the  help  of  God 
they  can  be  magnified  in  their  calling.  Recently  a  man  sent  a 
letter  to  me,  and  I  would  like  to  read  one  paragraph: 

My  activities  and  ambitions  have  been  directed  to  the  things  of  the 
more  material  nature,  but  now,  as  a  result,  a  restlessness  disturbs  my  peace 
of  mind. 

Oh,  that  those  men  could  become  active  in  the  Church  and  do  away 
with  that  restlessness  that  disturbs  their  peace  of  mind! 

For  centuries  a  philosophy  has  been  gnawing  at  the  soul  of  man, 
eating  into  his  spiritual  fibre,  a  philosophy  that  proposes  to  build  a 
society  in  which  man  is  sufficient  in  himself,  but  a  great  educator  has 
recently  written,  and  I  quote: 

The  search  for  God  is  on.  One  sees  it  everywhere,  and  it  is  growing. 
We  are  coming  to  know,  that  modern  life  lacks  something.  A  man  may 


ELDER  THORPE  8.  ISAACSON  161 


have  a  bank  full  of  money  and  a  library  full  of  books,  but  he  cannot 
be  happy  without  the  Spirit  of  God.  Man  is  coming  to  know  that  he 
cannot  depend  altogether  on  science.  Man  has  learned  at  last  that  science 
has  its  limitations  and  that  only  God,  our  Father  in  heaven,  is  unlimited. 
At  the  point  beyond  which  science  cannot  go,  God  stands  unchangeable, 
now  and  forever. 

Spiritual  Development 

I  am  quoting  from  an  eminent  scientist  who  when  he  was  recent- 
ly asked:  "In  what  line  of  research  do  you  expect  to  see  the  greatest 
development  in  the  next  fifty  years?"  answered: 

I  think  the  greatest  discoveries  will  be  made  along  spiritual  lines. 
Someday  people  will  learn  that  material  things  do  not  bring  happiness 
and  that  (hey  are  of  little  use  in  making  men  and  women  creative  and 
powerful.  Then  the  scientists  of  the  world  will  turn  their  laboratories  over 
to  the  study  of  God  and  prayer,  and  the  spiritual  forces  which,  as  yet, 
have  been  hardly  scratched.  When  that  day  comes,  the  world  will  see 
greater  advancement  in  one  generation  than  it  has  seen  in  the  last  four 
generations.  (Steinmetz.) 

Men  will  come  to  accept  spirituality  as  part  of  their  soul  and 
part  of  their  living.  As  President  Clark  once  stated:  "God  has 
placed  in  every  man's  heart  a  divine  spark  which  never  wholly  goes 
out."  Many  times  it  may  be  dimmed.  I  am  speaking  now  to  some 
of  the  good  inactive  men  in  the  Church.  Oh,  I  would  plead  with  them 
that  they  overcome  some  of  the  little  things  that  are  keeping  them 
out  of  the  Church,  and  that  they  will  not  feel  that  we  who  are  perhaps 
spending  a  lot  of  our  time  in  the  Church  are  so  critical  of  them  that 
they  can't  join  us  in  our  different  functions  and  activities  in  the 
Church.  I  like  to  think  of  Matthew,  and  to  those  men  who  have  be- 
come inactive,  the  Lord  has  said  in  Matthew: 

Take  my  yoke  upon  you,  and  learn  of  me;  for  I  am  meek  and 
lowly  in  heart:  and  ye  shall  find  rest  unto  your  souls.    (Matthew  11:29.) 

That  is  the  rest  and  that  is  the  love  and  that  is  the  spirit  that  those 
men  will  find  when  they  come  back  into  the  Church,  and  that  spirit 
is  waiting  for  them  just  as  soon  as  they  can  realize  that  they  should 
not  absent  themselves  further  from  activity. 

Activity  in  the  Church 

Now,  I  would  like  to  say  just  a  word  to  the  young  people,  the 
young  married  people,  not  the  adolescent  people  of  the  Church,  but 
those  that  are  about  to  be  married.  You  should  be  careful  in  your 
social  life  today;  yes,  even  in  your  business  circles,  that  you 
will  not  adopt  practices  which  will  make  you  feel  as  though  you  can- 
not become  active  in  the  Church.  It  is  so  easy  for  you  to  absent 
yourselves  from  the  Church  activities  when  you  do  little  things  that 
you  know  are  contrary  to  the  teachings.  My  experience  with  men 
has  been  that  when  they  are  not  active,  they  are  more  likely  to  do 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


things  that  they  wouldn't  do  if  they  were  active  in  the  Church. 

So,  to  those  good  men,  may  I  plead  with  them  to  seek  activity 
in  the  Church  and  the  help  of  the  Lord,  and  the  combination  of  the 
two  will  make  it  possible  for  them  to  overcome  their  shortcomings. 

Recently,  a  man  said  to  me,  talking  of  tithing,  "I  can't  offord  to 
pay  tithing  under  my  heavy  tax  structure  to  the  government  and 
under  my  heavy  expenses,"  and  I  wondered  if  people  are  beginning 
to  say  and  to  think  and  to  wonder  whether  or  not  we  can  afford  to 
serve  the  Lord.  We  cannot  afford  not  to  serve  the  Lord.  I  have 
never  known  a  man  in  my  life  that  paid  an  honest  tithing  or  that  kept 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord  that  said  he  was  sorry  for  it.  I  hope 
when  our  young  men  are  thinking  of  a  mission  we  will  not  wonder 
whether  or  not  we  can  afford  to  send  them  on  a  mission.  We  can- 
not afford  not  to  pay  our  tithing,  we  cannot  afford  not  to  send  these 
young  men  on  missions,  we  cannot  afford  not  to  keep  the  command- 
ments; and  if  we  will  try  to  become  humble  and  prayerful,  the  Lord 
will  help  us  overcome  our  shortcomings.  May  each  of  us  be  thought- 
ful and  tolerant  with  the  man  sitting  next  to  us  or  to  the  neighbor  or 
to  the  man  who  is  inactive  in  the  Church,  that  we  can  touch  his  heart 
so  that  he  can  share  some  of  the  blessings  that  we  are  privileged  to 
enjoy. 


Family  relationships — we  have  heard  so  many  beautiful  remarks 
about  the  family.    I  would  like  to  say  a  word  about  our  wives. 

I  am  very  grateful  to  my  wife.  I  don't  know  what  my  life  would 
have  been  if  I  did  not  have  a  wife  and  a  companion  that  has  stood 
with  me  even  when  I  have  been  discouraged,  even  when  I  felt  I  had 
no  confidence.  I  am  grateful  to  her.  I  cannot  express  to  her  how 
much  I  love  her  and  how  much  I  think  of  her.  A  man  asked  me  re- 
cently: "Do  you  love  your  wife?"  I  said:  "Yes,  I  love  my  wife." 
And  he  said::  "When  did  you  tell  your  wife  you  loved  her?"  Well, 
it  made  me  think.  It  was  quite  a  while  ago  when  I  told  her  in  all 
sincerity  that  I  loved  her,  and  I  am  wondering  if  we  are  too  busy 
in  this  world,  and  if  we  leave  in  the  mornings  without  saying  good- 
bye to  our  wives,  I  wonder  if  we  leave  without  kissing  them  good- 
bye, and  I  wonder  if  we  come  home  at  night  and  never  say  a  word. 
I  am  fearful  that  we  are  inclined  to  be  living  too  fast  to  pay  attention 
to  those  beautiful  things;  and  then  to  the  wives,  I  wonder  when  you 
last  told  your  husband  that  you  loved  him.  Maybe  if  you  would 
do  that  a  little  of tener,  it  would  be  a  little  easier  for  us  to  say : : 


Family  Relationships 


"Well,  so  do  I. 


Work  in  Presiding  Bishopric 


I  am  very  grateful  for  the  blessing  that  has  come  to  me  in  my 
work  with  men  that  I  love  and  honor  and  respect.  My  life  has  been 
enriched  in  my  association  with  two  of  the  greatest  men  that  I  have 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL  103 


ever  known.  It  is  a  pleasure  to  partake  of  their  spirit.  I  couldn't  ask 
for  more  encouragement  than  I  have  received  from  Bishop  Richards 
and  Bishop  Wirthlin.  Many  times  I  have  known  they  have  seen  my 
follies.  Many  times  I  have  known  they  have  seen  my  shortcomings, 
but  they  have  given  me  a  slap  on  the  back,  and  that  made  me  want 
to  try  just  a  little  bit  harder,  and  all  the  brethren  of  the  General  Au- 
thorities are  great  and  good  men. 

I  hope  that  you  people  will  have  the  faith  to  accept  what  they 
tell  you  as  the  word  of  the  Lord,  because  they  are  prophets,  seers, 
and  revelators,  and  servants  of  God  the  Eternal  Father.  If  our  faith 
ever  wavers  to  the  point  where  we  cannot  accept  their  teachings  as 
the  word  of  the  Lord,  then  we  should  go  and  humble  ourselves  and 
pray  to  God  the  Eternal  Father  to  take  that  kind  of  feeling  away 
from  us. 

I  want  to  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I  know  God  is  my  Father; 
I  know  that  Jesus  Christ  was  his  Son,  our  eldest  brother;  I  know  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God;  I  know  there  is  inspiration  in 
the  Church  today  stronger  than  perhaps  we  realize.  That  inspira- 
tion and  revelation  may  be  unrecorded,  but  nevertheless  it  has  been 
spoken  by  the  prophets  of  the  Lord,  and  sometimes  I  wonder  if  we 
have  the  faith  and  the  true  spirit  to  recognize  it  as  inspiration  and 
revelation  from  our  Father  in  heaven. 

May  the  Lord  bless  each  of  you  that  you  may  be  mindful  of 
those  who  have  not  been  blessed  as  you  have.  I  am  referring  par- 
ticularly to  those  who  have  become  inactive  in  the  Church  for  some 
reason  or  another.  They,  too,  are  waiting  for  the  blessings  that  you 
and  I  have  been  privileged  to  enjoy. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  bishops  of  this  Church.  I  hope  our  people 
can  draw  near  to  them.  I  do  not  believe  there  is  a  bishop  in  the 
Church  that  will  give  anybody  unsound  advice.  I  do  not  believe 
there  is  any  bishop  in  the  Church  that  will  steer  anybody  wrong,  and 
I  hope  that  our  people  and  our  inactive  men  in  the  Church  may  get 
to  know  our  bishops  and  love  them  for  what  they  are. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you  this  day  and  during  the  coming  sessions 
of  this  conference,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  Ricks  College  Choir  and  the  congregation  joined  in  singing: 
"Praise  to  the  Man  Who  Communed  with  Jehovah." 

ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  would  be  most  ungrateful  if  I  did  not  acknowledge  the  prayers 
of  the  Saints  of  the  Church  in  my  behalf  and  thank  my  Heavenly 
Father  for  the  restoration  of  my  health.  It  was  a  great  disappoint- 
ment to  be  unable  to  attend  all  the  sessions  at  the  last  conference, 
and  I  am  grateful  to  be  here  today. 


104 

Monday.  April  4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 
"Who  Is  My  Neighbor?" 


Second  Day 


May  I  preface  my  remarks  today  by  referring  to  the  account  in 
Luke  of  the  story  told  by  the  Savior  to  a  certain  young  lawyer  who 
wanted  to  know  what  to  do  "to  inherit  eternal  life." 

He  said  unto  him.  What  is  written  in  the  law?  how  readest  thou? 
And  he  answering  said,  Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy 
heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  strength,  and  with  all  thy 
mind;  and  thy  neighbour  as  thyself. 

And  he  said  unto  him,  Thou  has  answered  right:  this  do,  and  thou  shalt 

live. 

But  he,  willing  to  justify  himself,  said  unto  Jesus,  And  who  is  my 
neighbour? 

And  Jesus  answering  said,  A  certain  man  went  down  from  Jerusalem 
to  Jericho,  and  fell  among  thieves,  which  stripped  him  of  his  raiment,  and 
wounded  him,  and  departed,  leaving  him  half  dead. 

And  by  chance  there  came  down  a  certain  priest  that  way:  and 
when  he  saw  him,  he  passed  by  on  the  other  side. 

And  likewise  a  Levite,  when  he  was  at  the  place,  came  and  looked 
on  him,  and  passed  by  on  the  other  side.  But  a  certain  Samaritan,  as  he 
journeyed,  came  where  he  was:  and  when  he  saw  him,  he  had  compassion 
on  him, 

And  went  to  him,  and  bound  up  his  wounds,  pouring  in  oil  and  wine, 
and  set  him  on  his  own  beast,  and  brought  him  to  an  inn,  and  took  care 
of  him. 

And  on  the  morrow  when  he  departed,  he  took  out  two  pence,  and 
gave  them  to  the  host,  and  said  unto  him.  Take  care  of  him;  and  whatso- 
ever thou  spendest  more,  when  I  come  again,  I  will  repay  thee. 

Which  now  of  these  three,  thinkest  thou,  was  neighbour  unto  him 
that  fell  among  the  thieves?  And  he  said,  He  that  shewed  mercy  on  him. 
Then  said  Jesus  unto  him,  go,  and  do  thou  likewise.  (Luke  10:26-27. 
Italics  speaker's.) 

A  Despoiled  People 

May  I  now  speak  of  a  people  who  went  down  from  Jerusalem  to 
America,  and  who  after  many  days  fell  among  thieves  which  stripped 
them  of  their  raiment  and  wounded  them  and  left  them  half  dead — 
a  people  who  were  victimized  by  men  considered  by  them  to  be  gods, 
stripped  of  their  gold  and  precious  things,  dispossessed  of  their  cities, 
their  homes,  their  soil;  robbed  of  their  liberty,  enslaved,  and  branded 
as  cattle — a  people  who  fought  their  way  down  the  bloody  path  of 
civil  war  into  degradation,  filth,  idleness,  idolatry,  cannibalism — a 
people  who  were  stripped  of  their  homeland,  their  forests,  their  graz- 
ing lands,  their  game,  and  their  fish,  pushed  by  the  invaders  into  ever- 
decreasing  territory  until  they  were  imprisoned  in  reservations  and 
exploited. 

I  speak  of  the  children  of  God,  the  children  of  the  prophets,  the 
seed  of  Joseph,  the  remnant  of  Israel,  the  children  of  the  covenant,  a 
branch  of  the  tree  of  Israel — wanderers,  lost  in  a  strange  land — the 
American  Indians,  the  Mexicans,  and  other  mixed  bloods  whom  we 
generally  call  Lamanites. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL  105 


I  hope  that  the  eloquent  appeal  of  Brother  Romney  in  this  con- 
ference will  be  heeded  and  that  a  new  fire  of  enthusiasm  for  the  Book 
of  Mormon  has  been  kindled  in  each  of  your  hearts.  And  I  hope  that 
you  will  develop  an  increased  sympathy  and  affection  and  brother- 
hood for  these  people  whom  the  prophecies  concern.  Elder  Thomas 
E.  McKay  spoke  of  the  Lamanites  whom  he  had  recently  visited  in 
Mexico.  There  are  scores  of  millions  of  pure  Indians  and  other 
scores  of  millions  of  mixed  bloods  in  these  Americas.  We  are  doing 
good  work  in  practically  every  mission  in  the  Americas  with  the 
children  of  the  covenant,  and  now  a  new  program  is  being  intro- 
duced in  the  stakes  of  Zion. 

Race  Prejudice 

But  we  still  find  race  prejudice  and  intolerance  on  the  part  of 
many  non-Indians  concerning  the  Lamanites.  Often  they  are  ex- 
cluded from  cafes,  hotels,  schools,  and  are  made  to  feel  unwelcome 
in  church  gatherings. 

You  have  read  of  their  weaknesses  and  sins  and  crimes.  You 
have  seen  them  languishing  under  their  curse.  They  have  suffered 
much  and  endlessly.  But  have  you  recalled  their  virtues,  their 
strengths,  and  the  promises  and  covenants  made  to  them? 

Have  they  not  eaten  husks  long  enough?  Has  not  their  day  of 
restoration  come?  Can  we  not  forgive  their  trespasses  that  we  might 
in  turn  be  forgiven? 

Intolerant  people  reproachfully  indict  these  red  men  saying:  But 
they  are  illiterate!  Yes.  They  are  mostly  illiterate,  but  when  the 
conquerors  fulfil  solemn  treaty  obligations  and  give  to  the  children 
of  the  conquered  an  education  equal  to  that  received  by  the  children 
of  the  conquerors,  illiteracy  will  be  eliminated. 

Prejudiced  people  who  enjoy  limitless  luxuries  say:  But  the  In- 
dian is  economically  a  failure.  Yes.  His  economic  status  is  deplorable, 
but  when  his  education  and  opportunity  parallel  our  own,  he  will 
be  independent  and  self-supporting. 

A  people  surrounded  by  wealth,  hospitals,  doctors,  and  nurses 
say:  But  the  red  man  is  not  sanitary — he  lives  in  filth  and  disease! 
Yes.  The  solitary  places  given  him  in  exchange  for  his  rich  and 
fertile  America,  are  barren,  dry,  and  not  conducive  to  good  living. 
But  give  him  accredited  schooling  in  our  own  incomparable  educa- 
tional system,  so  that  he  may  buy  medical  service,  enjoy  modern 
utilities,  live  in  good  homes,  and  he  will  not  be  diseased  nor  unclean. 

People  who  have  inherited  the  good  things  of  an  invaded  land 
say  of  the  victims:  They  are  inferior!  Yes.  They  do  suffer  from  an 
inferiority  complex  that  is  well-nigh  annihilating.  Prisoners  of  war, 
slaves,  and  downtrodden  people  usually  develop  such  a  complex.  But 
give  them  comparable  education  and  opportunity  with  their  non- 
Indian  brother,  acceptance  and  brotherly  love  by  him,  and  they  will 
emerge  a  rejuvenated  people,  the  equal  of  the  white  man. 


106  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Dag 

May  I  say  that  if  we  as  a  nation  and  as  a  people  can  ever  justify 
our  invasions  of  these  Americas,  and  our  conquest  of  his  promised 
land  and  the  subjugation  of  the  Indian,  certainly  it  will  not  be  by 
passing  by  on  the  other  side,  as  did  the  superior  priest,  or  the  pass- 
ing by  on  the  other  side  as  did  the  self-righteous  Levite,  but  by  going 
to  the  limit  as  did  the  good  Samaritan,  in  binding  up  his  wounds, 
pouring  in  "oil  and  wine"  setting  him  on  our  own  beasts,  taking  him 
to  an  inn,  paying  for  his  care  and  revisiting  him.  The  Lord  said, 
"Go  and  do  thou  likewise." 

Characteristics  of  the  Lamanites 


Again  we  are  asked:  "Will  the  Indian  revert  even  if  we  do  give 
him  education?  Yes,  he  will  revert  to  his  former  condition  if  only  a 
few  are  trained,  but  let  the  Indian  be  given  universal  and  accredited 
training  and  opportunity  and  he  will  not  revert. 

The  chasm  between  what  he  is  and  what  he  will  be  is  opportu- 
nity. It  is  ours  to  give. 

Basically  the  Indian  is  intelligent,  affectionate,  responsive,  hon- 
est, stable,  and  is  of  believing  blood.  There  is  every  reason  to  be 
assured  that  the  red  man  will  remain  loyal  and  true  to  the  gospel  and 
the  Church,  once  he  is  brought  into  the  fold.  We  have  heard  of  his 
traditions  and  superstitions,  of  his  ferocity  and  wildness,  of  his  deg- 
radation and  uncleanness,  but  let  us  consider  his  potential,  as  re- 
vealed by  a  review  of  his  ancestors. 

The  Lamanites  have  believing  blood,  as  evidenced  by  these 
words  from  the  sixth  chapter  of  Helaman: 

And  thus  we  see  that  the  Lord  began  to  pour  out  his  Spirit  upon  the 
Lamanites,  because  of  their  easiness  and  willingness  to  believe  in  his 
words.   ( Helaman  6 : 36. ) 

The  Lamanites  are  firm  and  steady — note  the  testimony  of  the 
prophets  concerning  them. 

...  the  Lamanites  had  become,  the  more  part  of  them,  a  righteous 
people  insomuch  that  their  righteousness  did  exceed  that  of  the  Nephites, 
because  of  their  firmness  and  their  steadiness  in  the  faith.  (Helaman  6:1.) 

...  in  the  thirtieth  year  the  church  was  broken  up  in  all  the  land 
save  it  were  among  a  few  of  the  Lamanites  who  were  converted  unto  the 
true  faith;  and  they  would  not  depart  from  it,  for  they  were  firm,  and 
steadfast,  and  immovable,  willing  with  all  diligence  to  keep  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord.    (Ill  Nephi  6:14.) 

Jesus  said  to  his  disciples: 

...  So  great  faith  have  I  never  seen  among  all  the  Jews;  wherefore 
I  could  not  show  unto  them  so  great  miracles,  because  of  their  unbelief. 

Verily  I  say  unto  you,  there  are  none  of  them  that  have  seen  so  great 
things  as  ye  have  seen;  neither  have  they  heard  so  great  things  as  ye  have 
heard  [of  his  people].    (Ill  Nephi  19:35-6.) 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL  107 


After  about  three-quarters  of  a  century  the  Lamanites  converted 
by  Alma  and  Ammon  and  their  brethren,  were  still  firm  and  true,  as 
indicated  by  the  Prophet  Samuel  who  said: 

...  the  more  part  of  them  are  in  the  path  of  their  duty,  and  they  do 
walk  circumspectly  before  God. 

.  . .  and  they  are  striving  with  unwearied  diligence  that  they  may  bring 
the  remainder  of  their  brethren  to  the  knowledge  of  the  truth;  .  .  . 

Therefore,  as  many  as  have  come  to  this,  ye  know  of  yourselves 
are  firm  and  steadfast  in  the  faith.    (Helaman  15:5-6,  8.) 

As  many  as  were  converted  of  the  Lamanites  by  Ammon  and  his 
brethren  never  did  fall  away."    (See  Alma  23:6.) 

It  should  be  noted  that  the  Lamanites  were  often  absorbed  by, 
and  were  called,  Nephites,  when  they  were  righteous,  and  it  is  true 
also  that  the  Nephites  when  they  rebelled  and  became  wicked,  were 
ofttimes  called  Lamanites,  and  there  was  undoubtedly  a  consider- 
able mixture  among  them. 

Children  of  Promise 

These  children  of  promise  were  great  preachers  of  righteousness. 
Under  their  teaching  on  numerous  occasions,  a  nation  was  born  in  a 
day.  They  were  so  convincing  in  their  proselyting  that  ".  .  .  inso- 
much that  they  (Gadiantons)  have  become  extinct  .  .  ."  from  among 
the  Nephites.  (See  Helaman  6:18.) 

Upon  one  occasion  Nephi,  who  had  given  up  his  judgeship,  and 
his  brother  Lehi,  who  was  a  great  general,  preached  with  such  elo- 
quence and  so  convincingly  that  eight  thousand  converts  came  into 
the  Church.  These  men  were  so  righteous  and  full  of  faith  that 
though  they  were  encircled  by  fire  they  could  not  be  burned.  While 
their  mission  was  yet  unfinished  and  while  in  this  trying  ordeal  their 
faces  shone  like  that  of  Moses  when  he  was  speaking  to  the  Lord, 
and  caused  that  their  persecutors  should  ask,  "Who  is  it  with  whom 
these  men  do  converse?"  and  Aminadab  replied,  "They  do  converse 
with  the  angels  of  God." 

A  nation  was  born  in  a  day  when  Ammon  and  his  brethren  con- 
verted the  Lamanite  king,  Lamoni,  and  also  his  father,  the  chief  king, 
whose  entire  house  was  converted  and  "thousands  were  brought  un- 
to the  knowledge  of  the  Lord."  Whole  cities  and  lands  bowed  to 
the  Lord  and  joined  the  Church,  and  in  the  year  36  A.D.,  it  is  stated 
that  all  the  Lamanites  and  Nephites  in  the  land  were  converted. 

These  children  of  the  prophets,  both  Lamanites  and  Nephites, 
were  recognized  of  God.  Great  manifestations  came  to  them  as  an 
evidence  of  the  love  their  Father  in  heaven  had  for  them.  The  La- 
manite king,  Lamoni,  saw  his  Redeemer,  so  near  to  perfection  did 
his  life  become  after  his  conversion. 

Abinadi  was  a  great  prophet  and  like  Moses  on  Sinai  his  face 
shone  with  radiant  lustre  as  he  stood  before  his  persecutors  and  bold- 
ly defied  them  saying: 


108  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday.  April  4  Second  Day 

I  will  not  recall.  .  .  . 

...  I  will  suffer  even  until  death,  and  I  will  not  recall  my  words,  and 
they  shall  stand  as  a  testimony  against  you.  .  .  .  (Mosiah  17:9,  10), 

and  with  such  fortitude  he  died,  burning  at  the  stake.  This  was  one 
of  the  loyal  Israelites. 

Mighty  Prophets 

The  first  prophet  Nephi  was  great  like  Moses  and  Brigham 
Young.  His  vision  of  the  immeasurable  future  was  comparable  to 
the  one  received  by  Moses,  Enoch,  and  Joseph  Smith.  He  saw  the 
promised  land,  the  population  of  Lehi's  seed  as  numerous  as  the  sands 
of  the  sea.  He  saw  war,  slaughter,  cities  destroyed.  In  his  vision  he 
saw  the  birth,  life,  and  ministry  of  the  Christ,  his  coming  to  the 
Western  Hemisphere  and  organizing  his  Church  here.  He  saw  three 
generations  of  righteousness  and  then  centuries  of  unrighteousness, 
with  battles  culminating  in  the  destruction  of  millions,  followed  by 
centuries  of  degradation,  scattering,  persecution,  and  suffering.  He 
saw  nations  grow  out  of  the  Eastern  empires,  and  the  kingdoms  of 
the  Gentiles  arise.  He  saw  Columbus  and  other  explorers  cross  the 
deep,  and  the  puritans  and  pilgrims  settle  a  new  country.  He  en- 
visioned the  Revolutionary  War,  the  total  subjugation  of  the  de- 
scendants of  Lehi,  the  coming  of  the  Bible,  the  restoration  of  the  gos- 
pel, the  organization  of  the  Church,  the  coming  forth  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon — and  the  balance  of  his  vision  was  not  written. 

With  undaunted  faith  he  had  preserved  the  brass  plates:  with 
the  vision  and  courage  of  a  Noah  he  builded  ships;  and  with  the 
leadership  of  the  great  he  led  his  people  to  the  promised  land. 

Another  of  these  children  of  God  was  Aminadi,  who,  like  Daniel 
of  old,  was  so  in  tune  with  his  Lord  that  he  interpreted  the  writings 
on  the  wall  of  the  temple  which  were  written  there  by  the  finger 
of  God. 

Alma,  the  American  Saul  of  Tarsus,  had  manifestations  that 
were  awesome.  Like  Paul,  he  was  transformed  from  a  destruction- 
ist  to  one  of  the  great  preachers  of  all  time.  An  idolater,  tearing 
down  the  Church  with  his  eloquence,  he  was  stricken  and  a  voice 
from  the  clouds  said  to  him: 

Alma,  arise  and  stand  forth,  for  why  persecutest  thou  the  church  of 
God?  .  .  .  This  is  my  church  and  nothing  shall  overthrow  it.  .  .  .  Behold 
die  Lord  hath  heard  the  prayers  of  his  people,  and  also  the  prayers  of  his 
servant  Alma,  who  is  thy  father;  for  he  has  prayed  with  much  faith  con- 
cerning thee.  .  .  .  And  I  am  sent  from  God — seek  to  destroy  the  church 
no  more.  .  .  .  (See  Mosiah  27.) 

After  two  days  and  nights  of  dumbness  and  helplessness  he  was 
healed,  and  devoted  the  balance  of  his  life  as  did  Paul,  to  righteous- 
ness and  service,  taking  the  gospel  to  the  despised  and  unclean  La- 
manites. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL  109 


Another  of  the  spiritual  giants  who  came  from  this  now  per- 
secuted people  was  General  Moroni,  who  was  stalwart  like  his 
brethren,  Alma,  Helaman,  and  Ammon.  "He  was  a  strong  and  a 
mighty  man;  he  was  a  man  of  a  perfect  understanding  .  .  .  yea,  .  .  . 
if  all  man  had  been,  and  were,  and  ever  would  be,  like  unto  Moroni, 
behold  the  very  powers  of  hell  would  have  been  shaken  forever.  .  .  ." 

Has  the  world  ever  seen  a  more  classic  example  of  indomitable 
will,  of  faith  and  courage  than  that  displayed  by  Samuel  the  Proph- 
et: "One  of  the  Lamanites  who  did  observe  strictly  to  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  God.  .  .  ."  Visualize,  if  you  can,  this  despised  Laman- 
ite  standing  on  the  walls  of  Zarahemla  and  while  arrows  and  stones 
were  shot  at  him,  crying  out  to  his  white  accusers  that  the  sword  of 
justice  hung  over  them.  So  righteous  was  he  that  God  sent  an  angel 
to  visit  him.  His  predictions  were  fulfilled  in  due  time  relating  to  the 
early  coming  of  Christ,  his  ministry,  death  and  resurrection,  and  the 
eventual  destruction  of  these  Nephite  people.  So  great  faith  had  he 
that  the  multitudes  could  not  harm  him  until  his  message  was  de- 
livered and  so  imporant  was  his  message  that  subsequently  the  Sav- 
ior required  a  revision  of  the  records  to  include  his  prophecies  con- 
cerning the  resurrection  of  the  Saints. 

Few  groups  of  children  of  all  time  have  been  so  honored  and 
blessed  as  were  those  Lamanite  and  Nephite  little  ones  who  were 
taken  into  the  arms  of  our  Redeemer  and  blessed  by  him.  What  a 
privilege!  They  were  encircled  by  fire  and  angels  ministered  to 
them,  but  the  greatest  of  all  was  the  actual  embrace  by  the  Son  of 
God  while  their  exultant  parents  watched  and  prayed  and  bore 
record. 

Changes  Through  Conversion 

If  you  would  look  for  valor,  stamina,  and  steadfastness,  recall 
the  experiences  of  the  converts  of  Ammon  and  his  brethren.  Here 
were  red  men  degenerated,  untrained,  and  primitive  who  accepted 
the  gospel  and  quickly  changed  to  sober,  industrious,  God-fearing 
people.  The  transition  was  soon  made  from  skins  and  loin  cloths, 
to  clothes  of  linen;  from  hunting  and  fishing,  to  agricultural  work; 
from  war  and  bloodshed,  to  peaceful  pursuits;  from  paganism  and 
idolatry  to  the  worship  of  the  Living  God.  They  were  called  the 
Anti-Nephi-Lehies,  and  were  so  devout  and  sincere  in  their  profes- 
sions that  they  buried  their  weapons  and  declared  unalterably  against 
war.  They  said:  ".  .  .  and  if  our  brethren  destroy  us  behold  we 
shall  go  to  our  God,  and  shall  be  saved."  War  continued  and  they 
were  attacked  but  they  prostrated  themselves  before  their  enemies 
"praising  God  in  the  very  act  of  perishing."  One  thousand  five  of 
them  were  slain,  but  they  went  to  their  death 

.  .  .  vouching  and  covenanting  with  God,  that  rather  than  shed  the 
blood  of  their  brethren,  they  would  give  up  their  own  lives;  and  rather  than 


110  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Dag 

take  away  from  a  brother  they  would  give  unto  him;  and  rather  than  spend 
their  days  in  idleness  they  would  labor  abundantly  with  their  hands. 

And  thus  we  see  that,  when  the  Lamanites  were  brought  to  believe 
and  to  know  the  truth,  they  were  firm,  and  would  suffer  even  unto  death 
rather  than  commit  sin.  .  .  .  (Alma  24:18-19.) 

Helaman's  Sons 

These  dark-skinned  folk  could  teach  us  much.  Their  faith  and 
strength  was  transmitted  to  their  children.  These  Lamanite  women 
spent  little  of  their  time  in  social  life  and  worldliness,  but  devoted 
themselves  to  their  families,  teaching  them  to  pray  and  "walk  up- 
rightly before  the  Lord."  When  their  young  boys  who  had  taken 
no  oath  were  forced  to  protect  their  families,  and  came  to  battle  as 
"Helaman's  sons"  they  were  unconquerable.  Their  mothers  had 
promised  them  that  "If  they  did  not  doubt,  God  would  deliver  them." 
These  red  men  striplings  went  into  battle  as  Joseph  went  into  the 
grove,  with  unwavering  faith,  and  they  emerged  from  many  bloody 
battles  and  ".  .  .  not  one  soul  of  them  did  perish."  One  thousand 
Nephites  fighting  side  by  side  with  them  were  slain,  all  the  2,060 
were  wounded,  and  two  hundred  fainted  from  loss  of  blood,  but 
their  faith  was  justified  and  they  all  lived  to  return  to  their  sweet 
Lamanite  mothers  who  praised  God  for  the  miracle.  The  teaching 
in  these  God-fearing  homes  was  "That  there  was  a  just  God  and 
whosoever  did  not  doubt  that  they  should  be  preserved  by  his  mar- 
velous power." 

These  faithful  braves  declared  as  they  met  the  onslaught  of 
the  enemy:  "We  do  not  doubt  .  .  .  our  mothers  knew  it."  In  all  his- 
tory is  there  a  parallel?  Can  any  be  found  since  Adam,  with  such 
faith  and  fortitude  as  these  forerunners  of  the  deprived  Indian  of 
today? 

Again  recall  the  three  disciples  whose  bodies  were  changed, 
who  could  not  taste  of  death — of  pain  or  sorrow.  Like  John  the 
Revelator,  a  degree  of  perfection  was  reached  which  brought  to 
them  these  incomparable  blessings.  Still  ministering  to  men  on  earth 
they  will  remain  until  the  consummation  of  the  program  of  God,  hav- 
ing supernatural  powers  to  enable  them  to  better  serve.  "So  great 
faith  have  I  never  seen  among  all  the  Jews"  declared  the  Master, 
"Wherefore  I  could  not  show  unto  them  so  great  miracles." 

Race  Consciousness 

Our  redskin  brothers  are  today  called  unclean  and  common,  but 
formerly  it  was  we,  the  Gentile  nations,  who  were  the  outcasts.  Yes- 
terday it  was 

...  an  unlawful  thing  for  a  man  that  is  a  Jew  to  keep  company  or 
come  unto  one  of  another  nation.  (Acts  10:28.) 

Today  we  revile  the  Jew  and  his  brother-Israelite,  the  Indian.  "What 
fools  we  mortals  be!" 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL  111 

Yesterday  the  super-race  consciousness  was  so  solidly  rooted 
that  it  was  necessary  for  the  Lord  to  send  a  vision  to  his  chiefest 
Apostle  before  the  gospel  could  go  to  the  Gentile  nations.  Peter 
"saw  heaven  opened  and  a  certain  vessel  descending  unto  him."  He 
saw  it  filled  with  "all  manner  of  four-footed  beasts  and  filled  with 
creeping  things  and  fowls  of  the  air."  And  he  heard  a  voice  saying: 
"Rise  Peter;  kill  and  eat."  "Not  so,  Lord,"  he  said,  "for  I  have  never 
eaten  anything  that  is  common  or  unclean."  Though  Peter  was  very 
hungry,  he  could  not  overcome  his  lifelong  prejudice  until  the  com- 
mand came  the  third  time:  "What  God  hath  cleansed,  that  call  not 
thou  common." 

And  also  through  a  vision  Cornelius  came  to  Peter,  seeking  sal- 
vation, and  the  great  Church  leader  declared:  ".  .  .  God  hath  shewed 
me  that  I  should  not  call  any  man  common  or  unclean." 

Even  after  Simon  was  convinced  he  had  a  difficult  task  to 
change  the  thinking  of  his  colleagues,  and  to  them  he  testified: 

Forasmuch  then  as  God  gave  them  the  like  gift  as  he  did  unto  us, 
who  believed  on  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  what  was  I,  that  I  could  with- 
stand God?  (Acts  11:17.) 

There  were  superior  peoples  in  the  days  of  these  Lehites  who 
were  intolerant,  and  Jacob  called  them  to  repentance  with  boldness: 

Wherefore,  a  commandment  I  give  unto  you,  which  is  the  word  of 
God,  that  ye  revile  no  more  against  them  because  of  the  darkness  of  their 
skins;,  neither  shall  ye  revile  against  them  because  of  their  fllthiness;  but 
ye  shall  remember  your  own  fllthiness,  and  remember  that  their  fllthiness 
came  because  of  their  fathers.  (Jacob  3:9.) 

Again  he  warned: 

...  I  fear  that  unless  ye  shall  repent  of  your  sins  that  their  skins 
will  be  whiter  than  yours,  when  ye  shall  be  brought  before  the  throne 
of  God.  (Jacob  3:8.) 

Mormon  knew  the  weakness  of  men  when  he  wrote: 

.  .  .  behold  who  can  stand  against  the  works  of  the  Lord?  .  .  . 
Who  will  despise  the  children  of  Christ.  .  .  .  (Mormon  9:26.) 

.  .  .  wo  unto  him  that  shall  deny  the  revelations  of  the  Lord.  (Ill 
Nephi  29:6.) 

Yea,  and  ye  need  not  any  longer  hiss  nor  spurn,  nor  make  game  of 
the  Jews,  nor  any  remnant  of  the  house  of  Israel;  for  behold  the  Lord 
remembereth  his  covenant  unto  them.  ...  (Ill  Nephi  29:8.  Italics 
speaker's.) 

And  Moroni  warns  against  judging: 

For  behold,  the  same  that  judgeth  rashly  shall  be  judged  rashly 
again:  for  according  to  his  works  shall  his  wages  be;  therefore  he  that 
smiteth  shall  be  smitten  again,  of  the  Lord.   (Mormon  8:19.) 


112 

Monday,  April  4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 
Virtues  Enumerated 


Second  Day 


Among  these  children  of  God  were  many  prophets,  and  fires 
would  not  burn  them;  stones  and  arrows  could  not  hit  them;  prisons 
could  not  hold  them;  pits  could  not  be  dug  deep  enough  to  imprison 
them.  Among  these,  the  children  of  the  covenant,  their  lame 
walked;  their  blind  ones  saw;  their  deaf  heard;  their  dumb  spoke;  the 
dead  lived  again.  Among  these,  the  remnant  of  Jacob,  the  rich  were 
humble;  the  poor  were  provided  for;  the  oppressed  were  rescued; 
justice  reigned;  and  freedom  was  a  reality.  Among  these,  the  branch 
of  the  tree  of  Israel,  the  Holy  Ghost  whispered  to  them;  angels  min- 
istered to  them;  the  Creator  and  Master  visited  them. 

Among  us  today  we  find  many  who  abandon  their  faith  and 
Church  position  to  go  into  politics.  We  found  children  of  the  Cove- 
nant who  gave  up  judgeships,  resigned  from  the  high  army  posts,  and 
even  refused  to  be  king  over  the  nation  that  they  might  serve  on  mis- 
sions and  convert  souls  to  righteousness.  We  find  many  today  who 
permit  wealth  to  wedge  them  from  things  spiritual.  We  found 
Lamanites  who  sacrificed  their  wealth  to  become  lowly  teachers. 

See  what  God  hath  wrought!  He  has  blessed,  honored,  and 
preserved  his  race.  He  has  predicted  and  warned  through  their 
prophets;  angels  have  ministered  to  them;  miracles  have  been  count- 
less among  them;  two  centuries  of  continuous  righteousness  was 
lived  by  them;  supreme  faith  was  manifested  by  them;  martyrs 
burned  and  bled  among  them;  the  flesh  and  the  world  were  over- 
come by  them.  Peace  of  long  duration  was  enjoyed  by  them  and 
the  Son  of  Man  visited  them. 

A  Brighter  Day 

Yesterday  we  of  the  Gentile  nations  were  the  "common  and 
unclean"- — today  we  so  call  the  Indian. 

Yesterday  we  were  the  persecuted;  today  we  are  the  perse- 
cutors. 

Yesterday  we  were  they  who  went  from  Jerusalem  to  Jericho; 
today  we  are  the  priest  and  the  Levite  who  passed  "by  on  the 
other  side." 

But  to  these  children  of  the  prophets,  God  has  made  lavish 
promises.  Today  is  the  brighter  day — the  day  of  the  Lamanite, 
and  we  must  be  the  Good  Samaritan,  and  through  us  with  our 
love,  service  and  providence,  must  come  the  rejuvenation  of  the 
Indians. 

They  shall  become  fair,  clean,  and  worthy.  They  shall  become 
physically  sound,  mentally  alert,  economically  secure.  They  shall 
plant  and  harvest  and  build  and  inhabit.  They  shall  take  their 
rightful  place  as  peers  with  us  in  industry,  in  business  and  profes- 
sions. They  shall  know  their  history  and  believe  the  truth,  they 
shall  know  and  worship  the  true  and  living  God. 


ELDER  ERNEST  C.  ROSSITER 


113 


For  the  eternal  purposes  of  the  Lord  shall  roll  on  until  all  his 
promises  shall  be  fulfilled.  (Mormon  8:22.) 

May  God  help  us  to  recognize  our  duty  toward  these  our 
brothers  and  sisters  and  help  us  show  our  love  for  him  by  our 
devotion  to  the  work  of  bringing  all  blessings  which  we  enjoy 
to  these  our  kinsmen. 

ELDER  ERNEST  C.  ROSSITER 

formerly  President  of  the  Tahitian  Mission 

My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  it  is  with  fear  and  trembling  that 
I  stand  before  you  at  this  time,  with  much  gratitude  and  appreciation 
in  my  heart  for  the  blessings  which  have  come  to  me  through  my  en- 
deavor to  serve  the  Lord  in  various  capacities  as  I  have  gone  through 
life.  This  is  my  third  appearance  on  this  stand,  having  reported  once 
as  President  of  the  French  Mission  and  twice  as  President  of  the 
Tahitian  Mission.  Having  returned  some  little  time  ago  from  the 
Tahitian  Mission,  I  shall  now  make  a  report  of  that  mission. 

I  was  very  happy  to  hear  the  remarks  of  Elder  Spencer  Kimball 
because  he  spoke  of  the  people  among  whom  I  have  labored  some 
nine  years,  that  is,  the  Lamanite  people  in  the  South  Seas,  in  the 
Society  Islands,  Tahiti  and  the  various  islands  of  that  group.  Of  all 
the  people  in  the  world  I  believe  there  are  no  other  people  who  have 
more  faith,  more  trust  in  God,  than  do  the  people  of  the  South  Seas 
who,  we  believe,  are  direct  descendants  of  the  Lamanites  and  the 
Nephites. 

I  have  often  told  those  people  that  my  love  and  compassion  for 
them  were  so  great  that  if  the  Lord  would  permit  it  upon  the  other 
side  after  passing  through  death,  it  would  be  a  great  pleasure  for  me 
to  be  a  missionary  to  those  of  that  race  who  had  not  had  the  privilege 
of  hearing  the  gospel  and  accepting  it,  in  this  life. 

I  love  those  people.  They  are  a  God-fearing  people.  They  are 
a  righteous  people  and  God  loves  them.  I  am  sure  of  that  because 
among  them  many  wonderful  miracles  and  manifestations  of  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  are  made.  In  fact,  of  all  my  missionary  experiences  I 
have  seen  more  wonderful  things  performed  in  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
among  the  South  Sea  people  in  the  land  of  Tahiti  than  in  any  other 
place  in  which  I  have  labored. 

It  is  not  difficult  for  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  manifest  itself 
among  those  people  because  they  have  implicit  faith.  It  is  either  yes 
or  no  with  them.  They  have  no  doctors  among  them.  They  have 
no  need  for  doctors.  They  have  the  missionaries  and  the 
priesthood.  If  any  of  them  become  ill  their  faith  is  so  strong  that 
through  the  power  of  the  Lord  many  of  them  are  healed  from 
various  and  divers  illnesses.  From  the  most  difficult  to  the  simplest, 
one  might  say,  miracles  have  thus  been  performed  among  those 


114  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Day 

people.  The  eyes  of  the  blind  have  been  made  to  see;  the  ears  of  the 
deaf  have  been  made  to  hear;  and  those  who  have  taken  the  path  to 
the  other  world  have  been  made  to  come  to  life  again.  I  have  wit- 
nessed these  things  among  those  people  and  can  bear  testimony  that 
they  are  true. 

I  was  happy  to  learn  that  the  Church  recently  is  taking  a  very 
serious  interest  in  the  Tahitian  people,  since  they  are  now  building  a 
very  lovely  mission  home  and  a  tabernacle  for  those  people,  which,  I 
am  sure,  will  do  a  great  deal  of  good  for  the  people  there,  and  as  a 
result  many  converts  will  be  made,  not  because  of  the  meetinghouse, 
not  because  of  the  new  mission  home,  but  because  of  the  deep  interest 
that  the  Church  is  taking  in  the  people  of  the  South  Seas. 

In  the  various  parts  of  the  South  Seas  you  see  new  school 
houses,  colleges,  and  so  forth,  being  built,  and  now  with  the  deep 
interest  the  Church  is  taking  in  the  American  Indians,  the  time  is 
fast  approaching,  I  believe  when  prophecy  will  be  fulfilled  in  its 
greatest  measure. 

I  am  happy  to  report  my  missionary  experiences  in  the  South 
Seas.  When  I  left  the  people  there,  they  were  in  good  condition. 
They  were  doing  well.  They  were  faithful  in  the  Church.  However, 
there  were  no  missionaries  except  myself  and  my  wife  laboring  on  the 
Islands  of  the  Society  group,  that  being  at  the  time  of  the  recent 
war.  It  made  it  rather  difficult  to  get  around,  but  most  of  the  time 
was  spent  between  Tahiti  and  the  various  islands,  traveling  a  distance 
of  from  1600  to  2000  miles  on  small  boats  to  the  various  islands. 

It  was  all  interesting.  The  food,  of  course,  was  not  plentiful, 
but  notwithstanding,  when  one  has  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  nothing 
matters  save  that  you  are  trying  to  help  the  people  who  are  interested 
in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Therefore,  my  mission  in  Tahiti  was 
worthwhile  to  me  and  I  believe  worthwhile  to  the  people  of  the 
South  Seas. 

I  have  a  strong  testimony  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  know 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God.  I  know  that  George  Albert 
Smith  and  his  Counselors  and  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  are  the 
present  constituted  authorities  of  the  Church,  and  are  inspired 
men  of  God  and  I  love  to  serve  them.  I  love  to  be  obedient  to  their 
commandments,  and  I  hope  God  will  give  me  strength  and  power 
to  be  obedient  to  them,  and  to  receive,  when  I  have  passed  beyond 
this  sphere  of  action,  an  exaltation  in  God's  presence. 

As  the  other  brethren  have  spoken  of  their  wives,  may  I  just  take 
about  two  minutes  to  eulogize  my  beloved  wife.  I  believe  no  Mission 
President  has  been  blessed  with  a  more  faithful  wife  than  I  have. 

When  we  were  called  to  Tahiti,  President  McKay  asked  us 
if  we  would  go,  without  consulting  Sister  Rossiter  I  said,  "Yes." 
When  I  returned  home  I  told  Sister  Rossiter  about  it  and  she  said: 
"Did  you  mention  that  I  had  asthma  and  that  it  is  quite  impossible  for 
me  to  go?" 


ELDER  JOSEPH  ANDERSON 


115 


I  said:  "I  had  forgotten."  I  said,  "Shall  I  return  and  tell  him 
that  it  will  be  impossible  to  go?" 

She  said:  "No.  You  have  received  a  call  and  I  will  follow." 

Well,  brethren  and  sisters,  my  heart  bled  for  her  from  the  time 
we  left  until  the  time  we  returned.  She  had  asthma  almost  constantly. 
We  arrived  in  San  Francisco,  and  waited  there  for  the  President 
of  the  California  Mission,  our  late  Governor  Blood,  to  return.  He 
gave  my  wife  a  blessing.  He  was  in  tears  when  he  gave  her  a  bless- 
ing and  said:  "Sister  Rossiter,  you  are  in  no  condition  to  go  on  a  mis- 
sion.   Return  home  and  tell  the  brethren." 

She  said:  "I  am  going  on  a  mission.  I  have  been  called  and  I 
will  go  if  it  is  the  last  thing  I  do." 

We  arrived  in  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  and  the  Doctor  on  the 
ship  said:  "You  cannot  go  any  farther."  He  said:  "I  will  not  take  the 
responsibility.   You  must  get  off  here  and  be  hospitalized." 

My  wife  said:  "I'll  not.  I  will  stay  on  the  ship  and  go  to  my 
destination." 

We  arrived  in  Samoa  and  the  same  thing  happened.  I  talked 
and  counseled  with  her.  She  said:  "Nothing  will  dissuade  me  from 
going  on  this  mission.    I  am  going  and  I  am  going  to  return  safely." 

We  arrived  in  Tahiti.  She  suffered  with  the  asthma.  If  any  of 
you  have  had  that  you  know  what  it  is,  and  I,  likewise,  suffered  with 
her.  She  supported  me  in  all  my  endeavors  and  without  her  my  mis- 
sion would  have  been  impossible.  I  believe  she  has  more  faith  than 
anybody  that  I  know  of,  and  I  thank  God,  our  Eternal  Father,  for 
giving  her  to  me  as  a  helpmate  through  this  life. 

I  bear  you  this  testimony  and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  ANDERSON 

Clerk  of  the  Conference  and  Secretary  to  the  First  Presidency 

I  think  I  have  a  good  heart.  I  feel  greatly  honored  and  appreciate 
the  opportunity  of  standing  before  this  great  congregation  of  saints 
in  this  historic  building. 

This  is  the  one  hundred  nineteenth  annual  conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  which  means  that  we 
have  held  two  hundred  thirty-eight  conferences  since  the  Church 
was  organized. 

You  know,  these  conferences  never  become  tiresome.  We  are 
always  happy  to  come,  and  we  feel  always  when  the  conference  is 
over  that  we  have  been  fed  the  bread  of  life.  I  recall  that  at  the  first 
conference  of  the  Church,  which  was  held  on  June  9,  1830,  it  is 
reported  there  were  only  thirty  members  present.  There  were,  I 
suppose,  not  many  more  than  that  number  in  the  Church  at  that 
time.  Today  there  is  a  Church  membership  of  over  a  million  and 
forty  thousand. 


1 1 6  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday.  April  4  Second  Day 

At  that  early  time  when  the  Church  was  first  organized  the 
Lord  gave  a  revelation  to  the  people,  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  which  is  recorded  in  the  twentieth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  giving  instructions  regarding  the  organization  of  the 
Church  and  the  duties  of  the  various  officers  in  the  Church.  Those 
instructions  are  just  as  valid  today  and  just  as  important  and 
necessary  as  they  were  at  that  time.  Among  them  was  the  instruc- 
tion that  conferences  should  be  held  at  certain  intervals  among  the 
elders  of  the  Church  and  among  the  people. 

Certainly,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  we  are  a  conference-loving 
people.  We  hold  these  general  conferences  of  the  Church  every 
six  months,  there  are  quarterly  conferences  held  in  the  stakes  of  the 
Church  every  three  months,  there  are  conferences  held  in  the  wards 
every  year,  there  are  auxiliary  conferences  held  in  the  Church  from 
time  to  time  and  the  people  come  just  as  regularly  and  faithfully 
to  those  conferences  today  as  they  have  ever  done,  and  they  go  away 
from  them  feeling  that  they  have  been  fed  the  bread  of  life.  These 
conferences  are  held  in  order  that  the  business  of  the  Church  may 
be  transacted  and  that  the  people  may  be  built  up  in  their  faith. 
If  this  were  not  the  true  Church  of  Christ,  such  a  condition  could  not 
exist. 

Way  back  in  February  of  1829,  more  than  a  year  before  the 
Church  was  organized,  the  Lord  said  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith:  "Behold  a  marvelous  work  is  about  to  come  forth  among  the 
children  of  men."  Surely  a  marvelous  work  has  come  forth  among 
the  children  of  men. 

A  part  of  the  genius  of  this  great  Church  that  appeals  to  me 
very  greatly  is  the  wonderful  organization  whereby  so  many  men 
and  women  are  given  opportunity  to  render  service.  I  marvel  at 
the  great  responsibility  that  rests  upon  the  men  who  stand  at  the 
head  of  this  Church,  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  and  how 
God  has  magnified  and  blessed  them.  I  am  thinking  of  the  men  who 
preside  over  the  various  stakes  and  wards  in  the  Church,  the  presi- 
dents of  stakes  and  their  counselors,  the  stake  clerks,  the  bishoprics 
and  their  clerks,  the  high  councilmen  who  help  the  presidencies  of 
the  stakes,  and  the  men  who  serve  as  ward  teachers  in  the  wards,  the 
one  hundred  seventy-two  presidencies  of  High  Priests'  quorums  in 
the  Church  with  their  clerks,  besides  the  three  hundred  thirty-six, 
I  think  it  is,  Seventies'  quorums  in  the  Church,  each  with  its  presi- 
dency of  seven  men,  the  ten  hundred  thirty-six  Elders'  quorums  with 
their  presidencies,  to  say  nothing  of  the  men  who  are  teaching  in 
these  various  quorums;  the  auxiliary  organizations:  the  Relief  So- 
cities,  the  Sunday  Schools,  the  Mutual  Improvement  Associations 
and  the  Primaries,  each  having  general  organizations,  general  boards, 
stake  boards,  general  superintendencies  and  presidencies,  and  ward 
and  stake  superintendencies  and  presidencies.  Then,  too,  there 
are  the  missions  throughout  the  world  with  their  branch  organiza- 
tions, the  mission  presidents,  and  the  great  body  of  missionaries 


ELDER  JOSEPH  ANDERSON 


117 


in  the  missions  and  stakes,  all  men  and  women  devoted  to  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  What  a  great  army  for  righteousness!  These 
men  and  women  are  supposed  to  be,  and  most  of  them  are,  exemplary 
in  their  walks  and  talks  in  life,  men  and  women  who  observe  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  who  pay  their  honest  tithing,  and  who  keep  them- 
selves pure  and  clean,  and  all  devoting  themselves  unselfishly  to 
the  cause  without  hope  of  financial  remuneration.  Where  can  one 
go  and  find  such  an  organization  as  this? 

Yes,  brethren  and  sisters,  this  is  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
This  is  his  Church;  certainly,  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder  has 
come  forth  among  the  children  of  men.  These  men  and  women 
who  have  set  their  hands  to  the  wheel  are  men  and  women  of  faith 
and  hope  and  charity.  Yes,  of  love,  of  knowledge,  of  temperance, 
of  virtue,  of  brotherly  kindness,  Godliness  and  diligence.  Cer- 
tainly the  Lord  must  be  pleased  with  them. 

I  thank  God  for  the  privilege  of  being  a  member  of  this 
Church,  for  the  privilege  of  being  associated  with  the  men  who 
stand  at  the  head  of  this  Church,  for  it  is  in  very  deed,  I  bear 
testimony  to  you,  the  true  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  remember  that  when  I  was  a  young  man  living  on  the  farm 
we  had  a  pump  from  which  we  had  to  get  water  to  give  to  our 
cattle.  I  suppose  you  have  similar  pumps  out  in  the  country  dis- 
tricts now,  but  in  order  for  us  to  get  that  water  we  had  to  put 
water  into  the  pump.  It  is  the  same  with  these  brethren  and  sisters 
who  are  holding  positions  in  the  Church  today,  they  are  putting 
water  into  the  pump.  They  are  priming  the  pump,  and  one  has  to 
give  something  in  this  Church,  brethren  and  sisters,  in  order  to  get 
something  out  of  it,  and  I  am  sure  the  more  you  give  the  more 
you  get. 

The  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  to  carry  on  as  He  would  have 
us  do.  May  he  bless  and  sustain  and  heal  and  strengthen  our 
president,  President  George  Albert  Smith,  and  President  George  F. 
Richards.  I  humbly  pray  for  these  and  other  blessings  we  stand  in 
need  of,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference,  has  just 
addressed  us.  Elder  Anderson  is  just  as  efficient  and  just  as  re- 
sponsive in  every  duty  to  which  he  is  assigned  as  he  has  been  in 
this  unexpected  invitation  to  address  you. 

The  Ricks  College  Choir  will  now  sing  "Thou  Light  of  Life." 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Lucian  M. 
Mecham,  Jr.  of  the  Mesa  Stake,  Mesa  Arizona,  after  which  this  con- 
ference will  be  adjourned  until  seven  o'clock  this  evening,  when  in 
accordance  with  the  custom  of  the  Church,  the  general  meeting  of  the 
priesthood  of  the  Church  will  be  held.    Only  the  priesthood  are 


1 1 8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Day 

invited  to  be  present.  Persons  not  holding  the  priesthood  will 
please  not  attempt  to  attend.   That  session  will  not  be  broadcast. 

The  session  at  10  o'clock  Wednesday  morning,  April  6,  will 
be  broadcast  over  station  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City,  and  affiliated  sta- 
tions. 

A  Welfare  meeting  will  be  held  tomorrow  morning  in  the 
Tabernacle  beginning  at  10  o'clock.  All  interested  are  invited  to 
be  present,  but  it  is  requested  that  all  ward  and  stake  welfare  com- 
mittees and  the  high  councils  be  in  attendance. 

The  Presiding  Bishopric  will  meet  the  bishoprics  of  the  Church 
here  in  the  Tabernacle  tomorrow,  Tuesday  night,  at  7  o'clock. 
Members  of  all  bishoprics  and  their  ward  clerks  are  requested  to  be 
in  attendance.  Members  of  the  presidencies  of  stakes  are  also 
invited. 

The  choir  singing  for  today's  sessions  of  the  conference,  has 
been  by  the  Ricks  College  Choir,  which  as  you  know,  is  made  up 
of  the  students  of  the  Ricks  College  in  Idaho.  Elder  Alma  Dittmer 
is  conducting  and  Elder  Roy  M.  Darley  has  been  at  the  organ.  We 
thank  you  young  folks  sincerely  for  the  inspiring  singing  you  have 
furnished. 

At  the  conclusion  of  this  meeting  the  general  sessions  of  the 
Conference  will  adjourn  until  10  o'clock,  Wednesday  morning, 
April  6. 


Singing  by  the  choir,  "Thou  Light  of  Life." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  President  Lucian  M. 
Mecham,  Jr.  of  the  Mesa  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Wednesday  morning,  April  6, 
10:00  a.m. 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  Wednesday  morning,  April  6,  at  10:00 

a.m. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  was  present  and  presiding. 
President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  conducted  the  services. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Mixed  Chorus,  Elder  Franklin 
Madsen  conducting,  furnished  the  choir  singing  for  this  session. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

This  is  the  fifth  session  of  the  119th  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  convened  in 
the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

Of  the  General  Authorities.  Elder  Matthew  Cowley  is  absent 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  119 


visiting  the  Pacific  Missions  and  Elder  Alma  Sonne  is  in  Europe  in 
charge  of  the  European  Missions.  President  George  F.  Richards 
is  resting  at  home  at  the  suggestion  of  his  doctor. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL  at 
Salt  Lake  City  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL  over  the  following 
stations:  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at  Poca- 
tello,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KJAM  at  Vernal,  and  over  KTYL  at 
Mesa  by  transcription. 

These  services  will  also  be  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  over 
a  loudspeaking  system  and  by  television.  All  general  sessions  of  the 
Conference  will  be  heard  and  seen  in  the  Assembly  Hall  in  the  same 
way. 

The  choir  singing  during  today's  sessions  will  be  by  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Mixed  Chorus  with  Elder  Franklin 
Madsen  conducting  and  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  will  begin  the  morning  service  by  the  Brigham  Young 
University  Mixed  Chorus  singing,  "Oh  Be  Joyful  All  Ye  Lands." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  J.  Howard 
Maughan  of  the  East  Cache  Stake. 


Singing  by  the  chorus  "Oh  Be  Joyful  All  Ye  Lands." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  President  J.  Howard 
Maughan  of  the  East  Cache  Stake. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Mixed  Chorus  sang  "My  Soul 
is  Athirst  for  God,"  (anthem  by  Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen). 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

I  thought  I  would  like  to  stand  in  the  presence  of  this  great 
audience  this  morning  and  congratulate  you  that  you  are  here  in  the 
house  of  the  Lord  on  the  birthday  of  the  Church,  the  1 19th  annivers- 
ary. And  I  also  hope  that  the  more  than  a  million  souls  now  living 
that  belong  to  the  Church  are  remembering  that  this  was  a  wonder- 
ful event. 

As  I  saw  the  blue  sky  this  morning  and  the  glorious  sunshine, 
I  thought  of  Parley  P.  Pratt's  wonderful  hymn,  "The  morning  breaks, 
the  shadows  flee;  Lo!  Zion's  standard  is  unfurled,  The  dawning 
of  a  brighter  day,  Majestic  rises  on  the  world."  And  if  this  group 
of  people,  and  those  who  are  associated  with  the  Church  who 
have  covenanted  with  the  Lord  to  do  so,  will  undertake  to  fulfil 
that  portion  of  his  prayer  where  he  says:  "Thy  kingdom  come.  Thy 
will  be  done  in  earth,  as  it  is  in  heaven."  (Matt.  6:10)  the  coming 
of  that  great  day  will  be  hastened.  It  remains  for  us  to  bring  that 
about,  brothers  and  sisters. 

The  years  pass  so  swiftly!  Sixty-six  years  ago  I  was  attending 
the  same  school  that  these  young  men  and  women  are  now,  then 
called  the  Brigham  Young  Academy.    Sixty-six  years  ago!  When  I 


120  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Day 

think  of  what  a  wonderful  record  that  school  has  made  and  the 
blessing  it  has  been  to  the  Church  and  to  the  people,  I  am  grateful 
that  their  representatives  are  here  this  morning  to  sing  for  us  and  to 
warm  our  hearts  by  their  presence. 

I  don't  want  to  take  more  time,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  but  I 
just  felt  I  wanted  to  greet  you  this  morning  and  say  to  everyone 
of  you:  God  bless  you;  and  let  us  see  that  every  time  we  hear  or 
read  the  prayer  offered  by  the  Savior  as  a  pattern  for  all  of  us  to 
pray,  that  we  keep  in  mind  that  it  is  our  privilege  to  be  a  part  of  that 
program  when  this  earth  shall  be  even  as  heaven. 

The  Lord  bless  you.  Amen. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

I  understood  President  Smith  was  going  to  tell  you  he  had 
asked  me  to  preside  at  these  services.    Such  is  the  fact. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference,  read  the  fol- 
lowing reports: 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 
STAKE,  WARD,  AND  BRANCH  ORGANIZATIONS 
SINCE  OCTOBER  CONFERENCE  1948 

New  Temple  President: 

William  L.  Killpack,  Idaho  Falls  Temple,  to  succeed  David 
Smith. 

New  Mission  Organized: 

The  First  Presidency  and  Council  of  the  Twelve  have  decided 
to  open  a  mission  in  China  and  Elder  Hilton  A.  Robertson  has  been 
called  to  preside  over  this  mission. 

New  Mission  Presidents  Have  Been  Appointed  As  Follows: 

Harold  Brown,  president  of  the  Argentine  Mission  to  succeed 

W.  Ernest  Young. 

Rulon  S.  Howells,  president  of  the  Brazilian  Mission  to  succeed 

Harold  M.  Rex. 

John  B.  Hawkes,  president  of  the  North  Central  States  Mission 
to  succeed  William  L.  Killpack. 

Samuel  Bringhurst,  president  of  the  Swiss- Austrian  Mission  to 
succeed  Scott  Taggart. 

Edward  H.  Sorensen,  president  of  the  Danish  Mission  to 
succeed  Alma  L.  Petersen. 
Stake  Presidents  Chosen: 

Parley  A.  Arave,  president  of  the  Blackfoot  Stake  to  succeed 
Joseph  E.  Williams. 

A.  Hale  Holgate  president  of  the  Duchesne  Stake  to  succeed 
Heber  Moon. 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  121 

A.  Lewis  Elggren,  president  of  the  Liberty  Stake  to  succeed 
Virgil  H.  Smith. 

John  M.  Russon,  president  of  the  Los  Angeles  Stake  to  succeed 
Wilford  Edling. 

Frederick  Charles  Horlacher,  president  of  the  Nevada  Stake  to 
succeed  Ivan  Call. 

Perry  E.  Tingey,  president  of  the  Sacramento  Stake  to  succeed 
Stephen  E.  Busath  (deceased). 

Vern  R.  Peel,  president  of  the  San  Bernardino  Stake  to  succeed 
Joel  G.  Sedgwick. 

Wm.  Noble  Waite,  president  of  the  South  Los  Angeles  Stake  to 
succeed  John  M.  Iversen. 

Harry  T.  Oscarson,  president  of  the  Sugar  House  Stake  to  suc- 
ceed Elbert  R.  Curtis. 

John  Willard  Marriott,  president  of  the  Washington  Stake  to 
succeed  Edgar  B.  Brossard. 

Arvel  L.  Child,  president  of  the  Weiser  Stake  to  succeed  Luther 
L.  Fife. 

N.  Russell  Tanner,  President  of  the  Weber  Stake  to  succeed 
Frank  C.  Simmons. 
New  Wards  Organized: 

Queen  Creek  Ward,  Mesa  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  the 
Chandler  Ward. 

Payson  West  Ward,  Nebo  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
Payson  3rd  Ward. 

Whiterocks  Ward,  Roosevelt  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
Bennett  Ward,  Roosevelt  Stake,  and  Tridell  Ward,  Uintah  Stake. 

Granite  Park  Ward,  South  Salt  Lake  Stake,  formed  by  a  division 
of  Miller  Ward. 

North  Central  Park  Ward,  South  Salt  Lake  Stake,  formed  by  a 
division  of  Central  Park  Ward. 

Ward  Name  Changed: 

Firestone  Park  Ward  changed  to  Miramonte  Ward,  South  Los 
Angeles  Stake. 

Ward  Made  Independent  Branch : 

Brooklyn  Branch,  New  York  Stake  formerly  Brooklyn  Ward. 

Independent  Branches  Made  Ward's : 

Walnut  Creek  Ward  Berkeley  Stake,  formerly  Walnut  Creek 
Branch,  Kingman  Ward,  Moapa  Stake,  formerly  Kingman  Branch. 
Independent  Branches  Organized: 

Brentwood  Branch,  Berkeley  Stake,  formerly  dependent  upon 
Pittsburg  Ward. 

Fairfield  Branch,  Berkeley  Stake,  formerly  dependent  upon 
Napa  Ward. 

Meeteetse  Branch,  Big  Horn  Stake,  formerly  dependent  upon 
Burlington  Ward. 


122  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  i  Second  Day 

Oak  Grove  Branch,  Florida  Stake,  formerly  part  of  Lake  City 
Ward. 

Rowland  Branch,  Humboldt  Stake,  formerly  part  of  Elko 
Ward. 

Garden  Grove  Branch,  Long  Beach  Stake,  formerly  part  of  Santa 
Ana  Ward. 

Lynwood  Branch,  Long  Beach  Stake,  formerly  part  of  Compton 
and  Compton  Center  Wards 

Casa  Grande  Branch,  Mesa  Stake,  formerly  part  of  the  Coolidge 
Branch. 

Hayden  Branch,  Mesa  Stake,  formerly  part  of  California  Mis- 
sion. 

Ray  Branch,  Mesa  Stake,  formerly  part  of  California  Mission. 

Anchorage  Branch,  North  Davis  Stake,  formerly  part  of  Clear- 
field 2nd  Ward. 

White  Center  Branch,  Seattle  Stake,  formerly  dependent  upon 
West  Seattle  Ward. 

The  Salt  Lake  Valley  Deaf  Branch  was  organized  in  November, 
1948.  This  branch  is  not  affiliated  with  any  Stake. 
Those  Who  Have  Passed  Away: 

Stephen  E.  Busath,  President  of  Sacramento  Stake. 

STATISTICAL  REPORT 


Number  of  Stakes  of  Zion   172' 

Number  of  Wards   1,313 

Number  of  Independent  Branches   138 

Total  Ward  and  Independent  Branches   1,451 

Number  of  Missions   42 

Church  Membership: 

Stakes   854,099 

Missions    187,871 

Total  Membership   1,041,970 

Church  Growth: 

Children  blessed  in  stakes  and  missions   34,571 

Children  baptized  in  stakes  and  missions   19,099 

Converts  baptized  in  stakes  and  missions   1 1 ,356 

Social  Statistics: 

Birth  rate  per  thousand   38.95 

Marriarge  rate  per  thousand   10.02 

Death  rate  per  thousand   6.37 

Missionaries: 

Number  of  missionaries  in  the  missions  of  the  Church....  4,759 

Number  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  the  stakes   3,836 

Total  Missionaries   8,595 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  in  the 

mission  home  in  1948   2,159 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK  JR,  123 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

I  will  now  read  the  financial  statement  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  ordinary  procedure  in  the  expenditures  of  the  Church  funds 
is  as  follows:  The  Committee'  on  Distribution  of  Tithing,  consisting 
of  the  First  Presidency,  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  and  the  Presiding 
Bishopric,  meet  and  consider  the  budgets  thereunder,  submitted  by 
the  various  departments  of  the  Church.  They  approve  those  budgets 
as  they  may  be  modified  by  them  and  then  the  distribution  of  the 
budgets  is  turned  over  to  the  Expenditures  Committee.  Realizing 
that  the  costs  are  rising  in  almost  everything,  we  provide  a  cushion 
of  a  million  dollars  which  could  be  added  to  the  budgets  of  any  or 
all  the  departments  that  might  need  them.  I  believe  that  all  of  them 
have  had  to  call  for  help.  Nevertheless,  we  live  within  our  budget. 


124 

Wednesday.  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


888 

cnqcn 
ovo 

vdin" 
«9- 


ft! 


6t 


a  oo 
m  — ■ 


c  Q 
B  a 

cj  o 

la 

a  o. 
J5< 


E  J* 

li 


oo 
3"?°  S 

is'"  "3 

O  V  d 

§  w  x 
|  2JW 

u.  .ti  o 

O.TJ  > 

o  c  o 

u  ^  fi 

0>  03  8" 

'S'S  ° 

3  3  Q, 

cam  a 

_C.C< 

05  «  ^ 
0 


. — i  « 

n  «  J 
JS  0  X 


8 


8 

00 

R 


8 


8 

in 


o 

oo 


8 


8 


8 

oo 
<£ 

CO 


w  10  cu 


5. 5i 


u.3_h  0> 


.si  8 

.3  2* 


*&1 


^  (VI 


os  a>  oa  rd 

.S 


x-o 


o      n  <u 

<u~»S.;3  > 

J3  &      «  O 

a  « £  ° 

***  fij  _C  to  . . 

O      Tl  t.  U 

oP»,  to 
S  O  „  8 1 

8  «  a  m> 

S«  O  u  ? 

,9-2  S  §  o 

«  c  s  ra 

<u     *3  o  to 

■£  o>  g=s  . 

G  s  B  w 


0*2 


3  *i  m  •: 


4)  .g  a 

U  3  H  "T3 

&,  «  t. 

'3  £ 

UN  4J  ? 
J3  «  >  O 
"  — (X  <J 

I w  SIS 

u£  x T5 

u  <u  „ 
„S  a  » 

-  X 


s 


8 

in 


8 
8' 


P  i-  u 
S   «  « 

ffi  y  « 
8 1  3 

'Sad 
0 

u  i.  »  B1 

li  |: 

S  ra  o  u 

.9  I  §1 

S  s  io  y 
tt° 

•  0 "3 
B  O 
9 

t.  OS 


Third  Hay 

8 


8 


8 
S 

i 


8 
3 

8 


•a  «  Si  S 


11^ 


2a  oj 


1,  

s  s-§.g 
•8 1  S-g 


•3.2 

ra  y 

O  ffl 

a 


1 

i 


T   V  M  V  U 

>5      1  § 


3 
B 

u  . 

1^ 


8  5"& 


o 


2 


.2  S  a  Si" 
53  to  ^3     -f3,  _  to 

SS>S3  V. 

2  q  n .«  aw* 

■s  j3  u  w  to 
"O  5_  2  oj 

„  «  « -s%  S"" 


8-* 

3  to 

xK 

T)  o 

I" 

>  8 
■a  | 

§| 

CO 


FINANCIAL  REPORT 


125 


§ 

OO 
IN 


8 


8 


8 


ON 


8. 

OO 


8 


8 

<*■> 
in 


8 

C-l 
1 — < 


8 

OO 


8 


8 

Si 


8 


V© 


8 

© 


8 


8 


8 


8 

o 
o 


8 


15 

oo 

ri 


8 


S 


8 


8 
1 


lie 

Is 0 

£  "E 

co  K  g  a 
gift 

S     '3  - 


O  b  M  ii  OJ 

s  St  S  g 

8  8|i'l 
S  e.2_- 

GO       Q  ti 


■il  Si  Si* 


Si  s 
3  ~  S3 

^  SS  |  a  <o  JS 


-1 S* 

"9"  21 


c 

§ 


a  5 

w  b     2  u  § 

J 1 M  a  s  ° a 


o« fc  g_ 


i  g  ."8  M  *  BtS  i 

•o-3^.NcD'3Kfc*J  i 

*a  2  x    .3  -a  «  5  : 

.,  Si  2 


111 


3  o\H.  <U  5J  *K  w  <J  .3* 
O  S  u 

— '  U« 


sjASis  -- .... 

^fcQS  SSI'S  g^SQ 


126  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday.  April  6  Third  Dag 

8  8  888 


o 

■f  on  ino\iq 


8 


im  rr> 


00  t-.<NCO 


8                   8  8  8 

in                             co  — .  o 

■*!                              <o  o  °g 

O  f  o 

in                             3*  in  f> 

oo                               <s  o>  «g 

in 


oo< 


O  Q  ■■O  O 


OON< 


8 

<*>  Mm  Q 


8 


in 


8 
8 


O 

o 

00 
' — I 

ON 

(S 
oo 


oo 

in 


.3 


0 

CD 

o. 

IS 

a. 


0""1  rjjO  O"-1  (0  H 
g-U  Oji  3  -  m  3 

"  S^S  c 

.  C^TJ  "CO 

5  gJ3  c  S  ago 

o-v-v-S  S  Sug- 
g's §  a-3« 

rjT-j-C'T-!   S3  "*  3 

■S  So.  Si"-  «  M  > 
.r-°  o  g  8  u 

2>  a  ~     wis  Si 


"S3 

•8? 
ga 

(0  s 

U  1 
to 

8.1 


raps.;.  § 


W  .S  E  SPIL  P  Si  P  'S  r 
"8>  Si  3  St, 

o 


org 

■  <0 


c 
.9 

•c 


u  § 


o.  ro 

3  3 
w  0 


■5  -a 


U  P"c3 

111 


2 

cu 
o 

a 

"  & 

4-t  (0 
Gi  ^ 

*  4J 

cj  °> 

Si, 
I* 
1 1 

U  01 

§° 
s  ° 

>  CJ 

^  § 

03 


2 

c 

u 

o 

.3 

u 

3 

0 

! 

-a 
S 

D. 
X 

w 

•a 

c 

OS 


•a 

o 


<u  0 

•SU 


So 

w  -Q 

w  -a 

S*~  «  & 
a  *  w 

3  2  D3_ 

933  ^ 


FINANCIAL  REPORT  127 

Part  II— CASH  EXPENDITURES,  OTHER  THAN  TITHING.  FROM  CON- 
TRIBUTIONS  BY  MEMBERS  OF  THE  CHURCH,  FOR  THE  YEAR  1948 

The  expenditures  budgeted  from  Church  general  funds  and  paid  principally 
from  the  tithes  are  detailed  above.    The  following  expenditures  were  made  from 


further  contributions  by  members  of  the  Church: 

Paid  for  stake  and  ward  building  purposes   $  3,596,839.00 

Expended  for  stake,  ward  and  mission  maintenance  purposes; 

expenses  of  auxiliary  organizations  and  for  recreation   3,196,468.00 

Expended  from  ward  and  mission  fast  offerings   1,095,893.00 

Expended  from  welfare  contributions   956.935.00 

Assitance  rendered  missionaries   220,629.00 

Expended  from  dues  of  General  Boards;  children's  contributions 

to  the  Primary  Hospital,  and  donations  to  temples   254,410.00 

Expended  by  Church  schools,  in  addition  to  amount  listed  under 
budget  expenditures,  from  funds  derived  from  tuitions  and 

other  sources  (Estimated  for  1948-49  fiscal  year)  _  1,552,761.00 

Total  cash  expenditures  from  contributions  by  the  Church  mem- 
bership, other  than  tithing   10,873,935.00 

Expended  by  the  hospitals  for  the  care  of  the  sick,  in  addition  to 

the  amount  paid  from  the  tithes  and  included  in  Part  1   60,778.00 

Total  budget  cash  expenditures  by  the  general  Church  offices, 

brought  forward  from  above   15,467,080.00 

Total  cash  expenditures  of  the  Church  for  the  year  1948...   $26,401,793.00 

Part  III— THE  CHURCH  WELFARE  PROGRAM 
Fast  Offering  Data 

Number  of  Church  members  who  paid  voluntary  fast  offerings 
and  welfare  contributions: 

In  the  wards   _.   173.546 

In  the  missions     48.422 

Total    221,968 

Amount  of  voluntary  fast  offerings  and  welfare  contributions: 
In  wards: 

Fast  Offerings    $  858,004.00 

Welfare  Contributions  -   963,709.00 

In  missions: 

Fast  Offerings     102,854.00 

Total  Fast  Offerings  and  Welfare  Contributions   $  1,924.567.00 

Percent  of  Church  membership  who  paid  fast  offerings   23.13% 

Average  fast  offerings  per  capita  in  wards   $1.11 

Average  fast  offerings  per  capita  in  missions   -54J4c 

Average  fast  offerings  per  capita,  wards  and  missions   $1.00 

Average  fast  offerings  and  welfare  contributions  per  capita  in 

wards     $2.36 

Welfare  Program  Cash  Expenditures,  All  Included  in 

Figures  Given  Above  But  Segregated  Here 
Expended  from  ward  and  mission  fast  offerings  and  walfare  con- 
tributions for  the  care  of  the  needy  consisting  of  food,  clothing, 
rents,  light,  heat,  hospitalization,  burials,  etc.,  and  for  the  pur- 
chase of  commodities  for  storehouses   $  2,052,828.00 

Disbursed  by  the  General  Welfare  Committee  for  the  operating 
costs  of  storehouses;  for  the  overhead  expenses  of  the  General 

Committee  and  for  the  shipment  of  relief  supplies  to  Europe....  422,475.00 
Disbursed  by  the  Corporations  of  the  President  and  Presiding 
Bishop  for  direct  assistance  and  for  contributions  to  civic, 

denominational  and  educational  institutions   631.805.00 

Expended  by  the  hospitals  for  the  care  of  the  sick.   60,778.00 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Total  Relief  Cash  Expenditures  for  the  year  1948,  all  in- 
cluded in  above  grand  total  of  budget  and  other  cash 

expenditures    $  3,167,886.00 

This  is  an  increase  over  the  year  1947  of   $  239,074.00 

Welfare  Report 


The  General  Church  Welfare  Committee  makes  the  following  further  financial 
report,  with  a  statement  indicating  the  production  and  distribution  of  bishops' 
storehouse  commodities  during  the  year  1948  and  inventories  at  the  close  of  the 
year: 

Summary  of  the  Annual  Report  of  the  Church  Welfare  Plan,  Decem- 
ber 31,  1948. 

FINANCIAL  REPORT 
Present  Net  Cash  Value:  (In  round  numbers) 


Current  Assets   _   $  1,670,000.00 

Inventories    (principally   commodities)   1,000,000.00 

Fixed  Assets  (land,  buildings  etc.)   4,930,000.00 

Total   $  7,600,000.00 


The  fixed  assets  include  Deseret  Industries;  Deseret  Mills  and  Elevator; 
Deseret  Clothing  Factory;  Deseret  Coal  Mine;  115  bishops'  storehouses,  including 
58  canneries;  farms,  ranches,  dairies  and  other  production  properties,  including 
23,648  acres  of  land  and  improvements.    These  were  acquired  with  funds  from 


the  following  sources: 

Cash   from   general   Church   funds  _   $  1,400,000.00 

Cash  from  wards,  stakes  and  regions   2,900,000.00 

Donations  of  labor  and  property   600,000.00 

Total   $  4,930,000.00 


Production,  Distribution  and  Inventory  of  Commodities  for  Bishops'  Storehouses: 

Production  during  the  year  1948  amounted  to  1,725,000  quarts  of  canned 
produce;  8,900,000  pounds  of  fresh  vegetables,  fruits,  grains  and  grain  products; 
780,000  pounds  of  animal  products  and  other  foods;  950,000  pounds  of  cotton,  hay 
and  wool;  8,000  tons  of  fuel;  270,000  articles  of  clothing,  household  supplies  and 
furniture.  The  production  in  1948  was  approximately  the  same  as  a  year  ago. 

The  distribution  in  the  United  States  and  Canada  amounted  to  1,000,000 
quarts  of  canned  produce;  3,900,000  pounds  of  vegetables,  fruits,  grains  and  grain 
products;  760,000  pounds  of  animal  products  and  other  foods;  9,000  tons  of 
fuel;  and  385,000  articles  of  clothing,  household  supplies  and  furniture,  etc.  The 
value  of  the  articles  distributed  is  $955,483.00,  which  is  an  increase  of  20  per 
cent  over  1947. 

The  Bishops'  Storehouse  inventories,  amounting  to  1,500,000  quarts  of  canned 
produce,  5,000,000  pounds  of  grain  and  fresh  vegetables  and  800,000  other  items, 
having  a  total  value  of  $930,000.00,  are  a  little  higher  than  the  inventories 
of  a  year  ago. 

In  addition  to  distribution  in  the  United  States  and  Canada,  as  reported 
above,  there  have  been  sent  from  welfare  stocks  to  foreign  missions,  473,000 
quarts  of  canned  produce,  49,000  pounds  of  meat  and  lard,  900,000  pounds  of 
grain  and  grain  products,  and  10,000  bars  of  soap  and  miscellaneous  items. 
The  total  relief  supplies  sent  to  foreign  missions  to  March  15,  1949  (shipments 
commenced  October  29,  1945)  amount  of  41  freight  carloads  of  clothing  and 
86  freight  carloads  of  food;  a  total  of  127  cars.  The  value  of  these  commodities  v 
is  $1,150,000.00.  They  were  shipped  at  a  cost,  including  transportation,  cartons; 
insurance,  etc.  of  $500,000.00,  a  total  of  $1,650,000.00.  They  were  sent  to 
Austria,  Belgium,  Great  Britain  Czechoslovakia,  Denmark,  Finland,  France, 
German  Netherlands,  Norway,  Japan,  China,  and  Tahiti.  ' 
Assistance  Rendered: 

There  have  been  from  17,913  to  55,460  persons  assisted  through  the  bishops' 
storehouse  program  each  year  since  1938.  In  1948,  there  were  32,779  persons  so 
assisted  in  the  United  States.  This  is  an  increase  over  1947  of  8,321  persons.  We 


FINANCIAL  REPORT 


129 


also  sent  to  Europe  food  and  clothing  to  help  17,000  persons  or  a  total  of  about 
50,000  persons  assisted  in  1948. 

During  the  past  eleven  years,  and  outside  of  Europe,  more  than  1,543  families 
have  been  helped  to  become  self-supporting,  and  11,923  persons  have  been  assisted 
in  other  ways.  In  addition  to  these,  $614,523.00  has  been  paid  in  wages  to  persons 
working  at  Deseret  Industries.  These  individuals  most  of  whom  are  handicapped  or 
aged  and  therefore  not  able  to  earn  a  livelihood  in  commercial  pursuits,  have 
collected  and  processed  $1,012,713.00  of  salvage  materials  from  which  sales 
have  been  made  amounting  to  $956,562.00  During  this  same  period,  the  Deseret 
Clothing  Factory,  another  employment  furnishing  project  of  the  Welfare  Plan, 
has  paid  $245,185.00  in  wages  to  an  average  personnel  of  between  twenty  and 
thirty-five  employees,  many  of  whom  are  widows  and  elderly  persons. 
Food  Processing  in  Welfare  Canneries  and  Mill  and  Other  Production  Projects: 

During  1948,  1,700,000  cans  of  produce  and  3,900,000  pounds  of  flour,  cereal 
and  miscellaneous  items  were  processed  for  the  bishops'  storehouse  program. 
21,000  individuals  using  welfare  canneries  processed,  for  their  own  use,  1,400,000 
cans  of  food. 

To  produce  the  1948  budget,  496  crop  projects  and  206  livestock  projects  were 
operated,  on  which  70,000  man  days  of  work  were  donated.    For  purposes  other 
than  the  production  of  the  budget,  262  crop  projects,  89  livestock  projects  and  66 
manufacturing  projects  were  operated  during  the  year. 
Persons  Relinquishing  Government  Relief: 

Obedient  to  the  commandment  of  the  Lord  that  men  should  be  self-supporting, 
looking  to  the  Church  for  necessary  help,  2,929  persons  have,  during  the  past  six 
years  relinquished  their  position  on  government  relief  rolls.  Of  this  number, 
1,291  have  been  rehabilitated  and  are  receiving  no  aid  from  the  Church  nor,  so  far 
as  known,  from  any  other  gratuitous  source;  1,082  are  yet  receiving  part  of  their 
support  from  the  Church;  and  556  are  receiving  all  their  needs  from  the  Church. 
Placement  and  Counseling  Service: 

During  1948,  2,964  persons  were  given  occupational  counseling  resulting  in 
the  solution  of  their  employment  problems,  and  2,805  other  persons  were  placed 
in  remunerative  employment. 
Emergency  Activity: 

During  1948  the  Welfare  Program  was  again  called  upon  to  meet  a  flood 
catastrophe  similar  to  the  ones  in  Arizona  in  1942,  on  the  avenues  in  Salt  Lake  City 
in  1945  and  in  Mt.  Pleasant  in  1946.  In  May  of  last  year,  the  waters  of  the 
Columbia  River  and  its  tributaries  forced  65  families,  consisting  of  260  members  of 
the  Portland  Stake,  from  their  homes  and  did  considerable  damage  to  farms 
owned  by  members  of  the  Lewiston  Ward  of  Spokane  Stake. 

During  the  afternoon  of  rescue  and  evacuation  in  Van  Port,  the  Portland 
Stake  and  University  Ward  welfare  organization  acted  with  such  efficiency  that 
they  either  manned  or  assisted  in  manning  every  rescue  craft  and  conducted 
such  a  thorough  survey  of  the  rescued  and  evacuated  -persons  that  before  nightfall, 
every  known  Church  member  in  that  area  was  located  and  provided  for.  There 
was  no  loss  of  life.  Through  the  generosity  of  more  fortunate  Church  members  many 
more  homes  were  opened  than  were  needed  .  Permanent  housing  was  later  supplied 
for  35  families 

The  emergency  distribution  in  the  Portland  Stake  consisted  of  8,815  articles  of 
clothing,  2,649  cans  of  food,  1,076  articles  of  bedding  and  441  miscellaneous  house- 
hold items. 

Through  the  fine  efforts  of  the  members  of  the  Portland  and  Spokane  Stakes, 
little  suffering  among  the  Church  members  resulted  from  the  flood.  This  is  another 
demonstration  of  what  can  be  done  when  production  facilities  and  bishops'  store- 
houses have  been  set  up  and  the  Welfare  Organization  is  put  into  operation. 


130  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday.  April  6  Third  Day 

During  last  year  we  spent  on  new  construction  from  the  Gener- 
al Funds  of  the  Church  $5,722,000.  There  was  a  local  participation 
in  this  of  $3,710,000  or  a  total  of  $9,433,000  for  new  construction. 

We  spent  all  told  on  our  educational  program  within  $2700  of 
$4,000,000  and  thus  we  have  expended  for  new  buildings  in  the 
Church  and  for  educational  purposes  a  total  of  over  thirteen  millions 
of  dollars. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  it  seems  that  those  figures  teach  us 
a  lesson.  We  cannot  go  on  at  this  rate.  We  have  found  that  some- 
times bishops,  in  their  desire  to  provide  proper  quarters,  have 
adopted  plans  and  attempted  to  carry  them  out  that  were  way  be- 
yond the  means  of  the  people  and  so  we  have  made  it  a  rule  in  the 
Expenditures  Committee — I  suppose  more  honored  in  the  breach 
than  the  observance,  but  a  rule  we  shall  try  to  enforce — that  here- 
after no  bishop  will  have  his  request  for  a  building  approved  until 
he  has  presented  the  full  plan  to  the  members  of  his  ward  and  has 
their  approval  for  the  expenditure.  We  have  not  money  for  luxuries. 
We  must  spend  within  our  income.  We  are  solvent  and  expect  to 
remain  so  if  we  sit  on  the  lid. 

President  Smith  and  President  McKay  remind  me  that  the 
figures  which  I  have  given  you  here  do  not  include  the  expenditure 
by  families  and  the  missionaries  themselves  for  their  maintenance  in 
the  field,  which  is  over  $3,000,000,  thus  making  a  total  expenditure 
by  this  people  of  over  $30,000,000  in  1948. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  we  must  take  a  reef  in  the  sails.  We 
are  carrying  too  much  sail  in  a  sea  that  may  get  pretty  rough. 


REPORT  OF  CHURCH  AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Elder  Orval  W.  Adams  read  the  report  of  the  Church  Auditing 
Committee  as  follows: 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
April  1,  1949 

President  George  Albert  Smith  and  Counselors: 
Dear  Brethren: 

Your  committee  has  reviewed  the  annual  financial  report  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  for  the  year  ending 
December  31,  1948.  The  accounting  system  is  modern  and  we  com- 
mend those  who  have  the  responsibility  of  keeping  the  records. 
Great  care  has  been  exercised  in  the  preparation  of  a  comprehensive 
budget  system  which  provides  a  control  to  safeguard  the  expendi- 
ture of  the  funds  of  the  Church.  The  funds  are  being  carefully  con- 
served and  are  being  expended  only  after  thoughtful  investigation 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  131 

and  consideration.  Our  review  of  the  records  discloses  the  Church 
to  be  in  strong  financial  condition  and  free  from  debt. 

Respectfully  submitted, 

Orval  W.  Adams 
Albert  E.  Bowen 
George  S.  Spencer 
H.  H.  Bennett 

Church  Auditing  Committee 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

We  are  trying  to  look  after  ourselves  in  the  way  of  having 
somebody  look  over  the  records  and  see  that  we  are  making  a  proper 
expenditure  of  Church  funds. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presented  the  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church  as  also  the  General  Officers  and  General  Auxiliary 
Officers,  and  they  were  unanimously  sustained,  as  follows: 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

First  Presidency 

George  Albert  Smith,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

George  F.  Richards 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

George  F.  Richards  Harold  B.  Lee 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Spencer  W.  Kimball 

Stephen  L  Richards  Ezra  Taft  Benson 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Mark  E.  Petersen 

Joseph  F.  Merrill  Matthew  Cowley 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Henry  D.  Moyle 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 

Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles, 
and  the  Patriarch  to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Marion  G.  Romney  Clifford  E.  Young 

Thomas  E.  McKay  .        Alma  Sonne 


in  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

Trustee-in-Trust 

George  Albert  Smith 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Oscar  A.  Kirkham  Levi  Edgar  Young 

Seymour  Dilworth  Young     Antoine  R.  Ivins 
Milton  R.  Hunter  Richard  L.  Evans 

Bruce.  R.  McConkie 

Presiding  Bishopric 

LeGrand  Richards,  Presiding  Bishop 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  First  Counselor 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  Second  Counselor 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  as  Assistant 

;  l  v  Church  Board  of  Education 

.  ..  John  A.  Widtsoe  George  Albert  Smith 

Adam  S.  Bennion  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

Joseph  F.  Merrill  David  O.  McKay 

Franklin  L.  West  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Stephen  L  Richards 

Frank  Evans,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

Commissioner  of  Education 
Franklin  L.  West 

Seminary  Supervisors 

J.  Karl  Wood    ..... 

Joy  F.  Dunyon 

Auditing  and  Finance  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams  George  S.  Spencer 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Harold  H.  Bennett 

Tabernacle  Choir 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor 

Richard  P,  Cbndie,  Assistant  Conductor  •"'""* 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES 


.   t  t 

133 


Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner  Frank  W.  Asper 

Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant 

CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 
Advisers 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Alma  Sonne 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Antoine-  R.  Ivins 

Harold  B.  Lee  Oscar  A.  Kirkham 

Marion  G.  Romney  LeGrand  Richards 

Thomas  E.  McKay  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 

Clifford  E.  Young  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 

General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 

General  Committee 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 

Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 

Marion  G.  Romney,  Assistant  Managing  Director 
Wm.  E.  Ryberg  Mark  B.  Garff 

Roscoe  W.  Eardley  Leonard  E.  Adams 

Paul  C.  Child  J.  Leonard  Love 

T.  C.  Stayner  W.  T.  Lawrence 

Lorenzo  H.  Hatch 


GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Relief  Society 

Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Velma  N.  Simonsen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 

Milton  Bennion,  General  Superintendent 
George  R.  Hill,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
A.  Hamer  Reiser,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
With  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Elbert  R.  Curtis,  General  Superintendent 
A.  Walter  Stevenson,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Ralph  W.  Hardy,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 


134  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday.  April  6  Third  Dat 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Bertha  S.  Reeder,  President 
Emily  H.  Bennett,  First  Counselor 
LaRue  C.  Longden,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

Primary  Association 

Adele  Cannon  Howells,  President 
LaVern  W.  Parmley,  First  Counselor 
Dessie  G.  Boyle,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 


The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn:  "We  Thank  Thee, 
O  God,  For  A  Prophet." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

And  great  multitudes  followed  him;  and  he  healed  them  there. 

The  Pharisees  also  came  unto  him,  tempting  him  and  saying  unto 
him,  Is  it  lawful  for  a  man  to  put  away  his  wife  for  every  cause? 

And  he  answered  and  said  unto  them.  Have  ye  not  read,  that  he 
which  made  them  at  the  beginning  made  them  male  and  female. 

And  said,  For  this  cause  shall  a  man  leave  father  and  mother, 
and  shall  cleave  to  his  wife:  and  they  twain  shall  be  one  flesh? 

Wherefore  they  are  no  more  twain,  but  one  flesh.  What  therefore 
God  hath  joined  together,  let  not  man  put  asunder."    (Matthew  19:2-6.) 

Marriage  for  Eternity 

I  wish  to  call  attention,  first,  to  the  fact  that  the  Lord  has 
declared  that  when  a  man  and  a  woman  are  united  in  marriage, 
according  to  the  Lord's  plan  and  by  his  sanction,  they  become 
one,  one  flesh;  and  there  is  nothing  in  this  commandment  that  in- 
dicates in  the  least  that  that  means  until  death  sepearates  them. 
Here  the  Lord  is  teaching  marriage  for  eternity,  for  he  says,  ". . .  they 
are  no  more  twain,  but  one  flesh."  (Idem.)  We  ought  to  keep  that 
in  mind. 

I  wish  to  read  now  more  of  this  instruction  he  gave  to  these 
Pharisees: 

They  say  unto  him,  Why  did  Moses  then  command  to  give  a  writ- 
ing of  divorcement,  and  to  put  her  away? 

He  saith  unto  them,  Moses  because  of  the  hardness  of  your  hearts 
suffered  you  to  put  away  your  wives:  but  from  the  beginning  it  was 
not  so.    (Idem.  7-8.) 

Now  I  want  to  call  your  attention  to  the  covenants  a  man  and 
a  woman  make  when  they  are  married  by  the  Lord,  or  by  a  servant 
of  the  Lord,  acting  by  his  authority.    The  Lord  has  revealed  this 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  135 

to  us,  and  you  will  find  it  recorded  in  the  Scriptures,  and  I  shall 
read  from  section  seventy-six  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  verses 
54-60. 

For  the  Lord  says  of  those  who  keep  his  covenants  and  are 
faithful  and  true  and  are  sealed  by  the  Holy  Spirit  of  Promise: 

They  are  they  who  are  the  church  of  the  Firstborn. 

They  are  they  into  whose  hands  the  Father  has  given  all  things — 

They  are  they  who  are  priests  and  kings,  who  have  received  of  his 
fulness,  and  of  his  glory; 

And  are  priests  of  the  Most  High,  after  the  order  of  Melchizedek, 
which  was  after  the  order  of  Enoch,  which  was  after  the  order  of  the 
Only  Begotten  Son. 

Wherefore,  as  it  is  written,  they  are  gods,  even  the  sons  of  God — 
Wherefore,  all  things  are  theirs,  whether  life  or  death,  or  things  present, 
or  things  to  come,  all  are  theirs  and  they  are  Christ's,  and  Christ  is 
God's. 

And  they  shall  overcome  all  things.   (D.  &  C.  76:54-60.) 

That  is  the  doctrine  the  Lord  taught  to  these  critical  Pharisees. 
It  is  the  doctrine  that  was  taught  by  his  servants,  the  prophets. 
And  Paul  says,  writing  to  the  Roman  Saints: 

For  if  ye  live  after  the  flesh,  ye  shall  die:  but  if  ye  through  the 
Spirit  do  mortify  the  deeds  of  the  body,  ye  shall  live. 

For  as  many  as  are  led  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  they  are  the  sons  of  God. 

For  ye  have  not  received  the  spirit  of  bondage  again  to  fear;  but  ye 
have  received  the  Spirit  of  adoption,  whereby  we  cry,  Abba,  Father. 

The  Spirit  itself  beareth  witness  with  our  spirit,  that  we  are  the 
children  of  God: 

And  if  children,  then  heirs;  heirs  of  God,  and  joint-heirs  with  Christ; 
if  so  be  that  we  suffer  with  him,  that  we  may  be  also  glorified  together. 

For  I  reckon  that  the  sufferings  of  this  present  time  are  not  worthy 
to  be  compared  with  the  glory  which  shall  be  revealed  in  us. 

For  the  earnest  expectation  of  the  creature  waiteth  for  the  manifesta- 
tion of  the  sons  of  God.    (Romans  8:13-19.) 

Blessings  of  Temple  Marriage 

Now  I  want  to  impress  upon  all  my  good  brethren  and  sisters 
who  have  been  married  in  the  temple  that  they  should  never  forget 
the  great  blessings  which  were  bestowed  upon  them:  That  the  Lord 
has  given  unto  them,  through  their  faithfulness,  the  right  to  become 
his  sons  and  his  daughters,  joint  heirs  with  Jesus  Christ,  possessing, 
as  stated  here,  all  that  the  Father  has. 

And  yet,  there  are  members  of  the  Church  who  fail  to  com- 
prehend this  and  after  they  are  married  for  time  and  all  eternity, 
become  members  of  the  Church  of  the  Firstborn,  receiving  the 
promise  of  the  fulness  of  the  Father's  kingodm,  they  permit  things 
to  come  into  their  lives  that  bring  friction  and  separate  them.  And 
they  forget  that  they  have  made  a  covenant  for  time  and  all  eternity 
with  each  other;  and  not  only  that,  but  they  have  made  a  covenant 
with  their  Father  in  heaven;  and  I  want  to  say  to  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  it  isn't  an  easy  thing  to  break  a  covenant  that  we  make 
with  our  Father  in  heaven.  And  that  is  what  they  do. 


136  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday.  April  6  Third  Day 

Now  this  is  impressed  upon  my  mind  at  this  particular  time 
because  I  have  had  so  many  cases  come  before  me.  I  haven't  time 
to  go  into  the  details  in  regard  to  these  matters,  but  I  want  to  call 
attention  to  two  cases  that  have  come  before  me  recently. 

Broken  Homes 

At  the  close  of  a  stake  conference  one  time,  a  brother  came  up  to 
me  for  counsel,  which  he  did  not  follow  when  he  got  it.  It  wasn't 
counsel  he  wanted;  it  was  confirmation.  He  said  he  and  his  wife 
had  tired  of  each  other.  She  was  a  good  woman.  She  was  living 
her  religion.  He  claimed  to  be  a  good  man.  And  the  president  of  his 
stake,  afterwards,  when  I  spoke  to  him,  said  he  was  a  good  man. 
How  could  they  be  good  and  want  to  separate  and  throw  into  the 
discard  all  these  glorious  blessings  that  would  bring  to  them  the 
glory  of  godhood,  as  set  forth  in  the  revelations  which  I  have  read 
to  you?  How  could  they  be  good? 

I  want  to  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  there  never  could 
be  a  divorce  in  this  Church  if  the  husband  and  wife  were  keeping  the 
commandments  of  God. 

And  within  the  week,  my  attention  was  called  to  another  case 
similar  to  this,  where  a  man  and  a  woman  married  in  the  temple 
for  time  and  all  eternity  have  tired  of  each  other.  They  have 
raised  a  family.  Now  he  wants  to  go  his  way,  and  she  wants  to  go 
her  way.  But  they  want  to  be  friends.  There  are  no  hard  feelings 
between  them.  They  have  just  got  tired.  They  want  a  change.  Do 
they  have  the  spirit  of  the  gospel  in  their  hearts?  I  say  to  vou, 
no,  or  they  would  not  be  tired  of  each  other.  That  could  not  follow. 
They  got  tired  of  living  the  principles  of  eternal  truth.  A  man  would 
not  get  tired  of  his  wife  if  he  had  the  love  of  God  in  his  heart. 
A  woman  would  not  get  tired  of  her  husband  if  she  had  in  her  heart 
the  love  of  God,  that  first  of  all  commandments.  They  could  not  do 
it!  And  then  think  of  the  children.  Here  you  have  a  broken  home. 
These  people  get  a  divorce,  and  then  they  want  to  get  a  cancelation, 
perhaps,  of  their  sealing.  They  want  to  marry  somebody  else. 
And  there  you  have  a  broken  home.  What  is  going  to  become  of 
the  parents?  What  is  going  to  become  of  the  children?  Haven't  the 
children  any  rights?  The  parents  become  separated.  Each  goes  a 
different  way,  but  they  want  to  be  friends.  And  then  they  expect 
to  marry  again  for  time  and  all  eternity  and  enter  into  the  celestial 
kingdom  of  God  to  receive  all  the  blessings  of  exaltation!  Are  they 
entitled  to  do  it?  Not  as  I  read  these  Scriptures — they  are  not  entitled 
to  do  it.  Of  course,  we  have  worse  cases  than  that.  We  have  cases, 
perhaps,  where  a  woman  is  justified  in  seeking  relief,  to  be  separated 
from  a  brutal  husband  who  lives  after  the  flesh,  whose  incontinency 
is  such  that  he  makes  her  life  miserable;  and  they  are  not  keeping  the 
commandments  that  were  given  to  them  when  they  were  married  in 
the  temple  for  time  and  all  eternity,  where  he  is  supposed  to  love" 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS  137 


and  respect  and  care  for  his  wife  with  all  the  humility,  in  all  the 
faith,  and  the  understanding  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  And  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  not  carnal. 

Brigham  Young's  Statement 

I  have  a  statement  here,  from  President  Brigham  Young  that  I 
want  to  read: 

I  know  that  you  good  women  get  annoyed  and  provoked  and  out  of 
patience  many  times  with  your  husbands,  and  at  times  justly.  They  are 
not  always  as  considerate  of  you  as  they  ought  to  be;  but  if  they  provide 
for  you  and  they  are  kind  to  you  and  otherwise  treat  you  right,  stay  with 
them. 

That  is  what  President  Young  has  to  say.    He  said: 

I  think  it  has  been  taught  by  some  that  as  we  lay  down  our  bodies 
they  will  so  rise  in  the  resurrection  with  all  the  impediments  and  imper- 
fections that  they  have  here;  and  that  if  a  wife  does  not  love  her  hus- 
band in  this  estate,  she  cannot  love  him  in  the  next.  This  is  not  so. 
Those  who  attain  to  the  blessings  of  the  first  or  celestial  resurrection  will 
be  pure  and  holy,  and  perfect  in  body.  Every  man  and  woman  that 
reaches  to  this  unspeakable  attainment  will  be  as  beautiful  as  the  angels 
that  surround  the  throne  of  God.  If  you  can,  by  faithfulness  in  this  life 
attain  the  right  to  come  up  in  the  morning  of  the  resurrection,  you  need 
entertain  no  fears  that  the  wife  will  be  dissatisfied  with  her  husband  or  the 
husband  with  the  wife,  for  those  of  the  first  resurrection  will  be  free 
from  sin  and  from  the  consequences  and  power  of  sin.  This  body 
is  "sown  in  corruption,  it  is  raised  in  incorruption;  it  is  sown  in  dishonor, 
it  is  raised  in  glory;  it  is  sown  in  weakness,  it  is  raised  in  power;  it  is 
sown  a  natural  body,  it  is  raised  a  spiritual  body.  And  as  we  have 
borne  the  image  of  the  earthly,  we  shall  also  bear  the  image  of  the 
heavenly." 

God  has  done  his  part  towards  putting  us  in  possession  of  celestial 
glory  and  happiness,  by  providing  the  means  whereby  we  may  attain 
to  it;  and  if  we  ever  possess  it,  we  must  do  so  by  conforming  to  the 
means  provided.  God  has  given  the  children  of  men  dominion  over  the 
earth  and  over  all  things  that  pertain  to  it  and  has  commanded  them  to 
subdue  it,  and  sanctify  themselves  before  him,  and  also  sanctify  and 
beautify  the  earth  by  their  industry  and  by  their  wisdom  and  skill  which 
cometh  from  God.  .  .  .  To  receive  the  gospel  and  believe  and  enjoy  it  in 
the  spirit  is  the  simplest  part  of  the  work  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  to 
learn  and  perform. 

God  has  made  man  Lord  over  all  things  here  below,  and  it  is  the  labor 
of  man  to  bring  all  things  unto  subjection  to  God  by  first  subjecting  him- 
self to  the  will  of  God,  and  then  subjecting  all  things  over  which  he  has 
control  in  their  time  and  order.  The  will  of  God  is  eternal  life  to  his 
people,  and  to  all  they  control.    (Journal  of  Discourses,  10:24-25.) 

The  Lord  bless  you,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
My  dear  brethren  and  sisters: 

I  recall  an  occasion  in  the  life  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant 


138  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday.  April  6  Third  Dag 

which  brings  to  me  some  thoughts  for  this  conference.  It  was  shortly 
before  he  became  ill  and  near  the  close  of  his  administration.  He 
came  to  the  temple  one  Thursday  to  meet  with  the  brethren  of  the 
First  Presidency  and  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  in  the  regular  weekly 
meeting.  In  a  thoughtful  and  reflective  mood,  he  said,  in  substance: 

President  Grant's  Conclusion 

Brethren,  in  the  natural  course  of  events  my  administration  is  nearing 
its  close.  I  have  been  wondering  what  I  might  do  in  the  time  that  re- 
mains to  best  promote  the  welfare  of  the  Church  and  the  people. 

For  a  moment  I  thought  he  had  some  new  project  to  announce,  but 
this  was  quickly  dispelled  when  he  continued  by  saying  that  he 
had  reached  a  very  simple  conclusion.  He  said  the  conclusion  he 
had  reached  was  that  he  could  do  nothing  that  would  be  of  more 
value  and  lasting  good  to  the  cause  of  our  Father  and  his  people 
than  to  devote  the  remainder  of  his  life  and  effort  to  getting  the 
people  to  keep  the  commandments.  I  am  sure  that  all  the  brethren 
who  heard  him  were  in  agreement  and  deeply  impressed  by  the  far- 
seeing  wisdom  of  his  utterance.  I  was,  and  I  have  recalled  the  in- 
cident on  many  occasions. 

We  live  in  a  world  of  sensationalism.  "What's  new?"  is  the 
inquiry  on  everyone's  lips.  It  often  constitues  a  form  of  friendly 
salutation.  There  is  an  insatiable  demand  for  news,  and  the  news 
to  be  arresting  and  intriguing,  must  be  far  out  of  the  ordinary,  often 
shocking  and  tragic,  and  the  "scoops"  which  usually  win  the  plaudits 
of  the  people  in  the  great  majority  of  cases  arise  out  of  the  perpetra- 
tion of  high  crimes,  catastrophes,  disasters,  scandals — public  and 
private — and  the  doings  and  antics  of  notorious  people. 

Keeping  the  Commandments 

Keeping  the  commandments,  as  President  Grant  used  the  phrase, 
is  not  news  in  the  modern  sense.  It  is  seldom  dramatic.  It  doesn't 
often  arrest  attention,  and  very  infrequently  wins  a  place  in  the 
headlines  for  a  man  or  woman,  and  there  are  those  who  look  with  a 
measure  of  contempt  and  belittlement  upon  persons  who  order 
their  "humdrum"  lives  in  strict  conformity  with  all  the  command- 
ments. 

In  spite  of  the  prosaic  and  commonplace  aspect  of  this  subject, 
I  have  long  been  convinced,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the 
most  challenging,  dramatic,  and  vital  thing  in  our  lives  is  this 
"keeping  the  commandments."  It  tests  every  fiber  of  our  beings.  It  is 
at  once  a  demonstration  of  our  intelligence,  our  knowledge,  our 
character,  and  our  wisdom.   I  will  try  to  show  that  this  is  true. 

Intelligence  Required 

It  takes  intelligence,  and  a  high  order  of  intelligence,  to  worship 
God  truly  and  understand  his  commandments  and  their  far-reaching 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS  139 


significance.  Some  of  these  sophisticates  who  call  the  good  "dumb" 
give  a  very  convincing  demonstration  of  their  own  intellectual 
limitations.  I  observe,  too,  that  there  are  some  of  our  scholars 
who  disparage  the  intellectual  effort  put  forth  in  the  acquisition  of 
religious  and  spiritual  truth  and  the  science  of  theology.  Out  of 
my  own  limited  exposure  to  education  and  my  observation  of  learned 
men  I  do  not  hesitate  to  assert  that  it  takes  just  as  high  an  order 
of  intelligence  to  comprehend  and  assimilate  spiritual  truth  and 
divine  law  as  it  does  to  master  the  equations  and  formulas  in  the 
field  of  secular  education.  The  great  body  of  divine  scripture,  al- 
though contained  in  few  books,  has  been,  through  the  centuries, 
and  will  continue  to  be,  a  challenge  to  the  most  profound  scholarship 
and  the  greatest  minds  which  the  world  has  produced,  and  it  would 
be  well  for  the  cynics  and  agnostics  and  sophisticates  of  the  present 
day  to  remember  that  many  of  the  most  outstanding  institutions  of 
learning  had  their  inception  under  religious  auspices;  that  churches 
and  church  people  have  been  the  foster  fathers  of  education  and  that 
the  Holy  Bible  has  inspired  more  goodness,  high  idealism,  lofty 
sentiment,  freedom  of  thought,  justice,  mercy,  and  quest  for 
learning  than  any  other  book  and  perhaps  all  other  books  ever 
produced  in  all  the  history  of  the  world.  Let  no  man  disdain  the 
intellectuality  of  spiritual  learning. 

How  glorious  and  satisfying  to  the  inquisitive  nature  of  man 
is  spiritual  and  religious  knowledge  and  understanding.  The  in- 
telligence and  purpose  of  God  made  manifest  in  the  orderly  organiza- 
tion of  the  universe,  the  place  of  man  in  the  great  design  furnish  a 
concept,  not  only  more  lofty  and  idealistic  than  anything  in  all 
literature  but  one  that  is  also  more  practical  in  application  to  the 
problems  of  man  and  society  than  any  other  which  has  ever  been 
tried  and  tested. 

Ignorance  of  Divine  Truth 

From  every  quarter  of  the  world  we  have  evidences  of  a  dearth 
of  the  knowledge  of  God  and  his  ways.  I  think  it  safe  to  say  that 
the  greater  part  of  all  the  opposition  and  enmity  to  social  progress, 
to  liberty,  justice,  and  peace  is  attributable  to  lack  of  understanding, 
a  woeful  ignorance  of  divine  concepts  and  truth.  I  cannot  see  how 
the  rank  and  file  of  the  people  who  are  classed  as  atheistic  com- 
munists could  accept  the  godless  totalitarianism  of  Marx  and  Lenin 
if  they  really  had  a  comprehension  and  knowledge  of  the  Father- 
hood of  God,  the  brotherhood  of  man,  and  the  eternal  plans  of  the 
Father  for  the  well-being  and  exaltation  of  his  children.  I  can 
understand  how  their  leaders,  lustful  for  power  and  domination,  and 
beset  by  the  constant  fear  of  losing  their  unrighteous  dominion  will 
subordinate  every  decent,  honorable,  and  virtuous  principle  to  the 
gaining  of  their  ends,  but  I  cannot  believe  that  even  their  own 
people  would  support  these  avaricious  leaders  if  they  had  the  truth. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


Reactions  of  Russians 


A  few  years  ago  I  was  in  San  Francisco  looking  for  a  publishing 
house  that  would  print  some  of  our  literature  in  the  Russian  lan- 
guage. By  mistake  I  went  into  a  printing  establishment  which  I  after- 
wards learned  to  be  communistic.  You  should  have  seen  the  stony 
stare,  and  curt  dismissal  I  received,  when  I  asked  if  they  printed 
religious  literature.  Afterwards  I  found  a  place  where  I  was  re- 
ceived by  an  intelligent  Russian  man  who  was  symapthetic  with  my 
errand.  I  told  him  that  it  was  our  purpose  to  make  some  preparation 
for  missionary  work  among  his  people.  We  discussed  the  situation 
for  some  time,  and  he  made  the  significant  remark:  "Only  God  can 
save  Russia."  He  published  a  Russian  newspaper,  non-communist, 
with  subscribers  all  across  the  nation.  He  gave  me  the  information 
that  there  are  approximately  15,000  Russian-speaking  people  around 
the  San  Francisco  bay  area  and  two  million  in  the  United  States. 
He  said  there  are  approximately  900,000  displaced  Russians  in 
Europe,  and  he  thought  our  missionaries  could  begin  work  among 
some  of  these  Russians,  looking  forward  to  the  time  when  through 
them  there  might  be  an  introduction  of  the  gospel  into  Russia  itself. 
He  knew  something  of  our  principles  and  our  people  and  professed 
admiration  for  them.  I  felt  that  there  was  some  evidence  of  his 
sincerity,  when,  after  automatically  offering  me  a  cigaret,  he  im- 
mediately withdrew  it  and  said,  "Oh,  I  forgot,  your  people  don't 
smoke  and  drink."  Well,  Russia  is  not  the  subject  of  my  remarks, 
but  I  think  that  the  present  plight  of  that  nation  is  a  pertinent  and 
persuasive  illustration  of  the  need  of  knowledge,  spiritual  and  theo- 
logical knowledge,  as  a  basis  for  righteousness  and  peace. 


At  this  point,  I  wish  to  voice  appreciation  for  the  great  body 
of  knowledge  which  has  come  to  us  in  the  revelations  of  this  dispensa- 
tion. When  I  think  of  the  light  which  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  has 
thrown  upon  the  knowledge  of  his  day  and  our  day,  his  interpretations 
of  Holy  Writ  for  centuries  obscure  in  meaning  to  the  learned  of  the 
earth,  his  enlargement  of  the  vision  of  man,  his  incomparable  con- 
tributions to  the  understanding  of  the  vital  relationships  in  life,  home, 
family,  community,  government;  his  expositions  of  heaven  and  earth, 
salvation,  exaltation,  and  eternity — all  stamping  him  with  the  un- 
mistakable marks  of  mighty  faith  and  prophetic  vision  and  under- 
standing, I  feel  to  exclaim  with  the  author  of  our  beloved  hymn: 


He  was  "blessed  to  open  the  last  dispensation"  and  "kings  shall  extol 
him"  and  "nations  shall  revere  him"  when  the  knowledge  which  he 
brought  is  disseminated  through  the  earth  to  the  understanding  of 
the  people  thereof. 


Appreciation  for  Knowledge 


Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with  Jehovah 
Jesus  anointed  that  Prophet  and  Seer. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS  Hi 


Reason  Behind  Every  Commandment 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  need  knowledge — knowledge  of 
the  things  of  the  Lord.  Our  Father  said  in  the  very  beginning  of  his 
work,  "let  every  man  learn  his  duty."  It  may  be  that  there  are  a  few 
of  the  commandments,  the  reasons  for  which  are  not  very  apparent 
to  us.  We  accept  some  on  faith  as  did  the  prophets  of  old,  but  in 
the  main  there  is  a  sound  discernible  reason  behind  every  command- 
ment. A  knowledge  of  the  gospel  reveals  that  reason,  and  gives  ad- 
ditional encouragement  and  strength  in  keeping  it. 

For  example  the  man  who  looks  upon  tithing  as  nothing  more 
than  a  method  of  gathering  money  does  not  understand  the  law; 
but  he  who  recognizes  in  it  a  great  principle  of  true  worship  and 
spiritual  growth  will  find  infinitely  more  satisfaction  in  complying 
with  its  requirements.  He  will  understand  that  the  true  test  of  de- 
votion is  the  giving  of  one's  self,  and  that  when  a  man  parts  with 
the  proceeds  of  his  labors,  giving  that  which  represents  the  ex- 
penditure of  his  brain  power,  his  muscular  strength,  and  his  energy, 
he  not  only  demonstrates  his  loyalty  to  the  Lord  and  his  work,  but 
he  adds  to  his  own  faith  and  his  spiritual  resources,  his  contentment, 
and  his  happiness.  He  builds  up  loyalty.  He  attains  power  to  con- 
trol rebellious  and  critical  thoughts  and  tendencies.  His  conscience 
is  clear.  He  can  sleep  comfortably  with  himself.  Truly  he  grows 
in  spiritual  power. 

Every  commandment  of  God  is  spiritual  in  nature.  There  are 
no  carnal  commandments.  We  have  learned  this  from  modern  revela- 
tion. While  the  commandments  have  effect  upon  the  body  and 
temporal  things  they  are  all  in  essence  spiritual.  The  Word  of  Wis- 
dom is  spiritual.  It  is  true  that  it  enjoins  the  use  of  deleterious  sub- 
stances and  makes  provision  for  the  health  of  the  body.  But  the 
largest  measure  of  good  derived  from  its  observance  is  in  increased 
faith  and  the  development  of  more  spiritual  power  and  wisdom.  Like- 
wise, the  most  regrettable  and  damaging  effects  of  its  infractions  are 
spiritual,  also.  Injury  to  the  body  may  be  comparatively  trivial  to  the 
damage  to  the  soul  in  the  destruction  of  faith  and  the  retardation  of 
spiritual  growth.  So  I  say,  every  commandment  involves  a  spiritual 
growth.   So  I  say,  every  commandment  involves  a  spiritual  principle. 

Courage  to  Say  "No" 

I  mentioned  character  in  connection  with  keeping  the  com- 
mandments. When  I  come  to  think  of  it,  keeping  the  commandments 
is  about  the  only  yardstick  I  know  in  measuring  and  appraising  char- 
acter, particularly  with  reference  to  those  who  have  the  knowledge 
our  people  have.  We  commonly  refer  to  character  as  strong  or 
weak,  gentle  or  harsh,  honest  or  deceitful,  charitable  or  "tight,"  and 
so  on  all  down  through  the  long  list  of  attributes.  Perhaps,  the 
classification  dreaded  most  by  red-blooded  people  is  that  of  weak- 
ling.   That  designation  seems  to  be  resented  more  than  almost 


142  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday.  April  6  Third  Day 

any  other,  excluding  criminal  appellations,  and,  most  unfortunately, 
among  these  are  some  who  are  boastful  of  sinful  records  and  reputa- 
tions. Weaklings  are  those  lacking  in  the  necessary  stamina,  strength, 
and  courage  to  sustain  a  position.  A  person  can  be  helpless  physically 
and  still  not  be  a  weakling,  if  he  or  she  has  the  disposition  and  inner 
strength  and  courage  to  fight  bravely  on.  It  is  the  moral  cowards 
and  the  ignorant  who  corrupt  the  world.  I  am  aware  that  none  of 
us  has  all  the  strength,  resistance,  and  courage  he  would  like  to  have, 
but  I  am  afraid  that  there  are  many  among  us  who  have  permitted 
their  moral  strength  to  be  tapped  and  drained  until  there  may  not  be 
much  solid  character  remaining.  They  wouldn't  like  to  be  called 
weaklings  or  cowards,  but  if  they  will  examine  themselves  thought- 
fully and  frankly  some  may  well  admit  that  their  strength  is  gone.  I 
think  I  can  tell  you  how  many  have  come  to  this  misfortune.  They 
have  been  trying  to  ape  the  ways  of  the  world.  Many  have  forgotten 
that  they  have  been  called  out  of  the  world  and  enjoined  to  keep  them- 
selves unspotted  from  its  sins.  I  suppose  some  haven't  even  known 
what  that  meant  and  they  have  yielded  to  the  sophistry  and  the 
sophistication  and  the  practices  of  wordly-minded  institutions  and 
groups.  Teddy  Roosevelt  used  to  say  that  it  often  took  more  courage 
to  say  "no"  than  it  did  to  face  a  bear  with  a  pistol.  We've  had  a 
lot  of  men  and  women  who  unfortunately  didn't  have  the  courage  to 
say  "no"  and  who  unfortunately  also  did  not  have  the  pride  of  their 
great  heritage  in  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God.  It's  a  great  pity  that 
it  has  been  so.  Think  of  the  immeasurable  good  these  men  and  women 
might  have  done  if  they  hadn't  been  so  weak.  If  they  had  had  the 
strength  of  character  to  stand  for  the  right  as  they  knew  it.  Think  of 
the  admiration  they  could  have  commanded  for  themselves  and  for 
their  Church  by  simply  declining  the  cigaret  and  the  glass  of  beer 
and  participation  in  indecent  stories  and  tolerance  for  cheap  jokes 
and  witticisms  directed  at  sacred  things  in  their  religion.  I  think  of 
the  strength  they  might  have  developed  in  themselves  and  in  the 
youth  who  look  to  them  if  they  had  resisted  the  slot-machine,  petty 
gambling  on  a  golf  game,  a  horse  race  or  cards,  and  the  allurement  of 
the  Sunday  movie. 

Religion  and  Conduct 

I  understand  that  there  are  organized  forces  in  our  communities 
telling  young  people  that  these  and  other  infractions  of  our  moral 
code  have  no  religious  significance  and  urging  them  to  be  free  from 
such  restraint.  They  would  disassociate  conduct  from  religion. 
Well,  they  can't  do  it  any  more  than  they  can  separate  living  from 
life. 

Do  you  think  that  weak  abandonment  of  well-recognized  stand- 
ards has  commanded  even  the  respect  and  admiration  of  new-found 
friends  of  the  world?  What  a  tragic  mistake  it  is  for  any  man  to 
reach  false  conclusion  that  in  order  to  get  business  or  political  prefer- 
ment or  social  prestige  he  must  compromise  the  truth.   I  wish  that  a 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS  143 


hundred  or  a  thousand  men  of  this  Church,  if  there  be  that  many, 
would  withdraw  themselves  from  lodges  and  secret  orders  which  they 
were  counseled  never  to  join.  It  is  my  opinion  that  most  of  our  men 
allied  with  these  secret  orders  had  to  show  some  weakness  before  they 
were  invited.  It  is  my  observation  that  invitations  come  only  to  those 
who  do  not  give  wholehearted  loyal  support  to  the  Church  and  its 
standards.  The  Church  needs  the  undivided  allegiance  of  these  men, 
and  they  need  the  Church,  as  do  their  families  also.  Just  so  sure 
as  they  divide  their  allegiance  the  world  will  claim  them.  I  make  an 
earnest  appeal  to  all  my  brethren  who  have  joined  these  secret  orders 
to  leave  them  and  renew  their  associations  in  the  quorums  of  priest- 
hood and  the  organizaions  and  activities  of  the  Church.  I  know  that 
every  single  one  who  responds  will  be  blessed  in  so  doing. 

Maintenance  of  Standards 

I  have  a  further  word  to  say  to  my  brethren  who  are  members 
of  service  clubs,  chambers  of  commerce,  and  other  non-secret  busi- 
ness, professional  and  social  organizations.  Brethren,  you  don't  need 
to  abandon  any  principle,  any  standard  or  approved  practice  of  the 
Church  to  which  we  have  the  honor  to  belong  to  maintain  good  stand- 
ing in  these  organizations.  If  you  do,  you  had  better  get  out.  Our 
men  can  and  do  win  the  respect  of  all  if  they  have  the  courage  of 
their  convictions.  There  is  little  respect  on  the  part  of  any  for  the 
weakling.  I  have  found  it  a  great  honor  to  represent  this  mighty 
Church  of  the  Lord  in  many  capacities.  I  have  not  always  felt 
worthy  of  the  honor,  but  I  trust  that  the  pride  of  membership  in  the 
Church  and  kingdom  of  God  will  never  leave  me.  The  Apostle  Paul 
must  have  looked  down  through  the  ages  of  men  and  forseen  their 
weaknesses,  when,  and  giving  that  famous  definition  of  the  gospel, 
he  said: 

For  I  am  not  ashamed  of  the  gospel  of  Christ:  for  it  is  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation.  .  .  .  (Romans  1:16.) 

It  is  too  bad  when  men  and  women  become  ashamed  of  the  gospel. 
When  they  do,  they  succumb  to  their  weakness,  the  world  soon  gets 
them  and  they  lose  the  richest  things  of  life.  If,  therefore,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  and  my  other  friends  who  may  listen,  if  you  would 
develop  great  character,  the  strength  of  constant  purpose,  resistance 
to  evil,  nobility  in  thought  and  purpose,  if  you  would  know  the 
richness  of  life  and  experience  contentment  and  its  deepest  satis- 
factions, keep  the  commandments. 

Need  of  Wisdom 

Just  another  thought,  and  I  am  done.  We  all  prize  wisdom.  It  is 
said  to  be  the  greatest  of  gifts.  It  is  really  the  power  to  apply 
beneficient  knowledge  in  all  the  decisions  and  vicissitudes  of  life. 
How  we  need  wisdom  in  the  composition  of  the  troubles  and  dif- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


ficulties  of  the  world.  How  we  need  wisdom  in  our  own  affairs,  with 
our  families,  our  business,  and  our  associations.  Almost  every  day 
is  a  day  of  decision.  What  to  do.  What  choice  to  make.  I  don't 
know  of  a  better  way  to  secure  the  wisdom  that  we  need  than  by 
keeping  the  commandments.  We  are  enjoined  by  the  command- 
ments to  study,  to  pray,  to  work  and  to  serve,  and  be  humble  and 
contrite  of  spirit.  The  great  promises  are  to  the  meek  who  shall  in- 
herit the  earth.  Wisdom  is  not  to  be  found  among  the  arrogant, 
the  haughty  and  self-sufficient,  nor  among  the  sinful  and  the  anti- 
christs of  the  world.  Wisdom  is  a  gift  to  the  prayerful  student,  to 
the  faithful  and  the  obedient,  to  those  who  repose  their  trust  in  the 
counsels  of  the  spirit  and  the  priesthood  of  God. 

There  was  great  import  in  those  inspiring,  simple  words  of 
President  Grant's  uttered  in  the  Holy  Temple.  They  embodied  the 
message  that  has  come  down  to  us  through  all  the  presidents  of  the 
Church.  I  know  it  is  the  message  of  our  present  President  and 
his  associates.  It  has  been  voiced  a  thousand  times  in  the  words  of 
every  true  leader.  It  is  not  news,  but  it  will  never  grow  old.  It  is  the 
eternal  message  for  the  government  of  man  —  keep  the  command- 
ments. Oh  God,  grant  us  the  intelligence,  the  knowledge,  the  char- 
acter, and  the  wisdom  to  obey,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


Five  years  ago,  I  stood  at  this  pulpit  trembling  from  head  to  foot, 
when  I  accepted  a  call  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  I  have  lived  now 
these  five  years,  in  close  association  with  the  men  you  sustained  today 
as  the  leaders  of  this  Church.  I  have  come  to  know  them  well.  I 
knew  most  of  them  well  before  I  came  to  this  position,  but  not  nearly 
so  well  as  I  now  know  them. 


I  have  discovered  that  these  men  are  great  men — -great  in  the 
sense  of  true  greatness.  I  know  that  in  the  Presidency  of  the  Church 
are  men  who  are  great  in  the  same  sense  in  which  Lincoln  was 
great.  I  know  they  are  prophets  of  God  in  the  same  sense  in  which 
Moses  and  Jeremiah  and  Elijah,  Peter  and  Paul  were  prophets  of 
God.  I  have  discovered  that  these  men  do  not  have  any  selfish 
motives,  that  they  are  giving  of  their  time  and  their  talents,  of  their 
physical  and  mental  and  spiritual  strength,  giving  all  they  have  for  the 
upbuilding  of  the  kingdom  of  God.  I  have  discovered  that  they 
are  honest  and  true;  that  they  are  faithful  and  devoted;  that  they 
love  the  Lord  their  God  with  all  their  hearts,  and  with  all  their 
souls.  I  know  that  they  are  men  of  God  in  the  real  sense  of  the 
word. 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Great  Men 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


145 


And  so  I  was  thrilled  as  you  voted  here  today  on  these  men, 
thrilled  to  see  this  vast  ocean  of  hands  come  up  in  a  sustaining  vote  for 
these  men  whom  you  accept  as  your  prophets,  seers,  and- revelators. 
As  I  saw  those  hands,  and  raised  mine  with  yours,  I  couldn't  help 
thinking  of  some  of  the  insulting  letters  that  come  to  these  brethren 
from  men  and  women  who  think  that  these  men  would  lead  you 
astray — letters  from  men  and  women  who  do  have  selfish  motives — 
letters  from  people  who  would  trip  up  the  prophets  of  God  if  they 
only  could. 

Guided  By  Holy  Ghost 

I  want  to  bear  you  my  testimony,  and  I  do  it  with  God  as  my 
witness,  that  these  men  who  lead  your  Church  are  honest,  true,  great 
men  of  God;  that  they  do  receive  the  revelation  and  the  inspiration 
of  the  Almighty;  that  they  are  guided  by  the  Holy  Ghost;  that  this 
is  God's  Church;  and  that  if  you  desire  to  have  guidance  from 
heaven,  then  you  follow  the  guidance  of  these  men  whom  you  sustain 
as  the  prophets  of  God.  They  are  prophets.  They  are  prophets  just 
as  Jeremiah  and  Moses  were  prophets.  They  are  Apostles  in  the 
same  sense  in  which  Peter,  James,  and  John  were  Apostles,  because 
those  three  gave  the  powers  of  the  apostleship  to  modern  men,  and 
those  powers  have  been  handed  down  to  the  men  who  stand  and  sit 
before  you  today. 

I  think  it  is  a  very  serious  thing  when  anybody  raises  his  hand 
against  the  prophets  of  God.  Have  you  read  carefully  the  story  of 
Jeremiah  in  the  Old  Testament  and  seen  there  how  men  and  women 
raised  their  hands  and  their  voices  and  their  heels  against  the  prophet? 
I  want  you  to  know  that  it  is  just  as  serious  for  us  who  live  today  to 
raise  our  hands  against  these  modern  prophets  as  it  was  for  ancient 
Israel  to  raise  their  hands  against  Jeremiah  whom  they  put  in  a 
dungeon  and  whom  they  would  have  been  glad  to  see  die. 

A  Great  Church 

This  is  a  great  Church.  It  is  indeed  the  kingdom  of  God.  We 
have  a  great  man  at  the  head  of  the  Church.  He  is  the  revelator,  the 
seer,  and  the  prophet  of  God  in  this  day.  It  is  a  reality  that  we  walk 
in  the  presence  of  a  living  prophet  of  God.  Let  us  be  willing  to  accept 
him  as  such.  And  these  others  who  uphold  his  hands  and  sustain 
him,  likewise  are  the  prophets  of  the  Lord. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  experience  of  the  past  five  years.  I  have 
learned  a  better  appreciation  of  this,  the  great  restored  Church,  of 
its  principles,  of  the  men  who  lead  it.  I  humbly  submit  to  you  my 
solemn  testimony  that  Mormonism  is  true,  that  the  restored  Church, 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  is  God's  own  Church, 
and  that  through  it  we  find  salvation. 

May  we  have  the  courage  to  live  the  gospel.  May  we  have 
the  courage  to  keep  the  commandments.    May  we  have  the  loyalty 


146  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

to  stand  by  and  follow  the  leaders,  whom  God  has  placed  in  the  earth 
in  these  last  days,  is  my  humble  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

After  this  meeting  is  dismissed  the  Conference  will  stand 
adjourned  until  2  o'clock  this  afternoon. 

The  proceedings  of  that  session  will  be  broadcast  over  the 
stations  that  I  announced  at  the  beginning  of  this  meeting.  We 
will  ask  you  to  be  in  your  seats  as  usual  ten  minutes  before  the 
hour. 

Important  messages  that  have  been  left  at  the  booth  will  be 
broadcast  as  usual  over  the  air  on  the  Temple  grounds  at  the  con- 
clusion of  this  service. 

The  choir  music  for  this  session  has  been  furnished  by  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Mixed  Chorus,  Elder  Franklin  Madsen 
conducting  and  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

As  I  shall  not  have  the  opportunity  to  say  it  this  afternoon, 
I  should  like  to  thank  them  for  the  great  music  which  this  great 
organization  is  bringing  to  us. 

This  Mixed  Chorus  will  now  sing,  "Jerusalem,  Turn  Thee  to  the 
Lord." 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Harvey  A.  Dahl 
of  the  Humboldt  Stake,  Nevada. 


The  Brigham  Young  University  Mixed  Chorus  sang  as  a  closing 
number,  "Jerusalem,  Turn  Thee  to  the  Lord." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Harvey  A.  Dahl, 
president  of  the  Humboldt  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 

THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  concluding  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  at  2:00  p.m., 
Wednesday,  April  6th. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  was  present  and  presided.  Presi- 
dent David  O.  MacKay,  at  President  Smith's  request,  conducted  the 
services. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Mixed  Chorus,  under  the  lead- 
ership of  Elder  Franklin  Madsen,  furnished  the  choir  singing  for  this 
session. 

President  David  O.  McKay; 

This  is  the  sixth  and  closing  session  of  the  119th  Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE  147 

convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah.  This  historic  building  is  crowded  to  overflowing  and  there 
is  also  an  audience  in  the  Assembly  Hall. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  is  presiding  at  this  session. 

Of  the  General  Authorities,  Elder  Matthew  Cowley  is  absent,  in 
charge  of  the  Pacific  Missions,  and  Elder  Alma  Sonne  is  in  Europe  in 
charge  of  the  European  Missions.  President  George  F.  Richards, 
president  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  is  resting  at  home  at  the 
suggestion  of  his  doctor.  Elder  Albert  E.  Bowen  has  been  with  us 
throughout  the  Conference  but  we  shall  not  be  privileged  to  hear 
from  him  because  his  physician  advises  that  we  refrain  from  placing 
that  responsibility  upon  him.  He  is  recuperating  from  a  recent 
operation. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL.  Salt 
Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL  over  the  stations  at 
Cedar  City,  Idaho  Falls,  Pocatello,  Richfield,  Vernal,  and  at  Mesa 
by  transcription. 

As  we  have  heretofore  announced,  any  important  messages  or 
calls  that  come  for  persons  supposed  to  be  in  attendance  at  the  Con- 
ference will  be  announced  at  the  dismissal  of  this  meeting  over  the 
loudspeaking  system  on  the  grounds. 

The  choir  music  for  this  session  will  be  rendered  b'y  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Mixed  Chorus,  Elder  Franklin  Madsen 
conducting  and  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  the  afternoon  services  by  the  Brigham  Young 
University  Chorus  singing,  "Praise  Ye  the  Lord  in  Heaven." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  James  H. 
Walker  of  the  Taylor  Stake,  Alberta,  Canada. 


The  choir  sang  "Praise  Ye  the  Lord  in  Heaven." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  President  James  H.  Walker 
of  the  Taylor  Stake. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Mixed  Chorus  sang  "Lord  of 
All  Being." 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  very  customary  in  the  Church 
to  pray  for  the  least  and  the  last  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  I  have 
always  felt  myself  among  the  least,  and  this  afternoon.  I  am 
certain  I  am  very  nearly  among  the  last.  However  that  may  be, 
I  need  your  prayers  and  invite  them,  so  that  while  I  speak  to  you 
I  may  be  an  instrument  in  the  hands  of  God  to  offer  something  of 
value  to  us  all. 

Prophecy  Being  Fulfilled 
This  forenoon  when  the  statistics  of  the  Church  were  read  I 


148  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

felt  as  I  always  feel  on  occasions  of  this  kind,  that  prophecy  is  being 
fulfilled.  Before  the  Church  was  organized  the  Lord  spoke  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  and  said  to  him  that  a  marvelous  work  was  about  to 
come  forth  among  the  children  of  men.  The  six  young  men  who  sat 
around  the  table  on  April  6,  1830,  and  under  divine  instruction  organ- 
ized the  Church,  believed  it  to  be  true  that  they  were  setting  out, 
and  putting  into  operation,  a  marvelous  work  of  the  latter  days. 
No  prophecy  has  been  more  completely  fulfilled  than  that.  From  six 
men  in  an  obscure  home  near  a  remote  village  in  New  York  state 
has  grown  this  great  institution.  The  statistical  condition  of  the 
Church  as  outlined  to  us  today  is  almost  beyond  the  dreams  of  men. 

I  bear  my  testimony  to  the  reality  of  this  great  work,  that  it  is  of 
God,  that  God  instituted  it,  that  he  spoke  to  Joseph  Smith,  and  has 
spoken  to  his  Church  every  since,  and  that  we  are  engaged  in  the 
great  work  of  redeeming  the  human  race. 

It  is  good  to  be  with  you,  good  to  meet  together,  knowing  our 
destiny,  the  work  we  have  to  do,  and  the  great  reward  that  the  Lord 
will  offer  us,  in  course  of  time,  if,  as  was  said  this  forenoon,  we  keep 
close  to  the  commandments  of  the  Lord. 

Those  of  us  who  expect  to  be  called  upon  at  these  great  con- 
ferences always  have  to  cast  about  for  some  suitable  theme  to  speak 
upon,  some  subject  of  special  importance  to  the  people  of  the  Church 
at  the  time.  I  did  so  myself  and  finally  hit  upon  a  subject  that  I 
thought  represented  a  problem  of  the  day  of  sufficient  importance  to 
occupy  a  part  of  the  time  at  this  great  conference.  My  thoughts  were 
pretty  well  organized,  and  I  was  ready  to  deliver  the  message  as  best 
I  could  until  last  Sunday  forenoon  when  President  Smith  dropped  a 
remark  in  his  introductory  speech,  which  President  McKay  also 
mentioned.  One  or  two  other  speakers  touched  upon  it  also.  I  was 
so  impressed  that  I  had  to  change  my  subject,  not  because  they 
covered  the  ground  I  intended  to  cover,  but  because  I  was  impressed 
to  say  something  in  the  field  that  they  had  mentioned. 

Educational  Achievements 

President  Smith  spoke  of  education  among  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
With  proper  humility  he  spoke  of  our  great  achievements  in  the 
educational  field.  It  is  a  pardonable  pride  that  we  have  in  our 
educational  achievements.  We  have  the  right  to  feel  glad  that  we 
have  achieved  great  things  educationally.  We  have  always  known 
that  we  cannot  get  very  far  in  any  worthy  endeavor  without  educa- 
tion. "The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence,"  which  means  knowledge, 
plus  the  proper  use  of  knowledge,  has  been  a  beacon  light  of  the 
Church.  We  have  talked  about  education,  we  have  tried  to  secure  it 
ever  since  the  beginning- of  the  Church  to  these  days.  We  do  have  a 
remarkable  educational  history.  You  see,  I  spent  a  good  part  of 
my  life  in  the  profession  of  teaching,  and  whenever  the  subject  is 
mentioned,  I  respond  much  as  the  old,  retired,  fire-engine  horse 
responds  when  the  fire  bell  rings. 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


149 


The  Church  had  scarcely  been  organized  when  our  people  began 
to  talk  about  education.  They  wanted  to  provide  schools  and  books 
for  schools.  In  the  difficult  times  of  the  earliest  days,  the  Prophet 
wrote  a  letter  to  the  Church  and  said  that  not  only  were  the  people  to 
secure  schools  and  schoolbooks,  but  also  if  such  means  were  not 
available,  then  the  fathers  and  the  mothers  should  act  as  instructors 
to  the  youth  in  their  homes.  The  Church  began  its  work  on  the 
foundation  of  moral,  mental,  and  spiritual  education. 

School  of  the  Prophets 

Later  on,  when  the  Church  was  still  young,  hard-handed  toilers 
on  the  farm  and  in  the  shop,  who  had  been  made  converts  to  the 
Church,  entered  the  school  of  the  prophets  which  had  been  founded 
for  the  mature.  It  is  thrilling  to  look  back  over  our  history  to  the 
time  of  the  Kirtland  Temple.  The  men  left  their  farms,  fields,  and 
shops  in  the  evenings  and  climbed  to  the  top  story,  the  attic  story  of 
the  Kirtland  Temple,  there,  in  provided  classrooms,  to  study  various 
subjects,  languages,  mathematics,  history,  geography,  and  a  variety 
of  subjects.  Really  our  people  began  there  what  we  call  today  adult 
education.  It  was  thought  that  an  older  man  could  not  learn;  only 
young  people  could  learn.  Since  that  time  the  world  has  come  to 
quite  a  different  conclusion.  Today  a  man  is  never  too  old  to  learn. 
A  woman  is  never  too  old  to  learn.  The  power  to  assimilate  knowl- 
edge remains  with  us  to  the  last  day.  Somehow  these  forebears  of 
ours  in  the  Church  understood  that. 

Universities  Established 

Then  a  little  later  they  came  to  Nauvoo  and  organized  a  univers- 
ity. I  am  not  certain  for  I  have  not  looked  it  up,  but  I  suspect  that  the 
University  of  the  City  of  Nauvoo  was  one  of  the  first  city  tax- 
supported  universities  in  America.  The  Church  made  educational 
history  there. 

In  time  we  came  here,  to  Utah,  to  a  barren  wilderness.  There 
was  work  to  be  done  here.  Roads,  irrigation  ditches  were  to  be  made; 
crops  were  to  be  raised.  A  living  was  to  be  won  from  the  desert. 
It  was  a  difficult  time.  Yet  one  of  the  first  acts  of  our  territorial 
legislature  was  to  found  a  great  university,  the  University  of  Deseret 
(now  the  University  of  Utah),  making  it  the  first  university  founded 
west  of  the  Missouri  River. 

The  Church  has  a  noble  educational  history.   We  all  know  that. 

What  I  want  to  say  is  something  about  education  itself.  It  will 
not  take  me  long.  Education  may  or  may  not  be  a  good  thing. 
It  depends  on  what  we  learn.  Education  is  really  the  accumulated 
knowledge  of  mankind,  passed  on  from  generation  to  generation. 
Each  teacher  passes  on  to  his  pupils  that  which  the  world  knows. 
In  that  way  we  all  benefit  from  that  knowledge  and  we  preserve  that 


150  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

knowledge  for  those  who  come  after  us.  This  accumulated  knowl- 
edge of  mankind,  the  knowledge  of  the  world,  falls  into  several  dis- 
tinct parts.   Two  of  the  major  parts  I  would  like  to  mention. 

Factual  Knowledge 

All  knowledge  falls  first  into  a  part  or  division  or  group  that  we 
call  factual.  Sometimes  we  call  it  truth,  which  amounts  to  the  same 
thing.  Facts  of  observation,  that  which  we  hear  with  our  ears,  see 
with  our  eyes,  that  we  recognize  through  the  various  senses  that 
the  Lord  has  bestowed  upon  us  make  up  the  first  and  most  important 
part  of  knowledge.  That  kind  of  knowledge  is  everlasting,  unchang- 
ing. Under  the  same  conditions  a  fact  will  appear  the  same  through- 
out the  countless  coming  ages. 

Human  Interpretations 

The  other  division  of  human  knowledge,  speaking  of  the  major 
divisions  only,  is  made  up  of  the  human  interpretations,  explanations, 
and  inferences  of  the  observed  facts,  the  truths  in  our  possession. 
These  inferences,  explanations,  and  theories,  interpretations  of  truth, 
may  or  may  not  be  correct.  They  usually  change  as  more  knowledge 
is  acquired  by  humanity.  If  education  consists  chiefly  of  learning 
what  men  have  said  or  thought  about  the  facts  of  nature  and  ex- 
istence, it  may  mislead  students,  may  lead  them  into  difficult  places, 
often  into  places  of  untruth.  It  is  only  when  education  confines  itself 
primarily  as  to  truth,  to  facts,  as  observed,  it  becomes  worth  while. 
That  is  not  saying  anything  against  the  interpretations  of  truth.  We 
have  the  scriptures  as  an  example.  We  have  the  right  to  interpret 
them  as  we  see  fit,  but  we  have  no  right  to  teach  them  as  we  see  fit. 
We  must  teach  truth  as  it  is  given  us,  whether  it  be  in  the  domain  of 
revelation  or  of  science  or  any  other  field  of  human  activity. 

Obligation  of  Teachers 

Therein  lies  a  tremendous  danger  to  our  young  people  and  the 
coming  generations.  An  honest  teacher,  unless  he  is  ignorant  will 
place  before  his  students — I  speak  both  of  students  in  the  Church 
schools  and  in  state  schools,  I  draw  no  distinctions — the  truth  as 
discovered  by  many,  or  revealed  by  God,  and  when  interpretations 
are  taught,  he  will  label  them  as  such,  and  say,  "This  is  an  interpreta- 
tion by  man  of  existing  truth."  That  should  be  done  in  our  priesthood 
quorums,  in  auxiliary  organizations  and  in  all  schools  of  learning  at- 
tended by  our  young  people.  This  is  important,  of  the  greatest  im- 
portance, in  the  building  of  happy  lives,  in  a  world  of  peace.  Presi- 
dent Smith  said  something  last  Sunday  that  pointed  in  that  direction, 
and  it  has  clung  to  my  mind  until  I  had  to  speak  of  it  this  afternoon. 

We  have  also  the  field  of  speculation,  very  closely  related  to  the 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE  151 

field  of  interpreting  truth.  If  one  wants  to  see  how  absolutely  confus- 
ing and  useless  and  untruthful  the  field  of  speculation  is,  let  him  go  to 
the  philosophers  of  the  ages.  Begin  with  the  old  philosophers  and 
go  down  to  the  philosophers  of  today.  Every  one  has  tried  to  ex- 
plain or  describe  God.  Not  one  has  failed  to  try  his  hand  at  it. 
Every  one  has  set  up  his  own  explanation  and  presented  his  own 
kind  of  God.  As  you  read  after  them,  you  find  yourself  in  a  state  of 
confusion.  Great  minds,  great  thinkers,  have  tried  throughout  the 
ages  to  solve  the  same  problem  and  have  failed  utterly  to  agree.  That 
is  because  they  have  not  begun  with  truth.  Therein  we  are  strong. 
Joseph  Smith,  on  his  knees  in  the  grove,  saw  God  and  spoke  to  him. 
There  is  no  question  about  the  beginnings  of  this  work.  God  does 
live,  a  personal  being.  We  are  made  in  his  image.  We  are  carrying 
out  his  purposes. 

The  distinction  between  a  fact  and  an  inference  is,  or  should  be, 
pretty  generally  understood.  I  bear  you  my  testimony  here  this  after- 
noon that  in  all  of  our  teachings  we  must  discriminate,  distinguish 
between  the  facts  of  human  knowledge  and  the  interpretation  of  the 
facts.  Interpretations  change  from  day  to  day.  Once  in  a  great 
while  an  interpretation  of  a  great  truth  becomes  a  truth  iself,  but 
very  seldom.  Usually  there  is  too  much  of  the  humanity  of  us, 
mixed  in  with  explained  truth.  So  that  we  can  not  well  trust  our  in- 
terpretations. 

Rights  of  Citizens 

I  do  not  like  to  have  my  taxes  spent,  or  my  tithing  spent,  for  that 
matter,  in  the  support  of  a  teacher  who  does  not  understand  the  dif- 
ference here  discussed  and  who  will  not  be  honest  enough  as  he  stands 
before  classes  to  say,  "This  is  a  fact,  as  far  as  we  understand  it,  and 
this  is  but  an  attempted  inference  of  the  fact  which  may  or  may  not 
be  right."  I  have  no  objection  to  a  man  who  is  an  atheist,  teaching 
outside  of  the  Church.  His  faith  is  his  concern,  not  mine.  I  would 
like  to  convert  him  to  a  knowledge  of  God.  But,  when  he  stands 
before  his  classes  and  talks  about  God  and  his  own  atheism,  he  is  go- 
ing beyond  his  rights.  He  is  not  employed  for  that  purpose.  As  a 
citizen  I  have  rights.  It  is  my  money  and  your  money  used  to  support 
the  schools  whether  in  our  out  of  the  Church. 

This  may  be  a  schoolroom  talk  this  afternoon,  but  if  so,  blame 
it  on  President  Smith  and  President  McKay.  It  was  their  remarks 
Sunday  that  started  my  mind  thinking  about  this  very  important  sub- 
ject. We  have  truth.  We  are  not  concerned  much  with  interpretation 
of  truth.  The  sorrows  of  the  world  may  be  traced  back,  now  or  in 
the  past,  to  false  interpretations  of  eternal  truth.  I  hope  you  will  also 
think  about  the  applications  of  knowledge  to  daily  life,  but  that  is 
another  subject. 

My  time  is  up.  I  am  very  happy,  may  I  say  again,  to  be  in  this 
conference.   Not  the  words  alone  have  made  this  a  great  conference, 


152  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

but  the  spirit  which  has  been  present  and  which  has  touched  our 
hearts.  I  do  not  remember  all  that  has  been  said;  I  shall  read  the 
sermons  when  they  are  printed;  but  I  have  felt  the  spirit  of  the 
Church  and  its  people  who  are  building  the  kingdom  of  God,  and 
in  so  doing  are  moving  on  toward  the  completion  of  the  great  plan  of 
salvation  laid  out  by  the  Father  himself  in  the  pre-existent  state. 

God  bless  us,  keep  us  faithful  and  true,  helpful  in  this  great 
work,  and  may  we  be  given  the  blessings  of  health  and  strength,  the 
things  we  need  to  carry  on  this  work,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 

0[  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  humbly  pray  that  I  may  enjoy  the  blessings  of  this  hour.  This 
has  been  a  great  conference  in  my  personal  life.  I  have  greatly 
enjoyed  the  sessions  that  have  taken  place  between  the  conference 
sessions,  when  great  groups  of  friends  have  met  on  these  lovely 
grounds.  I  purposely  walked  up  to  five  or  six  groups  to  hear  what 
might  be  the  conversation  and  in  all  but  one  it  reflected  the  preaching 
services.   I  rejoice  in  that. 

Appreciation  of  Conference 

I  want  to  express  personally  a  word  of  appreciation  for  the  cen- 
tennial celebration  of  the  Sabbath  schools  held  Sunday  evening.  I 
was  sitting  by  my  grandson — a  little  fellow.  When  they  opened  the 
treasure  box,  he  suddenly  woke  up  and  said,  "Boy,  this  is  now  going 
to  be  good."  I  guess  he  was  reflecting  his  grandfather's  spirit.  One 
letter  from  the  box  which  Brother  Royall  read  impressed  me.  Brother 
George  Q.  Cannon  expressed  the  wish  that  he  might  be  here  when 
it  was  opened,  and  when  I  heard  his  grandson  pray,  I  said  in  my 
heart,  George  Q.  Cannon  is  here. 

Also  during  conference  time,  when  I  visited  the  fine  reunions 
of  missionaries- — two  of  which  I  attended — I  saw  two  young  men  in 
one  reunion  meet  after  not  having  seen  each  other  for  years.  They 
couldn't  express  their  feeling  in  a  handshake.  They  couldn't  express 
it  in  words.  They  embraced  as  they  met.  It  was  beautiful  to  see. 
I  went  to  another  reunion  where  the  place  was  crowded  with  returned 
missionaries,  and  I  had  another  experience  that  greatly  delighted 
me.  Missionaries  were  chatting  about  their  companionship  in  the 
missionary  field,  but  their  own  tongue  couldn't  quite  tell  it,  and  away 
they  went  into  the  Maori  tongue,  the  language  of  the  people  where 
they  had  labored  as  missionaries.  These  things  have  greatly  im- 
pressed me:  the  great  spirit  of  this  occasion,  the  glorious  sermons 
that  have  been  uttered,  the  testimony  of  our  President,  and  the  nar- 
rative of  his  life  which  deeply  impressed  me. 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 


153 


"The  welfare  plan  is  here  to  stay."  I  love  that  sentence.  I  en- 
joyed the  words  of  President  McKay  when  he  outlined  the  opportun- 
ities for  quorums  in  the  welfare  work. 

Missionary  Service 

And  now,  if  I  may  have  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord,  I'll  say  just 
a  word  about  our  greatest  duty.  We  have  forty-two  hundred  mis- 
sionaries— fine  young  men  and  women  who  are  out  in  the  mission 
field.  As  one  of  the  things  that  you  are  taking  home,  I  humbly  appeal 
that  it  will  be  fastened  upon  your  heart  that  we  must  hold  that  line 
of  forty-two  hundred  missionaries.  After  the  World  War  II  this 
number  grew  up  to  five  thousand.  The  mission  presidents  extended 
their  missionary  efforts,  out  into  little  Sunday  schools,  into  little 
branches.  They  were  pressed  to  put  into  service  anyone,  everyone, 
they  could  find.  If  we  don't  hold  that  extended  line,  then  the 
Sunday  schools  and  small  branches  will  fold  up.  You  who  have  had 
experience  in  missionary  service  know  that  if  something  isn't  coming 
to  feed  and  encourage  these  people  that  have  accepted  the  gospel, 
although  they  have  faith  and  hope  in  it,  they  require  aid  until  they  are 
established  in  the  Church  and  until  the  priesthood  of  God  can  be  con- 
ferred upon  their  leadership.  I  humbly  pray  that  you  will  take  with 
you  an  earnest  desire  to  hold  that  line  of  glorious  missionary  service, 
for  on  this  day  when  we  celebrate  the  birth  of  the  Church,  we  recall 
that  the  Prophet  Joseph  said,  "The  greatest  duty  we  have  to  per- 
form is  to  preach  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ."  So  may  I,  in  just 
a  few  words,  try  to  tie  that  in  to  our  daily  lives  as  we  leave  this 
conference,  to  do  our  part. 

Preparation  for  Service 

On  the  lawn  next  to  my  home,  a  little  fellow,  four  years  old,  was 
playing.  His  mother  turned  to  me  one  day  and  said,  "Brother  Kirkham, 
there  is  our  future  missionary."  Then  I  saw  the  little  rascal  go  and 
pull  his  sister's  hair;  she  started  to  cry;  and  I  said,  "Yes,  he's  the 
future  missionary."  Ruskin,  the  great  English  writer,  has  said,  "Evil 
is  good  gone  wrong.  That's  all  it  is."  We  must  start  somewhere  down 
the  line  with  little  fellows,  in  our  preparation  for  this  missionary  ser- 
vice. It  is  unfair  to  your  boy  to  have  him  called  suddenly,  not  having 
had  your  guidance  and  care  in  his  preparation  for  missionary  service. 
I  appeal  to  you  that  you  will  see  that  he  is  kept  physically  fit;  that  he 
has  a  sound  body.  George  Mayo  of  the  great  Mayo  clinic  said 
to  me  one  day,  "The  place  where  spirit  ends  and  body  begins,  or 
vice  versa,  I  do  not  know.  It's  all  together."  We  must  see  that  our 
prospective  missionaries  are  kept  physically  fit.  One  of  the  most  in- 
teresting letters  we  received  in  our  home  was  a  letter  from  one  of 
our  boys  who  wrote  from  far-off  Africa  to  his  mother  and  said, 
"Mother,  please  tell  me  how  to  make  'Mormon  gravy.'  "  So  it  is  with 


154  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

many  of  your  fine  fellows  who  go  out;  they  just  try  to  keep  themselves 
going  on  simple,  plain  foods  since  they  have  to  do  some  of  their 
own  cooking.  You  mothers,  show  them  how  to  make  a  stew.  Show 
them  to  poach  an  egg:  how  to  prepare  a  simple  meal.  Am  I  talking 
of  spiritual  things?  Yes,  for  many  a  fine  sermon  and  many  a  day 
of  tracting  have  been  spoiled  because  your  boy  was  ill  at  ease 
physically. 

Help  him  in  his  study.  Recently  I  went  to  interview  a  young  man 
for  a  mission.  I  found  him  in  the  field  where  he  was  plowing,  and 
I  saw  one  of  the  finest  things  I  have  witnessed  in  a  young  man's  life. 
He  was  on  the  sulky  plow,  but  near  the  front  where  he  could  con- 
stantly see  it,  he  had  fastened  a  passage  of  scripture  with  a  clothes- 
pin. When  I  came  up  to  greet  him,  I  said,  "What's  this?"  pointing 
to  the  paper.  "Oh,"  he  said,  "ever  since  the  bishop  spoke  to  me,  I 
have  been  studying  the  scriptures.  Brother  Kirkham."  This  young 
man  was  preparing  so  that  when  he  arrives  in  his  field  of  labor 
he  may  stand  and  defend  his  faith  intelligently  and  be  grateful  for 
the  suggestions  of  his  father  and  mother. 

Start  to  save  now.  What  a  lovely  thing  it  is  to  know  that  through 
the  war  years  and  other  years,  these  young  men  kept  their  savings 
that  they  might  go  on  a  mission.  Start,  after  this  conference,  if  you 
haven't  already  done  so,  with  your  son.  "Here,  son  I'll  put  ten 
dollars  away  for  a  missionary  fund,  will  you  join  me?"  "Well,  I'll 
put  in  a  dollar,"  your  son  will  say.  He  will  do  his  share  as  far  as  he 
can.  That's  the  practical  thing,  for  in  the  Latter-day  Saint  Church 
the  whole  family  goes  on  the  mission,  if  we  get  the  full  benefits  out 
of  it. 

Participation  in  Activities 

May  I  say  one  other  word?  See  that  the  boy  gets  a  chance  to 
participate  in  the  activities  of  the  Church,  especially  the  priesthood 
activities.  Here  is  a  fine  example.  I  went  to  visit  a  father  one  even- 
ing. He  was  a  member  of  the  bishopric.  His  boy  had  persuaded  him 
to  go  to  a  basketball  game  with  him,  and  all  at  once  the  telephone 
rang.  The  father  turned  to  his  son  and  said,  "Son,  I  am  sorry. 
There  is  a  call."  He  named  the  sick  person  who  had  asked  him  to 
come  to  administer  to  him.  "Well,"  the  boy  said,  "what's  the  matter 
with  my  going  with  you?  "We'll  see  the  last  of  the  game,  perhaps," 
and  off  went  the  father  with  his  son  to  bless  a  brother  who  was 
sick,  to  stand  by,  if  not  to  officiate  in  the  administration.  That's  what 
we  must  do  with  our  sons  that  they  may  rise  to  the  glorious  oppor- 
tunities that  are  theirs  later  in  the  missionary  world.  Let  them  have 
the  opportunity  that  is  theirs  later  in  the  mission  field.  Let  them  have 
opportunities.  Give  them  the  chance.  Save  them  from  embarass- 
ments. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN  155 
House  in  Order 

Is  your  house  in  order,  brothers  and  sisters?  Are  you  ready 
if  the  Lord  should  call  you  or  your  son  tomorrow?  Have  you  trained 
your  family  that  you  can  say  to  your  eldest  son,  "Well,  they've  called 
me,  son,  to  go  on  a  mission."  Will  your  son  answer,  "That's  all  right, 
father.  Mother  and  I  will  get  along  all  right,  because  you  have 
trained  us  to  do  so?" 

May  God  bless  us  that  these  ways  may  be  ours.  If  they  are, 
then  let  me  read  you  what  some  young  men  have  said  to  me  as  they 
reported  their  missions.  Here  are  their  words,  I  copied  them  from 
a  report  book: 

I  am  at  peace  with  myself.  I  know  the  way  I  want  to  go.  Now  I 
know  the  true  way  to  happiness.  I  have  learned  to  love  all  people. 
I  have  seen  a  life  changed. 

Then  one  boy  said  to  me,  making  his  report  of  his  mission: 

I  heard  a  father  bear  his  testimony  in  the  mission  field.  He  had  had  a 
serious  sickness  over  a  long  period  of  time,  and  he  bore  his  testimony 
in  grateful  appreciation  to  the  Lord  for  his  recovery,  and  then  a  miracle 
happened.  His  boy,  his  deaf  son  who  hadn't  heard  a  voice  for  fourteen 
years,  arose  and  said,  "I  have  heard  my  father's  voice  for  the  first  time." 

God  bless  us  that  we  may  prepare  and  do  our  part  for  the  great 
days  ahead  in  missionary  service.  May  we  be  true  to  those  we  love 
that  they  may  be  a  pride  and  a  joy  to  us,  to  the  Church,  and  to  their 
Father  in  heaven,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  sincerely  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  might  enjoy 
an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers. 

This  great  conference  has  been  a  most  impressive  one.  As  I 
listened  to  the  addresses  of  our  beloved  President  George  Albert 
Smith,  President  Clark,  and  President  McKay,  members  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  and  all  who  have  addressed  us,  and  listened 
to  the  most  inspiring  music,  the  thought  came  into  my  mind,  "Count 
your  many  blessings,  count  them  one  by  one,  and  see  what  the  Lord 
has  done." 

A  Blessed  People 

We  are  a  blessed  people.  We  have  the  blessing  of  membership 
in  the  restored  Church  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  We  enjoy  a  di- 
vinely authorized  leadership  who  receive  the  mind  and  will  of  our 
Heavenly  Father.  We  have  the  privilege  of  enjoying  citizenship  in 
a  great  republic.    We  have  the  privilege  of  associating  with  one 


156  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday.  April  6  Third  Dag 

another  as  brethren  and  sisters  in  the  true  sense  of  the  term.  We 
have  our  families.  We  have  so  many  blessings  that  time  does  not 
permit  to  enumerate  them  all. 

But  have  we  ever  stopped  to  think  that  all  of  these  blessings 
have  come  to  us  because  of  someone  else's  faith,  someone  else's 
work,  someone  else's  prayers?  I  never  think  of  this  Church  and  its 
organization  but  what  there  comes  to  my  mind  the  story  of  a  boy 
who  was  confused  as  to  which  church  he  should  join.  And  in  study- 
ing  the  scriptures,  he  came  upon  that  memorable  admonition  found  in 
James,  wherein  the  Lord  said  this: 

If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to  all 
men  liberally  and  upbraideth  not;  and  it  shall  be  given  him. 

But  let  him  ask  in  faith,  nothing  wavering.    For  he  that  wavereth 
is  like  a  wave  of  the  sea  driven  with  the  wind  and  tossed.  (James  1:5-6.) 

This  fourteen-year-old  boy  took  this  admonition  to  heart,  and 
going  out  into  the  woods,  he  supplicated  God  with  a  faith  that 
was  implicit;  and  in  answer  to  that  prayer,  God  the  Eternal  Father 
and  his  Son  appeared  to  him  — that  same  God  that  Adam  knew,  the 
God  of  Moses,  and  Abraham,  and  Jacob,  and  all  of  the  other  ancient 
servants  of  the  Lord — that  same  God  who  spoke  from  the  heavens 
when  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  was  being  baptized  in  the  River  Jordan, 
and  the  voice  of  God  was  heard  saying: 

Behold,  this  is  my  beloved  Son,  in  whom  I  am  well  pleased. 
(Matt.  3:17.) 

And  so,  out  of  the  supplication,  and  the  prayers,  and  the  works 
of  a  humble  boy,  used  as  the  instrument  in  the  hands  of  God,  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  was  restored  to  the  earth,  and  the  gospel  in 
its  fulness  and  simplicity  was  returned  for  the  salvation  and  exalta- 
tion of  the  Lord's  children. 

And  along  with  the  restoration,  there  came  the  priesthood  of 
God  whereby  we  might  enjoy  leadership  inspired  by  revelation; 
men  who  are  humble  and  men  who  have  but  one  desire,  and  that 
is  to  serve  God  in  such  a  way  that  they  might  do  the  most  good  for 
his  people  and  for  the  world. 

Faith  of  George  Washington 

When  I  think  of  the  founders  of  this  great  republic,  I  think  of 
George  Washington.  There  is  no  question  but  what  he  was  an 
instrument  of  God  in  the  founding  of  a  nation  where  the  Church 
might  be  restored  and  where  the  gospel  might  be  returned  to  man- 
kind, because  this  nation  is  founded  upon  the  great  cornerstone  of 
the  gospel,  namely  that  of  free  agency.  But,  unfortunately,  there 
are  those  among  us  who  would  have  us  believe  that  George  Washing- 
ton was  an  unbeliever;  but  I  want  to  tell  you  that  if  a  man  ever  had 
the  help  of  Almighty  God,  that  man  was  the  Father  of  our  country. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN  157 


I  think  of  him  at  Valley  Forge,  standing  at  the  head  of  a  hungry, 
ragged,  cold  army — discouraged,  many  of  them  returning  to  their 
homes.  George  Washington  had  to  work  with  a  Continental  Con- 
gress that  was  unable  to  supply  him  with  the  sinews  of  war.  I  am 
sure  that  George  Washington,  in  that  hour,  realized  that  in  and 
of  himself  he  could  never  gain  victory;  and  being  a  God-fearing 
man,  there  is  no  question  but  what  he  sought  wisdom  from  on  high; 
and  he  received  it,  because  thereafter,  this  same  ragged  army  de- 
feated the  haughty  Cornwallis  at  Yorktown  and  made  it  possible 
to  open  up  the  way  whereby  this  great  republic  in  which  you  and 
I  enjoy  citizenship  was  founded. 

And  I  think  of  those  who  framed  the  Constitution  of  the  United 
States.  They  were  prayerful  men;  for  the  Lord  make  it  known  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  that  he  permitted  the  Constitution  to  be  estab- 
lished by  good  and  wise  men.  It  is  true  that  when  the  members  of 
that  assembly  came  together  there  was  some  dissension,  some  differ- 
ences of  opinion,  but  one  day  there  arose  among  them  an  old  patriot 
who  made  the  suggestion  that  as  the  assembly  open  each  day  they 
supplicate  God  for  his  help  to  the  end  that  they  might  have  wisdom. 
And  God  was  supplicated,  and  as  the  great  Gladstone  said: 

The  Constitution  of  the  United  States  is  the  greatest  document  ever 
stricken  off  by  the  hand  of  man  in  a  given  period  of  time. 

Prayers  of  Abraham  Lincoln 

And  there  was  another  man  who  sought  wisdom  from  God. 
That  great  leader  who  preserved  the  Union,  namely,  Abraham 
Lincoln,  a  man  who  was  scorned  and  held  in  disdain  even  by  those 
who  were  closely  associated  with  him.  And  when  the  day  of  the 
battle  of  Gettysburg  came,  he  was  composed,  he  was  calm.  After  the 
battle  was  over  and  the  victory  had  been  won,  General  Sickles  asked 
him  the  question:  "How  was  it  that  you  seemed  to  be  so  calm  and 
composed  when  the  rest  of  us  were  worried?"  And  here  is  the 
answer  of  that  great  man  to  the  general.    Said  he: 

In  the  pinch  of  your  campaign  up  there,  when  everybody  seemed 
panic-stricken  and  nobody  could  tell  what  was  going  to  happen,  oppressed 
by  the  gravity  of  our  affairs,  I  went  to  my  room  one  day  and  locked  the 
door  and  got  down  upon  my  knees  before  Almighty  God  and  prayed  to 
him  mightily  for  victory  at  Gettysburg.  I  told  him  that  this  war  was  his, 
and  our  cause  his  cause,  that  we  could  not  stand  another  Fredericksburg 
or  Chancellorsville.    Then  and  there  I  made  a  solemn  vow  to  Almighty 

.  God  that  if  he  would  stand  by  our  boys  at  Gettysburg,  I  would  stand  by 
him,  and  he  did  stand  by  you  boys,  and  I  will  stand  by  him.  And  after 
that.  I  don't  know  how  it  was,  and  I  cannot  explain  it,  soon  a  sweet 
comfort  crept  into  my  soul.  The  feeling  came  that  God  had  taken  the 
whole  business  into  his  own  hands,  and  that  things  would  go  right  at 

.  Gettysburg,  and  that  was  why  I  had  no  fears  about  you. 


This  great  man  followed  the  admonition  of  James,  too,  and 
sought  wisdom  from  on  high;  and  as  a  result  of  his  faith  and  his 


158  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday.  April  6  Third  Dag 

prayers,  the  army  at  Gettysburg  was  able  to  achieve  the  final  victory. 

And  then,  too  I  think  of  the  pioneers,  as  they  made  the  great 
trek  across  the  plains  and  through  the  rugged  denies  of  these  mighty 
mountains.  It  is  said  in  the  diaries  of  some  of  them  at  the  close 
of  each  day,  "Brigham  Young  and  his  associates  went  to  the  highest 
hill  and  there  supplicated  God  for  direction."  It  seemed  that  they 
liked  to  pray  on  the  heights,  on  the  mountains,  and  the  hills.  I  have 
sometimes  thought  that  the  reason  for  that  was  that  they  not  only 
wanted  to  get  close  to  God  spiritually,  but  they  also  wanted  to  get 
near  to  him  physically.  And  so  out  of  their  prayers  and  seeking 
divine  wisdom  from  on  high,  it  was  possible  for  them  to  find  this 
place  in  the  West  that  God  had  reserved  for  them;  and  out  of  their 
work,  prayers,  and  divine  wisdom  you  and  I  today  are  living  in  one 
of  the  grandest  places  upon  the  whole  earth. 

Divine  Guidance  Needed 

We  are  now  facing  another  day  with  more  problems.  We  have 
now  come  to  the  time  when  this  nation  stands  at  the  crossroads.  A 
road,  which,  if  we  continue  to  follow  it  without  question  will  take 
us  down  the  path  of  socialism  and  communism.  Let  me  say  to  you 
that  once  we  are  in  the  shackles  of  either  one  of  these,  we  will  lose 
our  free  agency  and  merely  become  the  pawns  of  lustful,  godless 
leaders.  This  is  the  day  and  time  when  the  leaders  of  this  nation 
and  all  of  us  as  citizens  of  this  great  country  should  follow  the  ad- 
monition of  James,  seek  wisdom  from  on  high,  divine  guidance  that 
we  may  be  able  to  solve  our  national  problems  and  preserve  for  un- 
born generations  the  same  blessings  of  citizenship  and  freedom  that 
you  and  I  have  enjoyed. 

I  was  thrilled  some  few  years  ago  when  I  heard  a  United 
States  senator  say  that  every  morning  he  and  a  few  of  his  companions 
went  into  a  small  room  in  the  Capitol  Building,  and  there  they 
supplicated  God  for  direction.  I  would  that  every  one  of  our  repre- 
sentatives in  the  national  assembly  would  supplicate  God  every  day. 
Just  as  surely  as  they  would  do  that,  there  would  come  to  them  that 
wisdom,  that  divine  direction,  which  would  preserve  this  nation  as 
a  great  republic  and  also  the  principles  for  which  it  stands. 

Responsibility,  to  Be  Prayerful 

Now,  you  and  I  have  some  definite  responsibilities  too — the  re- 
sponsibility of  being  prayerful,  that  we  will  remember  in  our  prayers 
those  who  guide  and  direct  the  destiny  of  this  nation  to  the  end  that 
God  will  touch  their  hearts  and  out  of  it  all  we  will  be  able  to  follow 
that  path  laid  down  by  George  Washington,  and  the  path  of  Abra- 
ham Lincoln,  to  the  end  that  we  may  follow  it  for  our  own  happiness 
and  joy  and  for  those  who  shall  follow  after  us.         .       y  ■ w , -. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN  159 


Of  all  the  people  in  the  world,  we  should  be  the  most  prayer- 
ful; we  should  follow  the  admonition  of  James  and  seek  God  con- 
tinually for  wisdom  from  on  high.  For  the  Lord  has  said  to  us  through 
his  Prophet: 

Organize  yourselves;  prepare  every  needful  thing;  and  establish  a 
house,  even  a  house  of  prayer,  a  house  of  fasting,  a  house  of  faith,  a 
house  of  learning,  a  house  of  glory,  a  house  of  order,  a  house  of  God. 
(D.  &  C.  88:119.) 

And  there  is  no  reason  why  every  Latter-day  Saint  home  should 
not  be  a  house  of  God;  for,  in  most  instances,  there  stands  at  the 
head  of  every  Latter-day  Saint  home  a  servant  of  Almighty  God 
holding  the  priesthood  and  having  the  right  to  call  upon  God  and 
supplicate  him  for  the  benefit  and  the  blessings  and  the  good  of  those 
who  reside  within  his  household. 

The  Lord  has  made  it  plain  to  us  that  if  we  are  not  a  prayerful 
people,  if  we  fail  to  remember  the  king  of  this  land,  Jesus  Christ,  we 
can  lose  all  of  these  blessings.  We  should  harken  to  the  words  of 
Amulek  when  he  said  to  his  people: 

Yea,  I  say  unto  you  that  if  it  were  not  for  the  prayers  of  the  righteous, 
who  are  now  in  the  land  that  ye  would  even  now  be  visited  with  utter 
destruction;  yet  it  would  not  be  by  flood,  as  were  the  people  in  the  days  of 
Noah,  but  it  would  be  by  famine,  and  by  pestilence,  and  the  sword. 

But  it  is  by  the  prayers  of  the  righteous  that  ye  are  spared;  now  there- 
fore, if  ye  will  cast  out  the  righteous  from  among  you  then  will  not  the 
Lord  stay  his  hand;  but  in  his  fierce  anger  he  will  come  out  against  you; 
then  ye  shall  be  smitten  by  famine,  and  by  pestilence,  and  by  the  sword; 
and  the  time  is  soon  at  hand  except  ye  repent.    (Alma  10:22-23.) 

And  so  it  seems  to  me  that  what  we  need  in  this  fair  land  of 
ours  is  a  shining  example  of  prayerfulness.  and  the  Latter-day  Saints 
are  the  people  who  are  chosen  to  exemplify  to  the  world  the  power 
of  prayer.  Every  Latter-day  Saint  home  should  be  a  house  of  God, 
where  the  altar  of  prayer  is  ever  in  use  and  where  the  proper  example 
is  set  to  our  children  in  supplicating  God  for  divine  guidance  in  all 
of  our  endeavors.    For  the  Lord  has  again  said  to  us: 

And  they  shall  also  teach  their  children  to  pray,  and  to  walk  up- 
rightly before  the  Lord.  .  .  . 

And  a  commandment  I  give  unto  them — that  he  that  observeth  not 
his  prayers  before  the  Lord  in  the  season  thereof,  let  him  be  had  in 
remembrance  before  the  judge  of  my  people.  (D.  &  C.  68:28,  33.) 

Prayer  in  the  Home 

Only  a  short  time  ago  I  was  in  a  home  in  which  an  aged  grand- 
mother said  to  me:  "I  am  most  unhappy.  In  this  home  we  have 
nothing  but  the  spirit  of  disunity.  We  do  not  seem  to  be  able  to 
agree  upon  anything.  There  is  a  negative  spirit  here,  and  I  can 
tell  you  why  we  have  that  spirit.    We  have  it  because  we  cannot 


160  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday.  April  6  Third  Dag 

get  together  and  pray  and  ask  the  Lord  for  his  direction  in  solving 
our  problems." 

On  the  other  hand,  I  have  a  remembrance  of  a  home  where  the 
children  were  taught  to  pray.  That  little  mother  taught  them  how 
they  should  pray — giving  them  the  proper  concept  of  God.  She  told 
them  the  story  of  the  appearance  of  God,  the  Father,  and  his  Son 
to  Joseph  Smith.  That  gave  the  children  the  proper  concept  of  God. 
They  knew  that  they  were  praying  to  a  God  with  body,  parts,  and 
passions.  He  was  real  to  them.  He  was  a  God  of  love;  he  was  a 
God  who  could  hear  and  answer  prayers.  In  later  years  this  little 
mother  became  very  ill.  Her  children  stood  outside  of  the  house 
beside  her  bedroom  window,  and  they  heard  her  screams.  Finally, 
one  said  to  the  other:  "Let  us  pray  for  Mother."  They  couldn't  go 
into  the  house  because  the  house  was  filled  with  older  people  who 
were  trying  to  help,  and  the  only  place  left  was  the  coal  shed.  These 
two  youngsters,  one  eleven  and  the  other  thirteen,  went  into  the  coal 
shed,  and  kneeling  down  among  the  lumps  of  coal,  supplicated  God 
to  the  end  that  their  mother  would  be  restored.  And  before  night 
came  on,  that  little  mother  was  restored.  She  was  healed.  What 
does  all  of  this  mean?  It  means  that  because  of  the  fact  that  a 
mother  had  taught  her  children  to  pray,  in  the  hour  of  her  extremity, 
with  full  faith  in  God,  her  children  called  upon  him  to  bless  their 
mother  and  preserve  her,  and  God  heard  that  prayer,  and  it  was 
answered. 

Prayer  A  Privilege 

We  should  teach  our  children  that  prayer  is  a  privilege  and  not 
a  duty.  We  should  teach  them  to  pray  from  their  hearts  and  not 
from  their  lips  and  not  to  pray  by  rote.  We  should  teach  them  to 
utter  prayers  of  gratitude  to  God  for  all  the  blessings  that  we  enjoy — 
prayers  of  generosity,  not  thinking  so  much  about  the  things  we 
want  or  need,  but  praying  for  those  who  are  in  distress.  Prayers 
need  not  be  long;  they  should  be  rather  short  and  to  the  point  and 
well  thought  out. 

If  we  will  establish  houses  of  prayer,  there  is  no  question  that 
they  will  become  houses  of  faith;  houses  of  glory;  houses  of  God; 
because  his  holy  Spirit  will  come  and  abide  in  such  homes  in  rich 
abundance.  And  in  these  homes  we  will  find  the  spirit  of  unity,  the 
spirit  of  cooperation,  the  spirit  of  sympathy,  the  spirit  of  kindness, 
and  the  spirit  of  love. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  in  these  dark  hours,  I  am  sure  if  we  suppli- 
cate God  as  James  indicated  centuries  ago,  in  full  faith,  we  can  be 
instrumental  in  preserving  all  of  the  rights  and  privileges  given  to 
us  in  this  great  government  of  ours.  We  can  further  the  cause  of 
the  Master.  We  can  teach  the  gospel  of  peace,  and  help  Almighty 
God  to  consummate  his  plans  before  the  coming  of  the  King  of  kings. 


PRESIDENT  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  161 


I  pray  we  will  follow  the  advice  of  the  Lord  given  to  us  again 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph,  wherein  he  said: 

Pray  always,  that  you  may  come  off  conqueror;  yea,  that  you  may 
conquer  Satan,  and  that  you  may  escape  the  hands  of  the  servants  of 
Satan  that  do  uphold  his  work.   (D.  &  C.  10:5.) 

May  God  bless  us  that  we  will  be  prayerful.  May  God  bless  us 
that  we  will  establish  houses  of  prayer,  houses  of  glory,  houses  of 
faith,  and  houses  of  God,  I  humbly  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


The  Brigham  Young  University  Mixed  Chorus  and  the  con- 
gregation joined  in  singing  the  hymn:  "Now,  Let  Us  Rejoice  In  The 
Day  Of  Salvation." 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  ask  that  you  be  good  enough  to  help 
me  with  your  prayers  that  what  I  may  say  today  may  be  in  accord- 
ance with  the  mind  and  the  will  of  the  Lord,  and  then  it  will  be  of 
benefit  and  blessing  to  all  of  us. 

I  should  like  to  refer  to  the  fine  instructions  given  us  last  night 
by  President  McKay,  in  which  he  told  us  that  the  duty  of  the  elder 
is  to  teach  and  to  warn,  and  if  the  Lord  leads  me  along  the  line  that 
I  have  thought  I  might  talk  about,  I  want  to  say  something  by  way  of 
warning. 

I  want  to  follow  along  the  thought  that  was  expressed  and  the 
situation  that  was  referred  to  by  Elder  Stephen  L  Richards  this 
morning,  when  he  called  attention  to  certain  influences  that  are  at 
work  amongst  us. 

Freedom  of  Worship 

One  of  our  Articles  of  Faith  says: 

We  claim  the  privilege  of  worshipping  Almighty  God  according  to 
the  dictates  of  our  own  conscience,  and  allow  all  men  the  same  privilege, 
let  them  worship  how,  where,  or  what  they  may. 

That  is  the  expression  of  a  great  principle,  a  principle  that  has 
been  operative  among  the  children  of  God  from  the  earliest  period 
of  which  we  have  any  record.  It  was  pursuant  to  that  principle,  and 
in  the  exercise  of  the  rights  guaranteed  thereby,  that  a  third  of  the 
hosts  of  heaven  revolted,  in  an  effort  to  overcome  the  plan  which 
God  adopted. 

Personally,  I  would  not  in  any  way,  and  in  the  lightest  or  slight- 
est degree,  hamper  anyone's  free  agency.    Literally,  I  feel  and  be- 


162  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

lieve  that  men  should  worship  how,  where,  or  what  they  may.  That 
is  the  spirit  of  the  priesthood,  the  priesthood  which  we  hold.  The 
priesthood  never  compels.  God  himself  does  not  compel  the  intel- 
lect, nor  does  he  attempt  to  overthrow  it. 

If  I  might  be  specific,  I  would  like  to  say  how  different  is  that 
principle  from  the  principle  of  a  great  church  which  says,  or  has  its 
presiding  officers  say  in  the  oaths  that  they  take,  that  they  will  attack 
and  follow  up  all  heretics,  and  over  the  centuries  they  have  made 
good  that  oath. 

Two  Churches 

The  Lord  has  told  us  in  the  scriptures  that  in  the  last  days 
there  will  be  two  churches.  John  the  Revelator  spoke  of  the  great 
church  with  worldly  power  that  had  under  its  dominion  and  leader- 
ship the  kings  of  the  earth- — he  spoke  of  it  as  Babylon,  the  Mother 
of  Harlots;  and  Nephi  spoke  of  it  as  the  great  and  abominable 
church.  I  am  not  going  to  say  what  that  church  is,  though  I  have  a 
very  definite  and  clear  idea.  But  I  want  to  say  that  those  scriptures 
also  tell  us  that  the  other  church  is  a  weak  church,  a  church  to  whose 
assistance  God  has  to  come  in  order  to  preserve  it.  We  certainly 
are  not  the  great  church,  for  no  kings  are  tied  to  the  chariot  wheels 
of  our  Church.   We  are  the  other  church. 

Scriptural  Warnings 

Now,  our  enemies  are  seeking  to  attack  and  are  attacking  our 
Church.  Time  does  not  permit  me  to  read  all  the  scriptures  that 
I  have  here,  telling  of  the  things  that  are  to  come  in  the  last  days. 
But  I  might  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  the  Savior  in  the 
Sermon  on  the  Mount  said, 

Beware  of  false  prophets,  which  come  to  you  in  sheep's  clothing, 
but  inwardly  they  are  ravening  wolves.   (Matt.  7:15.) 

To  the  people  on  this  hemisphere  he  made  the  self-same  statement. 

I  also  call  your  attention  to  the  words  of  Paul  in  his  farewell 
to  the  elders  of  Ephesus.    He  said, 

For  I  know  this,  that  after  my  departing  shall  grievous  wolves  enter 
in  among  you,  not  sparing  the  flock. 

Also  of  your  own  selves  shall  men  arise,  speaking  perverse  things, 
to  draw  away  disciples  after  them.    (Acts  20:29-30.) 

I  would  like  to  read  what  Paul  said  to  Timothy,  but  time  for- 
bids. But  I  will  read  what  Moroni  said  to  Mormon.  I  might  read 
just  one  paragraph  of  the  latter.  It  is  the  thirty-second  verse  in  the 
eighth  chapter  of  Mormon: 

Yea,  it  shall  come  in  a  day  when  there  shall  be  churches  built  up 
that  shall  say:  Come  unto  me,  and  for  your  money  you  shall  be  forgiven 
of  your  sins. 


PRESIDENT  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


163 


The  ravening  wolves  are  amongst  us,  from  our  own  membership, 
and  they,  more  than  any  others,  are  clothed  in  sheep's  clothing,  be- 
cause they  wear  the  habiliments  of  the  priesthood;  they  are  they  to 
whom  Brother  Widtsoe  referred,  as  distorting  the  truth.  We  should 
be  careful  of  them,  and  I  endorse  every  word  that  Brother  Widtsoe 
said,  as  to  the  obligations  of  those  who  instruct  the  youth. 

Efforts  to  Lead  Astray 

Now,  I  want  to  say  just  a  word  or  two  about  the  church  and 
secular  organizations  that  are  amongst  us,  and  that  are  doing  all 
they  can  to  lead  our  young  people  astray.  I  say  there  are  both  church 
organizations  and  secular  organizations.  Their  method  of  approach 
— or  approaches — becomes  rather  clear. 

They  begin  by  making  friends  with  our  young  people  and  also 
with  members  of  that  body  of  priesthood,  as  to  which  we  have  so 
much  concern,  the  adult  Aaronic  Priesthood.  They  cultivate  the 
friendship  of  these  members  of  ours,  then  they  invite  them  to  their 
homes,  then  they  take  them  to  their  socials,  then  to  their  classes  of 
instruction,  and  before  the  members  knew  it,  before  we  know  it, 
this  priesthood  membership  and  the  youth  are  gone  from  us. 

What  do  they  say?  What  I  am  about  to  say  is  not  mere  sup- 
position. I  am  quoting  or  telling  of  actual  incidents.  They  say, 
"Do  you  not  find  when  you  go  into  your  church,  that  you  are  em- 
barrassed sometimes  because  you  smoke,  or  because  you  drink 
beer?"  "Oh,  yes,"  the  man  says.  "Well,  in  our  church,  that  makes 
no  difference.  Those  things  have  nothing  to  do  with  religion. 
Come  and  join  us." 

So  they  take  into  their  socials  our  members;  our  members  drink 
a  little  and  smoke  as  much  as  they  wish.  Finally  the  Rubicon  is 
crossed,  and  the  members  are  lost  to  us.  These  propaganda  organ- 
izations are  building,  in  some  places,  halls  of  amusement.  In  one 
of  our  mission  fields,  they  have  built  next  door  to  one  of  our  own 
churches,  where  they  carry  on  these  amusements,  not  in  accordance 
with  our  standards,  at  the  same  time  that  we  are  holding  services. 
That  is  an  extreme  case,  but  there  is  such  a  situation,  and  there 
are  many  other  places  where  they  are  providing  amusement  under 
the  same  conditions  and  to  the  same  import. 

Principles  Attacked 

They  tell  our  people  that  the  Word  of  Wisdom  has  nothing  to 
do  with  real  religion — nothing  at  all.  Then  they  tell  them  that  if 
you  sin,  you  come  and  confess  and  pay  some  penance,  the  sin  is 
forgiven. 

They  attack,  among  other  things,  baptism  for  the  dead,  and 
are  finally  bringing  themselves  around  to  the  position  of  atheistic 
scholars  who  have  said  that  that  wonderful  passage  in  the  fifteenth 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Dag 


chapter  of  First  Corinthians,  "Else  what  shall  they  do  which  are 
baptized  for  the  dead,  if  the  dead  rise  not  at  all?"  (verse  29)  was 
addressed  to  pagans,  and  not  to  the  early  Saints;  that  the  practice 
referred  to  was  a  pagan  practice. 

Well,  read  how  the  epistle  to  the  Corinthians  is  introduced, 
and  read  how  the  fifteenth  chapter  is  introduced,  then  you  will 
have  no  doubts  that  the  epistle  was  addressed  to  the  Saints, 
and  that  the  early  Saints  baptized  for  the  dead. 


On  the  principle  that  the  wish  may  be  the  father  to  the  thought, 
they  say  that  our  religion  cannot  last  because  it  is  too  hard  for  the 
individual  to  live,  and  therefore  our  religion  will  fade  away  and  be- 
come extinct.  Of  course,  their  present  feverish  activity  belies  that 
thought.  But  as  I  think  of  that  statement,  it  seems  to  me  that 
among  the  many  answers  that  might  be  given  to  it,  one  of  them  is 
that  our  Church  has  been  set  up  never  to  be  thrown  down,  and  that 
this  gospel  is  never  to  be  given  to  another  people.  Another  is  that 
the  restored  gospel  is  more  than  what  they  mean  by  religion.  When 
they  talk  of  religion,  they  speak  merely  of  a  relationship  between 
God  and  man;  all  questions  of  the  relationship  of  man  to  man  have 
passed  put  of  their  religion.  But  our  plan  is  a  plan  of  life  and 
salvation,  including,  not  only  the  relationship  of  man  to  God,  but 
also  as  I  have  said,  the  relationship  of  man  to  man,  throughout  the 
eternities,  and  the  divine  destiny  God  has  planned  for  his  righteous 
children. 


There  is  a  heresy  which  is  amongst  us  now  in  some  degree  and 
which  has  existed  since  the  early  Christian  days,  which  declares 
that  the  God  of  the  Old  Testament  is  not  the  God  of  the  New,  that 
the  Old  Testament  God  has  disappeared.  I  have  never  quite  been 
able  to  see  how  the  proponents  of  this  idea  could  square  it  with  the 
statement;  which  the  Savior  made  repeatedly,  that  he  did  only 
what  he  had  seen  the  Father  do,  and  he  taught  only  what  the  Father 
had  taught  him.  Thus  those  who  would  drive  out  the  God  of  the 
Old  Testament  must  deny  the  Christ  in  order  to  do  it.  These  other 
churches  seem  to  regard  God  as  a  God  of  vengeance,  seeking  to 
destroy  his  children.  We  know  that  our  God  is  a  God  of  love, 
because  he  was  the  Father,  and  as  I  have  said,  Jesus  said  he  taught 
what  his  Father  had  taught,  and  he  did  what  he  had  seen  his  Father 
do. 


Too  Hard  to  Live 


Heresy  Amongst  Us 


Obligation  to  Preserve  Truth 


My  brothers  and  sisters,  if  there  ever  was  a  time  in  our  history 
when  we  must  be  on  guard  against  the  insidious  influences  and  pro- 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  165 


paganda  of  the  churches  of  the  world  and  the  atheists  of  the  world, 
that  time  is  today.  We  must  not  be  asleep.  We  have  the  truth; 
we  must  preserve  it  and  ourselves  in  it. 

After  Jesus  had  returned  from  the  wilderness  following  his 
baptism,  he  came  to  the  River  Jordan  where  John  was  still  baptiz- 
ing. As  John  stood  there,  seeing  the  Savior,  he  said,  "Behold  the 
Lamb  of  God,"  and  apparently  replying  to  somebody  who  wanted 
to  flatter  him  and  tell  him  how  great  he  was,  he  added,  ".  .  .  whose 
shoe's  latchet  I  am  not  worthy  to  unloose."  (John  1:27.) 

The  next  day  Jesus  came  again  to  the  group  on  the  banks  where 
John  was  baptizing,  and  again  John  said,  "Behold  the  Lamb  of 
God."  Andrew  and  some  others  who  were  the  disciples  of  John, 
followed  Jesus,  who  took  them  to  his  room  and  there  taught  them. 
Then  Andrew  went  out  and  found  Peter,  and  declared  with  joy, 
"We  have  found  the  Messias,"  the  Christ. 

We  of  the  Church  have  found  the  Messiah,  the  Christ.  He 
authorized  and  directed  the  building  of  this  Church.  We  must  not 
let  the  error  and  the  evil  which  knock  at  our  doors,  cross  the  thres- 
hold and  enter  therein  to  rob  us  of  the  greatest  things  that  God  has 
to  give  us — our  children. 

May  we  be  as  wise  as  serpents,  and  as  harmless  as  doves.  May 
we  protect  our  youth  and  those  of  ours  who  do  not  see  as  clearly 
as  they  should  these  dangers  which  threaten  them,  and  against 
which  I  am  warning  you,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the  First  Presidency  has  just 
concluded  speaking,  and  now,  brethren  and  sisters,  we  are  to  be 
blessed  with  a  benediction  and  concluding  message  from  our  beloved 
President,  President  George  Albert  Smith. 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

This  is  a  solemn  occasion.  We  are  met  in  the  concluding  session 
of  a  great  conference.  Representatives  are  here  from  many  parts 
of  the  world.  We  have  been  privileged  to  listen  to  the  counsel 
and  admonition  and  encouragement  of  those  who  have  been  called 
to  direct  in  Israel. 

I  am  sure  everyone  who  has  attended  these  sessions  has  been 
edified,  and  our  minds  have  been  directed  to  him  who  is  the  Author 
of  our  being.  I  have  rejoiced  in  the  delightful  music  we  have  had, 
and  take  this  occasion  to  thank  this  splendid  chorus  that  comes  from, 
what  to  me,  is  the  greatest  university  in  all  the  world.  [Brigham 
Young  University,  Provo  Utah.]  I  know  you  will  pardon  me  for 
referring  to  it  that  way,  because  it  was  where  I  went  to  school. 
I  hope  these  young  people,  members  of  the  chorus  from  Brigham 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


Young  University,  have  rejoiced  in  meeting  with  us  as  much  as  we 
have  in  listening  to  them. 


We  are  living  in  perilous  times.  We  are  approaching  the 
evening  of  the  sixth  day.  All  the  world  is  in  confusion,  and  un- 
fortunately, as  has  been  the  case  before,  the  majority  of  the  men 
and  women  who  live  upon  the  earth  are  in  darkness,  because  they 
do  not  have  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  gospel  of  light. 

I  trust  that  the  few  moments  I  occupy  I  may  have  the  benefit 
of  your  faith  and  prayers,  that  I  may  be  led  to  say  that  which  will 
be  a  source  of  encouragement  and  blessing  to  us  all. 

We  live  in  a  wonderful  land,  choice  above  all  other  lands, 
blessed  as  no  other  nation  is  blessed,  and  yet  we  are  in  danger. 
Our  Heavenly  Father  has  told  us  that  there  is  a  law  irrevocably 
decreed  in  heaven  from  before  the  foundation  of  this  world  upon 
which  every  blessing  is  predicated.  If  we  observe  the  law,  we  will 
obtain  the  blessing.  If  we  fail  to  observe  the  law,  we  have  no 
promise. 


As  my  mind  goes  back  to  the  beginning  as  recorded  in  Genesis, 
and  follows  down  through  the  centuries  that  have  since  elapsed,  I 
realize  that  many  people  have  lost  the  truth  and  turned  to  falsehood, 
thereby  losing  their  blessings. 

The  Lord  has  been  mindful  of  his  children  all  the  time.  He 
has  never  punished  them,  but  he  has  taught  them  so  that  they 
might  not  be  punished  by  their  own  conduct.  Those  who  would 
not  listen  to  God's  representatives  were  destroyed.  On  one  oc- 
casion the  whole  population  of  the  world  was  wiped  out  with  the 
exception  of  a  few  who  listened  to  Noah,  a  servant  of  God,  who 
for  more  than  a  hundred  years  had  called  the  people  to  repentance. 
Only  those  who  were  in  the  ark  were  preserved. 


We  have  the  instance  of  Sodom  and  Gormorrah.  Abraham 
learned  that  the  cities  of  the  plains  were  to  be  destroyed  because 
of  the  wickedness  of  the  people.  He  pleaded  for  those  who  were 
righteous,  saying  to  the  Lord,  "Surely,  you  are  not  going  to  destroy 
all  of  them.  There  must  be  some  people  who  are  worthy  to  live." 
The  reply  to  him  was,  "If  there  are  fifty  righteous  people  in  those 
cities,  they  will  all  be  preserved  from  destruction." 

Then  Abraham  asked,  "Well,  what  if  there  are  forty?"  "Yes, 
if  there  are  forty,"  was  the  answer.  "Then  if  thirty?"  "Yes,  if 
thirty."  "If  twenty?  If  ten?"  "Yes,"  ten  would  be  sufficient  to 
hold  off  the  destruction  of  the  cities,  but  there  were  not  ten  people 
in  those  two  great  cities  who  were  worthy  to  live.    Lot  and  the 


Perilous  Times 


Loss  of  Blessings 


Sodom  and  Gomorrah 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  167 


members  of  his  own  family  fled,  then  the  whole  community  was 
consumed  by  fire. 

Prophets  of  the  Old  Testament  warned  the  various  communi- 
ties from  time  to  time.  They  were  fully  warned  before  destruction 
came,  but  notwithstanding  that  warning,  Jerusalem,  one  of  the  great 
cities  of  the  world,  was  repeatedly  destroyed.  Babylon,  the  great- 
est of  all  nations  at  one  time,  had  been  warned  of  its  wickedness,  but 
the  people  would  not  do  what  the  Lord  wanted  them  to,  and  they 
were  destroyed. 

Sons  of  Helaman 

In  our  own  country  when  the  Nephites  and  the  Lamanites 
were  warring  among  themselves,  they  were  given  certain  promises 
if  they  would  keep  the  commandments  of  God,  told  that  if  they 
did  not,  destruction  would  follow.  Then  we  have  that  marvelous 
record  of  2,060  Lamanite  boys — just  boys — who  joined  the  army 
of  the  Nephites  in  order  to  help  preserve  themselves  and  their 
families,  and  who  faced  certain  death — from  any  natural  stand- 
point— because  they  were  opposing  skilled  warriors.  But  they 
had  been  taught  by  their  mothers  that  God  would  protect  them 
if  they  would  do  their  duty. 

These  2,060  boys,  part  of  the  army  of  the  Nephites,  went  into 
battle  repeatedly.  The  last  struggle  was  so  terrible  that  we  are 
told  all  were  wounded;  two  hundred  of  them  fainted  from  the  loss 
of  blood.  When  Helaman,  their  commander,  saw  their  enemies 
driven  away,  anxious  for  his  young  charges  (he  called  them  strip- 
lings) he  went  through  the  battlefield  and  gathered  the  living.  He 
found  the  2,060  alive,  although  many  had  fainted  from  the  loss  of 
blood. 

Helaman,  who  was  amazed  at  their  miraculous  preservation, 
questioned  them.  Their  response  was  one  of  the  greatest  compli- 
ments to  motherhood  to  be  found  anywhere:  "We  knew  our  mothers 
knew." 

They  believed  what  their  mothers  taught  them.  They  had 
faith  in  God.  They  were  preserved,  and  they  helped  save  their 
homes  and  families  from  destruction. 

Preparation  for  Restoration 

During  the  great  struggle  for  independence  in  the  country 
under  the  leadership  of  George  Washington,  our  Heavenly  Father 
was  preparing  the  way  for  the  restoration  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  in  its  purity. 

He  gave  to  certain  individuals  the  inspiration  to  frame  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States  that  has  been  referred  to  in 
this  conference,  the  greatest  palladium  of  human  rights  that  we 
know  anything  about.    Under  such  a  Constitution  the  gospel  of 


168  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Dag 

Jesus  Christ  was  restored  to  the  earth  one  hundred  nineteen  years 
ago. 

These  facts  are  part  of  the  history  of  the  world,  including  many 
more  that  time  will  not  permit  mentioning. 

The  hand  of  our  Heavenly  Father  has  always  been  extended 
in  love  to  his  children  through  his  prophets  who  pleaded  with 
them  to  repent  of  their  wrongdoing  and  keep  his  commandments. 
When  they  did,  they  were  blessed,  and  when  they  failed,  they  lost 
their  blessings. 

The  Standard  Works 

We  have  here  on  this  stand  the  Holy  Bible  containing  the 
Old  and  New  Testament,  as  well  as  the  Book  of  Mormon  which 
is  the  history  of  the  ancestry  of  the  American  Indian.  We  also 
have  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  containing  the  revelations  of 
God  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  all  available  to  the  children  of 
God.  We  have  also  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price  containing  other 
scripture. 

We  look  upon  these  four  volumes  as  the  teachings  of  our 
Heavenly  Father,  and  accept  them.  There  is  no  teaching  in  them 
that  any  individual  in  the  world  belonging  to  any  church  or  no 
church  can  find  fault  with.  In  every  case  the  admonition  is  to 
make  men  and  women  better  wherever  they  may  be. 

These  scriptures  are  available  to  all.  You  have  been  told 
that  there  are  thousands  of  your  sons  and  daughters  in  the  world 
now,  seeking  to  share  with  our  Father's  other  children  the  truth 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  before  it  is  too  late.  We  are  coming 
dangerously  near  to  a  time  when  our  Heavenly  Father  will  with- 
draw his  spirit  from  the  world  because  the  people  of  the  world 
will  not  accept  it. 

We  have  been  told  today  that  there  are  now  a  million  and 
forty  thousand  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  I  say  to  you,  not  boastfully,  but  seeking  to  explain 
the  truth,  that  this  Church  has  received  in  this  latter-day  a  new 
witness:  God  the  Father  and  the  Son  did  appear  in  the  woods  of 
Palmyra.  A  boy  received  a  witness  that  enabled  him  to  endure 
all  kinds  of  persecution,  and  finally,  as  he  was  taken  by  his  enemies, 
he  said: 

I  am  going  like  a  lamb  to  the  slaughter.  ...  I  have  a  conscience! 
void  of  offense  toward  God,  and  toward  all  men  . . .  and  it  shall  yet  be  said 
of  me— ,'he  was  murdered  in  cold  blood."  (D.H.C.,  6:554-555.) 

Progress  Under  Constitution 

Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet,  and  his  brother  Hyrum  (the  great- 
great-grandfather  of  the  man  who  sits  at  my  left  here  on  the  stand 
and  grandfather  of  the  man  who  sits  behind  me  in  this  congrega- 
tion) died  as  martyrs  at  the  hands  of  a  wicked  mob.    They  were 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  169 


sacrificed  not  for  any  wrong  they  had  done  but  because  they  had 
sought  to  teach  the  truth  and  call  the  people  of  the  world  to  repent 
before  it  was  too  late.  The  work  has  gone  on  and  under  the  Con- 
stitution of  the  United  States  we  have  been  permitted  to  carry 
on  in  this  great  land.  We  have  been  permitted  to  teach  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Our  missionaries  of  course  have  gone  all  over  the 
world,  but  I  am  speaking  now  of  the  United  States  of  America. 
However,  there  are  many  people,  many  men  and  women  in  this 
land,  some  of  whom  may  be  friends  or  relatives  who  are  misguided 
by  the  idea  that  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  isn't  as 
fine  a  system  of  government  as  they  have  in  Russia  or  Germany  or 
Italy  or  some  other  part  of  the  world,  notwithstanding  the  fact 
that  the  Lord  himself  said  that  he  raised  up  the  very  men  who 
framed  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  and  directed  that  the 
membership  of  this  Church  should  pray  for  and  sustain  those  who 
represented  the  Constitution  of  this  land.  I  hold  in  my  hand  the 
Bible  and  can  read  the  Ten  Commandments  that  were  given  to 
Moses  for  the  guidance  of  the  people  wherein  the  Lord  told  Moses 
what  the  people  should  live  for  and  do.  If  those  Ten  Command- 
ments had  been  lived  up  to  by  the  people  of  the  world  down  to  the 
present  time,  this  earth  could  long  ago  have  been  celestialized.  But 
the  people  refused. 

Obedience  to  Commandments 

You  know,  and  I  know,  that  the  Ten  Commandments  contain 
the  will  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  and  I  am  grateful,  not  only  for  the 
civil  laws  but  also  for  the  laws  God  has  given  to  us.  I  feel  bound 
to  conform  my  life  to  the  teachings  of  the  Ten  Commandments. 
I  feel  equally  bound  to  sustain  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States 
which  came  from  the  same  source  as  the  Ten  Commandments. 
Unless  the  people  of  this  great  nation  can  realize  these  things  and 
repent,  they  may  forfeit  the  liberty  that  they  now  enjoy,  and  the 
blessings  that  are  so  multiplied  among  us.  I  do  hope  and  pray 
that  they  will  discover  before  it  is  too  late  that  God  has  spoken 
again.  Your  responsibility  and  mine  is  to  let  our  light  so  shine  that 
others  seeing  our  good  works  will  be  constrained  to  glorify  him 
who  is  the  Author  of  our  being. 

These  books  contain  the  advice  of  the  Father  of  us  all,  the 
Father  of  the  Jews,  the  Gentiles,  the  Christians,  the  pagans.  God 
is  the  father  of  our  spirits,  and  down  through  the  ages  he  has  tried 
to  encourage  people  to  do  the  thing  that  would  bring  them  happiness 
rather  than  unhappiness.  Yet  today  we  find  this  world  in  such  a 
condition  that  there  is  uncertainty  upon  every  hand.  It  is  our  duty 
not  only  to  obey  the  commandments  of  our  Heavenly  Father  but 
also  to  pray  for  those  who  represent  the  constitutional  law  of  our 
land.  It  is  our  duty  to  pray  for  those  who  hold  high  positions  in 
the  states,  and  in  the  nation.    Why?    Because  if  they  can  be  in- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


fluenced  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  there  have  been  many  cases 
where  they  have  been,  the  people  will  recieve  the  blessing  they 
need. 


Brothers  and  sisters,  we  are  coming  to  the  time  when  we  will 
return  to  our  homes,  and  I  ask  you:  Where  in  all  the  world  could 
we  have  spent  the  last  five  days  under  sweeter  influences  than  we 
have  enjoyed  here  in  this  great  Tabernacle?  We  have  been  blessed 
beyond  our  ability  to  appreciate  our  blessings,  I  think.  And  now 
as  we  go  to  our  homes,  will  we  take  to  them  the  influence  that  we 
have  found  here — the  blessing  that  we  enjoy  here — will  it  be  car- 
ried out  to  encourage  those  who  are  not  doing  what  they  should? 
If  we  do,  then  this  conference  will  have  been  to  us  an  added 
blessing,  because  inasmuch  as  we  endeavor  to  bless  the  children  of 
our  Heavenly  Father,  we  receive  a  blessing  ourselves.  In  other 
words,  "Inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  it  unto  one  of  the  least  of  these 
my  brethren,"  the  Master  said,  "ye  have  done  it  unto  me."  We  are 
living  in  perilous  times.  Brethren  and  sisters,  set  your  houses  in 
order.  Gather  your  families  around  you,  have  your  prayers,  ask 
the  blessing  upon  your  food,  give  of  your  substance  to  those  who 
are  in  need. 

When  I  heard  the  reading  of  that  marvelous  record  of  the 
funds  that  have  been  utilized  by  this  little  Church  and  think  of 
what  has  been  given,  and  the  millions  that  have  been  expended  by 
this  group  of  people,  I  marveled,  and  I  stand  here  to  say  that  not 
one  of  you  who  has  contributed  will  be  one  dollar  poorer  than  you 
were  before. 


We  have  this  great  chorus  here  today  representing  Brigham 
Young  University.  There  isn't  any  good  that  could  come  to  that 
school  that  would  not  please  me.  The  leaders  of  that  school  are 
sruggling,  working,  planning,  but  I  am  afraid  there  is  a  limit  to 
what  may  be  accomplished  in  a  financial  way  in  the  immediate 
future.  There  are  wealthy  people  among  us.  There  are  those 
who  are  well-to-do,  who  may  feel  disposed  and  happy  to  help 
this  institution  grow.  I  want  to  say  that  it  is  one  of  the  finest  places 
for  our  young  people  to  go  to  school  that  can  be  found  anywhere. 
I  hope  that  these  young  people  here  will  feel  a  blessing;  I  hope 
they  will  go  back  to  the  school  and  take  with  them  the  spirit  that 
is  enjoyed  here,  grateful  for  the  blessings  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 
They  are  always  close  to  those  who  honor  him  and  keep  his  com- 
mandments. And  I  now  advise  these  young  men,  protect  the  virtue 
of  these  girls  as  you  would  protect  your  lives,  and  to  these  young 
women,  I  say,  protect  the  virtue  of  these  boys  as  you  would  protect 
your  lives.    You  are  all  the  children  of  God,  and  he  loves  you,  but 


Blessings  of  Conference 


Brigham  Young  University 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  171 


the  adversary  will  do  everything  he  can  to  tear  down  and  destroy 
your  opportunities  for  happiness.  That  same  admonition  in  regard 
to  these  students  of  the  university  I  give  to  all  the  sons  and  daughters 
in  the  Church  wherever  they  may  be,  and  if  we  will  honor  God 
and  keep  his  commandments  and  live  as  we  should,  no  matter 
where  the  storms  may  strike,  the  winds  may  blow,  and  the  light- 
nings may  flash,  we  will  be  as  the  children  of  God  always  have  been 
when  they  have  kept  his  commandments:  we  will  be  under  the 
protecting  hand  of  him  who  is  all-powerful. 

We  will  continue  to  go  forward  and  grow  and  develop  in 
life,  and  in  the  end  we  shall  find  a  reward  as  inheritors  in  the 
celestial  kingdom  of  our  God  right  here  upon  this  earth  and  enjoy 
the  companionship  of  those  we  love  forever. 

Our  Father's  Work 

May  the  Lord  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  your 
faithfulness.  And  I  bless  you  as  he  gives  me  power  to  do  so,  that 
you  may  continue  not  only  to  do  as  well  as  you  have  done  in  the 
past  but  that  you  may  also  strive  harder  than  ever  to  save  the  world 
by  teaching  the  people  in  it  who  are  worthy  to  live  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  until  it  shall  have  been  proclaimed  to  all,  and  the 
opportunity  be  given  to  them  to  understand  the  truth,  because  this 
is  our  Father's  work.  This  is  not  the  Church  of  any  man.  It  is  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  the  only  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  that 
is  on  the  earth  which  is  entitled  to  that  name  by  his  appointment. 
Do  you  appreciate  it? 

Men,  do  you  appreciate  your  wives?  Wives,  do  you  love  and 
appreciate  your  husbands?  Parents,  do  you  appreciate  your  chil- 
dren? Children,  do  you  love  and  appreciate  your  parents?  If  we 
do,  then  we  will  love  one  another,  and  there  will  be  peace  and 
happiness  in  our  lives  and  in  our  communities,  and  our  homes  will 
be  the  abiding  place  of  the  Spirit  of  God. 

I  pray  that  this  may  be  the  case  and  that  we  may  now  go  from 
here  renewed  in  our  determination  to  support  the  Constitution  of 
the  United  States  of  America,  to  maintain  the  standards  of  the  Ten 
Commandments,  and  to  observe  the  advice  and  counsel  of  our 
Heavenly  Father,  as  given  by  his  servants  from  time  to  time. 
When  the  time  comes  that  this  earth  shall  be  cleansed  and  purified 
by  fire,  and  the  celestial  kingdom  shall  be  set  up  here,  may  we 
find  our  names  recorded  in  the  Lamb's  book  of  life  entitling  us  to 
a  place  in  that  kingdom,  that  there  will  not  be  one  missing  but  that 
every  one  of  us  and  those  we  love  may  be  there.  This  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  inspired  admonition  and  blessing  to  which  you  have  just 
listened  were  given  by  President  George  Albert  Smith,  President 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 


172  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Dag 

The  choir  music  for  today's  sessions  of  the  Conference  has  been 
furnished  by  the  Brigham  Young  University  Chorus  with  Elder 
Franklin  Madsen  conducting  and  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the 
organ. 

This  has  been  a  most  outstanding  conference,  one  of  the  most 
significant  features  of  which,  besides  the  inspirational  addresses,  is 
the  fact  that  we  have  had  over  one  thousand  young  people  participat- 
ing, furnishing  the  music  for  the  sessions,  besides  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  which  always  renders  an  inspirational  service.  We  had  500 
young  boys  and  girls  Sunday  night,  the  Ricks  College  Choir,  Mon- 
day, Monday  night  the  male  chorus  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  and  on 
Tuesday  night  two  large  groups  of  lesser  Priesthood  singers  from 
two  stakes,  today  this  large  group  of  young  people  from  the  Brigham 
Young  University.  We  thank  you  all;  we  are  proud  of  our  young 
folks  and  feel  inspired  when  they  can  join  us  in  the  worship  of  the 
Lord. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Mixed  Chorus  will  now  sing, 
"Peace  and  Light." 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  W.  Wallace 
McBride  of  the  South  Carolina  Stake,  after  which  this  Conference 
will  be  adjourned  for  six  months. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Mixed  Chorus  sang  "Peace  and 
Light." 

The  benediction  was  offered  by  President  W.  Wallace  McBride 
of  the  South  Carolina  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD 


173 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 

The  General  Priesthood  meeting  of  the  Church  was  held  Mon- 
day evening,  April  4,  at  7:00  p.m. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  was  present  and  presided  and 
conducted  the  services. 

The  music  for  the  meeting  was  furnished  by  the  Men's  Chorus 
of  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  direction  of  Elder  Spencer  Corn- 
wall. 

The  Men's  Chorus  and  the  congregation  sang  as  an  opening 
number:  "Come,  All  Ye  Sons  of  Zion." 

President  J.  Angus  Christensen,  of  the  Palmyra  Stake,  offered 
the  invocation. 

The  Men's  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  sang:  "The  Palms." 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Last  June  I  visited  away  out  in  Blake's  Bay,  with  President  S. 
Dilworth  Young,  at  the  home  of  a  sister  who  was  investigating  the 
gospel,  and  as  we  talked  to  her  about  her  study  of  the  gospel, 
she  said  there  was  one  thing  about  the  teachings  the  missionaries 
had  brought  to  her  that  she  could  not  agree  with.  When  we  asked 
her  what  that  was  she  said  she  could  not  believe  in  the  gospel  of 
the  "second  chance,"  meaning  by  that  the  work,  salvation  for  the 
dead.  Well,  after  this  call  tonight,  after  having  had  one  chance 
in  this  conference,  I  began  to  understand  what  might  be  termed  the 
gospel  of  the  "second  chance."  They  had  given  me  the  second 
chance  to  do  what  I  had  failed  to  do,  probably,  yesterday. 

Members  Away  from  Home 

I  attempted  to  say  something  yesterday  in  the  interest  of  those 
who  are  away  from  their  homes,  the  priesthood  members,  the  girls, 
and  particularly  our  men  in  military  service.  There  are  some  figures 
that  are  available  from  our  quarterly  reports,  our  annual  report, 
that  indicate  that  for  the  year  1948  we  have  had  living  away  from 
their  homes  in  the  stakes  of  Zion  628  high  priests,  417  seventies, 
and  4,362  elders,  or  a  total  of  5,407. 

I  asked  Brother  Palmer  if  he  could  tell  me  how  many  Aaronic 
Priesthood  members  there  are  in  this  group  and  I  suppose  he  is  still 
trying  to  find  those  figures.  I  would  assume  that  probably  the  total 
number  of  Aaronic  Priesthood  members  living  away  from  their  homes 
would  not  be  less  than  the  number  of  Melchizedek  members,  because 
most  of  those  in  military  service  at  the  present  time  hold  only  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood. 

In  other  words,  we  have  approximately  ten  thousand  members 
of  the  Church  who  are  living  away  from  their  homes.  (How  many 
Aaronic  Priesthood  members,  Brother.  Palmer? )  4,1  lO  AaronicPriest- 


174  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

hood  members  added  to  the  5,400  would  give  us  then  a  total  of 
9,500  members  of  the  Church  living  away  from  their  homes. 

Purpose  of  Priesthood  Reports 

Sometimes  when  we  ask  you  to  make  reports,  there  seems 
to  be  a  misunderstanding  as  to  the  purpose  of  those  reports.  We 
have  dared  ask  each  quarter  for  priesthood  quorums  to  report  on 
six  activities.  Those  activities  are  designed  to  call  your  attention 
each  three  months  to  the  things  that  over  a  century  have  been  found 
to  be  the  methods  by  which  men  can  be  won  to  activity  in  this 
Church. 

Those  things  on  the  reports  that  you  are  asked  to  enumerate 
are:  First,  the  number  of  council  meetings  you  have  held  during 
that  quarter.  The  ideal  is  that  there  should  be  a  council  meeting  of 
the  presidency  of  the  quorum  once  each  week.  So  we  ask  you  to 
tell  us  how  many  you  have  held  during  that  time. 

The  second  thing,  we  have  discovered,  that  brings  men  into 
activity  is  the  number  of  visits  that  are  made  to  quorum  members. 
We  ask  you  to  report  that. 

The  number  that  you  have  had  out  to  socials,  or  rather  the 
number  of  socials  you  have  had  during  the  quarter,  and  we  are  sug- 
gesting not  less  than  one  each  month  for  a  quorum. 

The  number  of  projects  you  have,  which  would  invite  the  ac- 
tivity of  quorum  members,  and  the  number  of  those  using  liquor 
and  tobacco  who  have  had  carried  to  them  the  program  designed 
to  help  them  in  their  efforts  to  overcome  the  habit. 

And  finally,  we  have  asked  you  to  tell  us  how  many  you  have 
corresponded  with  during  that  period. 

The  failure  of  priesthood  quorums  to  follow  up  in  any  one  of 
these  activities  is  an  evidence  that  they  are  not  doing  all  they  can 
to  reclaim  those  who  otherwise  are  slipping  away  from  us. 

We  have  asked  you  to  report  one  very  significant  figure  that 
is  always  one  of  great  concern.  We  ask  you  to  tell  us  those  who 
are  active  and  accounted  for,  the  number,  and  that  figure  is  arrived 
at  by  counting  those  who  are  present  at  their  meetings.  Those 
who  are  engaged  in  other  church  work  during  the  priesthood  hour 
and  those  who  are  away  from  their  homes,  not  counting  those  who 
are  on  missions.  That  total  figure  for  1948  for  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  quorums  alone,  the  number  who  are  active  and  accounted 
for,  was  45,778,  but  the  total  number  of  members  accounted  for  in  the 
priesthood  quorums  with  a  few  stakes  not  reporting,  totals  104,953, 
which  means  if  those  reports  are  at  all  accurate  that  we  have  a  total 
counted  inactive  or  unaccounted  for  of  59,175. 

Now,  with  those  figures  before  us,  it  seems  clear  that  in  order 
for  us  to  inaugurate  a  program  that  will  tend  to  win  them  back  we 
would  do  well  to  look  to  our  reports  as  a  matter  of  instruction  rather 
than  merely  as  a  medium  of  reporting  to  the  General  Authorities. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD 


175 


Concern  for  Service  Men 

Now  then,  regarding  those  who  are  living  away  from  home, 
particularly  the  service  men.  We  realize  that  you  do  not  have  a 
great  number  away  from  home,  but  in  two  concentrated  areas, 
one  at  San  Diego  where  a  large  number  of  our  boys  are  to  be 
found  and  the  other  down  at  San  Antonio,  Texas,  we  have  the 
distressing  reports  from  both  of  these  concentrated  centers,  where 
we  have  some  hundreds  of  our  boys,  that  by  actual  count  there 
are  few  in  those  camps  who  have  received  a  letter  from  their 
priesthood  quorums  or  from  their  bishops,  and  they  have  not  had 
their  cards  reported  to  the  general  office  of  the  Servicemen's  Com- 
mittee so  that  someone  living  in  a  nearby  branch  or  ward  of  the 
Church  might  be  sent  to  bring  them  into  our  priesthood  and  church 
meetings. 

Now,  brethren,  the  First  Presidency  and  the  Twelve,  after 
discussion,  considering  a  program  that  would  be  designed  to  safe- 
guard the  welfare  of  these  young  boys,  who,  for  the  most  part  are 
untrained  and  inexperienced,  ask  that  there  be  organized  in  each 
stake  a  committee  composed  of  a  member  of  the  stake  Melchizedek 
and  Aaronic  Priesthood  Committees,  and  that  under  their  direction 
there  would  be  inaugurated  an  instruction  to  all  priesthood  quorums 
that  would  urge  them  to  correspond  with  their  absent  members 
each  month,  enclosing  therewith  a  tract  on  some  gospel  principle 
and  a  tract  on  the  word  of  wisdom  that  might  be  obtained  from  the 
No  Liquor-Tobacco  chairman.  That  letter  should  be  a  letter  of 
encouragement  and  of  friendliness  in  order  that  they  might  feel 
their  relationship  to  the  quorum  which  sends  the  letter. 

It  has  also  been  urged  that  all  priesthood  quorums  send  to 
each  such  absent  service  man  a  copy  of  the  Era  and  the  Church 
Section  of  the  Deseret  News,  and  that  these  be  supplied  by  the 
priesthood  quorums  from  funds  which  they  will  raise  themselves. 

Now,  while  we  have  but  few  from  each  quorum  or  from  each 
ward,  if  we  are  not  able  to  take  care  of  the  few  I  wonder  what  is 
going  to  happen  to  our  young  men  when  we  get  the  many  that  we 
may  get  with  an  increasing  of  the  draft  or  from  compulsory  military 
service,  which  we  pray  God  may  not  come. 

We  ask  you  brethren  to  redouble  your  efforts,  you  stake 
presidents  to  again  stimulate  the  carrying  out  of  the  instructions, 
bishops  of  wards,  the  presidencies  of  quorums,  in  order  that  these 
boys  will  be  cared  for  and  their  lives  safeguarded  by  that  care. 

We  would  like  to  commend  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  who  this 
year  have  required  as  an  item  which  they  must  attain  to  in  order  to 
get  a  standard  quorum  award,  that  they  account  for  the  absent 
members  of  their  Aaronic  Priesthood  quorums  who  are  away  from 
their  homes,  not  being  content  merely  to  count  the  boys  who  are 
now  living  at  home.  We  ask  you  Melchizedek  quorums  to  be  just 
as  attentive  with  regard  to  the  boys  of  your  quorums. 


176  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

Priesthood  Course  of  Study 

Now,  one  more  matter.  There  has  been  prepared  by  Elder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith  an  excellent  course  of  instruction  for  all 
Melchizedek  quorums  under  the  title,  "Church  History  and  Mod- 
ern Revelation."  Each  year  there  have  been  prepared  thirty-six 
lessons  with  the  understanding  that  three  class  periods  of  not 
less  than  forty-five  minutes  each  be  devoted  to  a  study  of  the  lesson 
manual  each  month,  it  also  being  understood  that  one  of  the  four 
class  periods  might  be  devoted  to  a  quorum  business  meeting  where 
the  membership  of  the  quorum  all  reside  in  the  one  ward.  Other- 
wise, there  would  be  occasional  time  for  an  extra  lesson,  and  so 
thirty-six  lessons  have  been  provided  for  the  study  of  the  quorums. 

It  has  come  to  our  attention  that  in  some  stakes  and  some 
quorums  there  has  been  a  program  that  does  not  permit  the  car- 
rying out  of  this  lesson  program.  In  some  stakes  there  has  been 
a  ward  teachers'  report  meeting  being  held  during  the  time  of  the 
priesthood  meeting  once  each  month  which,  if  you  will  think  for  a 
moment,  would  deny  the  possibility  of  carrying  out  the  lesson  in- 
structions that  have  been  provided.  Also,  in  some  quorums  we  have 
learned  that  the  monthly  quorum  meetings  have  been  held  once 
each  month  where  the  membership  of  the  quorum  have  been  taken 
away  from  the  priesthood  meeting  on  that  Sunday. 

We  ask  you  brethren  to  pay  attention  to  the  instructions 
that  have  been  given  as  to  the  course  of  lessons  in  order  that  these 
difficulties  might  be  overcome. 

The  Lord  bless  you,  my  brethren,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

And  I  give  unto  you  a  commandment  that  you  shall  teach  one  another 
the  doctrine  of  the  kingdom.  Teach  ye  diligently  and  my  grace  shall 
attend  you,  that  you  may  be  instructed  more  perfectly  in  theory,  in 
principle,  in  doctrine,  in  the  law  of  the  gospel,  in  all  things  that  pertain 
unto  the  kingdom  of  God,  that  are  expedient  for  you  to  understand." 

And  then,  in  the  next  paragraph  he  tells  us  to  comprehend  all 
phases  of  instruction  pertaining  to  the  earth,  the  heavens,  to  the  end, 

That  ye  may  be  prepared  in  all  things  when  I  shall  send  you  again 
to  magnify  the  calling  whereunto  I  have  called  you,  and  the  mission  with 
which  I  have  commissioned  you.  Behold  I  sent  you  out  to  testify  and 
warn  the  people,  and  it  becometh  every  man  who  hath  been  warned 
to  warn  his  neighbor.    Therefore,  they  are  left  without  excuse,  .  . 

There  are  two  things  which  the  Lord  here  asks  us  to  do.  that  we 
are  to  teach  and  to  warn,  testify  of  the  truths  of  the  Gospel  and  to 
warn  the  people  of  the  evils  in  the  world. 

There  are  two  great  phases,  departments,  of  our  Church  in 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD 


177 


which  the  priesthood  exercises  the  right  of  teaching,  one  is  in  the 
organized  stakes;  the  other,  in  the  mission  field.  I  should  like  to 
say  a  few  words  about  the  latter  phase  of  this  great  modern  work. 
First,  regarding  some  items  which  pertain  to  the  calling  of  mis- 
sionaries. 

Calling  of  Missionaries 

About  a  year  ago,  or  so,  we  suggested  that  young  couples 
should  not  be  called  into  the  mission  field,  for  reasons  given.  Just 
by  way  of  reminding  you,  we  thought  it  best  for  the  young  couples 
not  to  go  into  the  mission  fields  because,  in  the  first  place,  in  the 
natural  course  of  events,  the  responsibilities  of  motherhood  would 
interfere  with  the  work  of  the  sisters,  and  if  anything  were  done 
to  postpone  that  responsibility,  the  Church  would  become  a  party 
to  birth  control,  and  the  Church  will  have  nothing  to  do  with  that 
evil. 

But  at  that  time  it  was  suggested  it  might  be  permissible  for  a 
young  girl  to  go  out  and  join  her  husband  during  the  last  six  months 
of  his  mission.  Now  that  was  given  particularly  because  some  of 
our  young,  many  of  our  young  men  had  been  out  in  the  war,  been 
on  the  battlefields,  been  away  from  home  two,  three,  four,  five  years, 
and  now  going  out  into  the  mission  field.  Naturally,  they  wanted 
to  get  married  when  they  came  home,  and  so  that  permission  was 
given.  Tonight,  we  should  like  to  say  that  it  has  not  worked  out 
very  satisfactorily,  brethren,  and  the  conditions  that  justified  the 
giving  of  such  permission  have  become  practically  non-existent.  We 
suggest,  therefore,  that  you  discontinue  encouraging  these  young  girls 
or  giving  the  thought  to  them  that  they  might  go  out  and  join  their 
husband  if  they  marry  just  before  he  leaves,  to  join  him  the  last  six 
months. 

Mission  presidents  feel  that  it  is  not  in  the  best  interests  of 
the  work.  And  only  by  special  permission,  by  special  request  of 
some  mission  president  will  that  be  granted;  and  to  you  bishops  and 
presidents  of  stakes  we  suggest  that  the  thought  be  discouraged. 

It  is  suggested,  secondly,  that  more  care  be  taken  in  recommend- 
ing missionaries.  Now  you  have  heard  that  repeated  time  and 
time  again.  Missionary  work  is  strenuous,  the  change  of  climate, 
often  the  worry  that  takes  possession  of  some  of  our  young  men 
at  first,  sometimes  homesickness,  discouragement.  Unless  they  are 
physically  strong  they  break  under  it,  and  it  is  surprising  how  many 
during  the  last  six  months  have  so  broken.  That,  too,  hinders  the 
work  in  the  mission  field.  That  applies  also  to  those  who  are  past 
middle  age,  to  elderly  couples  that  would  like  to  go  out.  They 
seem  strong,  capable  to  do  work  here  at  home,  but  when  they 
get  out  in  the  field  under  different  circumstances,  not  a  small  number 
of  them  fail  to  meet  the  vicissitudes  and  the  responsibilities  of  the 
mission.    So  now,  before  your  elderly  couple  will  be  sent  out  to 


178  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday.  April  6  Third  Day 

the  field  the  mission  president  will  be  communicated  with;  and  if 
he  can  use  them,  all  right;  if  not,  we  will  ask  that  they  remain  in  the 
home  fields,  in  the  organized  stakes. 

Now  we  recognize,  bishops,  that  you  are  going  to  have  diffi- 
culty in  satisfying  some  of  these  young  men  who  feel  that  they 
can  go  out,  who  may  be  physically  handicapped.  Physicians  may 
declare  a  weakness  in  the  eyes,  probably  in  the  heart.  The  young 
men  will  say,  "Well,  we  can  work  hard  and  we  should  like  to  go," 
and  sympathetically  you  say,  "All  right."  They  feel  as  though 
they  will  be  deprived  of  a  privilege,  and  no  doubt  they  will  in  a 
sense,  but  let  us  emphasize  the  importance  of  the  work  here  at 
home.  It  is  just  as  important,  the  home  missionary  work,  and  they 
can  be  here  under  their  normal  surroundings,  and  be  near  any  help, 
medically,  which  they  might  need.  So  let  us  try  to  impress  them 
with  the  fact  that  they  can  serve  the  Lord  here  at  home  to  the  ex- 
tent of  their  physical,  intellectual  and  spiritual  ability,  and  probably 
better  than  going  out  into  the  world  under  conditions  which  might 
be  too  strenuous  for  them. 

I  am  pleased  to  report  to  you  that  the  Chinese  mission  is  about 
to  be  reopened.  The  mission  presidency,  two  of  them  at  least,  have 
already  been  chosen,  as  you  have  undoubtedly  noticed  in  the  papers, 
and  within  the  next  few  months  we  hope  papers  will  be  in  such  shape 
that  the  brethren,  under  the  direction  of  President  Cowley  will  go 
over  there  and  establish  a  headquarters  and  preach  the  gospel  again 
to  that  mighty  nation. 

Success  in  Japanese  Mission 

You  will  be  delighted,  too,  to  hear  of  the  success  attending  our 
missionaries  in  Japan.  I  thought  you  would  be  interested  in  this 
message  from  President  Clissold: 

With  a  nucleus  of  several  old  members  who  had  been  meeting  with 
Nisei  saints  from  Hawaii,  here  in  the  service,  A  Sunday  School  was  fully 
organized  at  Ogikubo,  Tokyo  in  April  1948,  and  now  has  an  average 
attendance  of  over  two  hundred.  Other  Sunday  Schools  organized  in 
Tokyo  are  at  Shimokitazawa,  Denenchofu,  and  Takanaway.  Cottage 
meetings,  Primaries,  and  study  classes  are  being  held  in  several  other  areas, 
making  in  all  21  weekly  meetings  in  Tokyo,  with  an  average  attendance 
of  over  eleven  hundred  people.*** 

One  of  the  faithful  members  of  the  former  mission  and  a  man  of 
considerable  influence  in  Takasaki,  a  city  ninety  miles  north  of  Tokyo,  has 
been  of  great  assistance  to  the  missionaries  assigned  to  that  district.  He 
helps  them  with  a  large  Sunday  School  and  several  weekly  meetings, 
including  an  M.I.A.  gathering  of  over  four  hundred  young  people. 

All  of  the  organizations,  with  one  exception,  are  presided  over  by 
missionaries.  Since  January,  however,  there  have  been  twelve  ordinations 
to  the  priesthood,  and  it  is  expected  that  local  people  will  be  called  to 
positions  of  responsibility  in  the  near  future.*** 

Including  the  mission  president  and  his  wife,  there  are  seventeen 
missionaries  in  this  field.    Eight  of  them  are  Niseis,  six  from  Hawaii, 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD 


179 


one  from  the  mainland,  United  States,  and  one  from  Canada.  They 
are  without  exception  capable  and  earnest  young  people.  As  the 
Cacausian  missionaries  are  in  the  process  of  learning  the  language,  the 
burden  of  the  work  thus  far,  with  one  notable  exception,  has  been  borne  by 
the  Nisei  missionaries.  They  are  a  great  credit  to  the  wards  and  branches 
from  which  they  come. 

About  fifty  members  of  the  former  mission  have  been  found.  [After  all 
these  years  of  disorganization]  These  faithful  saints  are  the  nuclei 
around  which  the  present  organizations  are  being  built.  They  are  prac- 
tically all  people  of  high  standing  and  influence  in  the  communities  in 
which  they  live,  and  are  excellent  examples  of  the  efficacy  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saint  way  of  life.  These  humble  members,  in  their  steadfastness 
through  almost  a  quarter  of  a  century  of  isolation,  have  demonstrated  a 
loyalty  and  faith  that  is  unexcelled  in  the  Church.  If  there  has  ever 
been  any  thought  that  the  first  mission  in  Japan  was  not  successful,  the 
faith  and  the  works  of  these  stalwart  members  should  dispel  it  forever. 
To  associate  with  them  as  they  labor  to  assist  the  missionaries  would  fill 
with  deep  satisfaction  the  hearts  of  the  former  missionaries  who  struggled 
against  great  odds  to  glean  just  a  handful  of  converts  out  of  over  twenty 
years  of  missionary  effort. 

We  have  good  word  from  the  Saints  in  Germany,  and  encour- 
aging word  even  from  Czecho-slovakia,  although  government  of- 
ficials refused  to  let  seven  of  our  missionaries  enter  Czecho-slovakia 
a  month  or  so  ago.  But  those  who  are  there  are  encouraged  and 
people  are  hungering  for  the  truth. 

Other  missions  report  progress.  It  is  just  inspiring  to  receive 
the  letters  of  encouragement  from  the  mission  presidents  and  from 
elders,  missionaries  and  the  sisters,  and  also  to  hear  the  reports  of 
the  returned  elders  from  the  various  missionary  fields.  Truly  the 
harvest  is  great,  and  these  mission  presidents  would  tell  you  that 
the  laborers  are  few.  Though  five  thousand  missionaries,  a  few 
under  that  now — many  have  come  home — are  in  the  field,  each 
mission  president  is  asking  for  many  more  than  these  he  has  in  his 
missionary  corps. 

Teaching  and  Warning 

Teaching,  warning,  testifying  of  the  restoration  of  the  gospel, 
warning  the  people,  and  it  "becometh  every  man  also  to  warn  his 
neighbor."  Within  the  last  twenty-four  hours  there  have  been 
gathered  here  in  connection  with  this  conference,  I  suppose,  twenty 
thousand  teachers,  probably  eight  thousand  here  tonight,  an  equal 
number  last  night  in  this  building  and  in  the  Assembly  Hall.  Within 
twenty-four  hours  approximately  twenty  thousand  teachers,  and 
I  am  speaking  to  teachers  tonight,  for  the  priesthood  means  teach- 
ing, the  authority  to  represent  the  Lord  in  teaching  the  Gospel, 
the  Gospel  of  the  Kingdom. 

I  thought  that  one  of  the  most  effective  means  of  teaching  is 
proclaiming  the  glories  of  the  gospel  as  we  heard  today,  but  equally 
effective  in  this  old  world,  is  that  which  warns  of  the  dangers.  You 
remember  what  Paul  says  in  his  epistle  to  the  Galatians,  about  the 
works  of  the  flesh  being  manifest,  such  as  adultery,  fornication, 


180  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Dag 

lying,  and  he  listed  all  the  evils,  and  he  concludes  after  doing  that 
by  saying  that  "they  who  do  these  things  shall  not  inherit  the 
Kingdom  of  God." 

And  then  in  contrast  he  says:  "Now  the  fruits  of  the  spirit  are 
these,  love,  joy,  peace  .  .  .  "and  so  on,  and  the  blessings  that  will 
follow.  There  are  two  things  always  that  we  should  keep  in  mind: 
one,  the  beauty  of  a  righteous  life;  the  other,  the  warning  against 
indulgence  in  the  evil  life,  and  you  cannot  get  away  from  that. 

Influences  Upon  Life 

As  I  recall  the  influences  upon  my  young  life,  I  believe  the 
greatest  was  the  memorizing  of  that  important  saying:  "My  spirit 
will  not  dwell  in  an  unclean  tabernacle." 

Then  there  were  three  others,  and  they  were  all  in  the  form 
of  warnings.  The  first  came  to  me  as  a  boy  as  I  sat  on  a  spring  seat 
by  the  side  of  my  father  as  we  drove  into  Ogden.  Just  before  we 
crossed  the  bridge  across  the  Ogden  River,  a  man  came  out  from 
a  saloon,  which  was  just  on  the  northern  bank  of  the  river.  I 
recognized  him.  I  liked  him  because  I  had  seen  him  on  the  local 
stage.  But  on  that  occasion  he  was  under  the  influence  of  liquor,  and 
had  been  for,  I  suppose,  several  days. 

I  did  not  know  it,  did  not  know  he  drank,  but  as  he  broke 
down  and  cried  and  asked  father  for  fifty  cents  to  go  back  into 
the  saloon,  I  saw  him  stagger  away.  As  we  drove  across  the  bridge 
my  father  said:  "David,  he  and  I  used  to  go  ward  teaching  together." 

That  was  all  he  said,  but  it  was  a  warning  to  me  that  I  have 
never  forgotten,  about  the  effect  of  dissipation. 

A  little  later,  a  teacher  gave  us  to  read  a  story  about  a  group 
of  young  people  sailing  down  the  St.  Lawrence  River.  If  any  of 
you  can  find  it  I  wish  you  would  give  it  to  me.  I  cannot  give  you 
the  author,  I  cannot  give  you  the  title,  but  I  can  give  you  the 
memory  that  has  stayed  with  me,  about  those  young  folks  who  were 
drinking  and  carousing  and  having  a  good  time  in  the  boat  sailing 
down  that  noted  river.  But  a  man  on  the  shore,  recognizing,  realiz- 
ing the  dangers  ahead  of  them,  cried:  "Hello,  there,  the  rapids  are 
below  you." 

But  they  ignored  his  warning,  defied  him.  "We  are  all  right," 
and  continued  in  their  jocularity  and  their  indulgences.  And  again 
he  cried  out:  "The  rapids  are  below  you,"  and  again  they  gave  no 
heed  to  his  warning. 

Suddenly  they  found  themselves  in  the  rapids.  Then  they  im- 
mediately began  to  row  for  the  shore,  but  it  was  too  late.  I  do  not 
remember  but  just  the  words  of  the  last  paragraph,  but  cursing, 
yelling,  over  the  rapids,  over  the  falls  they  went. 

Negative?  Yes.  But  I  will  tell  you  there  are  many  in  the 
stream  of  life  who  are  rowing  just  that  way.  I  have  never  forgotten 
the  story.  I  hope  I  shall  find  it  again.  


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  181 


And  the  third  was  a  warning  of  the  danger  of  unchastity.  It 
was  not  my  father  who  gave  me  that,  but  it  was  a  teacher  who  spoke 
to  a  group  of  us  boys  about  the  danger  of  impurity,  of  sexual  impur- 
ity, getting  disease,  sexual  disease,  getting  it  into  the  blood  and 
transmitting  that  disease  to  innocent  offspring. 

Later  the  thought  was  expressed  by  one  of  our  American  poets 
in  that  poem  in  which  a  boy  says,  among  other  things,  he  is  going  to 
have  his  fling : 

"And  I  said  religion  is  rot, 

And  the  laws  of  the  world  are  nil — 

The  bad  man  is  he  who  is  caught 
And  cannot  foot  the  bill. 

For  I  saw  men  everywhere 

Hot-footing  the  road  to  vice, 
And  women  and  preachers  smiled  on  them 

So  long  as  they  paid  the  price. 

So  I  had  my  joy  of  life, 

And  I  went  the  pace  of  the  town; 
And  then  I  took  me  a  wife, 

And  started  to  settle  down. 

I  had  gold  enough  and  to  spare 

For  all  of  the  simple  joys 
That  go  with  a  house  and  a  home, 

And  a  brood  of  girls  and  boys. 

I  married  a  girl  with  health, 

And  virtue,  and  spotless  fame; 
I  gave  in  exchange  my  wealth, 

And  a  proud  old  family  name. 

And  I  gave  her  the  love  of  a  heart 

Grown  sick  and  sated  with  sin. 
My  deal  with  the  devil  was  up 

And  the  last  bill  handed  in." 

So  he  thought. 

"We  were  going  to  be  blessed  with  a  child, 

And  when  in  anguish  she  cried, 
With  love  and  fear  I  was  wild 

But  now  I  wish  he  had  died. 


182  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday.  April  6  Third  Day 

For  the  son  she  bore  me  was  blind, 

And  crippled  and  weak  and  sore, 
And  the  mother  was  left  a  wreck — 

Aye  it  was  so,  she  had  settled  my  score. 

I  said  I  would  have  my  fling, 

And  they  knew  the  paths  I  would  go, 

Yet  no  one  told  me  a  thing 
Of  what  I  needed  to  know. 

Folks  talk  too  much  of  a  soul 

From  heavenly  joys  debarred, 
But  not  enough  of  the  souls  unborn 

By  the  sins  of  their  fathers  scarred." 

Warn  Youth  of  Dangers 

Modern  science  has  made  youth  a  little  more  daring,  but  I  will 
tell  you  the  danger  is  just  as  great.  Warn,  warn  youth  of  the 
dangers  of  the  flesh,  the  works  of  the  flesh. 

Never  have  I  been  more  thankful  in  my  life  for  noble  parents. 
It  is  great  to  be  well  born.  Not  much  preaching  but  just  a  hint 
here  and  a  hint  there  about  pure  living,  and  the  saying:  "When  you 
start  out  with  girls,  you  treat  that  young  girl,  now,  David,  as  you 
would  have  any  other  boy  treat  your  sister." 

The  training  of  the  teachers,  the  teachings  they  receive,  rough 
boys,  seemingly  not  much  attention  paid  to  what  they  say,  but 
those  teachings  and  warnings  remain  all  through  life.  "Testify," 
says  the  Lord  through  Joseph  Smith  "and  warn."  And  when  you 
are  warned,  warn  your  neighbor. 

Testimony 

Brethren,  I  know  as  I  know  I  am  looking  into  your  faces  that 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  true,  and  that  He  is  my  Saviour,  as 
real  as  He  was  when  Thomas  said,  with  bowed  head,  "My  Lord 
and  my  God!" 

I  know  that  if  our  young  people  will  only  accept  the  teachings 
and  live  the  standards  that  they  will  be  the  happiest,  most  joyous 
persons  in  all  the  world,  and  I  know  if  they  do  not,  that  they  will 
bring  sorrow  upon  themselves  and  upon  their  wives  and  children 
in  the  future. 

I  know  that  the  gospel  was  restored  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  by  the  Father  and  the  Son,  who  are  as  real  today  in  con- 
nection with  the  other  world  as  my  loved  ones  and  yours.  And  as 
teachers  here,  we  are  to  let  the  people  know  it,  and  warn  these 
men  —  and  this  is  not  imagination  —  who,  after  having  lived  with 
their  wives  and  brought  into  this  world  four  and  five  and  six  children, 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD 


183 


get  tired  of  their  wives  and  seek  a  divorce,  that  they  are  on  the  road 
to  hell.  It  is  unfair  to  a  woman  to  leave  her  that  way,  just  be- 
cause the  man  happens  to  fall  in  love  with  some  younger  woman 
and  feels  that  the  wife  is  not  so  beautiful  or  attractive  as  she  used 
to  be. 

Only  the  other  day  such  an  incident  came  before  us.  Warn 
him!  Nothing  but  unhappiness  for  him  and  injustice  to  those  chil- 
dren. 

Well,  brethren,  God  bless  you.  God  bless  the  work,  the 
missionaries  abroad;  protect  them  from  evil.  They  are  in  the 
midst  of  it.  God  bless  these  mission  presidents,  that  they  may 
have  influence  with  the  young  boys  who  are  getting  discouraged, 
some  of  them,  and  bless  you  parents  at  home  who  are  sacrificing  to 
send  them,  and  you  men  of  the  priesthood  and  the  quorums,  that  you 
may  gather  around  those  who  are  seemingly  indifferent  and  win 
them  into  quorum  activity. 

I  bear  you  the  testimony  that  this  is  God's  work,  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  Men  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn:  "Do  What  Is  Right." 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

President  Smith  has  requested  that  I  speak  next.  I  rather  feel 
that  perhaps,  if  we  were  to  adjourn  now,  after  the  powerful  and 
inspired  utterances  of  President  McKay,  we  would  be  better  off 
than  perhaps  to  have  me  try  to  say  something,  but  obedient  to  the 
request  of  the  President  I  shall  do  the  best  I  can. 

I  do  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  me  and  that  you  will  be  good 
enough  to  ask  him  in  my  behalf  that  he  will  grant  the  blessing,  in 
order  that  you  may  be  edified,  strengthened,  and  built  up. 

Over  the  last  year  I  have  been  doing  considerable  reading  of 
a  more  intensive  kind  than  I  have  before  done,  on  the  matters  I 
have  been  reading  about,  and  I  have  been  impressed  with  certain 
historical  facts  to  which  I  wish  briefly  to  allude. 

Early  Christian  History 

For  some  reason,  which  is  not  clear,  either  from  history  or  from 
scriptures,  it  does  not  appear  that  Peter,  James  and  John,  who  were 
left  as  the  First  Presidency  of  the  primitive  church,  ever  appointed 
any  successors  to  themselves.  The  result  was  what  might  have 
been  expected.  There  grew  up  certain  great  centers,  Alexandria, 
Rome,  Carthage,  Caesarea,  and  so  on.  As  time  went  on,  each  of 
these  was  presided  over  by  a  bishop.  They  had  no  central  guiding 
hand,  and  the  result  was  they  began  to  dispute  about  doctrine,  and 


184  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

about  rites  and  ceremonies.  Cults  grew  up,  one  cult  here,  another 
there.  These  various  units,  headed  by  bishops,  drifted  off  into  con- 
trary or  divergent  directions.  They  called  councils  from  time  to 
time  to  settle  their  disputes.  The  great  council  of  Nicaea  about 
325  after  Christ  was  the  first  great  ecumenical  council.  There  they 
tried  to  settle  certain  matters  of  doctrine. 

There  was  no  unity  in  the  church;  there  was  no  unifying  direc- 
tion.   They  were  as  lost  sheep. 

The  church  moved  fairly  well  while  the  apostles  still  lived. 
Then  followed  a  secondary  period  when,  the  apostles  having  died, 
there  still  lived  those  who  had  known  the  apostles,  and  who  had 
received  from  them  instructions.  This  kept  the  church  from  wander- 
ing too  far  and  too  fast.  Then  the  third  church  generation  came, 
and  not  having  the  anchorage  that  was  given  by  the  apostles  first, 
and  next,  by  those  who  had  known  the  apostles,  they  drifted  and 
drifted  rapidly,  until  by  the  middle  of  the  third  century,  they  had 
lost  the  priesthood,  indeed  they  no  longer  pretented  actually  to 
confer  it.  Their  ordinals  merely  prayed  that  the  Lord  would  give 
the  powers,  the  priesthood  powers  which  Christ  had  conferred  upon 
his  apostles  and  which  they,  in  turn,  had,  according  to  the  sacred 
record,  conferred  upon  a  very  few  individuals. 

Importance  of  Unity 

I  have  never  permitted  an  opportunity  of  this  kind  to  go  by 
without  speaking  on  this  question  of  unity.  I  have  said  to  you 
brethren,  over  and  over  again,  and  I  repeat  it  tonight,  that  if  we 
were  really  united,  if  we  really  saw  eye  to  eye,  and  then  would 
move  in  unison,  there  is  nothing  in  the  world,  in  righteousness,  that 
we  might  not  do  in  accordance  with  the  will  of  the  Lord  and  not  to 
defeat  his  purposes.  But  there  comes  to  us  as  we  get  farther-flung 
in  the  world,  there  comes  constantly  back  to  the  First  Presidency, 
signs  that  if  we  did  not  have  the  priesthood,  if  it  had  been  lost  to 
us  as  it  was  lost  to  the  primitive  church,  we  would  be  marching 
along  the  same  roads  that  they  marched  to  complete  apostasy. 

Now  brethren,  there  is  only  one  way  to  be  united,  and  that 
is  to  be  united.  The  Lord  has  set  up  amongst  us,  with  our  priest- 
hood and  with  our  auxiliaries,  as  nearly  a  perfect  organization  as 
we  mortals,  in  our  present  condition,  can  carry  on.  Just  so  soon 
as  we  undertake,  by  ourselves  and  of  our  own  thought  and  volition, 
of  our  own  wisdom,  to  set  up  other  organizations  than  those  set 
up  by  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  under  the  direction  of  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church,  the  presiding  High  Priest  of  the  Church,  just 
so  soon  as  we  undertake  to  do  that  then  we  are  on  a  detour.  We 
are  no  longer  going  down  the  middle  of  the  road,  We  are  on  a  road 
that  could  lead  to  apostasy. 

I  think  perhaps  that  even  now  there  are  evidences  that  those 
in  the  outlying  areas  farthest  away  from  the  central  organization 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD 


185 


of  the  Church,  are  feeling,  perhaps,  the  absence  of  controls  a  little 
more  keenly  than  they  who  are  nearer  in;  and  yet  I  would  like 
to  say  here  that  my  observation  is  that  among  those  who  are  farther 
away  from  us,  who  do  not  see  us  every  day,  there  is  a  higher  re- 
gard for  the  General  Authorities  than  there  is  among  those  who  are 
around  here.  Yet  there  is  that  seemingly  inevitable  drawing  away 
tendency  in  the  remoter  areas,  to  this  time  in  details  that  leave  us 
still  strong.   But  we  must  be  always  alert. 

The  Lord  gave  us  our  free  agency,  as  you  know,  and  we  may 
think  and  we  may  talk  as  we  wish,  but  we  may  not  teach  false 
doctrine  for  that  is  no  part  of  free  agency.  In  the  spiritual  domain 
false  doctrine  is  the  equivalent  of  libel,  and  slander  in  the  civil  do- 
main.   Those  things  we  may  not  do. 

Plans  of  Men 

This  is  an  age,  a  period,  when  everybody  has  a  new  idea  as  to 
what  to  do  to  cure  the  ills  of  society.  There  are  almost  as  many 
plans  as  there  are  people,  plans  usually  developed  by  men  of  no 
experience  no  training,  no  thought,  and  the  plans  gain  currency 
among  those  who  are  equally  untrained,  inexperienced  and  ill 
taught. 

Amongst  us,  it  is  quite  a  common  thing  for  us  to  look  about 
and  see  something  that  needs  to  be  corrected,  and  so  we  start  a 
movement  to  correct  it.  We  see  something  that  should  be  done, 
some  opportunty  we  think  we  see  that  has  not  been  embraced,  and 
so  we  form  a  plan  to  meet  that  opportunity  as  we  see  it.  I  think 
perhaps  I  might  say  that  not  always  have  our  auxiliary  organizations 
brought  themselves  under  restraint,  the  restraint  of  the  discipline 
of  doing  primarily  the  things  that  they  were  set  up  to  do.  But 
whether  that  be  true  or  not,  it  is  certainly  true  that  here  and  there 
somebody  gets  an  idea  of  what  he  ought  to  do  and  so  starts  out  to 
do  it. 

There  was  handed  to  us  tonight  a  plan  to  satisfy  all  the  needs 
of  the  members  of  a  proposed  group,  from  an  economic,  social, 
physical,  spiritual  and  educational  standpoint.  Well,  that  is  quite 
a  program,  just  to  start  out  with  right  from  scratch.  They  have 
several  hundred  members  they  say. 

The  Lord's  Plan 

Now  brethren,  the  Lord  has  set  up,  as  I  said  to  begin  with, 
an  organization  that  is  as  nearly  perfect  as  we  mortals  can  live, 
and  the  only  safety  we  shall  have  will  be  in  following  that  plan 
and  that  program. 

I  sometimes  think  that  maybe  we  take  to  our  souls  a  little  more 
unction  than  we  should  over  the  thought  that  the  Lord  has  set  up 
his  work  never  more  to  be  thrown  down  or  taken  away  and  given 


186  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday.  April  6  Third  Dag 

to  another  people.  I  believe  that  as  I  believe  I  am  looking  at  you, 
as  I  know  I  am  looking  at  you.  But  that  does  not  say  that  all  of 
us  are  going  to  be  among  those  who  stand  firm  by  the  plan  which 
the  Lord  has  given.  Let  us  be  sure  that  we  do  not  get  away  from 
the  Lord's  plan. 

You  Elders  quorum  men,  Seventies,  High  Priests,  all  of  you 
brethren  of  the  Aaronic  priesthood,  cling  by  what  the  Lord  has 
given  to  you.  There  is  opportunity  for  all  of  the  activity  that  you 
can  possibly  participate  in  and  as  it  is  under  a  divine  plan  there  will 
be  nothing  in  it  that  is  not  profitable  for  you.  Do  not  go  off  and 
try  to  reform  the  Church.  Let  us  reform  ourselves,  and  the  Church 
will  take  care  of  itself. 

Direction  of  Holy  Ghost 

Sometimes  people  get  to  preaching,  preaching  false  doctrines. 
Sometimes  the  Elders  get  to  telling  their  own  ideas  about  what 
the  Gospel  is,  making  their  own  explanations.  The  Prophet  records 
that  on  one  occasion  a  man  came  to  him  and  was  very  much  sur- 
prised when  the  Prophet  told  him  that  a  prophet  was  not  always 
a  prophet.  He  was  a  prophet  only  when  he  spoke  with  the  spirit 
of  prophecy. 

On  two  occasions  today  that  passage  of  the  scripture  has  been 
quoted  and  referred  to,  which  was  really  directed  to  Orson  Hyde, 
but  it  is  applicable  to  all  of  us,  that  whatever  the  servants  of  the 
Lord  say  shall  be  scripture,  the  mind  of  the  Lord,  the  will  of  the 
Lord,  the  voice  of  the  Lord,  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  Some- 
times we  overlook  the  beginning,  "what  ye  say  under  the  direction 
of  the  Holy  Ghost." 

You  remember  that  Paul  and  Barnabas  had  a  little  trouble  in 
their  time.  One  of  them  at  that  particular  occasion  did  not  have 
the  direction  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  inspiration  of  it.  Peter  and  Paul 
had  their  troubles.  They  were  not  then  both  being  moved  by  the 
Holy  Ghost. 

The  Prophet  tells — you  will  find  it  in  his  works — that  some  of 
the  brethren  in  the  early  days  got  very  much  interested  in  the  book 
of  revelation,  a  pregnant  source  of  speculation,  and  he  rebuked  them 
for  it. 

I  would  like  to  urge  you  brethren  to  read  the  scriptures  your- 
selves. We  have  had  some  wonderful  talks  today  about  reading 
the  Book  of  Mormon.  I  subscribe  to  all  of  it.  And  the  other  books 
were  mentioned  at  the  same  time,  the  Bible,  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  But  read  the  scriptures 
and  get  your  own  ideas  about  them. 

In  speaking  about  Brother  Hezekiah  Brown  the  Prophet 
Joseph  said  he  was  so  happy  that  men  could  read  and  think  and 
speculate;  we  were  not  cramped  like  the  sectarians  were,  but  he 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD 


187 


cautioned  the  brethren  that  they  should  be  careful  about  what  they 
taught.  There  is  only  one  source  on  the  earth  that  has  any  right 
to  change  or  modify  or  extend  any  revelation  of  the  Lord,  and  that 
is  the  President  of  the  Church,  the  Prophet,  Seer,  and  Revelator, 
the  presiding  High  Priest.  He  alone,  through  the  inspiration  and 
revelation  of  the  Lord,  can  change  the  revelations  already  given. 
All  the  rest  of  us  can  think  about  them,  talk  about  them,  speculate 
about  them,  but  we  cannot  change  them,  and  until  he  speaks  the 
revelations  stand  as  is.  We  ought  not,  therefore,  to  get  discouraged 
because  somebody  sees  a  revelation  in  a  different  light  from  the 
way  in  which  we  see  it.  We  are  entitled  to  our  opinion;  the  other 
man  is  entitled  to  his  opinion,  but  the  revelation  stands  until  God 
changes  it  in  the  regular  way. 

Appeal  for  Unity 

Brethren,  I  return  again  to  this  question  of  unity.  Can  we  not 
forget  our  little  troubles,  our  little  disagreements?  Can  we  not 
unify  on  the  words  of  the  Lord,  even  as  He  spoke  them;  and  having 
unified  in  our  belief,  can  we  not  unify  ourselves  in  our  observance? 
I  am  talking,  I  know,  to  brethren  who  are  the  stalwarts  of  the 
Church,  the  brethren  to  whom  the  Lord  looks,  and  President  Smith 
as  the  Lord's  representative  looks,  to  carry  on  the  work  of  the 
Church.  You  must  do  it.  President  Smith  cannot  be  everywhere. 
And  you  have  done  a  great  job.  But  we  are  in  perilous  times,  eco- 
nomic, political  and  spiritual,  and  if  you  will  just  harken  to  what 
the  Prophet  of  the  Lord  says  and  be  guided  by  the  revelations  which 
God  has  given  through  his  prophets  in  ancient  times  and  modern 
times,  all  will  be  well. 

I  pledge  you  that  I  will  try,  with  all  my  mind  and  soul  and 
heart,  to  do  the  things  which  our  leader  wishes  us  to  do.  I  wish 
that  you  brethren,  each  and  all  of  you  would  follow  me  in  that 
pledge,  and  if  we  shall  do  that,  we  shall  be  nearer  heaven,  this 
great  priesthood  body  of  the  Church,  we  shall  be  nearer  heaven 
than  we  have  yet  been  in  this  dispensation. 

I  bear  my  testimony  that  I  know  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ  and  the  first  fruits  of  the  resurrection.  I  know  that  the 
gospel  and  the  Priesthood  were  restored  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph.  I  have  the  testimony  of  the  Spirit  to  that  and  the  testimony 
of  the  Spirit  seems  to  me  far  greater  than  the  testimony  of  the 
senses. 

May  God  be  with  all  of  us,  at  all  times,  and  may  we  so  live 
that  he  can  be  with  us  under  all  circumstances,  which  means  that 
we  live  pure  lives,  that  we  keep  away  from  sin  and  the  places  of 
sin,  and  that  we  go  to  no  place  where  we  might  not  ask  our  Heavenly 
Father  to  go  with  us,  may  we  so  live  that  we  may  be  saved  and 
exalted  in  his  presence,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  Amen. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Dag 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


I  hope  that  tonight  we  have  all  taken  into  our  souls  the  in- 
structions that  have  been  given. 

We  have  met  here  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  as  representatives 
of  the  Lord,  holding  his  priesthood.  We  have  been  entitled, 
because  of  so  meeting,  to  divine  guidance.  Sometimes  there  are 
occasions,  and  I  imagine  most  of  us  have  had  them,  when  we  may 
feel  that  there  is  a  better  way  to  do  things  than  the  way  they  are 
being  done,  but  if  we  will  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord — and 
when  I  say  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  I  refer  to  the  Ten  Com- 
mandments, and  the  other  revelations  that  he  has  given  to  the 
children  of  men  through  the  prophets — if  we  will  observe  those 
teachings  we  will  not  go  astray.  It  is  when  we  fail  to  keep  the 
commandments  of  God  that  we  fall  into  darkness. 

I  am  grateful  to  be  here  with  you.  I  was  doubtful  as  to 
whether  I  should  come  out  tonight,  because  I  am  not  as  strong 
as  I  would  like  to  be.  I  felt  however,  that  I  could  not  miss  being  here 
with  this  body  of  men,  and  as  a  result  I  have  been  edified  and 
delighted. 


I  would  like  to  re-emphasize,  if  it  needs  emphasis,  the  sugges- 
tion that  has  already  been  made:  Read  the  scriptures.  That  is  the 
advice  of  the  Lord.  Are  you  taking  it?  It  was  the  Savior  who  said: 
"Search  the  scriptures;  for  in  them  ye  think  ye  have  eternal  life; 
and  they  are  they  which  testify  of  me." 

It  does  not  just  say,  "Read  the  scriptures — but,  search  the 
scriptures."  What  does  that  mean  to  you?  To  me,  it  means  prayer- 
fully to  investigate  what  the  Lord  has  said,  and  in  that  way,  if  we 
are  humble  we  will  be  entitled  to  his  guidance,  and  we  will  not  be 
misled. 

Within  the  last  few  days  I  received  a  letter  from  a  man  who 
was  excommunicated  from  the  Church,  not  because  he  did  what 
the  Lord  wanted  him  to  do  but  because  he  did  what  he  wanted  to  do, 
and  then  he  put  the  responsibility  on  some  of  the  other  brethren, 
saying  that  they  had  advised  him  what  to  do.  He  had  forgotten 
that  before  he  got  into  the  trouble  that  caused  him  to  be  severed 
from  the  Church,  one  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
advised  him  not  to  do  the  thing  that  he  seemed  intent  on  doing, 
and  just  as  soon  as  he  did  that  he  was  in  the  dark. 

Keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  brethren,  and  you  will 
not  wander  away  into  darkness.  There  is  not  any  time  that  you 
may  not  kneel  down,  and  if  you  can  honestly  say,  "Heavenly  Father, 
I  have  done  what  you  have  asked  me  to  do,  and  what  you  have 
directed  me  to  do;  what  shall  I  do  now?"  You  will  get  the  answer, 
and  you  will  not  be  mistaken.  But  if  you  do  the  things  that  ought 
not  to  be  done  and  get  your  suggestions  from  the  adversary  of  all 


Search  the  Scriptures 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD 


189 


righteousness,  you  will  find  yourself  wandering  in  darkness  and  you 
may  lose  the  pearl  of  great  price. 

Rights  of  Wives 

I  would  like  to  emphasize  tonight  something  that  has  been 
referred  to  before  and  that  is  that  men,  who  have  been  married  to 
women  and  have  agreed  before  witnesses  that  they  will  keep  the 
commandments  of  God  and  live  as  they  should,  sometimes  are  so 
selfish,  so  wilful,  that  they  forget  that  their  wives  have  some  rights. 
I  want  to  say  that  the  priesthood  does  not  give  any  man  a  right 
to  abuse  his  wife.  The  priesthood  does  give  him  a  right  to  be  kind, 
to  be  faithful,  to  be  honorable,  to  teach  the  truth  and  to  teach 
his  children  the  truth,  and  when  he  does  that  he  will  not  fall 
away  into  sin.  There  never  has  been  a  time  in  the  history  of  the 
world  when  we  have  needed  divine  guidance  more  than  now. 

Reference  has  been  made  quite  plainly  tonight  to  the  fact 
that  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  three  men,  have  been  called 
to  perform  certain  duties,  and,  associated  with  them,  other  men  have 
been  called  to  assist  in  carrying  out  the  program  of  the  Church. 
When  these  three  men  and  the  others  who  have  been  called  to  the 
Quorum  of  the  Twelve,  and  those  who  have  been  called  into  the 
other  presiding  positions  among  the  General  Authorities,  are 
united,  we  need  not  be  worried  about  what  will  happen  to  the 
Church.  All  men  and  all  women  have  a  right  to>  inquire  of  their 
bishop,  of  their  stake  presidency  and  high  council  with  regard 
to  matters  in  the  Church.  They  have  a  right  to  inquire  and  if  they 
are  not  satisfied  they  have  the  privilege  then  of  going  beyond 
these  men,  but  not  very  often  would  that  be  necessary  if  the 
man  who  is  asking  were  in  the  line  of  his  duty.  So  let  us  not  forget, 
brethren,  that  we  have  had  conferred  upon  us  a  wonderful  gift,  divine 
authority,  that  comes  from  our  Heavenly  Father.  That  is  a 
priceless  gift  bestowed  by  the  Lord.  It  is  not  like  a  recom- 
mendation from  any  other  organization.  It  means  that  if  we  are 
living  as  we  should  when  that  authority  of  the  priesthood  is  con- 
ferred upon  us,  we  are  entitled  to  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty, 
and  we  will  have  it  if  we  keep  his  commandments.  So  let  us 
have  our  homes  in  order,  have  family  prayers  and  ask  a  blessing 
upon  the  food.  Let  us  try  to  learn  what  the  Lord  would  have  us  do, 
not  what  we  would  like  to  do  or  somebody  else  would  like  to  have 
us  do. 

Acceptance  of  Counsel 

As  I  stand  here  now  I  can  think  of  a  number  of  men  that 
have  gone  to  the  leadership  of  the  Church  for  advice  and  if  they 
had  taken  it  they  would  be  in  the  Church  now,  but  they  are  out. 
Those  to  whom  they  went  had  no  ulterior  motives;  those  who  gave 
the  advice  when  it  was  asked  had  only  the  desire  to  bless  the  one 


190 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


who  asked  for  it,  but  it  was  contrary  to  the  ambition  and  desire 
of  the  individual,  and  because  he  was  already  in  sin,  he  could 
not  understand  the  counsel  of  the  good  man  who  unselfishly  ad- 
vised him  what  he  should  do. 

This  world  is  in  a  pitiable  condition.  There  are  hundreds 
of  thousands  of  people  who  do  not  even  believe  in  God,  that  is, 
in  the  God  of  this  world,  the  God  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob, 
the  Father  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.  They  are  in  the  dark. 
We  cannot  expect  them  to  find  the  way  of  happiness  until  they  obtain 
the  light,  and  it  devolves  upon  this  great  body  of  priesthood 
and  those  who  are  associated  in  the  various  stakes  and  wards 
and  missions  of  the  Church,  holding  the  priesthood,  to  let  our  light 
so  shine  that  others  seeing  that  we  are  indeed  servants  of  the  Lord 
will  be  constrained  to  accept  the  Gospel  and  conform  their  lives  to 
the  truth. 

Again  let  me  plead  with  you,  my  brethren,  be  patient  with  your 
children.  Remember  that  one  of  the  greatest  gifts  that  comes  to 
you  in  life  is  the  family  that  you  may  enjoy  if  you  have  a  right  to 
the  priesthood  and  have  received  it. 

Influence  of  Prayer 

We  will  not  always  see  alike;  men  will  not  always  reason 
as  their  wives  do  and  vice  versa,  but  if  you  will  pray  together,  with  a 
•real  desire  to  be  united,  I  can  say  to  you,  you  will  agree  on  all 
important  matters. 

I  noticed  a  number  of  months  ago  up  on  South  Temple  Street 
this  legend  on  a  billboard:  "The  family  that  prays  together  stays 
together."  I  do  not  know  who  placed  it  there,  but  I  want  to  say  that 
if  you  will  think  about  it  for  a  moment  you  will  know  that  it  is  true. 
I  admonish  you  to  pray  together  to  the  Lord,  and  I  do  not  mean  by 
that  to  just  say  prayers,  I  do  not  mean  to  be  a  phonograph  and 
repeat  something  over  and  over  again,  but  open  your  souls  to 
the  Lord  as  husbands  and  fathers  in  your  home,  and  have  your 
wives  and  your  children  join  you.  Have  them  participate.  There 
then  comes  into  the  home  an  influence  that  you  can  feel  when  you 
go  there.  It  has  been  a  great  blessing  to  me  to  be  permitted  to  travel 
throughout  this  Church  and  enter  the  humble  homes  of  those  who 
dwell  in  them,  who  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  and  to 
partake  of  the  influences  that  I  find  there. 

We  are  not  any  of  us  becoming  any  younger.  A  good  many  of 
us  have  passed  the  meridian  of  life.  If  we  are  going  to  make  any 
corrections,  any  adjustments,  and  most  of  us  need  to  make  adjust- 
ments, the  time  to  do  it  is  now,  not  put  it  off  for  the  future. 

Gratitude  for  Bishops 

I  would  like  to  urge  that  we  go  to  our  bishops  and  thank 
them  for  their  faithfulness  and  their  devotion  to  us.  I  live  in  a  ward 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  191 

Wednesday.  April  6  Third  Day 

where  we  have  three  of  the  finest  men  in  the  world  in  the  bishopric, 
wonderful,  humble,  prayerful  men.  They  do  not  have  any  desire 
to  do  anything  in  that  ward  except  to  bless  the  people,  and  I  sup- 
pose you  will  find  that  in  all  the  wards  of  the  Church,  with  few 
exceptions. 

When  we  receive  the  priesthood,  when  we  receive  ordinations, 
when  we  are  set  apart  to  perform  certain  duties  in  the  Church, 
by  the  authority  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  we  should  realize  that  it 
is  a  great  and  wonderful  blessing,  and  that  it  carries  with  it  a 
tremendous  responsibility.    We  should  not  treat  it  lightly. 

We  have  been  together  two  days.  We  have  had  a  happy 
time.  Other  meetings  will  be  held  in  this  conference  before  it  is 
concluded,  and  if  we  will  attend  those  meetings  with  a  prayer 
in  our  heart  to  have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  to  be  guided,  inspired 
by  him  in  our  thinking,  not  only  in  teaching  but  in  being  taught, 
when  the  conference  closes  we  may  go  to  our  homes  and  take  with 
us  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty.  We  can  set  our  homes  in  order 
and  we  can  help  to  keep  our  wards  and  stakes  in  order — but  it  will 
take  work.   It  will  take  prayerful,  thoughtful  work. 

Repentance  Needed 

There  are  conditions  in  the  Church  that  need  to  be  repented  of. 
Reference  has  been  made  in  this  conference  to  the  fact  that  the  sale 
of  liquor  is  being  legalized.  Years  ago  the  President  of  the  Church 
stood  in  this  pulpit  and  in  a  general  conference  and  plead  with  the 
people  not  to  abandon  the  Volstead  Act.  Legislation  had  been  en- 
acted making  it  illegal  to  sell  liquor  or  to  buy  liquor.  The  Lord 
has  advised  us  not  to  use  strong  drinks,  and  every  Latter-day  Saint 
should  pay  attention  to  the  advice  of  our  Heavenly  Father  in  regard 
to  that  matter.  Let  me  plead  with  you,  search  the  Word  of 
Wisdom  prayerfully.  Do  not  just  read  it;  search  it  prayerfully. 
Discover  what  our  Heavenly  Father  gave  it  for.  He  gave  it  to  us 
with  a  promise  of  longer  life  and  happiness,  not  if  we  fail  to  observe 
it,  but  if  we  observe  it.  Read  the  Word  of  Wisdom  in  the 
presence  of  your  families  and  set  the  example.  If  we  will  do 
that  Zion  will  continue  to  grow.  If  we  will  do  that  the  Church 
of  the  Lamb  of  God  will  continue  to  become  a  power  for  good  in 
the  world. 

It  is  amazing  to  me  how  many  great  and  influential  men  there 
are  in  our  own  country  who  do  not  belong  to  the  Church — I  do  not 
know  whether  they  belong  to  any  church  or  not — but  who  in  their 
correspondence  with  the  headquarters  of  the  Church  indicate  how 
pleased  they  are  at  what  we  stand  for,  and  we  stand,  I  hope,  always, 
for  what  the  Lord  would  have  us  stand. 

Blessings  of  the  Priesthood 

Brethren,  it  is  a  favor  from  the  Lord  to  receive  the  priesthood; 


192 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


it  is  a  great  privilege  to  represent  our  Heavenly  Father.  It  is  a 
blessing  that,  if  we  are  faithful,  will  open  the  doors  of  the  celestial 
kingdom  and  give  us  a  place  there  to  live  throughout  the  ages  of 
eternity.    Do  not  trifle  with  this  priceless  blessing. 

Bishops,  let  me  plead  with  you,  when  you  ordain  young  men 
deacons,  teachers,  or  priests,  see  to  it  that  they  have  it  made  plain 
to  them  that  with  that  gift  that  comes  from  our  Heavenly  Father, 
there  is  a  responsibility.  If  you  will  do  that,  they  will  grow 
up  to  be  the  protectors  of  the  weaker  sex,  and  there  will  be  less 
sorrow  and  distress  because  of  looseness  of  habits  among  the  sons 
and  daughters  of  our  Heavenly  Father  in  the  communities  in  which 
we  live. 

The  Lord  wants  us  to  be  happy.  That  is  why  he  gave  us  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  That  is  why  he  confered  the  priesthoood 
upon  us.  He  wants  us  to  have  joy.  That  is  why  he  organized 
this  Church  and  set  in  it  the  various  offices,  and  all  these  things  are 
in  order.  As  has  been  referred  to  tonight,  by  the  other  brethren, 
if  you  will  follow  the  leadership  of  the  Lord,  and  those  whom  the 
Lord  sustains,  you  will  not  fall  away  into  darkness,  lose  the  light, 
transgress  the  laws  of  God,  and  forfeit  your  privileges  that  he  is 
so  anxious  that  all  of  us  should  enjoy. 

That  is  my  feeling  tonight,  brethren.  I  am  grateful  to  be  here. 
I  am  thankful  when  I  have  the  privilege  of  shaking  your  hands, 
looking  into  your  faces,  and  I  am  happy  when  I  see  you  walking  as 
the  Lord  would  have  you  walk,  following  his  advice  and  counsel. 
We  will  all  be  happy  if  we  do  that,  and  the  world  will  be  enriched, 
and  the  missions  that  have  already  been  opened  will  continue  to 
function  until  the  people  have  been  warned  and  the  countries 
that  have  not  yet  been  warned  may  have  an  opportunity  yet  to  be 
taught  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Among  those  that  have  not  been 
warned  are  the  most  populous  nations  in  the  world  today.  But  it  is 
our  responsibility  to  find  ways  and  means  to  carry  the  message 
of  life  and  salvation  to  every  nation. 

Thank  you,  brethren,  for  your  love  and  for  your  fellowship, 
for  your  kindness  and  helpfulness  to  me  and  my  associates  who  are 
here  upon  this  stand.  We  love  you.  We  are  grateful  to  you  and 
for  you,  and  I  pray  that  every  one  of  us  will  so  live  that  when  the 
time  comes  for  us  to  go  hence  and  the  record  is  opened  of  our 
lives,  it  will  disclose  the  fact  that  we  have  desired  with  all  our 
hearts  to  be  what  God  would  have  us  be,  and  we  have  been  guided 
by  him  in  paths  of  peace  and  happiness  and  righteousness,  and 
when  the  time  comes  that  this  earth  shall  be  cleansed  and  puri- 
fied by  fire  and  it  becomes  the  celestial  kingdom — that  is  what  it 
will  be,  brethren — when  that  time  comes  I  pray  that  we  will  all 
have  so  lived  that  we  will  find  our  names  recorded  in  the  Lamb's 
Book  of  Life,  entitling  us  to  membership  here  forever  in  the 
companionship  of  our  wives  and  our  children,  and  all  that  are 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  193 

Wednesday.  April  6  Third  Dag 

dear  to  us,  not  one  missing,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
our  Lord.  Amen. 


The  Men  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  sang:  "The  Lord  Bless  You 
And  Keep  You." 

The  benediction  was  offered  by  President  Golden  L.  Woolf  of 
the  East  Provo  Stake. 


The  congregational  singing  of  the  Conference  was  directed  by 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor,  and  Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant 
Conductor  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir. 

The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir  was  in  attendance  at  the  Sun- 
day sessions  and  furnished  the  choral  music  for  those  sessions. 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall  directed  the  singing  of  the  Choir. 

The  choral  singing  for  the  Monday  morning  and  afternoon 
sessions  was  by  the  Ricks  College  Choir,  under  the  leadership  of 
Elder  Alma  Dittmer. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Mixed  Chorus,  Elder  Franklin 
Madsen,  Conductor,  furnished  the  Choir  singing  for  the  Wednesday 
morning  and  afternoon  meetings. 

At  the  General  Priesthood  meeting  the  choral  music  was  furnish- 
ed by  the  Men  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall 
conductor. 

The  music  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broadcast,  Sun- 
day morning,  9:30  to  10:10,  as  also  the  music  for  the  Church  of 
the  Air  broadcast,  was  by  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ, 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  conductor  of  the  Choir,  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the 
organ,  the  spoken  word  was  by  Richard  L.  Evans. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played 
by  Alexander  Schreiner,  Frank  W.  Asper,  and  Roy  M.  Darley. 


Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 
Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


194 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 

The  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast  was  presented  Sunday  morning, 
April  3,  from  8:30  to  9:00  over  radio  station  KSL  and  the  Columbia 
Broadcasting  System. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  direction  of  J.  Spencer  Corn- 
wall, furnished  the  music  for  the  service,  with  Dr.  Frank  W.  Asper 
at  the  organ.  Richard  L.  Evans  was  the  announcer. 

The  Choir  sang  the  anthem,  "My  Redeemer  Lives" — Gates. 

Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  was  the 
speaker,  his  subject  being  "Our  Homes — Divinely  Ordained." 

ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Americans,  from  the  very  inception  of  our  nation,  have  been 
lovers  of  home.  It  has  been  our  primary  educational  institution 
and  the  center  of  economic,  social,  and  cultural  interest.  Our  homes 
have  been  the  bulwark  of  the  nation  and  the  most  fundamental  in- 
stitution of  society.  What  fond  memories  and  emotions  have  surged 
up  in  our  hearts  at  the  mere  mention  of  home,  family,  parents,  chil- 
dren, brothers,  and  sisters!  Some  of  the  sweetest,  most  soul-satisfy- 
ing impressions  and  experiences  of  life  are  associated  with  home 
and  family  ties. 

The  American  Home 

But  all  is  not  well  with  this  most  basic  institution,  the  American 
home.  In  fact,  it  is  in  grave  danger,  if  not  in  deadly  peril.  There 
is  convincing  evidence  that  a  creeping  rot  of  moral  disintegration 
is  eating  into  the  very  vitals  of  this  temple  of  American  civilization. 
It  gives  cause  for  serious  concern. 

Marriage,  the  home,  and  family  are  sacred  institutions.  They 
are  not  man-made,  but  have  been  established  by  a  kind  Providence 
for  the  blessing  of  his  children.  In  the  record  of  that  first  marriage 
recorded  in  Genesis,  the  Lord  makes  four  significant  pronounce- 
ments: first,  that  it  is  not  good  for  man  to  be  alone;  second,  that 
woman  was  created  to  be  a  help  meet  for  man;  third,  that  they 
twain  should  be  one  flesh;  and  fourth,  that  man  should  leave  father 
and  mother  and  cleave  unto  his  wife. 

Later,  as  though  to  re-enforce  the  earlier  statement,  the  Lord 

said: 

.  .  .  What  therefore  God  hath  joined  together,  let  not  man  put  asunder 
(Matthew  19:6); 

also 

Thou  shalt  love  thy  wife  with  all  thy  heart,  and  shalt  cleave  unto  her 
and  none  else.    (D.  &  C.  42:22.) 

Children  are  likewise  counseled  in  holy  writ  in  their  duty  to 
parents.   Paul  the  Apostle  wrote: 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR  195 

Sunday,  April  3  First  Dag 

Children,  obey  your  parents  in  the  Lord:  for  this  is  right. 
Honour  thy  father  and  mother;  (which  is  the  first  commandment  with 
promise), 

That  it  may  be  well  with  thee,  and  thou  mayest  live  long  on  the 
earth.    (Ephesians  6:1-3.) 

Responsibility  of  Parents 

Regarding  the  divinely  appointed  responsibility  of  parents,  the 
sobering  counsel  is  given  that 

.  .  .  they  shall  also  teach  their  children  to  pray,  and  to  walk  uprightly 
before  the  Lord.  .  .  .  And  .  .  .  inasmuch  as  parents  .  .  ,  teach  them  not  to 
understand  the  doctrine  of  repentance,  faith  in  Christ,  the  Son  of  the 
living  God,  .  .  .  and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  .  .  .  the  sin  be  upon  the 
heads  of  the  parents.  (D.  &  C.  68:28,  25.) 

These  and  other  similar  scriptures  make  crystal  clear  the  divine 
origin  of  marriage,  the  home,  and  family,  the  heaven-imposed  re- 
sponsibilities resting  upon  the  parents  and  the  penalties  imposed 
when  laws  governing  these  hallowed  institutions  are  disregarded. 

History  reveals  that  the  early  pioneers  of  America  recognized 
and  honored  these  obligations.  They  were  blessed  in  their  homes 
and  families  for  so  doing.  Does  our  record  today  merit  like  bless- 
ings? If  we  fail  to  accept  these  obligations  and  to  keep  the  Ameri- 
can home  morally  and  spiritually  sound,  the  very  future  of  the  nation 
will  be  in  jeopardy.   The  choice  is  ours  as  parents  and  citizens. 

Weakening  Influences 

The  facts  are  not  reassuring  as  we  soberly  appraise  them.  Far- 
reaching  changes,  resulting  from  industrialization,  concentration  of 
populations,  commercialization  of  recreation,  and  other  activities 
once  performed  in  the  home,  all  tend  to  lead  away  from  home  asso- 
ciations. 

Accompanying  these  changes,  and  in  some  measure  resulting 
from  them,  has  been  a  marked  increase  in  pleasure  seeking;  the 
mad  rush  for  money  and  other  material  things;  the  unwarranted  in- 
dulgence of  personal  gratifications;  the  insidious  inroads  of  tobacco, 
liquor,  gambling,  and  many  other  tendencies  in  our  complex  modern 
civilization.  All  these  have  exerted  a  pulling  power  away  from  the 
home  and  have  weakened  its  structure. 

There  seems  to  be  a  tendency  for  many  married  people  to  be- 
come soft  and  to  seek  a  life  filled  with  ease  and  the  pleasures  of  the 
moment.  They  invite  the  pleasure  of  conjugality  but  often  refuse 
to  shoulder  the  responsibility  of  parenthood.  Reliable  reports  indi- 
cate that  approximately  forty  percent  of  the  married  women  have  no 
children  whatever  or  only  one  child. 

Divorce  Record 

The  divorce  record  continues  upward  at  an  alarming  rate. 
Fifty  years  ago  there  was  a  ratio  of  one  divorce  to  every  sixteen 


196 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


marriages;  by  1946,  one  to  every  three.  In  some  American  cities 
divorces  nearly  equal  marriages.  Reports  show  that  two-thirds  of 
those  seeking  divorces  have  no  children. 

Frequently  in  homes  where  no  formal  divorce  has  occurred, 
there  is  unhappiness  due  to  infidelity  and  lack  of  harmony  and  filial 
affection.  It  is  largely  from  such  broken,  bad,  and  neglected  homes 
that  our  youthful  delinquents  come.  According  to  J.  Edgar  Hoover, 
director  of  the  F.B.I.,  "The  actions  of  the  majority  of  them  were — 
and  are — directly  related  to  the  conduct  of  their  parents."  Yes, 
crime  begins  at  home. 

In  view  of  these  and  other  well-known  but  distressing  facts, 
what  should  be  done?  Can  we  safeguard  the  home  and  stabilize 
family  life?  Can  the  deterioration  in  home  life  be  checked  and  cor- 
rected?   If  not,  what  is  our  future? 

No  nation  can  rise  above  its  homes.  The  church,  the  school, 
and  even  the  nation,  stand  helpless  before  a  weakened  and  degraded 
home,  in  building  character.  The  good  home  is  the  rock  foundation 
— the  cornerstone  of  civilization.  If  this,  our  nation,  is  to  endure, 
the  home  must  be  safeguarded,  strengthened,  and  restored  to  its 
rightful  importance. 

Unchastity 

To  do  so,  we  must  start  with  youth — our  boys  and  girls.  They 
must  know  that  the  foundation  of  a  happy  home  is  laid  during  pre- 
marital days.  Their  relationships  should  be  on  a  happy  but  high  plane. 
There  is  grave  danger  in  loose  and  promiscuous  relations  of  young 
people.  The  harmful  effects  of  unseemly  familiarities  are  carried 
over  into  married  life  and  tend  to  weaken  the  structure  of  the  home. 
Unchastity  is  the  most  damning  of  all  evils,  while  moral  purity 
is  one  of  the  greatest  bulwarks  of  successful  homemaking.  Happy 
and  successful  homes  cannot  be  built  on  immorality. 

May  I,  as  a  member  of  a  large  family  of  children  and  a  grateful 
father  of  six,  say  to  the  young  men  and  women  of  America,  keep 
the  fountains  of  life  pure.  Guard  your  virtue  as  you  would  your 
lives.  Reserve  for  the  marriage  relationship  the  sweet  and  soul- 
satisfying  intimacies  of  life.  The  God  of  heaven,  who  instituted 
the  marriage  covenant,  so  intended.  He  has  commanded  purity  of 
life  and  a  single  standard  for  men  and  women.  If  you  fail  as  young 
people  properly  to  restrain  yourselves,  you  will  pay  the  penalty  in 
heartache,  disappointment,  and  loss  of  self-respect.  Do  not  reach 
out  too  eagerly  for  the  excitements  and  thrills  of  life  or  they  will 
turn  to  ashes  in  your  hands.  They  will  come  in  their  own  due  time 
in  the  sacred  bonds  of  marriage.  Youthful  sweethearts,  be  true  to 
God's  holy  laws.  Remember,  they  cannot  be  broken  with  impunity. 
If  you  would  be  happy  and  successful  in  your  early  association, 
courtship,  and  homebuilding,  conform  your  lives  to  the  eternal  laws 
of  heaven.   There  is  no  other  way. 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR  197 

Sunday.  April  3  First  Day 

Importance  of  Example 

As  parents,  what  is  our  attitude  regarding  the  sacred  obligations 
of  parenthood?  One  of  the  two  major  purposes  of  marriage  is 
children.  "Multiply  and  replenish  the  earth"  (Genesis  1:28)  was 
among  the  earliest  commandments  given  of  the  Lord.  Nations 
which  refuse  to  accept  this  God-given  obligation,  sink  into  oblivion. 
Will  our  sons  and  daughters  want  children  because  of  our  attitude 
and  example? 

Marriage,  designed  to  be  an  eternal  covenant,  is  the  most  glor- 
ious and  most  exalting  principle  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  No 
ordinance  is  of  more  importance  and  none  more  sacred  and  more 
necessary  to  the  eternal  joy  of  man.  Faithfulness  to  the  marriage 
covenant  brings  the  fullest  joy  here  and  glorious  rewards  hereafter. 
The  abuse  of  this  sacred  ordinance  despoils  the  lives  of  individuals, 
wrecks  the  basic  institution  of  the  home,  and  causes  the  downfall 
of  nations. 

The  future  homes  of  America  will  be  fortified  as  parents  uphold 
the  Christian  virtues  before  their  children.  If  parents  love  and 
respect  each  other,  and  if  in  their  sacred  partnership  there  are  full 
support  and  unquestioned  fidelity,  these  essentials  will  be  translated 
into  the  homes  of  tomorrow.  Conversely,  if  there  are  bickering,  quar- 
reling, and  lackof  harmony  at  home,  and  participation  in  the  danger- 
ous practice  of  flirtations  with  others  when  away,  then  the  homes 
of  tomorrow  will  be  weakened  thereby. 

Parenthood  carries  with  it  peculiar  responsibilities.  If  these 
are  accepted  without  quibbling,  while  enthroning  motherhood  as 
the  highest  calling  of  women,  our  children — the  parents  of  tomorrow 
■ — will  be  properly  impressed  and  encouraged  in  the  establishment 
of  like  homes. 

Family  Prayer 

The  homes  of  America  need  also  the  blessings  which  come 
from  daily  communion  with  God.  Devotion  in  the  home,  which 
has  been  such  an  anchor  to  youth  and  parents  alike,  has  all  but 
vanished.  A  few  generations  ago  it  was  a  common  practice.  Then 
families  knelt  together  in  prayer;  the  scriptures  were  read  aloud; 
and  households  joined  in  the  singing  of  church  hymns.  This  practice, 
if  revived,  would  contribute  much  to  the  strength  of  the  home  and 
the  nation.  The  differences  and  irritations  of  the  day  melt  away 
as  families  approach  the  throne  of  heaven  together.  Unity  increases. 
The  ties  of  love  and  affection  are  re-enforced  and  the  peace  of  heav- 
en enters. 

In  such  homes  secret  prayers  are  said  night  and  morning  by 
members  of  the  household.  Individual  and  family  problems  are  ap- 
proached with  confidence  after  invoking  the  favor  of  heaven.  Young 
people  participating  in  such  a  family  devotional  have  hearts  freed 
from  evil  intent  as  they  leave  for  an  evening  of  entertainment. 


198 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


These  will  be  the  restraining  influence  in  the  group  when  gilded 
temptations  arise.  Parents  who  surround  their  children  with  the 
refining  influence  of  daily  devotion  are  making  their  contribution 
to  the  safeguarding  of  the  American  home. 

Mutual  Understanding 

America's  homes  need,  also,  the  stabilizing  influence  of  a  closer 
relationship  between  parents  and  children.  Every  boy  and  girl 
needs  the  safeguard  which  an  intimate  association  with  mother  or 
father  will  provide.  The  failure  of  parents  and  children  to  under- 
stand each  other  weakens  the  framework  of  the  home.  This  rela- 
tionship must  be  built  upon  love  and  mutual  confidence.  Then  when 
the  problems  of  life  arise,  father  and  mother  will  be  the  first  sought 
for  counsel.    Herein  is  safety. 

Such  an  atmosphere  can  be  created  as  parents  plan  for  recrea- 
tion -and  diversion  together  with  their  children.  An  evening  at 
home  in  wholesome  activity;  a  picnic  in  the  mountains  or  nearby 
park;  or  a  project  for  fathers  and  sons  and  mothers  and  daughters — 
these  will  all  tend  to  increase  filial  affection  and  love  in  the  home,  and 
strengthen  parent-children  relations.  Time  thus  spent  yields  big 
dividends.  Love  at  home  and  obedience  to  parents  increase  as  the 
bonds  of  home  are  made  secure. 

Parents  in  this  close  association  have  no  difficulty  teaching  vir- 
tue, honesty,  industry,  the  principles  basic  to  our  American  way  of 
life  and  the  dangers  of  foreign  philosophies  and  ideologies.  Effec- 
tive parental  guidance — the  greatest  need  of  the  home — is  here 
provided  to  the  profit  of  the  individual,  the  home,  the  community, 
and  the  nation. 

Preservation  of  Homes 

Herein,  then,  lies  our  path  of  safety.  Our  homes  must  become 
bulwarks  of  strength  through  enthroning  righteousness  and  bringing 
into  them  the  peace,  unity,  and  unselfishness  engendered  by  personal 
purity,  unquestioned  fidelity,  and  simple  family  devotion.  Parents 
must  accept  marriage  as  a  divine  institution,  and  honor  parenthood. 
Children  must  be  inspired  by  precept  and  example  in  preparation 
for  marriage,  to  guard  against  unchastity  as  against  a  loathsome 
disease,  and  to  practice  the  other  fundamental  Christian  virtues. 
Love  and  mutual  confidence  must  be  safeguarded  to  strengthen 
parent-children  relationships.  Home  must  become  the  abiding  place 
of  the  Spirit  of  God  because  the  pure  in  heart  dwell  therein. 

Yes,  America's  homes,  if  this  great  nation  is  to  endure,  must  be 
fortified  and  preserved.  They  must  be  morally  and  spiritually  sound. 
There  can  be  no  satisfactory  substitute  for  the  home.  Its  foundation 
is  as  ancient  as  the  world.  Its  mission  has  been  God-ordained. 

May  God  grant  that  the  builders  of  American  homes  may  have 
the  courage  and  wisdom  to  fulfil  faithfully  their  divine  obligations,  to 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR  199 

Sunday,  April  3  First  Day 

inspire  young  people  with  a  conviction  of  the  importance  of  these 
God-ordained  institutions  of  marriage,  the  home,  and  family,  that 
the  marriages  of  our  boys  and  girls  may  be  consummated  under  a 
spiritual  influence  in  the  presence  of  friends  and  loved  ones,  thereby 
laying  a  safe  foundation  for  their  homes  of  tomorrow. 

And  so  today,  in  this  the  greatest  of  all  nations,  in  this  land 
choice  above  all  others,  we  pay  humble  tribute  to  the  home,  for  a 
modern  prophet  declares, 

.  .  .  that  someday  the  divinely  ordained  home  is  to  be  the  very 
foundation  of  the  kingdom  of  God. 

May  a  kind  Providence  bless  the  homes  of  America,  I  humbly 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  Choir  then  sang  an  anthem,  "He  Watching  Over  Israel" — 
Mendelssohn. 

The  service  was  concluded  by  the  Choir  singing  the  hymn,  "The 
Morning  Breaks" — Careless. 


Index 


Anderson,  Elder  Joseph  115 

Auditing  Committee,  Report  of  Church  130 

Bennion,  Elder  Desla  S.   57 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft  (Church  of  the  Air)  194 


The  American  Home  194,  Responsibility  of  Parents  195,  Weakening 
Influences  195,  Divorce  Record  196,  Unchastity  196,  Importance  of 
Example  197,  Family  Prayer  197,  Mutual  Understanding  198,  Pres- 
ervation of  Homes  198. 


Changes  in  Church  Officers  and  Organizations  120 

Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast   2 

Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast  194 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.  

 5,  10,  30,  59,  60,  72,  83,  87,  118,  120,  123,  131,  146 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.  161 

Freedom  of  Worship  161,  Two  Churches  162,  Scriptural  Warnings 
162,  Efforts  to  Lead  Astray  163,  Principles  Attacked  163,  Too  Hard  to 
Live  164,  Heresy  Amongst  Us  164,  Obligation  to  Preserve  Truth  164. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.  183 

Early  Christian  History  183,  Importance  of  Unity  184,  Plans  of  Men 
185,  The  Lord's  Plan  185,  Direction  of  Holy  Ghost  186,  Appeal  for 
Unity  187. 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L.   22 

Arrival  and  Departures  22,  Time  is  the  Essence  23,  The  Use  of 
Truth  24. 

Financial  Report,  1948  Annual  124 

First  Day — Afternoon  Meeting  30 

First  Day — Morning  Meeting   4 

General  Priesthood  Meeting   173 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  Present   1 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Presented  and  Sustained  131 

Hunter,  Elder  Milton  R.   65 


Immortality  of  Man  65,  Resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ  66,  Latter-day 
Testimony  66,  Our  Destination  67,  Spirit  World  68,  A  Probationary 
State  69,  Universal  Resurrection  69,  The  Great  Judgment  69,  Three 
Degrees  of  Glory  70,  Celestial  Glory  70,  Exaltation  71,  Eternal  Life 
72. 


Isaacson,  Elder  Thorpe  B.   99 

Purposes  of  Conference  99,  Importance  of  Faith  100,  The  Search  for 
God  100,  Spiritual  Development  101,  Activity  in  the  Church  101, 
Family  Relationships  102,  Work  in  Presiding  Bishopric  102. 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R.   76 

A  Daily  Program  76,  Positive  Teachings  77,  Productive  Service  77, 
Eternal  Progress  78,  Positive  Values  79. 

Killpack,  Elder  William  L.   80 


202  INDEX 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W.  103 

"Who  Is  My  Neighbor?"  104,  A  Despoiled  People  104,  Race 
Prejudice  105,  Characteristics  of  the  Lamanites  106,  Children  of 
Promise  107,  Mighty  Prophets  108,  Changes  Through  Conversion 
109,  Helaman's  Sons  110,  Race  Consciousness  110,  Virtues  Enu- 
merated 112,  A  Brighter  Day  112. 

Kirkham,  Elder  Oscar  A.   152 

Appreciation  of  Conference  152,  Missionary  Service  153,  Preparation 
for  Service  153,  Participation  in  Activities  154,  House  in  Order  155. 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B.   44 

Freedom  of  Choice  44,  General  Servicemen's  Committee  45,  Views  of 
Chaplain  45,  Place  of  Refuge  46,  Purposes  of  Church  Organization 
47,  Objective  of  Teachers  47,  Duties  of  the  Priesthood  48,  Experience 
of  Serviceman  49,  Wounded  Man  Remembered  50,  Day  of  Deception 
50,  Keep  God's  Commandments  51. 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B.  173 

Members  Away  from  Home  173,  Purpose  of  Priesthood  Reports  174, 
Concern  for  Servicemen  175,  Priesthood  Course  of  Study  176. 

Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F.   24 

Characteristic  Doctrines  25,  New  Revelation  Given  25,  Knowledge 
of  Truth  26,  Satan  the  Devil  27,  Satan's  Purpose  28,  Moral  Stand- 
ards 29. 

Moyle,  Elder  Henry  D.   60 

Adversary  at  Work  60,  Rights  of  Citizenship  61,  State  Legislature  61, 
Community  Life  62,  Observance  of  Sabbath  63,  Liquor  Law  63,  Horse 
Racing  Bill  64. 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R.   89 

The  Priesthood  89,  The  Kingdom  of  God  90,  Restoration  of  Gospel 
90,  Covenant  of  Baptism  91,  Divine  Authority  91,  Restoration  of 
Priesthood  93,  Keys  of  the  Kingdom  93. 

McKay,  President  David  O.  

  30,  58,  88,  117,  131,  146,  165,  171 

McKay,  President  David  O.     10 

Progress  of  the  Church  11,  A  Wise  Choice  11,  The  Real  Test  11, 
False  Ideals  12,  An  Old  Story  12,  Dual  Nature  of  Man  13,  The  Strait 
Gate  13,  The  Baser  Side  14,  Vulgarity  14,  Drinking  and  Petting  Par- 
ties 15,  Chastity  15,  Disloyalty  15,  Importance  of  Spirituality  16, 
Expanding  the  Soul  17. 

McKay,  President  David  O.   176 

Calling  of  Missionaries  177,  Success  in  Japanese  Mission  178,  Teach- 
ing and  Warning  179,  Influences  Upon  Life  180,  Warn  Youth  of 
Dangers  182,  Testimony  182. 

McKay,  Elder  Thomas  E.   31 

Mexican  Mission  32,  Power  in  Prayer  33,  Quotations  on  Prayer  33, 
The  Master's  Prayer  35. 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E.  144 

Great  Men  144,  Guided  by  Holy  Ghost  145,  A  Great  Church  145. 
Priesthood,  General  Meeting  173 

Richards,  Bishop  LeGrand   52 

The  Things  That  Matter  52,  Paul  and  Peter  52,  Alma's  Conversion 
53,  Joseph  Smith's  Testimony  53,  Brigham  Young  54,  Faith  in  Own 
Family  54,  Testimony  of  Indian  Sister  56. 


INDEX 


203 


Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L  137 

President  Grant's  Conclusion  138,  Keeping  the  Commandments  138, 
Intelligence  Requires  138,  Ignorance  of  Divine  Truth  139,  Reactions 
of  Russians  140,  Appreciation  for  Knowledge  140,  Reason  Behind 
Every  Commandment  141,  Courage  to  Say  No  141,  Religion  and  Con- 
duct 142,  Maintenance  of  Standards  143,  Need  of  Wisdom  143. 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G.   35 

Gospel  Fundamentals  35,  The  Book  of  Mormon  36,  Witness  for 
Bible  37,  Man's  Moral  Responsibility  38,  Great  American  Book  38, 
Inspiration  of  Teaching  39,  Reading  Enjoined  41. 

Rossiter,  Elder  Ernest  C.  113 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   88 

Second  Day — Morning  Meeting   58 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G.   41 

Goal  of  Happiness  41,  Obedience  Insures  Happiness  42,  The  Price 
of  Prosperity  43. 

Smith,  President  George  Albert   6 

Gratitude  for  Return  6,  Los  Angeles  Temple  6,  Met  to  Worship  7, 
Privilege  of  Church  Membership  8,  Contribution  of  Schools  8,  Obliga- 
tion of  Parents  8,  Example  of  Latter-day  Saints  9,  Missionary  Efforts 
9,  Love  for  Neighbor  10. 

Smith,  President  George  Albert   83 

Early  Life  83,  Mission  in  Southern  States  84,  Further  Activities  84, 
Call  to  Apostleship  85,  Sharing  the  Gospel  85,  Blessings  to  be  Earned 
86,  Gratitude  for  Preservation  87,  The  Lord's  Side  87. 

Smith,  President  George  Albert  119 

Smith,  President  George  Albert  165 

Perilious  Times  166,  Loss  of  Blessings  166,  Sodom  and  Gomorrah 
166,  Sons  of  Helaman  167,  Preparation  for  Restoration  167,  The 
Standard  Works  168,  Progress  Under  Constitution  168,  Obedience 
to  Commandments  169,  Blessings  of  Conference  170,  Brigham  Young 
University  170,  Our  Father's  Work  171. 

Smith,  President  George  Albert  188 

Search  the  Scriptures  188,  Rights  of  Wives  189,  Acceptance  of  Counsel 
189,  Influence  of  Prayer  190,  Gratitude  for  Bishops  190,  Repentance 
Needed  191,  Blessings  of  the  Priesthood  191. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  134 

Marriage  for  Eternity  134,  Blessings  of  Temple  Marriage  135, 
Broken  Homes  136,  Brigham  Young's  Statement  137. 

Statistical  Report  122 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast   2 

Third  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   146 

Third  Day — Morning  Meeting  118 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A.  147 

Prophecy  Being  Fulfilled  147,  Educational  Achievements  148,  School 
of  the  Prophets  149,  Universities  Established  149,  Factual  Knowledge 
150,  Human  Interpretations  150,  Obligation  of  Teachers  150,  Rights 
of  Citizens  151. 


204 


INDEX 


Wirthlin,  Elder  Joseph  L.  155 

A  Blessed  People  155,  Faith  of  George  Washington,  156,  Prayers  of 
Abraham  Lincoln  157,  Divine  Guidance  Needed  158,  Responsibility 
to  be  Prayerful  158,  Prayer  in  the  Home  159,  Prayer  a  Privilege  160. 

Young,  Elder  Clifford  E.   72 

Attitude  of  Hate  73,  Anti-Mormon  Publications  73,  Motives  Im- 
pugned 74,  Following  Divine  Counsel  75,  Way  of  Life  and  Salva- 
tion 75. 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar   17 

The  Discovery  of  America  18,  Washington's  Acknowledgment  18, 
Ambassadors  of  Truth  19,  God's  Servants  20,  Mission  of  Seventies 
21,  True  to  Revealed  Word  21. 

Young,  Elder  S.  Dilworth   94 

Work  in  Newfoundland  94,  Excellent  Missionaries  95,  Gaining  a 
Testimony  95,  Losing  Their  Lives  96,  Realization  of  God's  Promise 
97,  A  Testimony  of  Jesus  98. 


IS  NURTURED  BY  EXPERIENCE  AND  TRUTH 


READ — 

FAITH  PROMOTING  STOBIES      S1.35 

Compiled  by  Preston  Nibley 

PIONEER  STORIES   $1.35 

Compiled  by  Preston  Nibley 

THE  MORMON  PIONEERS   $2.50 

By  E.  Cecil  McGavin 

NAUVOO.  THE  BEAUTIFUL  .......$3.00 

By  E.  Cecil  McGavin 

SHARING  THE  GOSPEL  WITH  OTHERS   :$2.50 

By  President  George  Albert  Smith 

ON  THE  WAY  TO  IMMORTALITY  AND  ETERNAL  LIFE....$3.50 
By  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  It. 

SWEET  LOVE  REMEMBERED   .$2.75 

By  Helen  Cortex  Stafford 

PROTESTORS  OF  CHRISTENDOM   $20)0 

By  lames  L.  Barker 

WORLD  RELIGIONS  IN  THE  LIGHT  OF  MORMONISM  ....$2.00 
By  Thomas  C.  Bomney 

TRUTH  SEEKER  AND  MORMONISM   $1.00 

By  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

THE  CHURCH  IN  WAR  AND  PEACE  $1.00 

By  Stephen  L  Richards 

FUNDAMENTALS  OF  RELIGION   $1.50 

By  Charles  A.  Callis 

FRUITS  OF  RELIGION   $1.50 

By  Franklin  L.  West 

PROBLEMS  OF  YOUTH   $1.75 

By  Harold  B.  Lee 

CONSTANCY  AMID  CHANGE   $2.00 

By  Albert  E.  Bowen 


DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST' 
44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


Enjoy  the  Fellowship  of  Great  Minds 

by  Reading  GOOD  Books 

A  book  is  cm  invitation  to  share  the  thoughts  of  an  illum- 
inating mind.  Consider  the  enrichment  one  will  receive  from 
spending  quiet  hours  with  the  authors  of  these  books: 

George  Albert  Smith  SHARING  THE  GOSPEL  WITH 

OTHERS  $2.50 

Heber  J.  Grant  GOSPEL  STANDARDS   $2.25 

David  O.  McKay        ANCIENT  APOSTLES    1.25 

I.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.     ON  THE  WAY  TO  IMMORTALITY 

AND  ETERNAL  LIFE   $3.50 

James  E.  Talmage       JESUS  THE  CHRIST    2.75 

ARTICLES  OF  FAITH    2.00 

Joseph  F.  Smith  GOSPEL  DOCTEUNE    2.75 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  ESSENTIALS  IN  CHURCH 

HISTORY     2.75 

TEACHINGS  OF  THE  PROPHET 

JOSEPH  SMITH    2.75 

LIFE  OF  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH   2.50 

SIGNS  OF  THE  TIMES   _..  1.25 

RESTORATION  OF  ALL  THINGS..  1.75 

John  A  Widtsoe         IN  SEARCH  OF  TRUTH   75 

HOW  THE  DESERT  WAS  TAMED..  1.25 

RATIONAL  THEOLOGY    1.25 

DISCOURSES  OF  BRIGHAM 
YOUNG    _  2.75 

Richard  L.  Evans        UNTO  THE  HELLS    1.50 

THIS  DAY  AND  ALWAYS    1.50 

"and  THE  SPOKEN  WORD"    1.50 

AT  THIS  SAME  HOUR   $2.00 

These  and  many  other  sources  of  inspiration  are  available 
to  you  in  the  large  stock  of  the 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

Publishers  oi  Latter-day  Saint  Literature 

44  East  South  Temple  Street 
Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 
"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 


