SEVENTY -FIFTH 


Annual  Conference 

OF  THE 

Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  April  6th,  7th  and  9th, 
1 905,  with  a  full  Report  of  the  Discourses. 


ALSO  AN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  GENERAL  CONFERENCE  OF 
THE  DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


THE  DESERET  NEWS 
1905 


DESERET  NEWS 
BOOK  STORE 


Leading  Book  Concern  of  the  State. 

%  Standard  and  Miscellaneous  Books,  Histories, 

*> 

;<  Biographies,   Late   Popular  Fiction, 


£  Send  for  Free  Cata- 
♦** 

f  logue  and  Price 

❖  i  • 

*  List. 


IP  Etc.,  Etc.    All  of  the  Church  $ 

&  and  Home  Publications.  4 


DESERET  NEWS  BUILDING, 

6  Main  Street,  SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


I  I 

%   4   ❖ 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST  OF 
LATTER-DAY  SAINTS. 


FIRST  DAY. 


The  'Seventy-fifth  Annual  Confer- 
ence Of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Later-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tab- 
ernacle, Salt  Lake  City,  at  10  a.  m. 
on  Thursday,  April  6,  1905,  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith  presiding. 

THE  PROCEEDINGS. 

There  were  present  of  the  general 
authorities:  Of  the  First  Presidency, 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  John  R.  Winder  and 
Anthon  H.  Lund;  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles,  Francis  M.  Lyman, 
Rudger  Clawson,  Hyrum  M.  Smith, 
George  A.  Smith,  Charles  W.  Penrose; 
Presiding  Patriarch  John  Smith;  First 
Seven  Presidents  of  Seventies,  Seymom 
B.  Young,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  George 
Reynolds,  J.  Golden  Kimball,  Rulon  S. 
Wells  and  Joseph  W.  McMurrin;  of 
the  presiding  Bishopric,  William  B. 
Preston,  Robert  T.  Burton  and  Orrin  P. 
Miller.  There  were  also  a  large  number 
of  presidents  of  stakes,  their  counsel- 
ors, presidents  of  missions,  and  other 
prominent  men  of  the  Priesthood. 

The  services  were  commenced  by  the 
choir    and    congregation   singing  the 
hymn  which  begins: 
Redeemer  of  Israel,  our  only  delight, 

On  whom  for  a  blessing  we  call; 
Our  shadow  by  day,  and  our  pillar  by 
night, 

Our  King,  our  Deliv'rer,  our  all! 


The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Henry  W.  Naisbitt. 
Singing  by  the  choir: 

Come,  dearest  Lord,  descend  and  dwell, 
By  faith  and  love,  in  every  breast; 
Then  shall  we  know  and  taste,  and 
feel, 

The  joys  that  cannot  be  expressed. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

(Opening  address.) 

Condition  of  General  Contentment  Among 
the  Latter-day  Saints.— What  Tithing 
is  Used  For.— Unhealthy  Exeresences 
Must  be  Removed.— Zion  is  Establish- 
ed, and  Will  Remain.— The  Church  Not 
Led  by  Man.— The  Lord  Has  Mads 
the  Nation  Great. 

My  Brethren  and  Sister — It  is  cer- 
tainly a  great  satisfaction  and  pleas- 
ure to  me  to  see  this  large  assembly 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  gathered  here  cn 
the  opening  day  of  our  seventy-fifth 
annual  conference.  I  am  pleased  to 
see  you  and  meet  with  you;  and  with 
the  blessings  of  the  Lord  and  the  guid- 
ing influence  of  His  Holy  Spirit  I  trust 
that  I  shall  also  be  pleased  in  the  op- 
portunity afforded  me  at  this  moment 
of  speaking  to  you  for  a  short  time.  I 
feel  exceedingly  dependent  upon  the 
promptings  of  the  Spirit  to  my  mind. 
You  may  think  it  strange  for  me  to 
say  that  I  have  had  no  moments  to 
bestow  upon  any  forethought  with 
reference  to  what  I  shall  say  to  you 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


this  morning.  I  stand  before  you 
without  premeditation  or  forethought 
as  to  what  I  shall  say. 

I  believe  that  I  can  say  to 
you  with  all  confidence  that  so  far  as 
my  knowledge  extends,  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  throughout  this  inter- 
mountain  region  and  the  adjoining 
country,  and  so  far  as  I  know 
throughout  the  world,  are  in  excellent 
spiritual  condition.  I  believe  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  enjoy  as  much  today 
of  the  true  spirit  of  their  religion 
as  they  ever  have  enjoyed;  I  believe 
there  is  as  much  union  among  our  peo- 
ple throughout  the  length  and  breadth 
of  the  land  as  has  ever  existed  in  the 
Church.  I  think  I  can  confidently  say 
that  there  are  as  few  local  difficulties 
and  troubles  among  the  people,  com- 
ing before  the  Church  courts,  before 
the  Bishops  and  before  the  High  Coun- 
cils, as  I  have  ever  kno  wn  before  within 
the  scope  of  my  remembrance  and 
knowledge.  We  are  perhaps  never  en- 
tirely free  from  little  misunderstand- 
ings among  neighbors  and  members 
of  the  Church  one  place  or  another, 
and  it  is  often  the  case  that 
these  little  misunderstandings,  arising 
among  our  brothers  and  sisters,  are 
brought  before  the  teachers  and  per- 
haps before  the  Bishops  for  adjudica- 
tion and  reconciliation,  but  I  think  I 
will  be  justified  in  saying,  and  that  the 
truth  will  verify  the  same,  that  within 
my  knowledge  and  according  to  my 
best  understanding,  there  never  was, 
since  I  can  remember,  any  less  of  these 
little  misunderstandings  and  difficulties 
than  exist  today.  Indeed  I  may  say 
that  misunderstandings  have  been  far 
more  pronounced  in  years  that  have 
gone  by  than  they  appear  to  be  now. 

I  believe  that  there  is  a  feeling  of 
general  contentment  among  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  of  satisfaction  in  their 
minds  and  hearts  with  reference  to  the 
divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  and  to  the  divinity  of  the  great 
mission  and  atonement  of  our  Lord 
and  Savior  Jesus  Christ.  In  other 
words  I  believe  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints  are  today  as  devoted,  fer- 
vent and  firm  in  their  convictions  of 


the  truth  and  in  their  knowledge  there- 
of, as  they  ever  have  been  at  any 
period  of  the  Church's  history  from  its 
beginning  down  to  the  present  time. 
I  believe  that  these  statements  can  be 
seconded  and  vouched  for  by  the  pre- 
siding authorities  of  the  Church 
throughout  the  length  and  breadth  of 
the  land.  We  have  these  brethren  here 
before  us, — presidents  of  stakes  and 
their  counselors,  the  Bishops  and  their 
counselors  and  the  presidents  of  our 
various  missions;  and  I  am  satisfied 
that  they  will,  one  and  all,  verify  the 
statements  that  I  have  made  with  ref- 
erence to  the  present  condition  of  the 
Church. 

Not  only  is  this  so,  but  I  believe  that 
the  time  has  never  been  when  the 
financial,  or  the  temporal  condition,  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  was  better  or 
more  encouraging  than  at  the  present. 
I  believe  that  our  people  are  generally 
prosperous  and  I  am  satisfied  that 
there  is  still  greater  prosperity  in  store 
for  them  through  their  continued  faith- 
fulness. I  believe  that  the  Lord  will 
bless  the  earth  for  their  sake,  that  He 
will  temper  the  elements  for  their  good, 
that  He  will  prosper  them  in  the  labor 
of  their  hands  and  in  the  thoughts  of 
their  minds;  that  He  will  guide  them 
by  the  power  of  His  Spirit  into  all  truth 
and  into  the  possession  of  those  tem- 
poral blessings  that  are  so  necessary  to 
make  a  people  happy,  contented  and 
blessed  in  the  land.  With  reference  to 
this  matter  I  desire  to  say  that  we 
have  I  believe  a  very  correct  criterion 
by  which  to  judge  the  spiritual  and 
temporal  condition  of  the  Church.  The 
records  of  the  Church  will  show  at  the 
closing  of  the  accounts  for  the  past 
year  that  the  tithing  and  the  offer- 
ings of  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  been 
a  little  above  what  would  be  called  the 
average.  We  have  had  one  or  two  more 
prosperous  years  in  the  past  judging  by 
this  criterion,  the  tithings  of  the 
people,  but  last  year  was  a  little 
above  the  average,  notwithstanding  the 
fact  that  during  the  last  few  years  our 
people  in  many  parts  of  the  country 
have  been  suffering  from  a  protracted 
drouth,  in  which  they  have  come  short 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


3 


in  their  crops,  and  have  suffered  mater- 
ially in  their  flocks  and  in  their  herds. 
In  many  places  the  drouth  has  been  so 
severe  that  the  people  have  been  under 
the  necessity  of  borrowing-  means  with 
which  to  secure  for  themselves  seed 
grain  for  the  present  year.  I  want  to 
say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
and  especially  to  those  who  preside  over 
the  Church,  that  it  Is  a  matter  of  pride 
and  of  satisfaction  to  my  mind  that 
the  Church  is  in  a  condition  to  assist 
those  that  are  in  need  of  this  kind  of 
assistance,  and  we  have  done  so.  If 
anyone  should  feel  dissatisfied  with  the 
action  of  the  Trustee-in-Trust  and  his 
counselors  and  associates  in  extend- 
ing aid  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  in 
such  matters  of  extremity  as  this,  they 
know  where  to  make  their  com- 
plaints, and  I  should  be  glad  to  meet 
them  and  consider  these  questions. 
We  wish  it  distinctly  understood  that 
while  the  Lord  preserves  us  in  the  po- 
sitions to  which  we  have  been  called, 
the  positions  which  we  did  not  seek, 
but  which,  by  the  providence  of  God, 
have  been  brought  upon  us,  we  will 
hold  ourselves  responsible  before  God 
and  before  His  people  to  render  ma- 
terial and  financial  aid  to  the  Saints 
in  every  direction  where  we  feel 
that  it  is  necessary  to  do  so.  Our  peo- 
ple in  the  south  have  been  unfortunate 
to  some  extent  in  having  their 
dams  washed  away  by  floods.  For  a 
long  series  of  years  they  have  had 
drouth,  the  earth  became  parched 
and  dry,  and  when  the  late  rains  and 
floods  came  they  washed  away  some  of 
their  dams,  and  the  people  sent  up 
their  cries  to  us  for  help,  and  we  have 
helped  them.  We  thank  God  that  we 
are  in  a  position  to  help  them,  and  so 
far  as  I  am  concerned  I  would  be  pleas- 
ed if  I  could  know  that  every  dollar  of 
the  tithing  that  I  pay  to  the  Church  is 
employed  in  some  good  work  of 
this  kind  by  which  the  Saints 
are  strengthened  in  building  up  Zion,  in 
establishing  their  settlements  and  in 
"holding  the  fort"  if  you  please. 

In  addition  to  this  I  am  happy  to 
say  to  this  congregation  and  to  all  the 
world  so  far  as  my  words  may  go,  that 


we  have  taken  the  liberty,  and  we  have 
taken  pride,  and  still  feel  proud  of  the. 
opportunity  that  has  been  afforded  us, 
and  of  the  ability  that  we  have 
possessed  to  accomplish  it — to  ren- 
der aid  to  many  of  our  mis- 
sions abroad  in  the  purchase  and  in 
the  establishment  of  mission  headquar- 
ters and  the  building  of  churches  In 
which  they  can  meet  to  worship  God, 
and  to  which  they  will  not  be  ashamed 
to  invite  the  stranger  to  come  and  join 
with  them.  We  have  used  some  of  the 
tunings  of  the  people  for  this  purpose, 
and  we  think  that  when  the 
Church  desires  to  call  us  to  an 
account  for  matters  of  this  kind  there  is 
a  way  by  which  they  can  reach  it 
which  will  not  occasion  any  noise  or 
confusion  and  I  trust  without  any 
misunderstanding  whatever.  I  be- 
lieve we  can  come  to  a  per- 
fect understanding  with  reference  to 
these  matters.  We  have  been  able,  too, 
to  purchase  quite  a  tract  of  land  in 
Jackson  county  adjacent  to  the  site 
that  was  chosen  by  the  Prophet  Jos- 
eph Smith  for  a  temple,  to  be  built 
some  day;  and  some  few  of  our  people 
have  generously  contributed  specially 
for  the  accomplishment  of  this  purpose, 
but  the  most  of  the  means  that  have 
been  employed  for  the  accomplishment 
of  this  object  have  necessarily  been 
taken  from  the  general  tithing  funds  of 
the  Church.  By  this  means  also  we 
have  been  able  to  secure  elegant  head- 
quarters for  our  people  in  the 
Northern  States  mission;  we  have 
been  able  to  assist  the  Southern 
States  mission  to  obtain  headquarters; 
and  we  have  also  been  enabled  to  assist 
the  British  mission  to  obtain  a  comfor- 
table home  and  headquarters,  where 
the  "Star"  that  has  been  published  for 
so  many  years,  can  continue  to  be  pub- 
lished for  the  advancement  of  the  work 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  of  the 
Elders  in  the  British  mission.  We 
have  been  able  to  assist  largely 
in  the  erection  of  a  commodious 
house  of  worship  in  Copenhagen,  Den- 
mark, also  In  Christiania,  Norway,  and 
also  in  Stockholm,  Sweden;  and  we 
have  assisted  also  in  obtaining  head- 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


quarters  for  our  people  who  live  upon 
many  of  the  islands  of  the  sea. 
We  have  secured  a  tract  of  land  upon 
the  Islands  of  Samoa  for  the  purpose  of 
gathering-  our  Saints  where  they  can 
receive  the  benefits  of  Church  organiza- 
tion, the  benefits  of  Sunday  schools, 
Mutual  Improvement  associations  and 
Sabbath  worship,  and  where  they  can 
be  taught  the  arts  of  industry  and  self- 
support.  We  have  assisted  our  people 
in  Australia  and  New  Zealand  in  a 
similar  way.  And  withall  we  have  met 
more  than  one-half  of  the  bonded  in- 
debtedness of  the  Church;  and  we  are 
in  a  condition,  when  the  time  shall  be 
ripe  for  it,  provided  the  Saints  con- 
tinue to  meet  their  obligations  in  their 
tithes  and  offerings,  to  pay  off  the 
remaining  portion  of  the  Church  in- 
debtedness; when,  I  trust,  by  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Almighty,  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
will  see  a  day  in  which  it  will  be  ab- 
solutely free  from  debt  and  under  ob- 
ligation to  no  man;  and  it  will  not  be 
long  before  this  consummation  is  real- 
ized if  we  continue  our  work  in  the 
future  as  we  have  done  it  in  the  past. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is 
not  my  purpose  to  continue  my  re- 
marks very  long.  I  desired  briefly 
to  refer  to  these  matters  of  which  I 
have  spoken,  and  it  just  occurs  to  my 
mind  that  in  addition  to  the  few  things 
I  have  named — and  I  have  not  named 
them  all — that  it  would  be  very  pro- 
per for  me  to  state  that  the  Church 
with  a  very  small  assistance  from  the 
estate  of  Dr.  William  H.  Groves,  has 
teen  able  to  erect  a  first-class,  well 
appointed  hospital  in  this  city,  fire 
proof  in  every  way,  and  equal  to  the 
best  that  can  probably  be  found  in 
any  part  of  the  world.  We  have  been 
found  fault  with  for  this,  that  is  to 
say,  we  have  been  charged  with  (hesi- 
tating)— pardon  me  if  I  do  not  mention 
that,  it  is  too  small  a  matter.  How- 
ever, we  have  cranks,  you  know, 
among  the  Latter-day  Saints  as  well 
as  among  the  people  of  the  world;  and 
every  once  in  a  while  you  come  across 
an  individual  who  is  all  one-sided,  who 
can  only  see  out  of  one  eye  and  out  of  a 


very  small  corner  of  the  one  eye,  too, 
who  is  not  capable  of  comprehending 
more  than  one  thing  at  a  time,  who 
selects  a  certain  little  hobby — a  certain 
little  idea,  a  single  thought,  and  strad- 
dles that  idea  and  that  single  thought 
and  commences  to  ride  it,  and  it  is  im- 
possible to  unhorse  him  from  his  hobby, 
because  his  mind  is  not  capable  of 
grasping  more  than  that  single 
little  thought.  We  have  such  individ- 
uals as  that,  and  it  was  from  one  of 
these  individuals,  one  of  these  cranks, 
that  we  received  not  long  ago 
solemn  objection  to  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  put- 
ting any  of  its  means  or  tithing  into  a 
hospital.  It  was  wicked  and  wrong 
to  build  hospitals  according  to  his  idea. 
Well,  we  will  let  such  people  go  for 
what  they  are  worth;  they  are 
scarcely  worth  noticing,  and  I  feel  that 
I  should  not  have  noticed  it  at  all; 
but  we  have  such  individuals  among 
us  more  or  less.  We  have  a  variety 
of  curiously  formed  creatures  rising 
up  amongst  us  occasionally,  wbo 
are  filled  with  the  spirit  of  evil  and 
hatred  towards  the  truth  and  the  peo- 
ple of  God.  It  is  only  natural  that 
this  should  be  so. 

It  has  occurred  to  me  somewhat  in 
this  way;  that  the  body  of  the  Church 
is  likened  to  the  body  of  a  man,  and 
you  know  men  do  sometimes  get  their 
systems  a  little  deranged — that  is  to 
say,  sometimes  they  are  flea-bitten. 
Fleas  bite  them  and  mosquitoes  bite 
them  and  cause  little  swellings  to  rise 
on  their  faces  and  hands.  Sometimes 
they  have  boils  upon  them,  and  car- 
buncles, sebaceous  tumors  and  other 
excresences,  that  only  need  the  applica- 
tion of  the  lance  to  let  out  the  humor 
from  them  or  to  excise  them  from  the 
bcdy,  or  cut  them  off  and  let  them  go, 
so  that  the  body  may  be  cleansed  from 
their  poisonous  effects.  It  is  so  with  the 
Church.  From  time  to  time  there  are 
characters  who  become  a  law  unto 
themselves  and  they  follow  the  bent  of 
their  own  "sweet  will"  until  they  get 
themselves  into  a  condition  mentally 
and  spiritually  that  they  become  a 
menace  to  the  body  ecclesiastic.  In  other 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


words,  they  become  like  a  boil,  tumor  or 
carbuncle  on  the  body,  and  you  have  to 
call  in  the  surgeon  to  apply  the  knife  to 
cut  them  out,  that  the  body  may  be 
cleansed  from  them;  and  this  has  been 
the  case  from  the  beginning. 

From  time  to  time  these  conditions 
arise  and  we  have  them  to  meet,  and 
they  will  continue  to  arise  from  time  to 
time,  and  we  shall  have  them  to 
meet;  but  they  will  never  amount 
to  more  than  a  pimple  or  a  little 
sore  on  the  surface  of  the  body,  and  no 
one  need  to  be  alarmed  at  all  for  the 
consequences.  Zion  is  established  in 
the  midst  of  the  earth  to  remain.  It 
is  God  Almighty's  work,  which  He 
Himself,  by  His  own  wisdom,  and  not 
by  the  wisdom  of  man,  has  restored  to 
the  earth  in  the  latter  days,  and  He 
has  established  it  upon  principles  of 
truth  and  righteousness,  of  purity  of 
life  and  revelation  from  God,  that  it 
can  no  more  be  thrown  down  nor  left 
to  another  people,  so  long  as  the  major- 
ity of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  will  abide  in  their 
covenants  with  the  Lord  and  will  keep 
themselves  pure  and  unspotted  from 
the  world,  as  all  members  of  the  Church 
should  keep  themselves.  Then  it  will  be 
as  God  has  decreed,  perpetual  and  eter- 
nal, until  His  will  is  accomplished  and 
His  purposes  fulfilled  among  the 
children  of  men.  No  people  can  ever 
prosper  and  flourish  very  long  unless 
they  abide  in  God's  truth.  There  !a 
nothing,  no  individuality,  no  combinea 
influence  among  men  that  can  prevail 
over  the  truth.  The  truth  is  mighty 
and  it  will  prevail.  It  may  be  slow  in 
the  consummation  of  Us  purpose,  in  the 
accomplishment  of  the  work  that  it  ha:* 
to  do,  but  it  is  and  will  be  sure;  for 
the  truth  cannot  and  will  not  fail, 
for  the  Lord  Almighty  is  behind  it. 
It  is  His  Work,  and  He  will  see  to  it 
that  it  is  accomplished.  The  kingdom 
is  the  Lord's,  and  the  Lord  is  capable  of 
taking  care  of  it.  He  has  .  always 
taken  care  of  it.  I  want  to  say  to 
you  that  there  never  was  a  time  since 
the  organization  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, when  a  man 
led  the  Church,  not  for  one  moment. 


o 

It  was  not  so  in  the  days  of  Jo- 
seph; it  was  not  so  in  the  days  of 
Brigham  Young;  it  has  not  been  so 
since;  it  never  will  be  so.  The  direc- 
tion of  this  work  among  the  people  of 
the  world  will  never  be  left  to  men. 
It  is  God's  work,  let  me  tell  you,  and 
I  hope  you  will  put  it  down  in  your 
memoranda,  and  do  not  forget  that 
it  is  the  Almighty  that  is  going 
to  do  this  work  and  consum- 
rr.ate  it,  and  not  man.  No  man  shall 
have  the  honor  of  doing  it  nor  has 
any  man  ever  had  the  power  to  do  it 
of  himself.  Jt  is  God's  work.  If  it  had 
been  the  work  of  man,  we  would  have 
been  like  the  rest  of  the  world,  and  it 
would  not  have  been  true  of  us  that 
God  had  chosen  us  out  of  the 
world,  but  we  would  be  a  part 
of  it  and  "Hail  fellow,  well  met" 
with  it,  but  it  is  true  that  God  has 
chosen  us  out  of  the  world;  therefore 
we  are  not  of  it;  and  therefore  they 
hate  us  and  they  will  fight  us  and 
say  all  manner  of  evil  against  us 
falsely,  as  they  have  ever  done  from 
the  beginning.  And  they  will  con- 
tinue to  seek  the  destruction  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  to  feel  to- 
ward us  in  the  future  as  they  have 
felt  in  the  past.  Now  don't  you  forget 
it  my  brethren  and  sisters.  When 
you  go  home,  if  you  have  not  been 
in  the  habit  of  doing  it  or  if  you  have 
neglected  your  duty,  when  you  go  home 
today  or  to  your  homes  in  distant  set- 
tlements, carry  this  injunction  with 
you:  Go  into  your  secret  chambers — 
go  into  your  prayer  rooms  and  there 
by  yourselves  or  with  your  families 
gathered  around  you,  bow  your  knees 
before  God  Almighty  in  praise  and  in 
thanksgiving  to  Him  for  His  mer- 
ciful providence  that  has  been  over 
you  and  over  all  His  people  from  the 
inception  of  this  work  down  to  the 
present.  Remember  that  it  is  the 
gift  of  God  to  man,  that  it  is  His  pow- 
er and  His  guiding  influence  that  has 
accomplished  what  we  see  has  been  ac- 
complished. It  has  not  been  done  by 
the  wisdom  of  men.  It  is  proper  we 
should  give  honor  to  those  who 
have  been   intrumental     in  bringing 


G 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  pass  much  righteousness.  They  are 
instruments  in  God's  hand,  and  we 
should  not  ignore  that  they  are  such  in- 
struments, and  we  should  honor  them 
a,s  such ;  but  when  we  undertake  to  give 
them  the  honor  for  accomplishing  this 
work  and  take  the  honor  from  God, 
who  qualified  the  men  to  do  the  work, 
we  are  doing  an  injustice  to  God. 
We  are  robbing  Him  of  the  honor  that 
rightfully  belongs  to  Him  and  giving  it 
to  men  who  are  only  instrumental  .in 
the  hands  of  God  in  accomplishing  His 
purposes. 

Now,  may  the  Lord  bless  you,  my 
brothers  and  sisters,  and  keep  you  in 
His  holy  keeping.  But  let  me  say, 
referring  again  to  the  last  remarks, 
when  you  go  home  see  to  it  that  you 
observe  this  duty  that  devolves  upon 
all  members  of  the  Church,  to  go  before 
the  Lord  in  prayer.  Then  when  you  rise 
up  in  the  morning,  before  you  go  out 
into  the  world  to  engage  in  your  daily 
avocations,  bow  yourselves  before  Al- 
mighty God  with  a  heart  full  of  grati- 
tude and  with  thankful  spirits  before 
Him  and  unto  Him,  for  His  mercy, 
which  endureth  forever,  and  for  His 
loving  kindness,  not  only  to  us  as  indi- 
viduals but  to  the  whole  people  and 
to  the  whole  people  of  our  great  nation. 
The  Lord  has  blessed  the  people  of  our 
nation.  The  Lord  has  given  to  them 
the  choicest  of  all  lands  upon  the 
earth,  and  He  has  made  them  a  great 
and  a  free  people.  He  has  biassed 
them  with  wealth  and  with  power,  not 
only  in  our  own  land,  but  power  among 
the  nations  of  the  world.  The  Lord 
Almighty  has  made  this  nation  great 
and  He  will  continue  to  preserve  it  in 
its  greatness  and  He  will  magnify  it 
before  the  world  so  long  as  the  people 
of  the  nation  will  observe  honest  laws, 
virtue,  purity  of  life  and  equal  justice 
to  be  meted  out  unto  all  men. 

I  feel  proud  of  the  nation  of  which 
we  are  a  part  because  I  am  convinced 
in  my  own  mind  that  there  is  not  an- 
other nation  upon  the  face  of  the  globe 
where  the  Lord  Almighty  could  have 
established  His  Church  with  so  little 
difficulty  and  opposition  as  He  has  done 
here  in  these  United  States.  This  was  a 


free  country  and  religious  toleration 
was  the  sentiment  of  the  people  of  the 
land'.  It  was  an  asylum  for  the  op- 
pressed. All  the  people  of  the  world 
were  invited  here  to  make  homes  of  free- 
dom for  themselves, and  under  these  tol- 
erant circumstances  the  Lord  was  able 
to  establish  His  Church,  and  has  been 
able  to  maintain  it  and  preserve  it  up  to 
this  time,  that  it  has  grown  and  spread, 
until  it  has  become  respectable — not 
only  by  its  numbers,  not  only  by  the 
few  years  of  age  that  it  possesses, but  re- 
spectable because  of  its  intelligence,  re- 
spectable because  of  its  honesty,  its 
purity,  union  and  industry,  and  for  all 
its  virtues.  It  has  become  respectable 
before  those  who  are  intelligent  enough 
to  study  it  and  who  come  to  jsee  and 
understand  the  truth  for  themselves. 
It  is  true  there  are  those  in  the 
world  who  are  so  prejudiced  and 
darkened  in  their  minds  that  they 
will  not  see  though  the  light 
shine  upon  them.  They  close  their 
ears  and  'will  not  hear,  though  the 
truth  is  spoken  unto  them.and  they  shut 
their  eyes  so  they  cannot  see  and  close 
their  hearts  that  they  may  not  under- 
stand. Though  you  declare  unto  them 
the  truth  they  will  deny  it  and  reject 
it.  We  cannot  help  this.  God  will 
deal  with  them  in  His  own  time  and 
in  His  own  way,  and  we  only  need  to  do 
cur  duty,  keep  the  faith  ourselves,  to 
work  righteousness  in  the  world  our- 
selves and  leave  the  results  in  the 
hands  of  Him  who  overruleth,  all 
things  for  the  good  of  those  who  love 
Him  and  keep  His  commandments. 

Now  may  peace  be  and  abide  in 
your  hearts.  May  the  union  that  has 
hitherto  characterized  our  associations 
continue  among  us.  May  our  people 
continue  in  their  love  for  the  truth 
and  in  their  love  for  one  another.  May 
they  continue  in  their  honesty  of  pur- 
pose, in  their  uprightness,  in  their  in- 
dustry, in  the  spirit  of  non-complaint 
and  in  the  spirit  of  rejoicing  and 
thanksgiving  to  God  for  the  blessings 
that  we  receive,  the  blessings  of  the 
earth,  the  blessings  of  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  that  is  given  to  us.  And 
I  hope  that  we  will  continue  during 


PRESIDENT  JOHN  R.  WINDER. 


7 


the  sessions  of  this  conference  to  have 
a  good  attendance,  and  that  we  may 
have  a  peaceable  spirit  of  love  un- 
feigned in  our  hearts,  one  for  another, 
joy  inexpressible  for  the  opportunity 
we  have  of  meeting  together  in  this 
house  that  has  been  built  for  this  pur- 
pose and  to  attend  to  the  duties  that 
devolve  upon  us  as  members  of  the 
Church,  and  that  we  may  go  hence 
at  the  close  of  this  conference  strength- 
ened in  the  faith,  encouraged  in  our 
good  endeavors,  and  with  a  renewed 
determination  that  as  for  us  and  for 
ours  we  will  serve  God  and  let  the 
world  do  its  worst.  May  God  bless 
you  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen." 

A  quartet,  "When  the  swallows 
homeward  fly,"  was  beautifully  rend- 
ered by  Sisters  Hadley,  Owen,  Jones 
and  Saunders. 

PRESIDENT  JOHN  R.  WINDER. 

Satisfactory  Condtions  of  Church  Affairs. 
— Interesting  Incidents  Connected 
With  the  Work,  Under  God,  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith. — Hardships  of 
the  People  in  Early  Days.— Settlement 
of  the  Saints  in  This  Valley,  Their 
Temporary  Exit  and  Return. — Unity 
of  Latter-day  Saints  in  Relation  to 
Sustaining  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  as  Head  of  the  Church. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  affords  ms 
a  great  deal  of  pleasure  this  morning 
to  have  the  opportunity  of  standing 
before  you  to  endorse  every  word  that 
I  have  heard  spoken  by  President  Jo- 
seph F.  Smith.  Particularly  am  I 
pleased  to  be  able  to  endorse  everything 
he  said  in  relation  to  the  financial  con- 
dition of  the  Church,  and  everything 
pertaining  to  the  expenditures.  I  can 
say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  your  funds  are  perfectly  safe  in 
'his  hands.  First  of  all,  I  wished  to 
make  this  statement. 

When  I  look  over  this  vast  congrega- 
tion of  thousands  of  people,  represent- 
ing many  nations,  kindreds,  tongues 
and  peoples,  my  mind  goes  back  to  the 
day  'when  the  boy  Joseph  Smith,  It 
years  of  age,  went  into  the  woods  to 
pray  to  the  Father,  and  when  the  Fath- 


er and  the  Son  appeared  to  him  ana 
gave  him  some  instructions  as  to  how 
he  should  proceed.    The  thought  comes 
to  me  that  no   sooner  did  he  make 
known  what  had  taken  place  than  per- 
secution commenced.    From  that  hour 
his  life  was  sought.    In  every  way  the 
effort  was  made  to  destroy  him  and  his 
influence.    Seventy-five  years  ago  today 
he  was  enabled  to  organize  the  Church 
of  Jesus   Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
with  a  very  few  members.  Persecution 
did  not  cease  then.    On  the  contrary, 
it  continued  from  year  to  year.  Then 
when   I   think  of  the   trying  circum- 
stances in  which  he  was  placed,  the 
wonderful  work  that  he  accomplished 
during  the  few  years  he  was  permitted 
to  live  upon  the  earth,  the  translation 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the  pre- 
senting of  it  to  the  people  and  to  the 
world;  also  the  production  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  and  the  announce- 
ment of  many  glorious  principles  in- 
troduced for  the  salvation  of  the  living 
and  the  redemption  of  the  dead,  I  mar- 
vel at  the  great  work  that  he  accom- 
plished in  the  short  space  of  14  years. 
Then  I  thought  of  the  time  when  the 
people  were  compelled  to  leave  Nauvoo 
and  come  to  this  country,  the  hardships 
they  had  to  endure,  the  travels  across, 
the  plains,  the  many  difficulties  they 
had  to  encounter,  and  after  they  had  ar- 
rived   here    the     energies    they  put 
forth     to     establish      industries  for 
the    good    and  benefit  of    the  people, 
including      manufactures      of  vari- 
ous kinds.  Of  necessity  they  constituted 
the  governments  here — the  city  coun- 
cils,   the   legislatures;    in   fact,  they 
were  all  that  there  were  in  the  country. 
This,  however,   did   not  continue  for 
many  years.    It  was  wonderful  how  the 
Lord  blessed  the  people  in  the  com- 
mencement of  their  labors. 

I  remember  also  how,  just  ten  years 
from  the  day  when  the  pioneers  arrived 
in  this  valley,  as  we  were  celebrating 
that  event  at  the  head  of  Big  Cotton- 
wood, the  word  came  that  a  great 
army  of  the  United  States  was  form- 
ing to  come  up  and  attack  the  people 
in  these  valleys  of  the  mountains.  I 
remember  what  occurred  during  the 
remainder  of   that   summer  and  the 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


following  winter.  We  were  very  ousy 
during  the  winter  manufacturing  boxes 
in  which  to  store  flour  and  secure  what 
provisions  we  could,  because  the  word 
was  that  we  would  have  to  leave  this 
beautiful  city  and  sacrifice  our  homes. 
The  report  was  that  it  was  the  flower 
of  the  United  States  army  that  was 
coming  out  here  to  exterminate  the 
"Mormons."  Not  only  did  this  army 
threaten  us,  but  the  Indians  around  us 
were  excited,  and  were  robbing  the 
people  of  horses  and  cattle.  In  this 
condition  we  remained  during  the  win- 
'  ter  and  until  the  next  April.  That  was 
48  years  ago.  The  people  were  told 
that  it  was  necessary  to  leave  this  city, 
and  not  an  objection  was  raised.  We 
were  of  one  heart  and  one  mind.  The 
move  seemed  to  be  inevitable.  Men 
could  be  seen  gathering  up  a  yoke  of 
cattle  or  two  or  three  horses' and  hitch- 
ing them  to  an  old  wagon  as  best  they 
could,  they  would  put  into  each  wagon 
a  family  and  all  of  this  world's  goods 
that  they  could  collect,  and  then  march 
away. 

The  road  from  here  to  Utah  county 
was  lined  with  teams  passing  from  this 
city,  the  people  not  knowing  whether 
they  would  be  permitted  to  return 
again.  I  remember  that  it  was  a  seri- 
ous condition  with  us  at  that  time.  It 
should  be  remembered  that  all  this 
was  brought  about  by  misrepresenta- 
tions that  were  made  to  the  President 
of  the  United  States.  He  sent  out  a 
certain  gentleman  to  discover  the  par- 
ticulars, and  after  he  had  learned  the 
facts  a  commission  was  sent  here  to 
investigate.  The  matter  was  investi- 
gated, conclusions  were  arrived  at,  and 
the  army,  which  had  wintered  at  Fort 
Bridger,  was  permitted  to  come 
through  the  city  and  pass  over  the 
Jordan  river.  But  when  that  army 
passed  through  the  city,  every  house 
was  closed,  and  not  a  person  was  to  he 
seen;  houses  were  shut,  windows 
boarded  up,  and  everything  apparent- 
ly deserted.  As  the  soldiers  marched 
through,  the  line  was  more  like 
a  funeral  procession  than  a  conquering 
army.  A  few  of  us  were  left  to  take 
care  of  the  city,  but  all  the  rest  had 


departed.  Peace  was  afterward  brought 
about,  and  the  people  were  permitted 
to  return  to  their  homes. 

I  am  referring  to  these  things,  my 
brethren  and  sisters.to  verify  the  state- 
ment of  President  Smith  this  morning, 
that  this  is  the  Lord's  work,  and  that 
He  overrules  all  these  conditions  for 
the  good  of  His  people,  who  will  do  His 
will  and  keep  His  commandments.  If 
you  will  look  back  and  reflect,  you  will 
discover  that  every  event  I  have  men- 
tioned led  to  one  result — the  Church 
took  on  new  life,  new  energy,  and  ad- 
vanced, increased  and  multiplied  the 
more  rapidly. 

After  the  return  of  the  people  from 
the  south  we  had  a  season  of  prosper- 
ity. Factories  and  all  kinds  of  busi- 
nesses were  established,  and  the  growth 
and  increase  were  wonderful.  There  are 
many  intervening  events  of  a  like 
character  that  I  will  net  have  time  to 
mention,  but  they  must  be  in  the  minds 
of  many  of  you.  We  had  peace  for  a 
time;  but  I  remember  that,  just  eigh- 
teen years  ago  today,  conditions  were 
such  in  this  city  that  it  was  thought 
advisable  to  hold  the  general  confer- 
ence in  Provo.  There  are  some  inci- 
dents which  I  remember  that  I  do  not 
think  it  would  be  wise  to  mention,  and 
I  do  not  care  to  do  it;  but  I  come 
along  down  to  the  condition  that  we 
are  in  now. 

Last  Sunday  was  the  monthly  fast 
day.  Monthly  fast  meetings  are  held 
in  the  620  wards  throughout  Zion,  and 
in  the  branches  abroad  as  well,  I  be- 
lieve. On  such  occasions  every  person 
present  has  an  opportunity  to  speak  his 
or  her  feelings.  The  meetings  are  gen- 
erally so  conducted  that  all  are  invit- 
ed to  express  their  feelings,  to  bear 
their  testimonies,  and  to  voice  their 
thankfulness  to  the  Lord  for  His  good- 
ness and  mercy  toward  them.  I  attend- 
ed two  meetings  last  Sunday — one  in 
the  morning  arid  one  in  the  afternoon. 
At  these  meetings  I  heard  at  least  forty 
persons  speak  and  bear  testimony,  and 
I  think  almost  every  person  that  spoke 
testified  that  they  sustained  and  pro- 
posed to  sustain  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith  as  the  president  of  the  Church 


ELDER   HUGH   J.  CANNON. 


9 


of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
Not  a  dissenting-  voice  did  I  hear  in  re- 
lation to  this  matter.  And  I  believe, 
brethren  and  sisters,  if  I  were  to  call 
upon  this  vast  congregation  and  ask 
the  question,  "Do  you  sustain  Presi- 
dent Joseph  P.  Smith  as  the  President 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day gaints?"  I  would  hear  the  ex- 
pression, "Yes,  I  do,"  from  every 
voice. 

Well,  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  do 
it  as  well  as  say  we  will  do  it.  If  we 
will  do  so,  the  Lord  will  continue  to 
bless  and  prosper  us,  no  matter  what 
transpires.  As  has  been  said,  this  is 
His  work,  and  His  hand  is  stretched 
forth,  and  He  will  control  all  these 
matters  to  bring  about  the  best  results. 

May  the  Lord  help  us,  brethren  and 
sisters.  Don't  you  think  I  feel  thank- 
ful this  morning  for  the  health  and 
strength  I  enjoy  and  for  the  blessing 
of  the  Lord  in  extending  my  life  until  I 
am  almost  eighty-four  years  of  age,  and 
enabling  me  to  stand  here  and  express 
my  feelings  in  relation  to  these  mat- 
ters? May  the  Lord  help  me  to  say 
always,  "As  for  me  and  my  house,  we 
will  serve  the  Lord."  God  bless  you  all 
forever.  Amen. 

ELDER  HUGH  J.  CANNON, 
(President  of  Liberty  Stake.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  that  it 
is  impossible .  for  me  to  satisfactorily 
express  my  feelings  this  morning,  in 
standing  before  this  vast  congrega- 
tion. AH  the  speaking  that  I  have  done 
during  the  time  I  have  been  away 
has  been  in  comparatively  small 
halls.  I  think  the  largest  congregation 
that  I  have  been  called  upon  to  ad- 
dress numbered,  perhaps,  400  persons. 
I,  therefore,  feel  that  it  will  be  diffi- 
cult for  me  to  say  anything  interest- 
ing, or  instructive,  unless  I  have  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

In  reporting  the  work  in  the  Swiss 
and  German  mission,  I  am  pleased  to 
be  able  to  state  that  everything  is  go- 
ing along  very  well  there.  We  have 
had  a  great  deal  of  opposition.  Some- 
thing like  one  hundred  of  our  mis- 


mionaries  were  banished  within  one 
year,  mostly  from  Prussia;  but  we  were 
able  to  get  an  extension  of  time, 
through  an  appeal  made  to  the  German 
government  by  the  U.  S.  Ambassador, 
and  during  that  period  the  work  for- 
merly attended  to  by  our  missionaries 
was,  to  a  very  large  extent,  turned 
over  to  the  local  Priesthood.  I  am 
pleased  to  be  able  to  state 
that  notwithstanding  the  missionaries 
from  Utah  are  not  now  accorded  free- 
dom in  that  land,  still  the  work  is  go- 
ing onward,  many  converts  are  being 
baptized,  and  those  who  are  coming  in- 
to the  Church  are  firm  in  the  faith  I 
believe.  They  do  not  accept  the  Gos- 
pel unless  they  are  sure  that  it  is 
true,  exercising  care  on  account  of 
the  opposition.  Hence  the  people  are 
better  and  stronger,  and  more  able  to 
stand,  in  spite  of  all  the  opposition 
they  have  to  meet,  than  at  any  pre- 
vious time  in  the  history  of  that  mis- 
sion. I  am  happy  to  say  that  the  seeds 
of  truth,  the  seeds  of  the  Gospel,  have 
been  planted  in  that  land;  and  I  pre- 
dict that,  in  spite  of  all  the  opposition 
of  our  enemies,  that  seed  will  grow  and 
will  bring  forth  fruit.  I  have  an  abso- 
lute assurance  that  this  will  bo  the 
case. 

The  area  of  the  Swiss  and  German 
mission  at  the  present  time  is  very 
large.  It  covers  Germany,  Switzer- 
land, Austria,  Hungary,  Roumania  and 
Servia,  containing  about  one-<welfth  of 
all  the  people  in  the  world.  In  Switzer- 
land we  have  more  freedom,  and  a 
good  work  is  being  done  there.  In 
Hungary  and  Austria  we  have  very  lit- 
tle freedom;  still  we  are  able  to  preach 
the  Gospel  to  some  extent,  and  are  bap- 
tizing in  both  those  lands.  In  Servia 
and  Roumania  nothing  is  being  done 
by  our  missionaries  at  the  present  time. 
I  expect  in  a  very  short  time  to  hear 
that  missionaries  have  been  sent  into 
the  northern  part  of  Italy,  over  the 
Alps  from  the  French  part  of  Switzer- 
land. Many  people  have  been  gathered 
from  that  part  of  the  country,  and  some 
prominent  families  now  in  Utah  ac- 
cepted the  Gospel  there.  I  firmly  be- 
lieve that  many  more  will  embrace  the 
Gospel  in  that  part  of  the  world. 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  have  listened  with  great  pleasure 
to  the  remarks  that  have  been  made 
this  morning,  and  I  thank  the  Lord 
from  the  bottom  of  my  heart  I  have 
a  testimony  that  that  which  has  been 
said  is  true.  I  thank  Him  sincerely 
that  I  know  Joseph  F.  Smith  is  a  Pro- 
phet of  the  Almighty,  and  that  he  was 
called  by  revelation  to  stand  in  the 
place  which  he  now  occupies.  I  was 
taught  from  my  earliest  infancy  to  re- 
vere and  love  President  Smith.  My 
father  was  associated  with  him  and 
loved  and  honored  him,  and  he  taught 
me  to  love,  honor  and  respect  this  man. 
I  thank  my  Heavenly  Father  that  I 
know  of  a  surety  that  this  work  will 
triumph.  History  repeats  itself;  the 
same  cause  will  always  have  the  same 
effect;  and  if  we  look  back  over  the 
75  years  that  this  Church  has  been  in 
existence,  and  note  the  history  of  those 
who  have'  raised  their  hands  against 
this  work,  we  will  find  they  have  been 
failures,  that  they  never  have  succeed- 
ed in  their  designs,  and  that  the  Gos- 
pel has  gone  on  and  on.  I  can  bear 
testimony,  as  President  Smith  did,  that 
it  will  triumph,  and  that  it  will  even- 
tually fill  the  whole  earth.  If  I  did  not 
have  an  absolute  assurance  of  this  I 
would  be  filled  with  misgivings  at  the 
present  time.  If  I  did  not  know  that 
the  Lord,  and  not  man,  is  at  the  head 
of  this  work,  I  would  be  filled  with 
fear;  but,  having  that  testimony,  the 
only  fear  I  need  to  have  is  that  I  may 
not  be  able  to  endure  unto  the  end.  I 
pray  God  that  I  may.  I  pray  for  my 
brethren  and  for  my  sisters,  that  all 
may  retain  the  faith  and  prove  true 
unto  the  end.  I  ask  these  bleissings 
for  all  of  us  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER   RULON   S.  WELLS. 

it  affords  me  great  pleasure,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  to  add  my  testi- 
mony to  those  which  have  already  been 
borne  in  this  meeting  and  to  express 
the  faith  I  have  in  the  ultimate  tri- 
umph of  the  work  of  God  upon  the 
earth.  I  have  been  deeply  interested 
and  impressed  by  the  remarks  at  the 


opening  of  this  conference,  and  by  the 
evidences  of  the  great  work  which 
our  Father  is  accomplishing  among 
the  children  of  men.  In  reviewing  the 
conditions  which  prevail  at  the  present 
time  I  have  been  led  to  remark,  What 
a  great  and  wonderful  work  it  is  that 
we  are  engaged  in,  and  how  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  who  have  been  carrying 
on  this  work,  under  the  inspiration  of 
the  Lord,  have  attracted  toward  them 
the  attention  of  the  whole  world.  To 
me  it  is  something  marvelous  that  a 
little  band  of  people— only  a  few  hun- 
dred thousand— should  be  so  conspicu- 
ous in  the  history  of  this  world  and  be- 
come so  universally  known.  We  have 
traveled  as  missionaries  into  many 
parts  of  the  world,  and  I  doubt  if 
there  is  any  community  or  any  peo- 
ple that  has  not  heard  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  and  of  this  work  with  which 
we  are  identified.  Of  course,  they  have 
not  been  informed  in  all  cases  as  to 
the  true  standing  of  this  people;  they 
have  not  received  correct  information 
regarding  us;  but  we  have  been  spoken 
of  and  heard  of  in  the  remotest  parts 
of  the  world.  It  is  astonishing,  too, 
what  a  great  amount  of  hatred  has 
been  engendered  among  the  people  of 
the  world  towards  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  We  are  generally  regarded  in 
the  world  as  being  a  very  wicked  peo- 
ple, and  have  the  reputation  among  the 
children  of  men  of  being  the  worst 
people  upon  the  face  of  the  earth.  I 
have  wondered  at  this  myself.  I  have 
not  only  been  familiar  with  the  opinions 
of  men  in  the  world,  but  it  has  been 
my  lot  to  be  acquainted  with  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  having  been  born  in 
this  community  and  having  spent  near- 
ly all  my  life  here,  and  I  have  ob- 
served that  they  will  compare  favor- 
ably with  any  people  on  the  earth. 
There  is  nothing  in  the  lives  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  to  warrant  the  opin- 
ion that  prevails  in  the  world.  In 
many  places  we  are  regarded  as  a 
band  of  cut-throats,  an  evil  and  a 
licentious  people;  but  we  know  that 
this  is  not  the  condition  that  prevails 
among  us.  When  I  was  in  England  a 
few  years  ago  we  held  a  conference 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS. 


11 


in  the  city  of  Nottingham,  and  while 
we  were  there  literature  was  scattered 
among  the  people  containing  illustra- 
tions supposed  to  represent  life  In 
Utah,  and  this  literature  was  published 
by  a  well  known  anti-"Mormon,"  Mr. 
Jarman.  The  Latter-day  Saints  were 
depicted  there  in  the  vilest  terms. 
On  the  front  page  was  a  picture  repre- 
senting a  "Mormon,"  sitting  on  a  pole 
fence  with  a  wide  sombrero  hat  on  his 
head,  in  shirt  sleeves,  a  vile  expression 
on  his  face,  and  in  his  hand  a  black- 
snake  whip.  Out  in  the  field  before 
him  were  five  or  six  women  working 
"with  pick  and  shovel,  and  plough, 
while  he,  presumably  /he  husband  of 
these  women,  was  directing  them,  and 
making  them  work  as  slaves.  It  is 
this  kind  of  misrepresentation  that  is 
inflaming  the  minds  of  people  against 
us.  Even  many  good  honorable  men 
and  women  have  been  taught  to  be- 
lieve us  wicked  and  degraded.  While 
Brother  McMurrin  and  I  were  cross- 
ing the  ocean  a  few  years  ago  we  hap- 
pened to  be  in  company  with  a  number 
of  school  teachers  of  the  city  of  Phil- 
adelphia who  were  going  upon  an  ex- 
cursion to  Europe.  We  became  ac- 
quainted with  them,  and  explaining  our 
religion  to  them.  We  gave  them  some 
idea  of  the  character  of  the  people  out 
here,  and  they  looked  upon  us  as  repre- 
sentatives of  the  people.  As  we  were 
about  to  disembark,  one  of  the  pro- 
fessors came  up  to  me  and  said,  "I 
never  knew,  Mr.  Wells,  until  I  met 
you  gentlemen  here,  that  there  was 
such  a  thing  as  a  "Mormon"  gentle- 
man. I  never  knew  but  that  the 
"Mormons"  were  the  vilest  kind  of  peo- 
ple, without  any  culture  whatever.  I 
was  taught  to  believe  them  wicked  and 
vile  from  the  days  of  my  infancy.  Not 
only  that,  but  I  wish  to  make  a  further 
confession:  I  am  a  teacher  in  one  of 
the  public  schools  of  Philadelphia,  and 
I  have  taught  my  pupils  to  believe  that, 
too.  But  I  give  you  my  word  that 
when  I  return  to  my  school  I  will  try 
to  undo  the  mischief  I  have  done." 

Is  it  any  wonder,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  many  good  people  have 


been  deluded  and  led  astray,  and 
that  we  have  become  hated  by  the 
people  of  the  world?  It  may  not  be  very 
pleasant  for  us  to  contemplate  the 
fact  that  the  world  do  not  like.  us.  I 
regret  that  that  is  the  condition.  1 
do  not,  however,  regret  that  I  am  iden- 
tified with  this  people,  nor  have  I  any 
regrets  for  the  Latter-day  Saints  them- 
selves. No;  it  is  the  heritage  of  the 
saints  to  be  hated  of  the  world;  and 
I  find  consolation  in  the  words  which 
were  quoted  by  Prest.  Smith:  "If  ye 
were  of  the  world,  the  world  would 
love  its  own;  but  because  ye  are  not 
of  the  world,  but  I  have  chosen  you 
out  of  the  world,  therefore  the  world 
hate  you."  Neither  should  we  feel  sad 
and  discouraged  on  account  -of  these 
conditions  which  prevail  in  the  world; 
for  the  Savior  said  further:  "Blessed 
are  ye,  when  men  shall  revile  you,  and 
persecute  you,  and  shall  say  all  manner 
of  evil  against  you  falsely,  for  my  sake. 
Rejoice  and  be  exceeding  glad:  for 
great  is  your  reward  in  heaven:  for  so 
persecuted  they  the  prophets  which 
were  before  you." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  those  are 
feelings  that  fill  my  bosom  with  regard 
to  the  attitude  of  the  world  toward  us. 
I  feel  sorry  for  them,  not  for  us.  Rath- 
er I  feel  to  rejoice  that  I  am  identified 
with  the  people  of  God,  notwithstand- 
ing the  enmity  of  the  world  toward  us. 
They  do  not  love  the.  leaders  of  this 
people;  but  we,  who  know  them  best, 
know  them  to  be  men  of  God.  We 
know  that  there  is  nothing  in  their 
lives  that  will  warrant  the  attacks  that 
are  being  made  upon  them  by  the 
world.  Let  us  uphold  and  sustain  them 
by  our  faith  and  prayers,  and  by  our 
obedience  to  the  will  of  God,  that  we 
may  be  faithful  and  true  to  the  cov- 
enants we  have  made  with  the  Lord. 
Let  us  not  be  discouraged  or  concerned 
about  the  ultimate  triumph  of  this 
work;  for  God  is  at  the  helm,  and  He 
will  lead  us  triumphantly  into  His 
rest.  We  have  no  cause  to  fear.  Let 
them  oppose  this  work  as  they  will, 
they  will  utterly  fail  in  every  attempt. 
That  they  may  be  fustrated  in  all  their 
evil  machinations,  that  they  may  be 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


defeated  in  all  that  they  undertake  to 
do  against  the  cause  of  Zion,  is  my 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Lift 
up  the'  voice  in  singing." 

Benediction  by  Elder  John  B.  Maiben, 
of  the  Manti  Temple. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION. 
The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

"How  firm  a  foundation  ye  Saints  of 
the  Lord, 

Is  laid  for  your  faith  in  His  excellent 
word ! 

What  more  can  He  say  than  to  you  He 

hath  said, 
You  who  unto  Jesus  for  refuge  have 

fled." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Angus 
M.  Cannon. 
Singing  by  the  choir: 

"Though   deep'ning   trials   throng  the 
way, 

Press  on,  press  on,  ye  Saints  of  God; 
Ere  long  the  resurrection  day 
Will    spread    its    life     and  truth 
abroad," 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

The  Tithing  Used  Only  for  Legitimate 
Purposes. — Establishment  and  Won- 
derful Growth  of  the  Church.— Doc- 
trines Taught  by  Joseph  Smith  Har- 
monize With  the  Scriptures.—  Religion 
and  Rights  of  Non-"Mormons"  Re- 
spected by  Us. 

I  will  read  a  few  verses  of  the  hymn 

that  we  have  just  been  singing: 

What  though  our  rights  have  been  as- 
sailed ? 

What  though  by  foes  we've  been  de- 
spoiled? 

Jehovah's  promise  has  not  failed, 
Jehovah's  purpose  is  not  foiled. 

His  work  is  moving  on  apace, 

And  great  events  are  rolling  forth; 
The  kingdom  of  the  latter  days — 

The  "little  stone" — must  fill  the  earth. 
Though  Satan  rage,  'tis  all  in  vain; 

The  words  the  ancient  Prophet  spoke, 
Sure  as  the  throne  of  God  remain, 

Nor  men  nor  devils  can  revoke. 
All  glory  to  His  holy  name, 

Who  sends  His  faithful  servants  forth, 
To  prove  the  nations — to  proclaim 

Salvation's  tidings  through  the  earth. 

I  am  pleased  to  see  this  large  congre- 
gation. I  enjoyed  the  forenoon  services 
very  much.  I  enjoyed  the  glorious  tes- 
timonies borne  and  the  good  instruc- 


tions given.  I  hope  that  while  I  shall 
address  you  the  same  spirit  may  direct 
me  that  inspired  my  brethren  who 
spoke  to  us  this  forenoon. 

Like  Brother  Winder,  I  feel  to  bear 
my  testimony  to  the  truth  of  the  state- 
ments made  by  President  Smith  in  re- 
gard to  the  tithing.  I  know  that  the 
tithing  is  used  for  the  purpose  of  build- 
ing up  the  Church  of  Christ  upon  the 
earth,  and  only  for  that  purpose.  Presi- 
dent Smith,  does  not  expend  any  of  the 
noney  of  the  Church  without  sharing 
the  responsibility  of  doing  so  with  his 
brethren.  The  accounts  and  books  are 
kept,  as  has  been  stated,  in  such  a  way 
that  not  one  cent  could  be  diverted  for 
any  selfish  purpose  without  it  being 
known.  The  books  are  open  for  the 
inspection  of  the  Saints.  All  the  means 
that  come  into  the  Church  are  ac- 
counted for,  and  an  auditing  committee 
looks  over  the  accounts  and  they  cer- 
tify that  the  books  are  correctly  kept. 
In  addition  to  the  things  mentioned  by 
the  president  this  morning  for  which 
the  tithing  has  been  expended,  I  will 
say  that  during  the  last  year  more  has 
been  spent  to  help  build  meetinghouses 
both  at  home  and  abroad  than  in  any 
other  year  that  I  remember.  A  great 
deal  of  Church  means  has  gone  to  the 
various  missions,  and  also  to  the  poor 
of  the  Church;  and  besides  that,  more 
ifas  been  paid  to  our  Church  schools 
than  ever  before.  I  believe  that  all  the 
Latter-day  Saints  approve  and  sanc- 
tion this  way  of  spending  the  tithing. 
Our  Church  schools  are  progressing 
nicely.  We  do  for  them  all  that  we 
can.  We  feel  that  they  are  a  necessity 
in  Zion,  and  that  the  Saints  cannot  do 
without  them.  We  are  proud  of  them, 
and  we  wish  we  were  more  able  to  help 
them,  because  we  believe  that  much 
good  is  being  done  through  them. 

In  establishing  our  Church  schools  it 
was  not  the  design  to  have  them  an- 
tagonistic to  the  state  schools.  When 
strangers  travel  through  our  communi- 
ties they  are  struck  with  the  beautiful 
sehoolhouses  we  have  erected.  When  I 
say  "we,"  1  include  all  citizens  of  the 
state;  but  as  the  Latter-day  Saints  are 
in  the  majority  they  can  share  at  least 


r 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


13 


■equally  the  honor  of  having  erected 
such  fine  school  buildings  in  which  to 
educate  the  children.  We  are  proud 
■of  the  institutions  of  higher  learning 
established  by  the  state,  and  we  look 
to  them  to  do  much  for  our  young  men 
and  young  women  in  the  line  of  edu- 
cation, and  to  save  them  from  spending 
so  much  and  so  many  years  in  the  east, 
as  they  can  just  as  well,  and  even  bet- 
ter in  several  courses,  stay  at  home  and 
take  what  these  institutions  give. 

Our  Church  schools  have  an  object 
which  can  not  be  reached  in  the  state 
institutions.  We  want  our  young  men 
and  young  women  instructed  in  the 
principles  of  salvation.  We  want  them 
brought  under  the  influence  of  the 
Spirit  of  the  Gospel.  Hence  we  .have 
these  schools  established  in  our  midst. 
Of  course,  it  costs  much  to  keep  these 
•schools;  but  we  feel  the  cost  is  far  out- 
weighed by  the  good  which  is  accom- 
plished in  them. 

I  am  reminded  that  this  is  the  6th 
of  April,  and  that  the  Church  is  75 
years  old  today.  Seventy-five  years  ago 
a  few  persons  met  in  Peter  Whitmer's 
house,  and  according  to  the  command- 
ments given  of  the  Lord  the  Church 
was  organized  This  was  done  even 
in  that  early  day  by  the  same  principle 
which  1  has  governed  the  Church 
ever  since,  namely,  that  of  common 
consent.  The  Prophet  Joseph  had 
translated  the  Eook  of  Mormon.  Oliver 
Cowder>  had  been  h's  scribe.  The 
book  had  already  been  published. 
These  two  had  received  the  lesser 
Priesthood  under  the  hands  of  John, 
whom  we  know  as  John  the  Baptist. 
Afterwards  they  received  the  Melchise- 
dek  Priesthood  under  the  hands  of 
Peter,  James  and  John,  who  were  in- 
trusted by  the  Savior  to  hold  the  keys 
of  the  Priesthood  upon  the  earth. 
When  He  ascended  to  heaven  He 
left  the  authority  to  administer  the 
ordinances  of  the  Gospel  with  the 
Apostles,  and  Peter,  James  and  John 
no  doubt  held  the  presidency  of  the 
apostleship.  These  persons  were  sent 
to  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery 
and  conferred  upon  them  the  Melchis- 
(ec?ek    Piriesthood.     Remember,  thete 


was  no  church  organized  at  that  time, 
and  therefore  there  were  no  offices.  In 
conferring  the  Priesthood  upon  Joseph 
and  Oliver  they  were  not  ordained  to 
any  particular  office,  but  the  Priest- 
hood itself  was  conferred  upon  them. 
They  were  instructed,  however,  that 
when  the  Church  was  organized  they 
should  ordain  each  other  to  the  office 
of  Elder.  When  those  who  had  been 
baptized  met  together  seventy-five 
years  ago  today,  they  opened  their 
meeting  with  earnest  prayer,  and  then 
they  laid  before  those  present  what 
the  Lord  wanted  them  to  do,  and  they 
were  accepted  unanimously  to  teach 
the  things  of  the  kingdom  of  God. 
Then  they  ordained  each  other  to  the 
office  of  an  Elder.  They  partook  of 
bread  and  wine  at  that  meeting,  the 
first  time  that  the  sacrament  was  ad- 
ministered in  this  the  dispensation  of 
the  fullness  of  times;  and  then  they 
confirmed  all  those  present,  who  were 
members  of  the  Church,  and  ordained 
some  to  different  offices  in  the  Priest- 
hood. The  Holy  Ghost  was  poured  out 
upon  them,  and  they  rejoiced  that  the 
Church  had  been  organized  and  that 
they  were  members  of  it.  It  was  a 
very  small  beginning;  only  six  mem- 
bers participated  in  the  organization, 
that  is,  so  far  as  the  incorporation  of 
the  Church  was  concerned;  but  there 
were  a  few  additional  members  in  the 
Church.  The  six  that  I  refer  to  were: 
Joseph  Smith,  Jr.,  Oliver  Cowdery,  Pe- 
ter Whitmer,  Jr.,  Hyrum  Smith,  Sam- 
uel H.  Smith  and  David  Whitmer. 
From  that  small  beginning  I  see  today 
this  large  congregation  before  me,  and 
I  am  amazed  to  contemplate  the  great 
work  that  has  been  done  in  all  parts 
of  the  world. 

When  the  angel  said  to  Joseph  that 
his  name  should  be  known  for  good 
and  evil  in  all  the  world,  how  im- 
probable this  seemed  to  be,  that  a 
farmer's  boy,  in  the  backwoods,) 
should  be  known  outside  of  the  few 
villages  where  he  was  known  at  that 
time!  But  this  prediction  has  been 
fulfilled.  Those  whom  I  see  before  me 
today  have  come  from  many  different 
lands,  both  from  the  west  and  the  east. 


14 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


Many  different  nationalities  are  repre- 
sented here.  His  name  has  indeed  be- 
come known  in  all  parts  of  the  world. 
We  receive  letters  from  many  different 
lands  inquiring-  about  our  religion 
and  asking  that  Elders  be  sent  to 
them.  They  have  heard  of  the  name 
of  Joseph  Smith.  We  rejoice  this  day 
that  we  have  heard  his  name,  that  the 
Gospel  came  unto  us,  and  that  we  have 
received  the  knowledge  of  its  truth. 

While  they  were  yet  together  in  the 
meeting  in  which  the  Church  was  or- 
ganized, the  Prophet  Joseph  received 
this  revelation: 

"Behold  there  shall  be  a  record  kept 
among  you,  and  in  it  thou  shalt  be 
called  a  seer,  a  translator,  a  prophet, 
an  apostle  of  Jesus  Christ,  an  Elder  of 
the  Church  through  the  will  of  God  the 
Father,  and  the  grace  of  your  Lord 
Jesus  Christ." 

We  who  have  studied  his  history  can 
bear  witness  to  the  fact  that  he  was 
not  only  called  a  prophet,  but  that  he 
was  indeed  a  prophet,  and  also  a  seer, 
which  is  a  still  greater  calling;  that  he 
was  shown  the  past,  and  also  what 
should  come  to  pass,  and  he  was  made 
the  means  as  a  revelator  of  bringing 
forth  the  Gospel  of  Christ  in  plainness 
and  in  perfection.  As  a  teacher,  he 
proved  that  his  teachings  were  di- 
vine. It  is  true  that  they  come  in  con- 
flict with  many  of  the  opinions  held  by 
the  theologians  of  the  day;  but  when- 
ever they  come  in  conflict  with  them, 
the  theologians'  views  are  in  conflict 
with  the  doctrines  of  the  New  Tes- 
tament. He  taught  that  God  lived, 
that  Jesus  Christ  was  His  Son  and 
our  Redeemer,  and  that  the  Holy  Ghost 
was  one  of  the  Godhead.  He  taught 
that  the  Son  was  like  the  Father.  We 
know  that  the  Son  possessed  a  body. 
We  know  that  He  has  promised  that 
our  bodies  shall  be  changed  and  made 
like  unto  His  glorious  body.  This  is 
a  promise  unto  the  Saints.  He  was 
the  express  image  of  His  Father.  If, 
therefore,  He  has  a  glorious  body — 
and  we  know  He  has — then  the  Father 
also  has  a  body.  Now,  this  teaching 
comes  in  direct  conflict  with  the  teach- 
ings of  the  world.    But  it  is  not  con- 


trary to  the  teachings  of 
the  Bible.  Read  the  Bible  from 
Genesis  to  Revelations,  and  it 
sets  forth  a  personal  God,  and  that 
man  was  created  in  His  image.  We  hold 
this  to  be  a  glorious  doctrine.  Then 
he  taught  us  the  relationship  of  man 
to  God— that  we  are  His  children. 
Though  this  has  been  called  a  pre- 
sumptuous doctrine,  it  is  one  that  in- 
spires the  Saints  and  makes  them  feel 
thankful  to  know  that  God  is  their 
Father,  and  they  look  upon  all  human 
beings  as  their  brethren  and  sisters, 
connected  in  the  sacred  relationship  of 
brotherhood.  Can  teachings  be  more 
ennobling  than  this?  We  not  only  hold 
this  as  a  belief,  but  we  are  trying  to 
carry  it  out  practically  and  show  men 
that  we  do  love  them.  We  have  been 
and  are,  willing  to  make  much  sacrifice 
for  those  who  have  not  heard  the  truth. 
Why,  this  mere  handful  of  Latter-day 
Saints  send  forth  missionaries  into  the 
world  by  the  hundreds.  Why  do  they 
do  this?  It  does  not  help  them  finan- 
cially. They  do  it  because  it  is  a  duty 
they  owe  to  their  fellowmen,  and  there- 
fore, when  they  are  called  they  go  forth 
gladly.  They  do  not  ask  what  their 
salary  will  be,  nor  where  the  money 
will  come  from.  If  they  have  the 
means,  they  are  willing  to  make  the 
sacrifice  and  spend  their  time  in  this 
labor  of  love  amongst  their  fellow-men. 

Why  should  those  who  are  not  of  our 
faith  be  so  opposed  to  us?  They  say 
we  have  a  false  doctrine.  But  is  it 
false?  Have  they  proved  \it  to  be  so? 
We  invite  a  comparison  of  the  princi- 
ples we  believe  in  with  those  taught 
by  Jesus  Christ  and  His  apostles.  If 
our  principles  are  contrary  to  those  that 
they  taught,  then  they  cannot  be  true; 
but  if  they  are  like  them,  then  is  it  not 
probable  that  they  are  true?  And  we 
can  prove  that  it  is  not  only  in  the  let- 
ter that  they  are  alike,  but  that  the 
spirit  which  accompanied  the  preaching 
of  the  Gospel  formerly  is  still  in  the 
Church,  and  the  word  is  clothed  with 
the  same  power.  Therefore,  we  say  they 
are  just  the  same. 

I  feel  to  bear  my  testimony  unto  this 
congregation  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 


ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON. 


15 


prophet  of  the  Lord,  that  he  proved 
himself  worthy  of  the  name  he  was 
called  to  bear;  and  that  he  not  only 
taught  the  principles  of  the  Gospel, 
but,  as  a  prophet,  was  able  to  tell  the 
Saints  what  should  come  to  pass,  to 
warn  them  against  certain  courses,  to 
tell  them  what  the  future  had  in  store 
for  them,  and  also  to  prophesy  what 
should  befall  this  nation.  Read  the  87th 
section  of  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  and  his  history,  and  you 
will  see  that  as  a  prophet  he  foresaw 
the  future  both  of  the  nation  and  of 
the  Saints.  The  Lord  did  not  leave  him 
nor  the  Saints  in  the  dark  concerning 
these  things.  And  we  have  seen  his 
prophecies  fulfilled. 

Brethren  and  Sisters,  this  is  the  work 
of  the  Lord,  and  whatever  opposition 
it  may  meet,  always  remember  that  the 
Lord  is  stronger  than  those  who  oppose 
Him,  and  that  He  will  carry  the  work 
forward  to  triumph.  This  work  will  be 
as  "the  little  stone  cut  out  of  the 
mountains  without  hands,"  it  will  fill 
the  whole  earth.  We  do  not  believe, 
however,  that  the  rights  of  anyone  will 
be  taken  away,  but  this  work  will  be 
a  protection  to  all,  whether  they  be- 
long to  the  church  or  not.  Those  in  our 
midst  who  are  not  of  us  need  have  no 
concern  or  fear  as  to  what  the  Mor- 
mons will  do  with  their  neighbors.  We 
have  shown  in  the  past  that  their 
rights  have  been  protected  equally 
with  our  own.  Where  we  are  in  the 
majority  we  do  not  step  on  their  toes 
or  attempt  to  take  their  rights  from 
them.  On  the  contrary,  we  feel  that 
they  are  entitled  to  just  the  same  priv- 
ileges as  we  are.  But  the  majority 
have  a  right  to  vote  as  the"  please. 
Even  politically  our  people  have  tried 
to  give  those  in  their  midst  equal  rights 
with  themselves.  When  it  comes  to 
business,  some  have  feared  that  we  are 
going  too  far  in  that  line;  but  if  they 
will  examine  into  this  matter  they  will 
And  that  as  a  people  we  are  mostly 
farmers,  tillers  of  the  soil,  and  the 
cream  of  commercial  business  has  been 
taken  by  our  non-Mormon  friends.  But 
we  do  not  find  fault  with  this.  They 
have  a  right  to  pursue  any  business 


they  like.  We  simply  claim  the  same 
right  to  enter  into  any  line  of  business 
that  we  desire.  There  is  enough  for  all, 
and  all  have  a  right  to  engage  in  busi- 
ness, whether  Mormon  or  gentile,  and 
there  should  be  no  friction  on  this  ac- 
count. Go  down  Main  street  and  look 
at  the  merchants'  signs,  and  you  will 
see  that  the  Mormon  merchants  are 
few.  Why,  then,  should  they  find  fault 
with  us,  on  this  point?  We  say  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  pursue  your  even 
course.  "Do  what  is  right;  let  the  con- 
sequence follow."  Amen. 

Sister  Lottie  Owen  sang  sweetly, 
"Palm  branches." 

ELDER  JOS.   E.  ROBINSON. 
(President  of   California  Mission.) 

For  the  few  moments  I  stand  before 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  desire 
an  interest  in  your  prayers  of  faith. 
I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  of  Jesus.  I 
rejoice  in  the  testimonies  of  my  breth- 
ren which  have  been  borne  this  day. 
It  recalls  to  my  mind  a  conversation  I 
once  had  with  a  gentleman,  when  he 
said:  "All  you  brethren  speak  the  same 
words,  bear  the  same  testimony,  and 
treat  doctrine  and  principle  alike."  I 
told  him  it  was  in  fulfillment  of  the 
prophecy  of  Isaiah: 

"How  beautiful  upon  the  mountains 
are  the  feet  of  him  that  bringeth  good 
tidings,  that  publisheth  peace;  that 
bringeth  good  tidings  of  good,  that 
publisheth  salvation;  that  saith  unto 
Zion,  Thy  God  reigneth! 

"Thy  watchmen  shall  lift  up  the 
voice;  .with  the  voice  together  shall 
they  sing:  for  they  shall  see  eye  to  eye, 
when  the  Lord  shall  bring  again  Zion." 

The  Lord  has  established  Zion.  The 
watchmen  lift  up  the  voice  together; 
they  see  eye  to  eye,  and  their  testi- 
mony is  one  in  relation  to  peace,  to 
salvation,  to  the  fact  that  God  reigns, 
and  that  if  His  people  do  right  they 
need  have  no  fear  of  the  consequences. 

I  am  glad  to  report  the  California 
mission  in  good  condition.  We  do  not 
make  many  converts  in  that  great  State 
of  pleasure  and  of  wealth;  but  those 
who  do  come  into  the  Church  are  of  the 
better  classes,  and  they  grow  more  sta- 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ble  and  more  consistent  in  their  faith 
day  by  day.  'The  Saints  are  growiner 
and  developing  in  faith  and  in  the 
knowledge  of  the  Gospel.  They  re- 
joice in  the  triumphs  of  truth.  They 
sorrow  at  the  ignorance  of  the  world 
and  those  who  shape  the  shaft  of  vil- 
lification  and  contumely  against  the 
Lord's  anointed.  We  have  pleasure 
in  the  visits  of  many  of  the  worthv 
sons  and  daughters  of  Zion  to  that  mis- 
sion. We  have  pleasure  also  that  some 
who  may  have  been  froward  and  who 
have  got  outside  the  influence  of  home 
love,  have  had  their  testimonies  re- 
kindled. They  have  had  the  oppor- 
tunity of  comparing  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  with  that  taught  by  men,  and 
their  bosoms  have  swelled  with  sride 
and  joy  because  of  the  new  and  ever- 
lasting covenant  which  God  has  es- 
tablished with  their  fathers,  to  their 
soul's  good  and  to  their  reclamation. 
They  bear  testimony  to  these  things, 
and  return  home  renewed  in  faith,  in 
zeal,  and  in  courage,  and  with  a  de- 
sire to  keep  the  commandments  of  God. 

We  have  heard  today  a  little  concern- 
ing the  beginning  of  this  work.  We 
have  been  told  of  its  wondrous  growth 
in  numbers,  and  in  power;  that  it  is 
known  among  all  nations;  that  the 
name  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  is 
spoken  of  throughout  the  earth  for  good 
or  ill,  according  to  men's  concept  of 
his  work  and  character.  Those  who 
have  taken  cognizance  of  the  advance- 
ment in  modern  thought  cannot  but 
note  how  in  seventy-five  years  the  lit- 
tle leaven  of  the  Gospel  has  influenced 
and  modified  the  precepts  and  concepts 
of  men  in  relation  to  the  Gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Many  have  come 
to  view  the  fact  that  faith  alone  is  not 
sufficient  to  save;  their  concept  of  God 
and  His  attributes  and  powers  have 
been  changed;  the  old  bottomless  pit 
hell  has  been  repudiated;  a  belief  in 
that  horrible  heresy,  the  damnation  of 
little  children  who  are  not  baptized  has 
been  relegated  to  the  past;  and  the 
concept  of  a  personal  God  has  grown. 
They  believe  today  more  in  progression, 
as  taught,  though  imperfectly,  in  some 
of  their  ideas  of  evolution.     They  sense 


more  the  capabilities  of  man,  his  re- 
lationship to  Deity,  the  powers  which 
He  possesses,  and  with  which,  in  the 
future,  he  will  be  able  to  develop  until 
he  may  become  like  his  Fa- 
ther in  Heaven.  Many  understand  the 
fact  that  like  begets  like,  and  that 
within  man  is  an  embryotic  Deity.  We 
have  some  such  teachings  as  this  from 
the  learned  professors  of  the  great 
schools  in  our  mission.  They  have 
learned  to  be  more  merciful,  and  hav^ 
come  to  see  that  the  Gospel  of  Christ 
reaches  out  farther  to  save  than  was 
thought  seventy-five  years  ago.  They 
are  now  preaching  the  doctrine  of  a 
probation  after  death,  a  life  beyond 
the  veil,  wherein  mankind  may  have 
another  opportunity  to  adjust  them- 
selves to  the  Gospel  plan.  They  are 
also  teaching  tithes  and  offerings.  One 
man  there  is  teaching  temple-building. 
Some  believe  in  apostles,  others  teach 
the  gathering.  So,  as  I  said  in  the  be- 
ginning, the  little  leaven  is  leavening 
the  whole  lump;  and  although  they  wili 
not  admit  it,  their  concept  of  God  and 
His  work  and  word  has  been  most 
wondrously  modified  by  the  revelations 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Many  of  the 
scientific  truths  which  he  enunciated, 
and  which  were  elaborated  upon  by 
Apostle  Pratt,  have  been  accepted 
and  are  now  being  taught  in  the 
schools  of  our  land.  I  noted  not  long 
since  that  Professors  Lodge,  Curry  and 
Crookes  gave  voice  to  what  the  press 
called  a  "stupendous  theory"  in  relation 
to  matter.  They  declared  that  spirit 
was  matter,  only  finer  and  more  sub- 
tle; and  that  atoms  could  be  divided  ad 
infinitum.  Orson  Pratt,  getting  his  key 
from  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  taught 
the  same  doctrine  and  wrote  his  "Ab- 
surdities of  Immaterialism"  60  yeara 
ago.  So  that,  not  only  in  religious  mat- 
ters, but  in  scientific  as  well,  the  rev*>~ 
lations  of  the  Lord  have  had  their  in- 
fluence in  the  world.  Seventy-five 
years  ago  physiology  and  hygiene  were 
not  understood  and  taught,  as  they 
are  today.  Men  have  arisen  one  by  one 
and  voiced  the  laws  of  health  as  we 
have  them  in  the  Word  of  Wisdom;  and 


ELDER  NEPHI  PRATT. 


17 


the  States  have  made  it  incumbent  upon 
the  teachers  in  their  various  schools  to 
teach  to  the  rising  generation  the  health 
laws  that  are  embodied  in  the  Word 
of  Wisdom.  Not  only  that,  but  great 
corporations,  the  railroads  particularly, 
have  partaken  of  this  spirit,  and  those 
who  indulge  in  strong  drink  or  use  to- 
bacco find  it  difficult  to  get  employment 
with  them,  and  if  they  do  get  it,  the 
work  is  generally  unimportant. 

I  rejoice  that  the  Saints  of  our  mis- 
sion sustain  the  Church  with  their 
tithes  and  their  offerings,  and  sustain 
with  their  confidence  and  prayers  Pres- 
ident Joseph  F.  Smith  and  his  counsel- 
ors, and  the  qxiorum  of  Twelve  Apostles. 
I  would  like  to  remind  you,  my  brothers' 
and  sisters,  of  the  words  of  Christ  when 
He  told  His  disciples  to  beware  of  the 
leaven  of  the  scribes  and  Pharisees. 
They  thought  He  referred  to  bread;  but 
afterwards  He  explained  the  matter  to 
them,  and  they  sa'sv  that  He  referred 
to  their  doctrines  and  teachings.  Now, 
as  our  teachings  have  modified  th« 
thought  of  the  World,  at  least  in  re- 
ligious matters^  let  us  see  to  it  that  the 
leaven  of  the  gentiles  does  not  modify 
or  change  the  testimonies  we  have  that, 
God  has  set  His  hand  to  gather  Hfs 
elect  from  the  four  corners  of  the  earth; 
that  the  north  has  been  made  to  give 
up,  that  the  south  has  kept  not  back, 
and  that  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God 
have  been  gathered  from  the  east,  from 
the  west,  and  from  afar  off,  to  be 
taught  of  His  ways  and  to  walk  in 
His  paths.  When  philanthropists  and 
humanitarians  arise  and  declaim 
against  Mother  Goose  rhymes,  such  as 
the  one  that  deals  with  old  Daddy 
Long-legs,  as  being  improper  teachings 
for  our  children,  what  will  we  say  of 
papers  and  books  that  aim  their  shafts 
at  the  anointed  of  the  Lord? 

Will  we  have  such  books  and  papers 
in  our  homes?  Will  we  have  the  ad- 
versary, like  a  serpent,  enter  therein 
to  poison  the  atmosphere^?  Can  we  ex- 
pect that  our  children  will  learn  things 
more  healthful  morally  from  such 
sources  than  those  which  are  conveyed 
in  the  Mother  Goose  rhymes  and  jin- 
gles? Beware  of  the  leaven  of  the 
Sadducees  and  Pharisees!    Keep  your 


covenants  before  the  Lord.  Betray  not 
His  Holy  Priesthood.  Be  humble  and 
faithful,  and  await  the  day  when  the 
prophecy  of  Isaiah  shall  be  fulfilled 
wherein  he  says: 

"Arise,  shine!  for  thy  light  is  come, 
and  the  glory  of  the  Lord  is  risen  upon 
thee. 

"The  sun  shall  be  no  more  thy  light  by 
day;  neither  for  brightness  shall  the 
moon  give  light  unto  thee;  but  the  Lord 
shall  be  unto  thee  an  everlasting  light, 
and  thy  God  thy  glory." 

God  grant  it.  Amen. 

ELDER  NEPHI  PRATT, 

(President  of  Northwestern  States 
Mission.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  1  have  lis- 
tened this  day  to  that  which  I  came  to 
conference  to  hear.  My  heart  has  re- 
joiced in  the  things  that  we  have  heard. 
I  am  glad  that  I  am  here.  I  have  come 
from  the  northwest,  where  I  have  la- 
bored for  almost  three  years,  to  meet 
with  the  general  body  of  the  church  at 
these  great  conferences,  for  which 
privilege  my  heart  is  filled  with  grati- 
tude and  thanksgiving  to  the  Lord.  I 
rejoice  in  the  mission  over-  which  I 
have  been  called  to  preside,  notwith- 
standing the  indifference  of  the  peo- 
ple against  most  anything  that  bears 
the  name  of  religion  is  so  great  that  it 
is  like  the  hide  of  a  rhinoceros,  scarce- 
ly penetrable,  and  it  is  all  our  Elders 
can  do  to  get  the  privilege  of  having 
perhaps  One  gospel  conversation  in  tvs'0 
or  three  days,  and  oftentimes  that  will 
be  with  people  who  have  recently  come 
from  the  east.  In  the  year  just  past 
we  baptized  about  seventy-five  souls  in 
that  mission;  about  half  of  them  were 
the  children  of  people  already  in  the 
Church. 

I  have  to  say  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints  whose  sons  have  been  sent  up 
to  our  mission  may  be  thankful  to  the 
Lord  for  the  spirit  that  begins  to  burn 
in  the  hearts  of  those  young  men.  Only 
the  other  day,  in  the  great  town  of 
Seattle,  on  the  Puget  Sound,  myself 
and  counselors  (one  a  son  of  Jesse  N. 
Smith,  the  other  Brother  George  W. 
Quibell)  met  with  the  Elders  in  Priest- 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


hood  meeting.  There  were  twenty-sev- 
en of  us  in  all,  and  we'  had  that  spirit 
and  power  which  has  never  been  mani- 
fested to  me  in  such  great  abundance 
as  it  was  in  the  four  and  a  half  hours 
of  that  Priesthood  meeting,  one  of  the 
best  I  have  ever  been  in — and  I  have 
been  brought  up  in  the  midst  of  the 
Priesthood.  Every  soul  present  spoke 
by  the  power  of  inspiration,  their  hearts 
were  melted,  and  they  bowed  their 
heads  and  wept  for  joy.  They  felt  that 
they  never  wanted  to  commit  a  sin 
against  the  Lord,  or  even  any  folly, 
but  desired  to  walk  the  straight  and 
narrow  path  that  leads  up  to  eternnl 
life.  They  felt  like  going  with  tears  to 
sow  the  seed  of  eternal  life  among  the 
people  in  that  land. 

We  held  meetings  in  Tacoma,  sailed 
across  the  sound,  and  went  over  to  the 
Island  of  Vancouver,  and  in  our  meet- 
ings there  was  a  power  that  it  was 
blessed  to  feel.  We  had  liberty  of 
speech,  liberty  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  and 
the  Saints  and  strangers  that  came 
there  will  not  soon  forget  these  splen- 
did meetings.  We  are  not,  however, 
setting  the  lakes  nor  the  ocean  on  fire 
up  there;  but  are  working  faithfully 
every  day.  Our  missionaries  are  carry- 
ing literature  from  door  to  door,  and 
whatever  the  result  may  be,  we  are  do- 
ing the  best  we  can.  We  hold  meetings 
in  the  evenings,  often  upon  the  streets, 
and  we  sometimes  have  a  baker's  do^en 
to  listen  to  us,  and  at  other  times  from 
four  to  six  hundred  persons. 

We  have  heard  the  voice  of  inspira- 
tion through  our  Prophet  who  stands 
at  the  head  of  the  Church,  and  in  our 
field  we  know  that  he  is  a  prophet  of 
the  living  God;  for  we  can  testify  that 
our  hearts  have  burned  within  us  when 
we  have  listened  to  his  voice  and  testi- 
mony; and  when  we  have  yielded  obe- 
dience to  his  counsel,  we,  too,  have  re- 
ceived revelation  and  inspiration  from 
on  high,  such  as  men  can  only  receive 
upon  principles  of  righteousness. 

This,  brethren  and  sisters,  is  my  tes- 
timony, and  I  bear  it  wherever  I  get  a 
chance.  I  talk  to  men  upon  the  trains, 
on  the  steamboats,  on  the  streets,  and 
in  the  homes  of  the  people,  and  I  find 


that  the  intelligent  American  citizen  is 
not  holding  great  condemnation  over 
this  people.  Men  are  testifying  to  us 
of  the  confidence  they  have  in  us  and 
in  our  leaders;  and  we  feel  greatly 
gratified  at  the  manner  in  which  some 
of  the  foremost  men  in  Portland  and 
Seattle  speak  of  the  industrial  charac- 
ter of  our  people,  and  of  the  splendid 
way  in  which  we  unite  together  to 
bring  about  and  make  successful  the 
great  industries  that  have  been  estab- 
lished by  us. 

I  wish  to  close  my  remarks  by  bear- 
ing my  humble  testimony  that  I  know, 
and  have  known  for  many  years,  that 
God  is  with  this  people.  I  remarked 
this  morning,  as  my  mind  meditated 
upon  the  apostate  condition  of  some 
who  have  stood  high  in  this  Chxrch, 
where  are  they?  where  is  their  power 
and  where  is  their  influence?  This  work 
never  stopped  a  minute  when  they  dis- 
approved of  what  the  prophets  had 
done;  on  the  contrary,  it  grew  in  num- 
bers, in  union,  in  power  and  strength. 
The  light  of  those  apostates  has  gone 
out,  and  their  works  are  forgotten,  but 
this  people  will  continue  to  rise  in 
might  and  power,  and  be  prospered  in 
the  earth,  for  God  has  planted  them; 
and  Zion  shall  remain  forever.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOS.  A.  McRAE. 
(President  of  Colorado  Mission.) 

My  brethren  and,  sisters,  I  rejoice  this 
afternoon  with  you  in  having  the  op- 
portunity to  attend  this  seventy-fifth 
anniversary  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  want 
to  bear  my  testimony  to  what  President 
Smith  said  this  morning  in  relation  to 
the  growth  of  this  great  latter-day 
work.  In  the  field  where  I  have  been 
appointed  to  preside  the  church  was 
never  in  better  condition,  and  I  do  not 
know  the  time  when  the  people  were 
trying  to  live  nearer  to  the  Lord  and 
were  more  willing  to  sustain  President 
Joseph  P.  Smith,  his  counselors,  the 
Twelve  Apostles,  and  all  the  leading 
authorities  of  the  Church.  We  have  had 
some  opposition  in  our  work,  but  most 
of  our  trouble  has     been  indifference. 


ELDER  JOS.  A.  McRAE. 


19 


However,  at  the  present  time  there  is  a 
spirit  of  inquiry  among  the  people,  and 
they  want  to  know  something-  about 
the  doctrines  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  About 
two  weeks  ago  I  took  by  surprise  the 
Elders  who  are  laboring  in  the  city  of 
Denver,  and  asked  them  to  report  to  me 
the  number  of  homes  where  they  could 
go  and  read  the  Book  of  Mormon  and 
tell  the  people  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  and  we  counted  101  homes  in 
that  city  where  the  Elders  could  go  any 
night  they  choose  and  read  the  Book  of 
Mormon  to  the  people.  We  have  estab- 
lished in  many  homes  Book  of  Mormon 
classes,  and  have  advocated  doing  this 
wherever  practicable.  We  go  there  on 
specially  appointed  evenings, read  chap- 
ters to  them  from  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
and  they  have  the  privilege  of  asking 
questions.  This  gives  us  the  opportu- 
nity to  confine  our  remarks  to  the  sub- 
ject in  hand,  instead  of  wandering 
about.  We  have  discovered  that  this 
has  accomplished  a  great  deal  of  good. 
The  people  have  begun  to  inquire  about 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  many  have 
desired  a  copy  of  it.  We  are  pleased 
to  know  that  many  influential  men  in 
our  mission  are  in  favor  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  sympathy  with 
the  Elders.  Many  have  invited  the  El- 
ders to  their  homes,  and  have  volun- 
teered their  friendship  to  us,  telling  us 
that  anything  they  could  do  we  were 
perfectly  welcome  to.  We  have  not 
made  many  converts,  so  far  as  baptisms 
are  concerned,  but  I  believe  that  there 
is  a  feeling  of  inquiry  spreading 
throughout  the  mission  which  will  ul- 
timately result  in  good.  We  had  one  of 
our  "reverend"  brethren  come  up  there 
(I  was  wondering  if  he  came  from 
Brother  Rich's  mission)  and  he  unin- 
tentionally did  some  missionary  work 
for  us.  In  a  newspaper  interview  he 
told  some  awful  tales  all  about  what 
the  Mormons  are  doing  in  Denver,  and 
with  tears  in  his  eyes  related  many 
pathetic  stories  regarding  the  work. 
The  result  was  that  for  six  weeks  after 
his  interview  our  little  hall  was  crowd- 
ed with  people,  and  we  were  accosted 
on  the  streets,  and  by  street  car  and 


railroad  conductors,  asking  us  about 
this  "reverend"  gentleman,  and  what 
effect  he  had  had  upon  us.  My  answer 
always  was  that  he  had  done  us  no 
harm,  but  I  did  not  know  how  much 
harm  he  had  done  himself.  When  I  see 
the  gentleman  I  am  going  to  thank  him 
for  assisting  the  Elders  to  preach  the 
Gospel  of  Christ. 

We  have  a  body  of  good  Elders  in 
the  mission  at  the  present  time.  They 
are  studying  and  working  hard  to 
preach  the  Gospel  unto  the  people.  We 
have  also  three  lady  missionaries,  who 
are  doing  a  valuable  work  among  the 
people,  getting  into  homes  where  the 
Elders  could  not  obtain  access.  Girls 
who  have  left  their  homes  in  our  midst 
and  have  married  men  not  members  of 
the  church,  have  been  visited  by  these 
sisters,  who  have  had  the  privilege  of 
teaching  them  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  instructing  their  children 
how  to  pray,  when  the  fathers  have  ab- 
solutely refused  to  have  the  Elders  in 
their  homes.  Our  sisters  have  gone  in- 
to these  homes,  and  in  Denver  they 
have  not  done  any  tracting  for  several 
months  because  their  time  has  been 
completely  occupied  in  visiting  the 
homes  of  friends,  and  they  are  two  or 
three  weeks  behind  now  in  going  where 
they  have  been  invited,  notwithstand- 
ing they  are  going  out  day  and  night. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  a  testi- 
mony of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I 
know  that  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation.  I  know  by  the  inspiration  of 
the  Holy  Spirit  that  Joseph  F.  Smith 
is  a  prophet,  seer  and  revelator,  and  the 
man  who  has  been  chosen  of  God  to 
lead  this  people.  I  know  that  his 
counselors  are  men  of  God.  I  know  that 
the  Twelve  Apostles  have  been  chosen 
by  divine  authority  and  have  been 
sent  out  to  preach  the  Gospel.  I  am 
always  willing,  and  I  hope  I  always 
shall  be,  to  listen  to  the  counsel  they 
give  unto  me.  I  hope  I  shall  always 
be  able  to  put  myself  in  subjection  to 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  that  those  who 
preside  in  this  great  work  will  have  ac- 
cess to  my  heart  and  be  able  to  counsel 
and  direct  me  for  good.  May  the  Lord 
bless  us  and  help  us  to  this  end,  is 
my  prayer.  Amen. 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER  GERMAN  E.  ELLSWORTH. 
(•President  of  Northern  States  Mission.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  do  not  feel 
as  much  at  home  in  preaching  to  you, 
Latter-day  Saints,  as  I  would  if  this 
congregation  were  non-members  of  the 
Church.  I  believe  I  could  attend  this 
conference  from  beginning  to  end,  and 
unless  there  was  a  feeling  in  my  heart 
to  bear  my  testimony  to  the  truthful- 
ness of  the  Gospel  and  to  the  power  of 
God,  I  would  not  desire  to  speak;  but  I 
cannot  remember  a  time  for  the  last 
eight  or  nine  years  whenever  I  came 
before  a  body  of  people  who  did  not 
know  the  Gospel  was  true,  but  what  I 
had  a  desire  to  bear  my  testimony  to 
them.  I  have  not  such  a  desire  to  bear 
my  testimony  before  you;  but  I  feel  to 
report  unto  you  the  labors  of  my  mis- 
sion, having  been  called  upon  by  him 
who  holds  the  right  to  dictate  in  these 
things. 

With  reference  to  the  Northern  States 
mission,  I  am  proud  to  say  that  every 
Elder  in  the  mission  is  doing  his  ut- 
most; for  the  record  of  the  past  year  is 
one  that  is  going  to  require  great  la- 
bor to  equal  in  the  future.  I  have 
visited  almost  every  Elder  in  the  last 
two  months,  and  they  all  desire  to  at 
least  equal  the  record  of  the  past  year. 
In  many  parts  of  the  mission  we  have 
wonderful  openings.  We  have  com- 
munications from  people  stating  that 
the  ministers  have  forsaken  them  be- 
cause they  are  too  poor  to  remunerate 
a  good  minister,  and  the  poorer  ones 
do  not  desire  to  visit  them,  so  thev 
have  asked  for  our  Elders  to  come  and 
preach  to  them  the  Gospel.  You  re- 
member that,  at  the  last  Conference. 
President  Asahel  H.  Woodruff  reported 
to  you  about  the  work  in  the  little  city 
of  Robinson,  Indiana,  where  they  had 
baptized  fifteen  or  sixteen  individuals. 
We  have  added  to  that  number,  and 
since  that  time  we  have  built  a  small 
church  that  will  hold  about 
150  persons,  and  it  will  be  ready  for 
dedication  in  a  few  weeks.  Many  of 
the  people  rejoice,  and  are  glad  that 
they  have  united  in  the  faith  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints.      We  have  in  the 


last  two  months  received  letters  from 
the  northern  part  of  Wisconsin,  desir- 
ing our  Elders  to  go  through  that  part 
of  the  country  and  hold  meetings  in 
their  schoolhouses;  for,  they  say,  they 
cannot  afford  to  pay  preachers  that 
are  only  half  as  good  as  the  Elders  who 
come  to  them  for  nothing.  Three  weeks 
ago  we  sent  two  Elders  into  far-off 
Ashland,  in  the  northern  part  of  Wis- 
consin; and,  in  that  city,  those  two  El- 
ders arose  and  bore  their  testimony, 
and  thanked  the  Lord  that  they  were 
sent  to  a  place  where  our  Elders  had 
not  been,  so  far  as  they  knew;  and 
they  said  that  if  there  was  another  such 
point  farther  away  they  would  thank 
the  Lord  if  they  could  be  sent  there. 
A  letter  reached  me  yesterday  in  which 
I  was  told  that  those  two  Elders  had 
a  hard  time  for  a  few  days  to  find  an 
opening,  but,  through  the  mercy  of  the 
Lord,  friends  were  raised  up  unto  them, 
and  in  one  week  they  held  fifteen  cot- 
tage meetings  and  sold  several  copies 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  Three  weeks 
ago  we  held  a  conference,  in  Monmouth, 
Illinois,  of  twenty-two  Elders  and  four 
lady  missionaries,  and,  like  Brother 
Pratt,  I  do  not  remember  a  time  when 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  rested  upon  the 
missionaries  more  powerfully  than  it 
did  in  that  historic  town.  Hundreds 
of  people  came  to  hear  the  testimony 
of  the  Elders  representing  a  people  that 
were  once  driven  from  that  state,  and 
they  were  glad  to  receive  them.  Many 
said  they  would  to  God  that  our  peo- 
ple had  never  been  driven  from  that 
state,  and  they  are  looking  with  anxi- 
ous eyes  to  the  return  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  to  western  Illinois.  Editors 
of  papers  follow  us  up  and  ask  ques- 
tions concerning  the  probable  coming 
back  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  to 
that  part  of  the  country.  The  people 
in  Nauvoo  would  gladly  welcome 
the  Saints  there,  to  rebuild  that  city. 
Several  months  ago  two  Elders 
were  sent  to  Carthage,  and  they 
were  received  very  kindly.  Sometimes 
I  wonder  that  they  were  so  tolerant,  for 
those  two  Elders,  humble  and  young, 
stood  upon  the  streets  of  Carthage  and, 
in  the  fervor  of  their  souls,  declared 


ELDER  GERMAN  E.  ELLSWORTH. 


21 


that  the  blood  of  the  prophets  slain  in 
that  city  was  crying  from  the  ground 
to  their  heavenly  Father.  The  people 
did  not  seem  to  be  aroused  with  regard 
to  their  testimony  until,  on  Christmas 
day,  two  ladies  were  baptized  in  the 
Mississippi  river,  and,  when  it  'was 
noised  about,  the  ministers  of  the  city 
and  county  united  in  the  desire  to  drive 
the  Elders  out;  but  the  officials  told 
them  it  would  not  do.  For  two  months 
past  they  have  hardly  had  access  to 
the  homes  of  the  people,  because  of  this 
prejudice;  but  it  is  breaking  down  and 
they  are  visiting  some  of  the  honest  in 
hjeart  in  that  city,  and  children  of 
Saints  who  remained  behind  there.  One 
thing  that  causes  me  to  rejoice  that  I 
am  a  Latter-day  Saint,  and  that  my 
parents  and  grandparents  came  to  Utah 
with  the  body  of  the  Saints,  is  the 
growth  of  faith  in  the  young  men  and 
the  young  women  in  Zion.  It  is  a  sad 
sight  to  see  the  old  people  who  did  not 
have  faith  to  gather  with  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  but  remained  in  Illinois  or 
in  Iowa.  They  have  not  the  spirit  of 
the  Gospel;  they  have  only  about  half 
the  spirit  of  Americans.  They  live  in 
obscurity  and  are  practically  unknown; 
whereas  if  they  had  gathered  to  Zion, 
and  possessed  the  faith  of  the  pioneers, 
they  might  have  been  brilliant  men  and 
women,  known  for  good  among  their 
fellows.  But  through  criticising  the 
leaders  of  the  Church  in  that  day,  and 
through  their  lack  of  faith,  they  have 
been  lost  to  the  Church.  It  is  my  firm 
belief  that  the  people  of  today  who  are 
fighting  our  leaders  will  in  a  very  few 
years  be  practically  unknown.  I  often 
recall  testimonies  that  were  borne  fo 
me  by  apostates  in  California.  I  re- 
member one  man  coming  to  me  and, 
with  tears  in  his  eyes,  requested  me  not 
to  sing  the  songs  of  Zion  in  his  house, 
because  he  could  not  stand  it.  When  I 
asked  him  why  he  did  not  repent,  he 
said  that  the  spirit  of  repentance  had 
never  come  to  him  in  thirty  years.  I 
believe  that  men  and  women  in  the 
Church  today  who  are  fighting  Zion  will 
lose  the  testimony,  and  it  may  never 
come  back  to  them  possibly  in  this  life. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  in  Chicago  are 
thankful  to  the  Lord  for  the  goodly 


place  they  now  possess  in  which  to  wor- 
ship, and  I  bear  witness  that  the  means 
spent  in  Chicago  for  the  obtaining  of  a 
beautiful  house  to  worship  in  was  weil 
spent.  There  are  a  number  of  members 
of  the  Church  who  are  students  in  Chi- 
cago, and  they  are  proud  to  belong  to 
that  branch.  They  assist  us  in  our 
work,  and  we  feel  thankful  for  the  la- 
bors they  have  performed  and  for  the 
support  they  have  given  us.  I  believe 
that  they  ought  to  be  encouraged;  for 
they  have  gone  out  to  battle  with  the 
world.  One  young  man  came  to  mo 
three  months  ago.  He  had  not  been  at- 
tending our  services,  and  he  felt,  pos- 
sibly, that  he  was  not  of  much  conse- 
quence. He  roomed  with  a  strong  mind- 
ed student,  and  thought  he  had  so  much 
work  to  do  that  he  could  not  come  anil 
worship.  After  four  months  of  isola- 
tion from  the  Church,  by  reading  the 
many  things  that  are  written  against 
us,  he  began  to  wonder  if  Zion  was  not 
astray.  Today,  however,  he  feels  bet- 
ter, having  come  under  the  influence  of 
faithful  students  and  Elders  there. 

In  southern  Illinois  we  have  pur- 
chased another  small  church  in  which 
to  worship;  and  the  honest  in  heart, 
also  the  firm  minded  among  them,  are 
pleased  to  think  that  they  are  going  to 
have  an  energetic,  enterprising  people 
live  with  them. 

My  Brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  glad 
to  have  the  privilege  of  representing 
such  a  noble  band  of  young  men  ancl 
young  women  as  are  the  missionaries 
in  the  Northern  States  mission.  I  be- 
live  that  their  souls  are  filled  with  a 
desire  to  keep  the  commandments  01 
the  Lord  and  to  spread  a  knowledge  ot 
those  commandments  among  their  fet- 
lowmen.  I  have  often  thought,  if  tTnj 
mothers  could  see  their  sons  out  there, 
perhaps  knowing  scarcely  a  passage  of 
Scripture  from,  memory,  and,  reading 
the  Bible,  find  that  it  sustains  the 
teachings  of  their  mothers,  their  hearts 
would  rejoice  to  note  how  their  minds 
broaden,  and  how  their  souls  are  filled 
with  joy,  when  they  see  that  the  Bible 
backs  up  the  teachings  they  have  re- 
ceived at  their  mother's  knee,  and  in 
their  Sunday  schools  and  other  good 
places.    Many  of  our  young  men  are 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


not  as  well  acquainted  with  the  Bible  as 
they  are  with  the  fact  that  their  moth- 
er has  taught  them  to  believe  in  GO'd,- 
to  repent  and  be  baptized,  and  then  to 
have  hands  laid  upon  them  for  the  gift 
of  the  Holy  Ghost.  When  they  read 
about  these  principles  they  understand 
them,  and  instead  of  coming  back  weak 
in  the  faith,  they  return  with  their  faith 
strengthened,  and  with  the  teachings  of 
their  parents  confirmed  by  the  doctrines 
of  the  Holy  Scriptures. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  pray  that 
God  will  bless  the  Elders  in  our  mis- 
sion. We  wish  we  had  more  to  search 
out  the  honest  in  heart  who  desire  to 
know  concerning  the  great  and  glori- 
ous Gospel  that  has  been  restored  in 
our  days.  I  have  a  testimony  that  our 
Father  in  heaven  is  with  Zlon  and  hei> 
leaders.  When  but  a  small  boy  I  had 
a  testimony  that  our  present  leader 
was  a  man  of  God,  and  I  have  received 
additional  testimony  that  God  approves 
of  his  actions  and  is  guiding  him,  to- 
gether with  those  who  have  been  called 
to  direct  the  affairs  of  Zion.  May  God 
help  us  all  to  keep  the  testimony  that 
we  have,  and  to  follow  in  the  light  that 
has  come  to  Zion  and  her  leaders,  that 
we  may  not  be  lost  sight  of  in  the  on- 
ward march  of  the  work  of  God.  This 
is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

"As  this  is  the  seventy-fifth  anniver- 
sary of  the  day  on  which  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
was  organized,  we  will  present  the  gen- 
eral authorities  of  the  Church  for  your 
vote  this  afternoon,  and  I  would  like  to 
say  that  it  is  expected  that  all  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  will  exercise  their  right 
to  vote  for  or  against  those  whose 
names  are  submitted.  We  would  like 
you  to  exercise  perfect  liberty  and 
freedom  in  the  expression  of  your  own 
thought  and  faith  and  fidelity  in  the 
lifting  of  your  hands." 

President  Smith  then  presented  the 
authorities  of  the  Chruch.  All  the  vot- 
ing was  unanimous  with,  two  excep- 
tions;  and  President    Smith  invited 


those  who  had  so  voted  to  state  their 
grievances  to  the  proper  authorities, 
and  they  would  be  considered.  The  list 
of  names  as  sustained  is  a  follows: 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES. 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  as  Prophet,  Seer 
and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

John  R.  Winder,  as  First  Counselor 
in  the  First  Presidency. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  Second  Coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency. 

Francis  M.  Lyman,  as  President  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles. 

As  members  of  the  Council  of  Twelve 
Apostles:  Francis  M.  Lyman,  John 
Henry  Smith,  George  Teasdale,  Heber 
J.  Grant,  John  W.  Taylor,  Marriner  W. 
Merrill,  Matthias  F.  Cowley,  Rudger 
Clawson,  Reed  Smoot,  Hyrum  M. 
Smith,  George  A.  Smith  and  Charles 
W.  Penrose. 

John  Smith,  as  Presiding  Patriarch 
of  the  Church. 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency and  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the 
Presiding  Patriarch  as  Prophets,  Seers 
and  Revelators. 

First  Seven  Presidents  of  Seventies: 
Seymour  B.  Young,  Christian  D.  Fjeld- 
sted,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  George  Rey- 
nolds, Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon  S. 
Wells  and  Joseph  W.  McMurrin. 

William  B.  Preston,  as  Presiding 
Bishop,  with  Robert  T.  Burton  and  Or- 
rin  P.  Miller,  as  his  first  and  second 
counselors. 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  as  trustee-in-trust 
for  the  body  of  religious  worshipers 
known  as  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  Church  Histor- 
ian, and  General  Church  Recorder. 

Andrew  Jenson,  Orson  F.  Whitney, 
A.  Milton  Musser  and  Brigham  H.  Rob- 
erts, assistant  historians. 

As  members  of  the  General  Church 
Board  of  Education:  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
Willard  Young,  Anthon  H.  Lund,  John 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES. 


23 


Nicholson,  George  H.  Brimhall,  Rudger 
Clawson,  Joseph  M.  Tanner,  John  R 
Winder  and  Charles  W.  Penrose. 

Arthur  Winter,  secretary  and  treas- 
urer to  the  General  Church  board  of 
education. 

John  Nicholson,  as  clerk  of  the  con- 
ference. 

Evan  Stephens  as  director  of  the  Tab- 


ernacle choir;  J.  J.  McClellan,  organist; 
Tray  Y.  Cannon,  assistant  organist, 
and  all  the  members  of  the  Tabernacle 
choir. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "From 
afar,  gracious  Lord,  Thou  hast  gath- 
ered Thy  flock." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Bish- 
op Robert  T.  Burton. 


SECOND  DAY, 


Friday,  April  7,  10  a.  m. 
The  meeting  opened  by  the  choir  and 
congregation  singing  the  hymn: 

Come,  come  ye  saints,  no  toil  nor  la- 
bor fear, 

But  with  joy  wend  your  way; 

Though  hard  to  you  this  journey  may 
appear, 

Grace  shall  be  as  your  day. 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
John  D.  T.  McAllister,  President  of 
Manti  Temple. 

Singing  by  the  choir: 

"Earth,  with  her  ten  thousand  flowers, 

Air,  with  all  its  beams  and  showers, 

Heaven's  infinite  expanse, 

Sea's  resplendent  countenance, 

All  around  and  all  above 

Bear  this  record — God  is  love." 

PRESIDENT  FRANCIS.  M.  LYMAN. 

The  Way  Preparing  for  Further  Proclam- 
ation of  the  Qospel.—  The  Saints  Giv3 
Practical  Evidence  of  Love  for  Man- 
kind.—Leaders  in  the  Church  Deserve 
Faith  and  Confidence.— Ignorant  Oppo- 
nents  Not  so   Culpable  as   the  Ma- 
licious.—Our  Religion  Conforms  to  the 
Law  of  the  Land. 
I  feel  very  much  this  morning  the 
necessity  of  your,  faith  and  prayers, 
and  the  blessing  and  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
while  I  attempt  to  address  you.  My 
heart  was  full  of  joy  yesterday  m  lis- 
,     tening  to  the  splendid  reports  of  the 
condition  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and 
what  they  have  accomplished.    It  is 
wonderful  that  we  have  been  able  in 
seventy-five  years  to  have  brought  to- 
gether from  so  small  a  beginning  such 
a  remarkable  people,  from  so  many  dif- 
ferent nations,  so  well  established  in 
their   faith,    so    completely  organized, 
and    working  so  unitedly  together  to 
carry  the  Gospel  to  the  whole  world. 
From  the  first  organization    of  the 
Church,  with  six  members,  down  to  the 
present  time,  with     several  hundred 
thousand  members,  it  is  but  a  short 
time.    And  every  Latter-day  Saint  has 
a  testimony  regarding  the  truth  of  this 
work.   The  people  of  the  Lord  have  ob- 
tained forgiveness  of  sin  through  their 
faith,   repentance   and   baptism,  and 
they   have   received   the   Holy  Ghost, 
which  bears  record  of  the  Father  and  of 
the  Son,  and  which  enables  us  to  un- 


derstand the  truth  and  the  things  of 
God — things  that  none  are  able  to  com- 
prehend without  the  aid  of  that  spirit. 
We  see  today  a  great  multitude  gather- 
ed here  to  worship  the  Lord,  represent- 
ing all  the  various  Stakes  of  Zion,  and 
all  the  missions  of  the  United  States. 

We  learned  yesterday  from  the  Pres- 
idency what  we  have  accomplished  col- 
lectively, and  it  is  remarkable;  for  we 
are  carrying  forward  a  very  important 
work  among  the  nations  of  the  earth. 
We  would  be  delighted  if  we  could  pen- 
etrate those  nations  where  we  have  not 
yet  found  religious  liberty;  and  we  be- 
lieve that  the  Lord  will  move  among 
the  nations  and  control  them  until  all 
the  world  may  enjoy  the  same  liberty 
that  the  English-speaking  people  and 
some  other  races  enjoy  at  the  present 
time.  The  Gospel  makes  us  free;  but 
it  is  necessary  that  we  should  have  a 
measure  of  freedom  among  the  children 
of  men,  through  the  governments  of 
the  earth,  before  we  can  move  the  cause 
of  Zion  effectually  among  the  nations. 
I  believe  that  the  hand  of  the  Lord  is 
manifest  today,  as  it  always  has  been, 
among  the  nations,  and  that  He  is  pre- 
paring the  way  for  the  labor  that  we 
have  to  perform.  Though  the  world 
have  little  faith  in  us,  yet  we  will 
demonstrate  to  them  that  we  are  true 
men  and  women,  that  we  love  mankind 
and  that  we  do  not  hate  them.  We  la- 
bor to  do  them  good,  we  work  for  their 
salvation,  and  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints  there  is  a  large  percentage  of 
men  and  women  who  have  sacrificed 
years  of  their  lives  in  preaching  the 
Gospel  among  the  peoples  of  the  earth; 
and  as  a  rule  they  have  borne  their 
own  expenses,  have  lived  with  the 
people,  and  traveled  without  reward — 
without  purse  or  scrip.  And  what  has 
been  done,  and  what  we  see  around  us, 
the  Lord  has  enabled  us  to  do  it.  He 
has  wrought  by  our  hands.  He  has 
planted  our  feet  securely  in  these 
mountain  valleys,  and  has  enabled  us 
to  extend  our  borders.  He  has  moved 
upon  our  neighbors  in  the  surrounding 


PRESIDENT  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN. 


states  and  territories  so  that  they  have 
wanted  us,  because  we  are  a  peculiar 
people,  leading  out  in  practical  lines, 
and  possibly  a  little  more  stable  in  our 
ways  than  other  peoflle.  We  have 
gathered  for  the  purpose  of  settling 
down  and  occupying  the  land,  and  es- 
tablishing a  church  wherein  we  may 
learn  of  the  ways  of  the  Lord  and 
walk  in  His  path.  We  have  listened  to 
His  counsel  and  have  been  led  by  it 
from  the  beginning.  We  have  not  been 
deserted.  We  have  not  been  overlook- 
ed. The  Lord  hag  been  with  His  ser- 
vants who  have  led  us.  He  has  been 
with  His  people  in  their  labors,  at 
home  and  abroad.  He  has  enabled  us 
to  build  and  develop  a  great  and  impor- 
tant commonwealth  in  this  State,  and 
we  have  helped  materially  in  the  estab- 
lishment of  the  States  around  us.  We 
have  led  in  home  industry.  We  have 
been  driven  to  do  so  for  our  self-pres- 
ervation. We  have  cultivated  the  earth. 
We  have  not  given  quite  so  much  at- 
tention to  mining  as  our  neighbors  have 
done.  We  have  not  made  fortunes  like 
our  neighbors  may  have  made  in  this 
direction.  But  we  have  established  our- 
selves solidly  upon  the  land,  and  have 
built  up  cities  and  towns,  houses  of 
worship,  school  houses,  temples  of 
learning,  such  as  any  State  could  well 
be  proud  of.  In  these  respects  we  com- 
pare very  favorably  with  the  other 
States  in  the  Union,  although  we 
have  labored  under  disadvantages 
and  have  been  a  poor  people, 
gathered  from  among  the  poor. 
Not  many  wealthy,  not  many  great 
and  noble,  reckoning  after  the 
fashion  of  men,'  have  come  into  our 
ranks;  but  the  souls  that  have  gath- 
ered with  the  Saints  have  been  of 
just  as  fine  material,  as  splendid  tex- 
ture as  the  peoples  of  any  other  church 
in  the  world.  They  have  been  men 
and  women  who  were  willing  to  make 
sacrifices  for  the  Gospel's  sake,  and 
to  bear  the  ill-will  and  the  hatred  of 
the  world.  They  have  been  willing  to 
endure  trials  and  hardships,  to  leave 
their  homes,  their  kindred,  their 
friends  and  neighbors  in  the  various 
nations,   to  gather  with     the  Saints. 


They  have  come  here  and  have  been 
made  one  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 
What  remarkable  oneness  we  noticed 
here  yesterday  in  the  voting!  And  we 
are  always  united  just  about  like  that. 
It  is  a  rare  thing  to  have  opposition 
votes  among  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
for  the  reason  that  we  see  alike  and 
we  believe  alike.  We  have  faith  in  our 
leaders;  not  only  in  the  men  who  lead 
the  Church,  but  in  the  men  who  lead 
the  wards,  the  stakes,  the  quorums, 
the  associations  and  the  missions.  For 
these  men  have  all  been  selected  with 
great  care,  with  prayer  and  with  sup- 
plication to  the  Lord.  As  the  officials 
of  the  Church  and  as  the  people,  we 
have  no  object  whatever  but  the  ob- 
taining of  the  very  best  men  and  wo- 
men for  the  responsible  positions.  We 
want  men  and  women  who  are  exem- 
plary, who  have  faith,  who  are  true 
and  upright,  and  whose  integrity  is 
unquestioned.  And  today  there  is  no 
dearth  of  that  class  of  people.  We 
find  them  in  the  stakes  of  Zion;  we 
find  them  in  all  the  gatherings  of  the 
people.  In  the  Priesthood  gatherings, 
in  the  conference  gatherings,  in  the 
sacramental  and  fast  meetings,  we 
find  very  choice  men  and  women. 
Though  there  may  be,  and  there  is, 
carelessness  among  some  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  which  grieves  the 
spirit  of  our  good  brethren  and  sis- 
ters when  they  discover  it,  yet  down 
in  the  hearts  of  those  people  they  know 
that  the  Gospel  is  true,  and  they  know 
the  men  who  preside  over  them  locally 
and  generally;  for  we  have  dwelt  to- 
gether, we  embraced  the  Gospel  to- 
gether in  foreign  lands,  and  then  we 
have  been  trying  to  live  it  here,  after  a 
fashion.  We  have  been  doing  pretty 
well.  Some  have  been  weeded  out. 
They  were  not  able  to  endure;  they 
weakened  and  lost  the  faith,  and  with- 
drew from  the  Church,  because  it  is 
a  very  great  undertaking  to  be  a  Lat- 
ter-day Saint  in  the  face  of  the  feel- 
ing of  the  world  toward  us.  The  world 
feel  ugly  toward  us,  and  as  a  rule, 
honestly,  I  believe.  There  are  some  no 
doubt  that  are  not  honest  in  it;  but 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


people  that  have  not  known  anything- 
of  us,  and  all  that  has  come  to  them 
is   what   has   been   written   by  those 
who  have  maligned  and  despitefully 
used  us,  have  honestly,  conscientiously 
entertained  those  falsehoods  and  be- 
lieved them  to  be  true,  just  as  honest- 
ly as  men  did  in  the  days  of  the  Sa- 
vior,   for   there   were   men   then  who 
honestly    persecuted    the    Saints  and 
felt  that  they  were  really  doing  God's 
service.    Do  you  not  think  that  dur- 
ing our  history  many  people  have  felt 
that  they  were  really  doing  a  service 
for   the    Lord   when    they  persecuted 
the  Saints?    Do  you  not  believe  that 
they  thought  we   were   immoral,  im- 
pure,  corrupt     and     dishonest?.  Of 
course,  they  believed  that  we  were  de- 
luded.   That  was  the  most  charitable 
construction  that  they  could  put  upon 
it.    But  what  a  wonderful  "delusion" 
to  come  from  a  young  man  of  the  age 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  to 
have  the  effect  it  did  upon  men  who 
were  much  older  than  he,  more  ex- 
perienced, better  theologians,  and  men 
who  had  acquaintance  with  the  world 
and  who  in  some  cases  were  educated 
and  scholarly!    He  was  the  junior  of 
most   of   those   who   associated  with 
him.    He  was  only  thirty-eight  years 
of  age  when  he  died,  and  he  had  then 
led  the  Church  in  its  organized  capa- 
city for  fourteen  years.    And  he  had 
always  waded  through  a  sea  of  trou- 
ble; yet  the  Lord  made  his  heart  joy- 
ous and  light.    He  was  filled  with  in- 
spiration  from   on  high,  and  he  laid 
the  foundations  of  this  work  under  the 
direction  of  the  Lord.    It  was  not  his 
work.    He  had  not  the  wisdom,  the 
judgment,  the  power,  nor  the  under- 
standing-.   But  the  Lord  made  him  a 
Prophet  and  a  law-giver,  and  he  has 
handed    down    to    us    the  revelations 
which  the  Lord  gave   to  him.  They 
compose  a  very  precious  volume,  for 
they  are  the  words  of  the  Lord.  This 
book  is   a  law   to   the  Church.  The 
Prophet  Joseph  was  especially  raised 
up       for      this      work.       He  was 
foreknown  by  the  Father,  who  under- 
stood him  perfectly.    He  knew  his  in- 
tegrity   and    his    devotion,    and  He 


made  up  to  him  for  the  loss  of  this 
world's  education,  and  brought  him  to 
a  profound  understanding  under  the 
inspiration  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  so  that 
he  was  one  of  the  best  theologians, 
learned  in  Scripture  and  the  doctrines 
of  the  Lord,  that  has  lived  upon  the 
earth.  He  laid  down  the  doctrines  of 
the  Gospel  for  us,  and  they  are  here  at 
our  service. 

Now  then,  have  we  been  deceived? 
Have  we  been  led  astray  by  this  young 
man?  He  comes  to  us  and  tells  us,  as 
the  Savior  did  in  His  day,  that  if  any 
man  will  receive  the  message  and  will 
allow  his  heart  to  open  and  receive  the 
principles  of  faith,  repentance  and  bap- 
tism from  the  Lord,  and  th«n  will  do 
the  will  of  the  Father,,  he  may  know  of 
the  doctrine.  There  is  not  a,  man  :'n 
the  world  but  may  know  of  the  truth  of 
the  doctrine  laid  down  in  the  revela- 
tions of  the  Lord  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  There  is  not  a  man  so  great, 
so  intelligent  and  so  powerful  in  this 
world  but  he  can  learn  that  lesson.  He 
can  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
prophet  of  God  just  as  well  as  he  can 
know  anything  on  this  earth;  for  all  his 
faculties  and  his  very  soul  will  be  con> 
vinced.  And  if  he  is  an  honest  man 
like  Paul  he  cannot  deny  it,  provided 
he  does  right.  When  Paul  got  his  eyes 
open  and  he  heard  the  voice  of  the 
Lord,  he  was  willing  to  sacrifice  his 
life,  because  he  had  seen  the  light  and 
had  heard  the  voice.  The  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  filled  his  soul  and  bore  record  to 
him  that  he  had  met  Jesus  in  the  way. 
Could  he  deny  it?  He  could  not.  And 
the  Prophet  Joseph  could  not  deny  it 
when  he  saw  the  Lord  and  the  angel. 
He  knew  it,  he  saw  it,  he  understood  it 
thoroughly.  The  Holy  Ghost  doth  en- 
velop and  inspire  the  hearts  of  men 
who  serve  the  Lord,  so  that  they  are 
as  thoroughly  convinced  of  the  truth 
as  their  natural  senses  are  that  there 
is  light  and  darkness,  cold  and  heat, 
pain  and  pleasure,  taste  and  smell.  By 
our  natural  senses  we  comprehend  the 
things  of  the  world;  and  just  as  infor- 
mation and  knowledge  come  to  us  by 
hearing  and  feeling  and  seeing,  so  does 
the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Ghost  fill 


PRESIDENT  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN. 


27 


the  hearts  and  souls  of  all  men  who 
sincerely  repent.  Of  course,  men  will 
not  repent  unless  they  have  faith;  but 
all  men  who  have  faith  in  God  and  in 
His  Son  Jesus  Christ,  who  repent  and 
turn  from  their  sins,  who  are  baptized 
for  the  remission  of  their  sins  in  the 
authority  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  obtain  this 
light  and  inspiration.  That  is  the  spirit 
that  made  us  one  yesterday;  it  makes 
us  one  today,  and  it  will  unite  us  in 
the  future.  It  will  clear  our  minds,  and 
we  will  not  be  troubled  nor  in  the 
dark;  for  the  Lord  will  be  with  us  and 
will  manifest  His  good  pleasure  to  us 
in  answer  to  our  prayers  and  our  good 
works.  He  will  bring  peace  and  joy 
into  our  Souls,  and  establish  us  and 
anchor  our  souls,  that  we  shall  not  be 
easily  moved.  Why,  we  have  become 
so  numerous  now,  so  well  established 
and  experienced,  that  with  all  the  agi- 
tation that  can  be  stirred  up  against 
us  you  will  hardly  see  anybody  turn- 
ing away  from  the  truth.  In  early 
times,  before  the  brethren  were  well 
seasoned  and  tried,  while  the  material 
was  fresh  and  green,  many  fell  by  the 
wayside,  lost  their  footing,  and  wan- 
dered from  the  Church.  Some  of  them 
returned  and  saw  the  light  again,  but 
many  never  returned.  Today,  how- 
ever, you  cannot  find  a  devoted  and 
faithful  Latter-day  Saint,  not  a  chief, 
not  a  leading  spirit  in  the  Church, 
that  is  shaken  in  his  faith,  or  that 
feels  uncertain  in  regard  to  his 
standing  and  fellowship.  I  want  to 
say  for  the  six  hundred  Bishops  in 
the  Church,  for  the  fifteen  hundred 
missionaries  in  the  field  preaching  the 
Gospel,  for  the  Presidents  of  Stakes 
and  their  counselors,  for  the  High 
Councilors,  for  the  Bishops'  counselo 
one  for  the  presiding  councils  of  the 
Seventies,  you  can  hardly  find  one  of 
these  presiding  men  that  is  shaken. 
And  Israel  is  larger  today  than  he 
has  ever  been  in  this  dispensation,  and 
we  are  more  numerous  and  better  es- 
tablished than  ever  before.  Not  one 
of  these  officers  but  knows  just  exact- 
ly where  we  are.  The  testimony 
abides  in  every  heart  when  the  will  of 
God  has  been  at  all  reasonably  done. 
If  there  be  any  who  do  not  know;  if 


there  be  any  who  have  question  in 
their  hearts,  it  is  because  they  have 
not  steered  their  course  along  the 
proper  lines,  and  they  have  need  to 
repent.  We  have  need  to  repent  if  we 
are  a  little  off  the  straight  line  that 
leads  to  eternal  life. 

The  brethren  who  preside  are  labor- 
ing constantly  among  the  people,  and 
we  are  doing  what  we  can  reasonably. 
And  we  will  do  more;  we  intend  to  do 
more;  we  intend  to  be  better,  to  work 
righteousness  better  than  we  have  done 
and  to  grow  in  faith  and  in  favo 
with  the  Lord  all  the  time.  There  is 
room  for  improvement,  no  doubt,  with 
the  very  best  of  us.  I  believe  that  is 
the  feeling  with  the  brethren  who  pre- 
side. The  care  of  the  detailed  affairs  of 
the  Church  rests  with  the  presiding 
brethren  in  the  branches,  the  wards  and 
the  stakes,  and  these  men  are  entitled 
to  be  filled  with  the  inspiration  of  the 
Lord.  Men  who  stand  at  the  head  of 
stakes  and  of  wards,  with  their  helps  in 
government,  are  expected  to  be  pre- 
pared to  teach  the  people,  to  care  for 
the  various  departments  and  organiza- 
tions, that  none  shall  be  neglected  or 
overlooked,  and  that  all  shall  be  cared 
for,  exercising  sympathy  and  tender- 
ness towards  those  who  are  at  all  weak. 
And  we  all  get  "weak.  There  is  not  any- 
one so  strong  but  gets  weak  at  times. 
Let  sickness  and  poverty  come  upon 
us,  let  misfortune  overtake  us,  and  we 
are  weaklings.  Man  is  like  the  worm 
of  the  dust  almost  when  his  health  and 
strength  and  the  favor  of  the  Lord  are 
taken  from  him.  The  strongest  anH 
mightiest  among  the  people  need  the 
favor  and  blessing  of  the  Lord  and  the 
sympathy  of  their  neighbors.  We  need 
to  help  one  another,  sustain  and  uphold 
one  another,  so  that  no  one  shall  feel 
neglected;  for  all  their  souls  are  pre- 
cious. Though  we  be  mortal,  fallen, 
frail,  yet  we  are  the  sons  of  God,  the 
children  of  our  Father  who  dwells  in 
heaven.  Thank  the  Lord  that  we  have 
learned  this  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  Thank  the  Lord  that  we  know 
who  our  Father  is,  that  we  knew  wfTo 
the  Savior  is,  and  that  we  know  that 
they  live;  for  we  have  the  witness,  the 
word  of  the  Lord  through  the  Prophet, 


28 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


and  in  addition  to  that  we  have  the 
witness  of  the  Holy  Ghost.    We  have 
demonstrated  in  our  lives  and  in  our 
experience  that  we  are  not  mistaken; 
for  the  Lord  has  manifested  Himself  to 
us  in  our  visions  and  dreams  and  in 
answering  our  prayers,  and  in  a  thou- 
sand ways.    He  has  redeemed  us  from 
our  fallen  condition,  and  has  saved  us; 
that  is,  we  are  preserved,  we  have  not 
been  broken  to  pieces,  and  we  are'  not 
going  to  be  broken  to  pieces.    We  are 
going  to  be  faithful,  united,  and  at- 
tend to  the  duties  that  pertain  to  the 
kingdom  of  God.     We  propose  to  do 
that,  'with  the  Lord's  help.     Then  wt 
intend  to  feed  and  clothe  ourselves,  and 
take  -care  of  our  farms,  our  flocks  and 
our  herds,  and  build  our  temples,  our 
houses  of  worship  and  our  temples  of 
learning.   We  expect  to  be  men  in  this 
world,  like  other  men— manly  men,  hon- 
orable, upright  men,  business  men,  fi- 
nancial  men,   physical   men,  spiritual 
men,  pure  men.    We  expect  to  do  the 
will  of  the  Lord,  and  we  intend  to  be  as 
loyal  to  the  government  of  the  United 
States,  and  to  our  own  state,  as  the 
people  of  any  other  state  can  possibly 
be.       We      will      bear      our  share 
of     the     responsibilities     and  bur- 
dens    of     the     state     and     the  na- 
tion, in  peace  and  in  war,  and  we  will 
do  our  duty  faithfully  and  well.  We 
will  love  our  neighbors,  and  we  will 
not   wrong  them.     We   will  associate 
•with  them   in   business  matters  and 
otherwise.   We  will  bless  them,  and  not 
curse  them.    We  will  not  rail  against 
them.     We  will  not  despise  nor  hato 
them.   We  will  not  do  them  injury,  but 
we  will  do  them  good.    We  have  gone 
out  in  the  world  to  do  mankind  good. 
Have  not  the  Elders  who  have  gone 
out  into  the  world  done  good  service  for 
these  hundreds  of  thousands  of  people 
that  are  gathered  together  and  that  are 
now  settled  upon  the  land  of  Zion  in  the 
various  states  and  territories  surround- 
ing us?    Are  we  not  a  good,  peaceable 
element,  prayerful  and  faithful?  Are 
we  not  doing  our  part  and  portion  for 
the  state  and  for  the  government?  We 
are;  and  we  are  faithful  and  true,  and 
propose  to  be  from  this  time  henceforth. 
The  things  that  belong  to  the  nation 
and  the  state  we  will  render  equal  to 


anyone  else  in  the  world;  and  then  we 
will  render  to  God  the  things  that  are 
God's.    We  will  honor  and  obey  Him 
and  keep  His  commandments,  and  He 
•will  not  require  us  to  wrong  our  state: 
or  nation.    We  love  the  people  of  this 
nation.    We  live  with  them.    They  are 
made  up,  like  we  are,  from  all  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth.    This  nation  is  al- 
lowing the  people  to  come  from  all  the 
nations  of  the  earth.    I  wonder  if  they 
ever  think  that  they  are  gathering  the 
people  together.    We  won't  have  to  go- 
away  from  home  to  preach  to  every- 
body, because  this  great  land  of  ours 
will  be  filled  with  the  people  of  all  na. 
tions.     They   come   here   and  possess 
the  liberty  which  they  cannot  have  in 
the  eastern  world;  then  they  can  heir 
the  Gospel.  This  is  to  be  a  favored  field 
for  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel.  The 
Lord  has  prepared  the  way,  and  He  is. 
working  the  principle  of  gathering  bet- 
ter than  we  could  do.    True,  w^e  are 
doing  all  we  can  in  that  direction,  and 
intend  to  do  more;  but  the  peoples  of 
the  earth  will  gather  themselves  upon 
this  land  of  Zion,  and  here  the  word, 
of  the  Lord  will  be  taught.    Here  is 
where  the  word  of  the  Lord  came  in 
this  dispensation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph; 
and  upon  this  land  of  Zion  the  nations, 
of  the  earth  shall  assemble,  and  ths 
Gospel  will  be  preached  to  them.  Thank 
the  Lord  for  the  liberty  that  is  allowed, 
us,  and  that  we  have  the  liberty  of 
talking,  of  living,  of  loving  the  truth, 
working  righteousness  and  doing  the 
will  of  God.    I  pray  that  this  principle- 
may  always  remain  with  us,  and  that 
we  will  never  be  deprived  of  it;_  and. 
that  this  nation  of  ours  will  be  perpetu- 
ated to  do  the  'work  and  will  of  the- 
Lord  among  the  children  of  men.  I 
hope  that  it  will  be  preserved  and  sus- 
tained, and  that  the  power  which  the- 
Lord  has  granted  unto  it  so  marvelous- 
ly  shall  be  devoted  for  the  accomplish- 
ment of  His  purposes  in  the  earth. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you,  my  brethren, 
and  sisters.  May  His  Spirit  abide  in. 
your  hearts.  May  we  be  united  and 
faithful.  May  we  see  our  way  clearly; 
never  be  befogged!  never  get  in  the- 
dark;  never  fall  away  from  the  truth, 
but   maintain   our  morality     and  our- 


ELDER  J.  G.  DUFFIN. 


29 


purity  among  the  children  of  men.  You 
know  the  leading  men  among  you;  you 
know  those  that  visit  you  in  your  own 
homes;  you  know  your  neighbors;  you 
know  one  another;  and  you  know  that 
they  are  honest,  virtuous,  upright  men, 
and  they  are  not  trespassing  upon 
you  or  yours,  but  they  are  conscien- 
tious and  true.  It  is  not  necessary, 
therefore,  for  anyone  to  tell  us  we  are 
a  bad  people,  because  we  know  to  the 
contrary.  We  are  not  wicked,  and  we 
have  no  evil  designs  against  anybody 
in  the  world.  We  are  working  right- 
eousness, and  we  are  earnestly  engage  ! 
in  a  good  cause,  and  we  are  bringing 
ing  to  pass  much  righteousness  for  the 
salvation  of  the  children  of  men.  May 
God  bless  us,  redeem  us  and  save  us  in 
His  celestial  kingdom  and  presence, 
through  Jesus  Christ,  the  Lord.  Amen. 

A  solo,  "Oh,  dry  those  tears,"  was 
sung  beautifully  by  Sister  Edwardina 
Parry. 

ELDER  J.  G.  DUFFIN. 
<President  of  Central  States  Mission.) 

I  feel  grateful  in  my  soul  to  my 
Heavenly  Father  for  the  privilege  of 
meeting  with  you  in  this  conference  to 
worship  the  Lord,  and  to  have  the 
pleasure  of  listening  to  the  testimonies 
that  are  borne  of  the  goodness  of  God 
and  of  the  power  of  His  Holy  Spirit 
which  is  among  His  chosen  people  in 
this  goodly  land.  I  stand  before  you 
to  represent  one  of  the  missions  which, 
by  the  authority  of  God,  has  been  es- 
tablished in  these  United  States,  cover- 
ing five  of  the  States  and  two  of  the 
Territories  of  this  great  Union.  The 
work  in  the  Central  States  mission  is 
in  good  condition.  The  people  are  in- 
creasing in  faith  and  in  their  devotion 
to  the  work  of  our  Father  in  Heaven. 
While  I  was  listening  yesterday  to  the 
testimonies  of  our  brethren,  and  to  the 
statements  of  our  beloved  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith  concerning  the  tithes 
and  offerings  of  the  people,  I  thought 
if  the  payment  of  tithes  and  offerings 
by  the  people  of  the  Church  is  likened 
unto  a  barometer,  registering  the  con- 
dition that  exists,  then  certainly  that 


register  in  the  Central  States  mission 
must  be  encouraging.  Within  the  last 
five  years  the  tithes  of  the  members 
of  the  Church  in  the  Central  States 
mission  have  increased  nearly  six  hun- 
dred per  cent.  The  tithes  paid  last 
year  showed  an  increase  of  more  than 
fifty  per  cent  over  the  tithes  of  the 
previous  year.  The  poor  in  the  mis- 
sion— whom  we  have  also  with  us.  as 
the  Savior  said — were  supported  largely 
from  the  offerings  of  the  people.  A 
year  ago  last  January  we  set  out  to 
make  that  mission  self-supporting,  so 
far  as  help  for  the  poor  is  concerned, 
and  we  were  nearly  successful.  We  hope 
in  the  future  to  be  entirely  successful. 
Through  the  teaching  of  this  law  of 
offerings  for  the  support  of  the  poor 
we  have  learned  that  the  people  are 
increasing  in  faith  and  in  their  love 
for  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

In  that  mission  we  are  doing  a  little 
in  the  way  of  colonizing.  In  the  state 
of  Texas  we  have  a  colony  of  sixty- 
three  families,  with  a  membership  of 
three  or  four  hundred  people.  In  the 
eastern  part  of  the  State  of  Kansas  we 
have  another  nice  little  colony,  where  a 
number  of  people  have  gathered  to- 
gether, and  they  have  built  a  house  of 
worship  and  are  now  beautifying  the 
grounds.  During  the  past  few  vfears 
six  or  eight  houses-  of  worship  have 
been  erected  in  the  mission,  by  the  do- 
nations of  the  people;  and  we  have  not 
as  yet  found  it  necessary  to  call  upon 
our  brethren  for  contributions  from  the 
tjlbes  for  this  purpose.  The  people  in 
that  part  of  the  Lord's  vineyard  have 
manifested  their  faith  in  putting  up 
these  buildings  for  their  own  conveni- 
ence. Doubtless  in  the  future  some 
help  will  be  required  from  the  Church 
in  the  erection  of  our  mission  building, 
for  which  we  are  now  collecting  means, 
and  which  will  probably  be  located  in 
that  city  around  which  cluster  so  many 
memories  that  are  dear  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints — the  city  of  Independence, 
in.  Jackson  county,  Missouri. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  in  our  as- 
sociations with  your  husbands  and 
sons,  and  with  a  few  of  your  daughters, 
who  have  been  sent  out  there  to  carry 


30 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  un- 
to their  fellows,  we  have  experienced 
great  joy  and  satisfaction;  for  we  have 
learned  to  love  them.  There  is  a  bond 
of  union  between  us  which  we  feel  will 
not  be  broken  in  time  nor  in  eternitv. 
Thev  are  devoted  and  faithful  in  their 
work.  Every  missionary  that  is  la- 
boring in  that  mission  gives  support 
with  his  whole  soul  unto  those  men 
whom  God  has  placed  to  lead  and  di- 
rect latter-day  Israel.  We  are  not 
tender  about  teaching  the  revelations 
of  the  Lord  to  our  brethren  and  sisters 
in  the  world.  The  eternal  principles 
of  the  Gospel  are  brought  before  them 
in  plaiivness;  nevertheless,  we  seek  to 
use  wisdom  and  discretion  in  our  teach- 
ings. 

This  in  the  work  of  our  Father  in 
Heaven.  It  has  been  established  by 
revelation  direct  from  Him.  The  work 
that  is  being  done  today  we  know  is  in 
fulfillment  of  the  word  of  the  Lord 
through  His  Prophets  in  former  dis- 
pensations, pertaining  to  the  redemp- 
tion and  salvation  of  His  children  in  the 
latter  days.  While  I  have  been 
tmnhing  over  this  latter-day  work,  a 
few  of  the  words  of  the  Prophet  Isaiah 
have  come  forcibly  to  my  mind,  and  I 
will  take  the  liberty  of  reading  them  in 
your  hearing.  You  will  find  them  re- 
corded in  the  twenty-ninth  chapter  of 
Isaiah.  Speaking  of  the  work  in  which 
you  and  I  are  engaged;  speaking  of  a 
tiered  record  that  was  to  come  forth, 
then  the  work  that  was  to  follow  its 
corning  forth  and  the  effect  it  should 
have  upon  those  who  accepted  it  and 
upon  those  who  opposed  it,  he  said: 

"The  meek  also  shall  increase  their 
joy  in  the  Lord,  and  the  poor  among 
men  shall  rejoice  in  the  Holy  One  of 
Israel." 

As  I  sat  in  this  congregation  yester- 
day and  noted  the  joy  and  satisfaction 
that  were  depicted  upon  the  counten- 
ances of  the  thousands  assembled,  I 
could  not  help  but  think  that  surely 
the  words  of  the  Lord  are  being  ful- 
filled today,  for  the  meek  are  indeed  in- 
creasing their  joy  in  the  Lord  and  the 
poor  among  men  are  rejoicing  in  the 
Holy  One  of  Israel. 


"For  the  terrible  one  is  brought  to 
naught,  and  the  scorner  is  consumed, 
and  all  that  watch  for  iniquity  are  cut 
off: 

"That  make  a  man  an  offender  for  a 
word,  and  lay  a  snare  for  him  that  re- 
proveth  in  the  gate,  and  turn  aside  the 
just  for  a  thing  of  nought." 

It  is  no  new  thing,  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, for  those  who  do  not  love  the  Lord 
and  who  will  not  keep  the  command- 
ments of  God  and  observe  the  princi- 
ples of  purity,  to  lift  their  hands  and 
their  voices  against  those  holding  the 
authority  of  the  Holy  Priesthood.  I  say- 
to  you  that  he  who  raises  his  hand 
against  the  Church  of  Christ  strikes  at 
me  as  an  individual.  He  who  raises  his 
voice  against  men  whom  God  has  placed 
at  the  head  of  His  work  strikes  at  me 
as  an  individual.  Why  do  I  feel  thus? 
Because  all  the  blessings  that  have 
come  to  me  and  my  family  have  come 
through  this  work  that  God  has  estab- 
lished. The  sacred  ordinances  and 
blessings  that  we  have  received  as  a 
family  have  come  to  us  through  that 
authority  which  has  been  perpetuated 
in  the  men  whom  God  has  placed  at 
the  head  of  His  work  on  the  earth,  who 
have  held  the  keys  of  the  Holy  Priest- 
hood, and  who  have  borne  that  author- 
ity with  such  faithfulness.  So  I  feel 
that  he  who  strikes  at  these  men  of 
God,  and  at  the  work  of  God,  strikes 
at  me  as  one  of  the  members  of  the 
Church  and  places  me  upon  the  defen- 
sive. 

I  feel  encouraged  in  this  work.  With 
all  my  heart  I  am  grateful  that  I  am 
united  with  my  brethren.  I  feel  thank- 
ful for  the  blessings  that  the  Lord  has 
given  to  me  and  to  mine.  I  am  grate- 
ful for  the  spirit  of  faith  that  He  has 
poured  out  upon  your  sons  and  daugh- 
ters in  the  mission  field,  and  for  the 
same  spirit  resting  upon  the  people 
who  have  received  their  testimony. 
These  principles  are  finding  their  way 
in  the  hearts  of  the  people.  They  are 
acting  as  a  leaven,  and  many  of  the 
prominent  men,  and  even  some  of  the 
ministers  in  our  mission,  are  receiving 
these  principles  of  eternal  truth,  though 
they  do  not  render  obedience  unto  the 
ordinances  of  the  Gospel.  Only  the 
other  day  I  received  a  letter  from  two 


ELDER  BEN  E.  RICH. 


31 


of  our  faithful  young-  men  who  are 
down  in  the  State  of  Texas,  in  which 
they  related  to  me  an  interview  they 
had  recently  with  one  of  the  prom- 
inent ministers  of  a  popular  church  in 
that  State.  This  man  had  read  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  and  he  said  to  these 
two  Elders:  "I  know,  young  men,  that 
we  have  got  to  begin  to  reorganize  the 
line  of  work  in  our  church,  and  we 
must  conform  more  nearly  to  those 
principles  that  you  Mormons  are  teach- 
ing unto  the  people."  On  every  hand  we 
have  these  testimonies  coming  to  us. 
Let  me  say  further,  that  the  spirit  in 
which  your  sons  and  daughters  go 
among  the  people  is  finding  its  way  into 
their  hearts,  and  even  ministers  of  the 
world  who  have  bitterly  fought  this 
work  are  beginning  in  a  measure  to 
partake  of  that  spirit,  and  they  have 
more  of  the  spirit  of  charity  toward 
the  servants  of  God  than  they  have 
had. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  my  testi- 
mony to  you  this  day  is  that  God  lives, 
that  Jesus  is  His  Christ,  and  that  the 
man  who  stands  at  the  head  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  is  the  man  whom  God  has  chos- 
en, and  He  will  uphold  and  sustain  him, 
together  with  his  brethren.  May  God 
bless  you  forever.  I  ask  it  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  our  Lord.  Amen. 

ELDER  BEN  E.  RICH. 
(President  of  Southern  States  Mission,) 

Within  the  last  two  months,  it  has 
been  my  privilege  to  meet  with  the 
Elders  who  are  laboring  in  the  States 
of  Virginia,  South  Carolina,  North  Car- 
olina, Georgia,  Florida  and  Kentucky, 
and  I  expect,  in  the  next  two  months, 
to  have  the  privilege  of  meeting  with 
my  brethren  who  are  laboring  in  the 
two  conferences  of  Tennessee  and  in 
Mississippi,  Alabama  and  Ohio.  The 
work  of  the  Lord  is  progressing  very 
nicely  in  the  Southern  States  Mission. 
There  is  a  gradual  growth  all  the  time. 
It  is  seldom  a  week  goes  by  without  ad- 
ditions being  made  to  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Sometimes  we  have  as 
many  as  fifty  to  eighty  new  baptisms 
in  one  month.    We  are  rather  in  an 


unfortunate  condition  for  help.  I  have 
the  reputation  with  the  authorities  of 
the  church  of  being  a  monumental  beg- 
gar for  missionaries.  At  one  time  we 
had  Ave  [hundred  and  sixty  Elders 
laboring  in  that  mission.  We  have  not 
one-third  of  that  number  today.  Our 
members  are  scattered  very  badly,  and 
we  have  not  missionaries  enough  to 
visit  and  look  after  the  members  of 
the  Church,  owing  to  their  scattered 
condition.  Wherever  our  Elders  go 
they  meet  with  success.  They  do  so 
even  in  the  days  of  persecution.  God 
works  with  them.  They  are  happy  in 
their  missionary  labors,  and  their  tes- 
timonies are  increasing.  I  am  very 
much  encouraged  in  the  missionary 
work  there. 

If  you  know  any  young  men  who  are 
laboring  in  that  mission  or  in  any  other 
mission,  do  you  ever  ask  yourself  the 
question  as  to  how  the  parents  of  those 
Elders  are  situated,  and  whether  they 
are  able  to  maintain  them  in  the  mis- 
sion field?  All  the  Elders  need  clothes 
and  shoes  and  other  necessaries,  and 
I  wonder  if  the  thought  ever  enters 
into  your  minds  that  it  is  your  duty 
to  help  your  neighbors  bear  the  burden 
that  rests  upon  them  when  they  have 
a  son  or  a  husband  upon  a  mission. 

Another  thing:  you  young  men  who 
are  about  to  go  upon  missions,  let  me 
say  a  word  to  you, — and  I  believe  I  can 
safely  speak  for  the  president  of  every 
mission  who  has  spoken  here,  and  for 
Brother  McQuarrie,  who  probably  will 
speak.  You  do  not  know  what  clothing 
you  will  need  until  you  get  there.  If 
an  Elder  comes  to  our  mission,  he  must 
go  where  his  services  are  the  most 
needed;  and  if,  before  leaving  home, 
he  obtains  a  suit  of  clothes  that  is 
suitable  for  Ohio,  and  his  services  are 
needed  down  in  Mississippi,  Alabama 
or  Florida,  he  will  go  there  and  suffer 
from  the  heat.  I  would  advise  every 
young  man  to  wait  until  he  gets  to 
mission  headquarters,  to  find  out  where 
he  is  going,  and  then  become  clothed 
in  a  way  that  will  be  the  most  com- 
fortable. 

I  never  saw  a  day  in  my  life  when 
I  was  more  satisfied  with  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  gospel  and  the  condition 


32 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


of  the  Church  than  I  am  today.   I  never 
rejoiced  more  than  I  have  over  the  tes- 
timonies which  I  have  listened  to  yes- 
terday and  today;  and  I  may  be  par- 
doned if  I  call  your  attention  to  one 
little  matter.    I  was  especially  inter- 
ested in  the  faithful  testimony  borne 
by  Elder  Hugh  J.  Cannon  concerning 
the  principles  of  the  gospel,  and  the 
lessons  that  were  given  to  him  by  his 
father  regarding  his  duty  to  love  and 
uphold  the  one  who  is  now  at  the  head 
of  the  Church.    I  was  also  interested  in 
the  testimonies  of  Elders      Rulon  S. 
Wells  and  Nephi  Pratt.    I  single  these 
brethren  out  because  thousands  of  you 
have  listened  to  the  testimonies  of  their 
fathers,  who  once  occupied  positions  of 
prominence  in  the  church,  and  who  are 
now  dead.    Every  man  in  this  church 
is  going  to  be  placed  in  a  position 
where  he  will  be  tried  and  tested  so 
that  he  will  have  the  privilege  of  know- 
ing for  himself  that  the  gospel  is  true, 
and  not  simply  believe  it  because  his 
father    is    one    of   the   authorities  of 
the  Church.   I  have  listened  to  the  tes- 
timony of  three  generations  of  Apostles 
in  this  building.    I  rejoice  that  I  know 
the  gospel  is  true  just  as  well  as  I 
did  when  my  father  lived,   and  my 
brothers  and  sisters  know  that  it  is 
true  just  as  well  as  they  did  when  he 
Jived.     The    children   of    other  dlead 
apostles  and  prophets,  who  have  kept 
the  faith  and  lived  near  enough  the 
Lord  to  drink  in  the  inspiration  of  His 
word,  also  know   that  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  is  true  tod-ay  as  well  as 
they  did  in  the  days  of  their  fathers. 
They  know,   too,   that   the  man  who 
stands  at  the  head  of  the  Church  today 
is  called  of  God,  and  is  blessed  with 
the  same  power  and  authority  as  the 
man  who  stood  at  the  head  of  the 
Church  in  the  days  when  their  fathers 
sat  upon  this,  stand.    I  rejoice  in  this; 
and  I  bear  witness  to  you  today  that 
I  do  not  believe  there  has  ever  been 
a  man  at  the  head  of  the  Church  more 
willing  to  listen  to  the  voice  of  God 
and  to  receive  a  message  from  Him 
than  the  one  who  stands  at  the  head 
today   He  occupies  that  position  today 
in  literal  fulfillment  of  prophecies  ut- 


tered by  those  who  have  occupied  the 
same  position  before.  I  used  to  live 
in  Ogden.  Some  of  you  brethren  who 
live  in  Ogden  may  remember  the  time 
you  sat  in  the  Ogden  tabernacle,  many 
years  ago,  and  listened  to  the  voice 
of  prophecy  from  the  lips  of  President 
Wilford  Woodruff,  when  he  predicted 
in  the  name  of  God,  and  told  the  peo- 
ple to  write  it  down  and  remember 
it,  that  Joseph  F.  Smith  would  be 
president  of  this  Church,  and  you  know 
by  the  way  in  which  it  was  spoken, 
that  it  came  from  God;  and  you  know, 
too,  that  it  has  been  fulfilled  by  the  will 
of  God  the  Eternal  Father. 

I  .know  that  as  long  as  we  receive 
the  whisperings  of  the  Spirit  we  will 
never  doubt  the  divine  mission  of  the 
one  whom  God  places  at  the  head  of 
ithe  Ohruch.  Those  who  cannot  be 
tried  from  the  outside  will  be  tried 
from  the  inside,  until  every  individual 
is  tested.  God  is  no  respecter  of  per- 
sons. The  son  of  the  most  obscure  and 
unassuming  man  that  ever  joined  the 
Church  and  the  son  of  the  mightiest 
prophet  that  God  has  given  to  us  in 
this  dispensation,  will  stand  upon  an 
equal  footing  in  this  respect.  All  of 
them  will  have  their  tests,  and  God  will 
have  a  tried  people.  Sometimes  I  feel 
as  though  this  people  cannot  live  as 
they  should  live  without  the  voice  of 
the  wolf  being  heard  upon  the  outside. 
We  are  like  a  flock  of  sheep.  Tou  who 
are  in  the  sheep  business  know  how 
it  is  with  a  herd  of  sheep.  They  grad- 
ually cross  and  separate,  but  it  only 
takes  the  howl  of  one  or  two  wolves 
to  bring  them  all  together  again.  Jesus 
Christ  said  that  the  kingdom  of  God 
is  like  a  net  cast  into  the  sea,  which 
draws  to  the  shore  fish  of  all  kinds. 
The  gospel  net  draws  to  Zion  all  kinds. 
They  must  be  tried  and  assorted,  and 
some  of  them  go  back  into  the  world. 

I  have  been  fishing  for  many  years, 
and  I  know  I  have  caught  lots  of  poor 
fish,  and  some  who  have  come  to  Zion 
no  doubt  will  be  so  tried  that  they  will 
go  back  and  swim  off.  Every  man  in 
the  Chruch  will  be  tried.  But  God 
lives.  This  is  His  work.  The  puny 
hands  of  man  may  try  to  stay  the  pro- 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 


S3 


gress   of  it,   but  it  will  go  right  on 
;  nevertheless;    while   they  who   try  to 
stay  its  progress  will  die  and  be  for- 
gotten. 

As  has  been  said  by  some  of  the 
brethren,  many  people  in  the  world  are 
becoming  converted  to  the  correctness 
of  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  and 
are  adapting  them  to  their  own  be- 
liefs and  teachings.  Many  people  per- 
secute us  with  honest  hearts.  Not  over 
three  weeks  ago  I  was  standing  on 
the  streets  of  one  of  the  largest  cities 
of  the  south  when  a  young  man,  who 
is  being  educated  for  the  ministry, 
came  up  to  me  and  told  me  that  a  pro- 
fessor of  theology — the  man  who  was 
training  him  to  be  a  minister  of  the 
gospel — had  stated  that  he  had  been  to 
Salt  Lake  and  that  "Mormon"  Elders 
always  referred  to  their  wives  as 
cows;  and,  said  the  young  man,  "I 
know  that  he  spoke  the  truth,  because 
he  is  a  good  man."  I  replied,  "he  is 
a  monumental  liar."  Some  of  these 
ministers  may  be  opposing  us  with 
an  honest  purpose,  but  I  tell  you  there 
are  lots  of  them  that  are  opposing  us 
because  they  are  naturally  as  mean  as 
the  devil.  Sometimes  the  Irish  blood  in- 
my  veins  makes  me  feel  like  breaking 
loose  long  enough  to  tell  such  defamers 
of  the  truth  to  go  where  they  belong; 
but  there  is  no  necessity  for  me  to  do 
that,  they  will  go  there  anyhow. 

I  bear  witness  unto  you  that  I  know 
that  God  lives.  I  know  that  this  is 
His  truth.  I  know  that  the  man  who 
stands  at  the  head  of  this  Church  is 
a  prophet,  seer  and  revelator,  and 
those  who  stand  with  him  are  the  same. 
I  hope  that  God  will  continue  to 
whisper  to  them,  no  matter  whether 
it  is  commercialism  or  not.  I  hope  they 
will  be  wise  enough  to  place  us  in  a 
position  sometime  so  that  if  a  temple 
is  needed  in  Jackson  County  we  will 
know  where  the  money  is  to  build  it, 
and  not  be  compelled  to  go  begging  for 
it;  or  if  temples  are  wanted  in  other 
places,  that  there  will  be  funds  on 
hand  to  build  them,  and  that  they  will 
not  have  to  be  started  without  a  dol- 
lar in  sight.  Don't  you  be  afraid  of 
anything  they  are  doing;  they  can 
not  go  very  far  astray,  God  will  not 


let  them.  I  bear  witness  unto  you 
that  the  gospel  is  true,  and  that  it  will 
prevail,  no  matter  how  much  the 
wolves  may  howl.  Whether  they  come 
from  the  world  or  go  from  us  out  into 
the  world,  they  cannot  stay  the  pro- 
gress of  God's  work.  It  is  His  eternal 
plan  of  life  and  salvation,  and  will 
save  and  exalt  those  who  are  faithful 
to  it.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Let 
the  mountains  shout  for  joy." 

Benediction  by  Bishop  William  B. 
Preston. 

AFTERNOON  SESSION. 

Singing  by  the  choir  and  congrega- 
tion: 

"Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  sal- 
vation, 

No  longer  as  strangers  on  earth  nee  1 
we  roam; 

Good  tidings  are  sounding  for  us  and 
each  nation, 
And  shortly  the  hour  of  redemption 
will  come." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Joseph 
E.  Taylor. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn  which  be- 
gins: 

"Ye  simple  souls  who  stray 
Far  from  the  path  of  peace, 

That  lonely,  unfrequented  way 
To  life  and  happiness." 

ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 

Remarkable  Development  and  Numerous 
Changes  in  Church  Affairs.— Toung 
People  Should  be  Prepared  for  Futur,- 
Responsibilties.— Predictions  of  An- 
cient Prophets  Now  Being  Fulfilled. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  greatly 
rejoiced  in  the  spirit  of  this  conference 
and  in  the  great  gatherings  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  within  this  building. 
There  was  a  time  when  the  Latter-day 
Saints  were  weak  in  numbers.  That 
time  was  the  6th  day  of  April,  1830, 
Today,  however,  the  people  of  the  Lord 
are  strong — strong  in  faith,  strong  in 
experience,  and  reasonably  strong  in 
numbers.  Today  we  have  55  stakes  of 
Zion,  with  629  wards,  and  14  missions 
in  the  world;  and  there  is  no  ward  in 
Zion  but  has  a  larger  membership  than 
the  whole  Church  had  75  years  ago.  I 
remember  the  Time,  although  I  was  but 
a  boy,  when  a  great  canvas  was 
stretched  across  the  center     of  this 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


building,  because  at  that  time  the  place 
was  too  large  and  it  was  difficult  even 
to  fill  one  half  of  the  building  with  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  Today  the  Tabernacle 
is  not  adequate.  I  do  not  remember  to 
have  witnessed  so  large  a  gathering  at 
the  first  session  of  our  conference  as 
we  had  yesterday  morning,  and  we 
have  today  a  vast  congregation  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  numbering  perhaps  be- 
tween 8,000  and  10,000.  This  is  a  very 
remarkable  showing.  It  is  encouraging 
to  witness  the  growth  and  progress  of 
the  work  of  God. 

Some  very  wonderful  changes  have 
occurred  since  the  organization  of  the 
Church.  I  call  your  attention  to  the 
fact  that  there  are  but  few  people  with- 
in the  sound  of  my  voice  today  who 
were  acquainted  with  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith,  or  who  saw  him  in  life. 
Most  of  his  eontemporariss  have  passed 
away.  I  call  your  attention  to  some 
oiher  changes  that  have  taken  place, 
suggested  to  my  mind  by  the  remarks 
of  President  Lund  when  he  alluded  to 
the  fact  that  this  was  the  seventy-fifth 
annual  conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Since 
our  organization  as  a  Church  five  Presi- 
dents have  passed  away;  six  counselors 
to  the  Presidents,  11  Apostles — nearly  a 
full  quorum  of  those  who  were  faithful 
— have  passed  into  the  spirit  world;  11 
members  of  the  First  Council  of  Seven- 
ties, and  three  Presiding  Bishops  have 
also  gone.  But  this  change  is  not  so 
remarkable,  in  my  opinion,  as  what  has 
occurred  in  our  own  time,  within  the 
brief  period  of  13  years.  Since  the  year 
1892,  two  Presidents  of  the  Church  have 
passed  beyond— Presidents  Wilford 
Woodruff  and  Lorenzo  Snow;  one  coun- 
selor in  the  Presidency,  President 
George  Q.  Cannon;  the  following  Apos- 
tles: Franklin  D.  Richards,  Abraham 
H.  Cannon,  Brig-ham  Young,  Jr.,  and 
Abraham  O.  Woodruff;  three  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventies:  Jacob  Gates, 
John  Morgan  and  Edward  Stevenson; 
and  of  the  other  general  authorities, 
Brother  Karl  G.  Maeser,  general  sup- 
erintendent of  Church  schools,  and 
Brother  George  Goddard,  first  assistant 
general  superintendent  of  the  Sunday 


schools  of  the  Church,  and  John  JaQues, 
assistant  Church  historian.  Thirteen 
years  ago  there  were  33  stakes  of  Zion; 
today  there  are  55  stakes,  or  an.  in- 
crease of  22  in  13  years.  Of  the  33  Pres- 
idents of  stakes  then  living  11,  or  one- 
third  of  the  number,  have  passed  away. 
So  that  in  all  21  of  the  general  authori- 
ties of  the  Church  out  of  the  26  have 
closed  their  labors  here  and  passed  into 
the  spirit  world.  To  me  this  is  very 
remarkable,  and  it  shows  that  great 
changes  are  going  on,  almost  without 
notice.  What  may  we  expect,  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  in  the  course  of  20  or 
30  or  50  years  to  come?  Whether  we  dis- 
guise it  or  not,  the  fact  still  remains 
that  the  boys  and  girls  of  today  will 
be  the  men  and  women  of  tomorrow. 
The  authority  resting  upon  the  men 
of  today  will  speedily  descend  to  their 
children;  and  this  emphasizes  the  need 
and  the  importance  of  the  quorums  of 
the  Holy  Priesthood  and  the  auxiliary 
organizations  of  the  Church.  Many 
parents  among  us  are  very  busy  men 
and  women;  they  are  engaged  in  the 
various  avocations  of  life,  in  order  to 
provide  for  their  families,  and  they  do 
not  seem  to  have  very  much  time  to  de- 
vote to  the  teaching  of  their  children. 
But  a  way  is  provided  in  the  quorums 
of  the  Priesthood  and  in  these  organ- 
izations whereby  the  children  may  be 
taught  in  the  things  of  the  Lord.  We 
have  various  grades  of  the  Priesthood 
in  the  Church,  from  the  Deacon  up  to 
the  High  Priest.  There  is  no  principle 
in  this  Church  of  so  great  importance 
and  consequence  to  us  as  the  authority 
of  the  Priesthood.  This  authority 
sl.ould  be  fostered  and  nourished,  and 
the  quorums  should  be  strengthened 
and  supported  by  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
Every  man,  every  young  man,  and 
every  boy  who  holds  the  Priesthood 
should  do  his  duty.  We  should  also 
foster  and  encourage  the  auxiliary  or- 
ganizations of  the  Church.  The  Relief 
society,  the  Sunday  school,  the  Mu- 
tual Improvement  association,  the  Pri- 
mary and  the  Religion  class,  all 
should  have  our  support;  and 
parents  should  see  to  it  that  their 
children   are    sent     to     these  places 


ELDER  RUDG 

of  instruction,  that  they  may  be  pre- 
pared and  fitted  for  the  great  responsi- 
bility that  will  rest  upon  them  in  the 
near  future.  And  notwithstanding, 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  prominent 
men  and  women,  pillars  of  the  Church, 
men  and  women  of  power,  of  strength 
and  of  faith,  are  passing  away,  still 
the  Church  goes  on.  That  is  charac- 
teristic of  this  work.  I  call  your  at- 
tention to  the  fact  that  some  very  re- 
markable predictions  have  been  made 
concerning  the  work  in  which  we  are 
engaged.  It  was  known  of  old.  Even 
Daniel  the  prophet  saw  this  work.  You 
will  remember,  doubtless,  the  great 
vision  of  Nebuchadnezzar,  which  he 
could  not  call  to  mind.  He  had  had  a 
vision  in  the  night  time,  in  which  he 
beheld  wonderful  things;  but  it  was 
taken  from  his  mind.  He  sent  for  the 
astrologers  and  wise  men  of  Babylon, 
and  he  wanted  to  know  from  them 
what  his  vision  was,  and  also  the  in- 
terpretation; but  the  wise  men  could 
not  help  him.  If  he  could  only  re- 
call the  vision,  why  then  they  might 
give  to  him  the  interpretation;  but  he 
could  not  do  it.  Then  Daniel,  of  the 
despised  Hebrew  people,  was  called  in 
to  make  known  the  vision  of  the  king; 
and  Daniel  used  these  very  remark- 
able words — words  that  I  consider  re- 
markable in  view  of  the  present  atti- 
tude of  the  world  on  the  question  of 
revelation: 

"There  is  a  God  in  heaven  that  re- 
vealeth  secrets,  and  maketh  known  to 
the  king  Nebuchadnezzar  what  shall 
be  in  the  latter  days." 

Here  was  declared  a  God  who  reveal- 
eth  secrets  and  speaketh  to  the  chil- 
dren of  men,  a  God  of  revelation.  That 
was  the  God  that  Daniel  worshiped, 
and  that  was  the  God  who  would  make 
known  to  the  king  what  he  had  seen 
in  the  vision  of  the  night.  Daniel 
thereupon  interpreted  the  vision.  The 
king  had  seen  a  great  image  of  gold, 
of  silver,  of  brass,  of  iron,  and  of  iron 
and  clay  mixed  together.  The  image 
represented  kingdoms  of  the  world 
that  should  reach  from  Nebuchadnez- 
zar's reign  down  to  the  end  of  time, 
the  head  being  typical  of  Babylon  as 
it  existed  in  those  ancient  days.  Other 


R  CLAWSON.  35 

kingdoms  were  to  follow  Babylon,  until 
the  feet  and  the  toes  were  reached, 
which  were  typical  of  kingdoms  which 
should  be  established  in  the  latter 
days.      And  Daniel  said: 

"In  the  days  of  these  kings  shall 
the  God  of  heaven  set  up  a  kingdom, 
which  shall  never  be  destroyed;  and 
the  kingdom  shall  not  be  left  to  other 
people,  but  it  shall  break  in  pieces  and 
consume  all  these  kingdoms,  and  it 
shall  stand  forever." 

The  Prophet  Isaiah  had  his  eye  upon 
the  same  event,  and  if  he  had  been 
here  yesterday  and  written  the  things 
that  are  published  in  King  James' 
translation  of  the  Bible,  and  which 
were  inscribed  thousands  of  years  agr 
he  could  not  have  set  forth  the  condi- 
tion of  this  people  more  clearly  than 
he  did.  If  I  remember  correctly,  the 
words  of  Isaiah  were  something  like 
this: 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  in  the 
last  days,  that  the  mountain  of  the 
Lord's  house  shall  be  established  in 
the  top  of  the  mountains,  and  shall 
be  exalted  above  the  hills;  and  all 
nations  shall  flow  unto  it. 

"And  many  people  shall  go  and  say. 
Come  ye,  and  let  us  go  up  to  the 
mountain  of  the  Lord,  to  the  house  of 
the  God  of  Jacob;  and  he  will  teach  us 
of  his  ways,  and  we  will  walk  in  his 
paths;  for  out  of  Zion  shall  go  forth 
the  law,  and  the  word  of  the  Lord  from 
Jerusalem." 

And  again  Isaiah  says: 

"O  Zion,  that  bringest  good  tidings 
get  thee  up  into  the  high  mountain." 

And  again: 

"For  the  Lord  shall  comfort  Zion: 
he  will  comfort  all  her  waste  places; 
and  he  will  make  her  wilderness  like 
Eden,  and  her  desert  like  the  garden  of 
the  Lord;  joy  and  gladness  shall  be 
found  therein,  thanksgiving,  and  the 
voice  of  melody." 

This  vast  congregation  are  living 
witnesses  of  the  literal  fulfillment  of 
these  words  of  the  prophet.  Was  not 
this  land  a  veritable  wilderness  in  the 
year  1847?  Has  it  not  been  trans- 
formed into  a  garden  like  Eden?  This 
land  has  become  choice  above  all 
other  lands.  We  want  no  better.  And 
I  am  inclined  to  think  that  the  Lord 
can  lead  us  to  no  better  land  than  we 
have   at   the    present   time,   unless  a 


36 


GENERAL.  CONFERENCE. 


special  blessing  is  conferred  upon  the 
land  beyond  what  we  have  received. 
And  in  this  conference  we  have  seen 
the  joy  of  the  people;  we  have  wit- 
nessed their  gladness.  We  have  heard 
the  voice  of  thanksgiving  from  this 
stand,  from  the  lips  of  the  Elders  of 
Israel.  Here  in  this  choir  we  have 
heard  the  voice  of  melody.  Isaiah 
must  have  had  his  eye  upon  these  oc- 
casions; and  in  the  great  visions  that 
were  given  to  him  he  must  have  wit- 
nessed the  gatherings  of  the  people  of 
the  Lord.  Oh,  how  our  hearts  have 
been  made  to  rejoice  upon  this  occa- 
sion! 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  testify  that 
this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  testi- 
fy to  you  that  I  have  witnessed  with 
my  own  eyes  that  Isaiah  was  a  proph- 
et of  God,  and  that  Daniel  was  a  true 
prophet.  Their  words  are  finding  ful- 
fillment. This  is  the  work  of  God,  and 
not  of  man;  and  any  man,  in  the 
Church  or  out  of  it,  who  pits  himself 
against  this  work  is  measuring  arms 
with  the  Almighty,  and  his  effort  will 
be  futile,  his  folly  will  be  manifest  in 
the  eyes  of  the  people.  You  will  re- 
member, brethren  and  sisters,  that  the 
Prophet  Joseph  obtained  a  promise 
from  the  Lord  as  he  went  forth  to 
preach  the  Gospel  of  repentance  unto 
this  generation.  The  Lord  said  to 
him: 

"Wherefore,  let  them  bring  forth 
their  strong  reasons  against  the  Lord 
[not  against  Joseph  and  his  brethren, 
for  they  were  but  the  representatives 
of  the  Lord].  Verily,  thus  saith  the 
Lord  unto  you,  no  weapon  that  iS 
formed  against  you  shall  prosper;  and 
if  any  man  shall  lift  his  voice  against 
you,  he  shall  be  confounded  in  due 
time." 

Mark  you,  these  are  not  the  words  of 
Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet,  but  the 
revelation  of  God  to  him.  This  is  the 
work  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  not  the 
work  of  Joseph  Smith,  nor  of  any  of 
his  successors,  nor  of  any  man  upon 
the  earth.  I  rejoice  in  this  testimony. 
I  rejoice  in  the  teachings  of  this  con- 
ference, and  in  the  blessed  words  of 
comfort  and  consolation  which  we  have 
received.  I  rejoice  in  the  union  of  the 
Latter-day     Saints.      They    begin  to 


show  forth  the  fruits  of  seventy -five 
years  of  experience  in  the  work.  The 
words  of  President  Lyman  sank  deep 
into  my  heart  when  he  referred  to 
the  experience  and  to  the  faith  and 
faithfulness  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
That  is  my  testimony  and  it  has  been 
confirmed  in  my  visits  to  the  Stakes 
of  Zion.  I  rejoice  in  my  fellowship 
with  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  in  my 
acquaintance  and  association  with  the 
authorities  of  the  Church,  with  the 
Presidencies  of  the  Stakes,  and  with 
all  the  brethren  and  sisters.  May  the 
Lord  bless  us,  and  may  He  sustain  His 
work,  and  bring  us  off  victorious  and 
triumphant,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

Sister  Olea  Shipp  sang,  "Be  with  me, 
O  Lord." 

ELDER  J.    G.  McQUARRIE. 

(President  of  Eastern  States  Mission.)- 
Yesterday  afternoon  I  had  the  pleas- 
ure of  sitting  shoulder  to  shoulder  with 
six  other  Presidents,  co-laborers  in 
the  mission  fields  of  the  United  States, 
and  I  wish  I  could  explain  the  feeling 
of  strength  and  sympathy  that  passed 
through  my  being  in  thus  associating 
with  my  fellow-laborers.  Ella  Wheeler 
Wilcox  expressed  in  a  poetic  way  a 
truth  intensely  felt  by  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  when  she  said: 

"There  is  an  unseen  cord  which  binds 

the  whole  wide  world  together; 
Through  every  human  heart  it  winds 

its  one  mysterious  tether. 
It  links  all  races  and  all  minds  within 

their  span  allotted, 
And  death  alone  unties      the  strand 

which  God  Himself  hath  knotted." 

But  I  would  like  to  change  the  last 
part  of  that,  and  say  that  even  death 
does  not  sever  these  cords  of  brother- 
hood and  fellowship  that  God  ties  in 
our  hearts  and  in  our  souls.  We  cannot 
overestimate  the  strength  of  sympathy. 
The  idea  of  government  in  the  Church 
is  the  voice  of  God  and  the  consent  of 
the  people,  and  hence  those  who  offici- 
ate in  any  of  the  offices  of  the  Church- 
must  look  for  their  strength,  not  only 
in  the  favor  of  God  but  also  in  the  con- 
fidence of  their  brothers  and  sisters- 


ELDER  J.  G.  MoQUARRIE. 


37 


The  most  touching  appeal  I  have  read 
from  the  far  east  was  written  by  a 
(Russian  officer  complaining  because, 
when  they  looked  to  Russia  for  strength 
they  found  division,  contention  and 
lack  of  sympathy  among  their  own 
people,  and  literature  was  scattered  in 
their  ranks  urging  the  men  to  lay  down 
their  arms,  while  they  were  facing  a 
foe  moved  on  and  stimulated  to  almost 
superhuman  strength  by  the  sympathy, 
the  unity  and  the  power  of  sentiment 
that  came  to  them  from  their  own 
country.  Those  who  are  interested  in 
the  missionary  work  want  to  know 
what  we  are  doing  in  the  field.  Perhaps 
they  think  we  come  here  with  the  idei 
that  we  are  going  to  tell  about  great 
things  we  are  doing  out  on  the  battle 
line;  but  we  come  here  with 
different  feelings.  Our  thoughts 
are  something  like  this:  We 
are  going  to  the  strongholds 
of  Zion;  we  are  going  to  see  the  unity 
of  the  home  guard;  we  are  going  to  look 
upon  the  sources  from  which  we  may 
draw  strength  to  continue  our  work; 
we  are  going  to  hear  the  voice  of  in- 
spiration, and  clasp  hands  with  our 
leaders  and  with  our  co-workers.  This 
is  the  way  I  feel  today.  I  want  to 
clasp  hands  with  those  whose  hearts 
beat  in  unison  with  my  own. 

There  is  so  much  that  should  be  said 
that  what  I  have  to  say  seems  to  me 
of  so  little  importance  that  I  do  not 
feel  like  taking  much  of  your  time  to 
tell  it;  yet  perhaps  there  is  no  part 
of  the  work  of  Zion  that  is  not  im- 
portant. In  listening  to  the  reports 
that  have  been  made,  the  earnest  testi- 
monies that  have  been  borne,  and  the 
voice  of  inspiration  we  have  heard  in 
this  conference,  I  feel  that  I  can  be  a 
stronger  and  a  better  man.  Long- 
fellow said  that  we  desired  to  walk  be- 
neath the  shadow  of  great  names.  This 
is  illustrated  by  the  fact  that  churches 
bear  the  names  of  great  men.  As  men, 
we  are  timid  in  relation  to  our  own 
opinion,  and  feel  like  resting  our  faith 
beneath  the  shadow  of  great  names; 
but  as  Latter-day  Saints  we  are  taught 
to  rest  our  faith  beneath  the  shadow 
of  bat  one  name — that  of  Jesus  Christ. 


But  while  we  know  that  we  should  not 
pin  our  faith  to  men,  we  also  realize 
that  we  can  receive  strength  from  each 
other. 

I  have  labored  in  the  mission  field  as 
a  traveling  Elder,  as  a  conference  presi- 
dent, and  as  a  mission  president,  and 
I  understand  the  feelings  of  the  Elders 
as  they  go  up  against  the  stone  walls 
of  prejudice  that  seem  to  confront  us. 
Individually  we  feel  we  are  accom- 
plishing very  little,  but  when  the  Elders 
report  to  their  conference  presidents, 
and  they  in  turn  report  to  the  mission 
president  at  the  close  of  the  year,  and 
we  figure  up  how  many  homes  have 
been  visited  by  Elders  bearing  testi- 
mony of  the  restored  Gospel.how  many 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  tracts  have 
been  delivered,  how  many  books 
have  been  sold  or  given  away, 
how  many  meetings  have  been 
held,  and  sermons  preached,  and 
baptisms  performed,  then  we  rea- 
lize that  something  has  been  done. 
And  when  we  think  of  this  record  be- 
ing united  with  those  of  all  the  other 
missions  in  the  world,  and  then  con- 
template the  compilation  of  such  for 
the  last  seventy  years,  we  realize  that 
it  comprises  one  of  the  grandest,  one 
of  the  most  glorious  missionary  reports 
ever  recorded  in  the  history  of  the 
world.  And  when  the  clouds  of  envy, 
and  hatred,  and  persecution  shall  have 
rolled  away,  and  when  the  future  his- 
torian shall  trace  to  their  source  the 
many  streams  that  have  united  togeth- 
er- to  form  the  millennial  sea  of  peace, 
it  will  be  conceded  that  a  stream  of 
powerful  influence  has  flown  down  from 
the  mountains  of  Israel. 

In  a  recent  magazine  article  written 
upon  the  so-called  "Evil  of  Mormon- 
ism,"  the  writer  said:  "We  must  first 
admit  and  understand  the  inherent 
power  of  Mormonism,  before  we  can 
cope  with  this  religion.  The  energy 
and  zeal  put  forth  by  the  Mormon 
Elders  ought  to  put  to  shame  any 
Christian  denomination  in  the  world." 
This  is  said,  and  yet  they  have  only 
commenced  to  learn  what  a  great  work 
is  being  done  by  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  bear  my  testimony  to  you  who  have 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


made  great  sacrifices,  to  you  who  have 
performed  many  noble  deeds,  and  to 
the  Elders  in  the  world  laboring  for  the 
spread  of  truth,  that  these  actions  and 
deeds  will  not  fade  away  in  the  gray 
mist  of  the  past  and  be  forgotten,  but 
they  will  rise  like  a  glorious  scroll  up- 
on the  horizon  of  the  future,  and  stand 
as  a  justification  of  the  righteous  and 
condemnation  of  the  wicked.  I  feel 
strong  in  the  support  of  my  brethren 
and  sisters  and  the  Elders  with  whom 
I  work.  One  young  man,  when  he  was 
told  by  his  opponents  that  they  were 
going  to  overcome  the  work  with  which 
he  was  associated,  said,  "How  are  you 
going  to  do  it?  We  are  here  to  work 
for  it;  we  are  here  to  sacrifice  our 
means  for  it;  we  are  here,  if  necessary, 
to  die  for  it;  how  are  you  going  to 
stop  it?"  With  thousands  of  such  men 
and  women,  and  with  God  on  our  side, 
we  will  eventually  be  victorious.  Even 
if  assassins  put  such  men  to  death, 
their  death,  like  the  guns  of  Concord, 
would  send  an  echo  round  the  world, 
and  probably  would  be  a  more  effective 
testimony  than  our  preaching. 

As  there  has  been  some  voice,  some 
word,  some  murmuring  heard  through 
the  land  against  our  prophet-leader,  it 
is  natural  that  his  friends  should  rally 
to  his  support  and  give  expression  to 
their  feeling.  This  morning,  President 
Ben  E.  Rich  bore  testimony  to  the  fact 
that  he  knew  President  Joseph  P.  Smith 
had  his  ears  open  to  hear  the  voice  of 
God,  and  was  ever  ready  to  heed  the 
whisperings  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  I  want 
to  bear  my  testimony  to  the  fact  that 
he  also  has  his  ears  open  to  his  fellow- 
men,  and  that  he  sympathizes  with 
them.  He  has  not  forgotten,  as  others 
have  often  done,  "That  the  love  of  the 
Lord  and  of  man  are  one."  When  I 
stood  here  six  months  ago  I  had  a  rath- 
er heavy  heart,  because  our  mission  was 
without  a  home.  We  had  been  forced 
to  leave  our  headquarters  because  of 
the  agitation  then  going  on,  and  were 
obliged  to  take  shelter  with  the  con- 
ference president  in  a  little  room  about 
10x18.  I  thought  I  would  appeal  to  the 
authorities  of  the  Church  and  see  if  we 
could   not  get  some  aid  to  establish 


ourselves  firmer  in  t^he  city  of  New 
Tork,  where  it  was  important  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  should  be  well  repre- 
sented and  established;  but,  I  accident- 
ally heard  that  the  funds  of  the  Church 
had  already  been  so  divided,  there  had 
been  so  many  calls,  that  word  had  been 
sent  out  that  improvements  not  already 
started  should  not  be  commenced  dur- 
ing that  year.  Still  I  felt  I  must  ask 
for  aid,  and  I  testify  that  my  appea'i 
received  kind  consideration,  and  five 
thousand  dollars  was  given  to  us  to 
make  the  first  payment  on  a  place  we 
might  call  our  own  in  the  city  of  New 
Tork.  Part  of  your  tithing  has  gone 
there,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  I 
hope  you  do  not  regret  it. 

Last  Monday  I  was  in  the  city  of  Chi- 
cago. It  was  the  first  time  I  had  th; 
privilege  of  visiting  the  headquarters 
of  the  Church  there,  and  while  looking 
for  the  number  I  saw  in  bold  letters 
across  the  front  of  a  beautiful  edifice 
the  words  "The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints."  I  have  seen  many 
churches  the  last  four  years,  but  I 
had  never  before  seen  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ  written  across  the  front 
of  any  of  them.  We  should  feel  hon- 
ored in  erecting  churches  to  His  name, 
and  I  trust  a  similar  building  may  soon 
be  seen  in  the  city  of  New  York. 

Since  we  have  been  established  in 
our  own  home,  my  notice  has  been 
called  to  a  prophecy  recorded  in  Ne- 
phi,  14th  chapter,  10-12  verses.  I  hope 
you  will  read  it,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters. It  was  a  source  of  inspiration  to 
me,  because  it  describes  the  great 
struggle  that  you  and  I  have  to  make. 
Nephi  speaks  of  the  great  battle  be- 
tween righteousness  and  wickedness 
which  should  continue  until  there 
would  be  only  two  churches — the 
Church  of  God  and  the  church  of  the 
devil;  that  the  latter*would  have  great 
dominions  in  all  parts  of  the  world,  and 
that  the  Church  of  the  Lamb  of  God 
should  also  be  upon  all  the  face  of  the 
earth,  but  its  possessions  would  be 
small.  Now,  we  have  been  gathering 
people  from  all  nations,  and  no  effort 
has  been  made  until  lately  to  obtain 
possessions,  even  small  ones,  in  various 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS. 


parts  of  the  world.  These  have  not 
been  secured  for  the  purpose  of  fulfill- 
ing that  prophecy.  Instructions  on  this 
matter  did  not  come  to  us  from  the 
President  of  the  Church;  but  the  move- 
ment seemed  to  come  as  an  inspiration, 
almost  simultaneously  in  all  parts  of 
the  world.  When  I  asked  President 
Smith  a  year  ago,  as  I  was  returning 
to  my  mission,  if  he  had  any  counsel 
to  give  me,  he  said:  "You  have  our 
confidence,  and  the  time  has  come  when 
men  must  go  out  into  the  world  and 
live  near  enough  to  the  Lord  that  they 
can  receive  their  inspiration  from  Him, 
and  build  up  Zion  wherever  they  are 
called  to  labor,  without  the  personal 
assistance  and  continued  counsel  of  the 
general  authorities  of  the  Church."  I 
testify  that  this  desire  to  have  places 
of  our  own  in  the  world  has  burned 
in  the  hearts  of  the  Saints,  and  it  has 
been  forced  upon  the  Mission  Presi- 
dents, until  now  from  Norway  and 
Sweden,  from  England  and  Denmark, 
from  the  islands  of  the  sea,  and  from 
"all  parts  of  the  United  States,  we  hear 
reports  that  they  are  established  upon 
their  own  ground.  I  thank  the  Lord 
we  now  have  a  place  we  can  call  oui 
own,  and  we  feel  that  Zion  is  becoming 
more  firmly  rooted.  When  I  read  this 
prophecy  recorded  in  the  14th  chapter 
of  Nephi,  I  thought  that  possibly  the 
prophets  of  old  even  saw  this 
little  work  that  we  are  doing. 
What  a  glorious  thing  it  is 
to  join  with  the  Prophets  of  old 
fulfilling  their  words,  and  accomplish- 
ing the  purposes  of  God. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  there  is,  it  is 
true,  some  agitation  throughout  the 
country  against  us,  and  many  things 
are  being  said  to  injure  our  reputation. 
But  why  should  we  worry  about  our 
reputation?  Let  our  anxiety  be  for  our 
characters.  No  one  can  soil  my  char- 
acter but  myself.  No  one  can  soil  the 
character  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  but  the  characters 
of  its  members  may  be  soiled  by  their 
own  misdeeds.  A  short  time  ago  I  read 
in  the  New  York  Herald  the  statement 
that  after  all  that  had  been  written  and 
spoken,  there  was  no  source  to  which  a 


scholar  could  go  to  get  reliable  infor- 
mation in  regard  to  the  "Mormon"  peo- 
ple, because  that  which  had  been  writ- 
ten had  been  blackened  by  prejudice  or 
colored  by  zeal.  I  was  glad  that  I  could 
answer  the  writer  by  saying:  There  is 
one  history  written  that  zeal  cannot 
color  and  prejudice  cannot  efface.  That 
history  has  been  written  with  the  iron 
pen  of  industry.  Its  scroll  has  been 
rolled  out  from  Canada  on  the  north  to 
Mexico  on  the  south,  covering  like  a 
beautiful  veil  the  great  desert  of  Amer- 
ica. That  history  has  been  engraved 
with  winding  streams,  checkered  fields, 
and  fruitful  gardens.  It  has  been  illus- 
trated with  great  cities,  nestling  vil- 
lages, and  happy  homes.  It  is  vital- 
ized and  vivified  by  hundreds  of  thous- 
ands of  happy  men  and  women,  rejoic- 
ing in  the  blessings  of  liberty  and  an 
intelligent  faith  in  God.  And  this  his- 
tory will  live,  while  yellow  journalsm 
will  die  and  be  forgotten.  The  men  and 
women  who  have  written  this  history 
will  be  remembered  and  honored  by 
thousands  who  reap  the  fruits  of  what 
they  have  sown,  while  those  who  have 
vilified  and  persecuted  them  will  go 
down  either  to  disgrace  or  oblivion. 

God  grant  that  we  may  live  up  to  the 
high  ideals  that  have  been  given  to  us, 
that  we  may  be  able  to  preserve  the 
heritage  that  has  been  intrusted  to  our 
care,  and  bequeath  it,  not  lessened,  to 
those  who  may  follow  after  us.  I  ask 
it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS. 

I  am  going  to  ask  you  to  listen  to 
a  few  passages  of  scripture. 

"The  heavens  declare  the  glory  of 
God;  and  the  firmament  showeth  His 
handiwork. 

"Day  unto  day  uttereth  speech,  and 
night  unto  night  showeth  knowledge. 

"There  'is  no  speech  nor  language 
where  their  voice  is  not  heard. 

"There  line  is  gone  out  through  all  the 
earth,  and  their  words  to  the  end  of 
the  world." 

Such  is  the  language  of  David, 
Prophet  and  King  of  Israel. 

"There  is  a  spirit  in  man;  and  the 
inspiration  of  the  Almighty  giveth 
them  understanding." 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


That  is  Job. 

"For  the  prophecy  came  not  in  old 
time  by  the  will  of  man;  but  holy 
men  of  God  spake  as  they  were  moved 
by  the  Holy  Ghost." 

Such  is  the  language  of  the  chief  of 
the  apostles  in  the  dispensation  of  the 
meridian  of  time. 

"For  God  speaketh  once,  yea  twice, 
yet  man  preceiveth  it  not. 

"In  a  dream,  in  a  vision  of  the  night, 
when  deep  sleep  falleth  upon  men,  in 
slumberings  upon  the  bed; 

"Then  he  openeth  the  ears  of  men.and 
sealeth  their  instruction." 

That  is  Job  again. 

"And  it  came  to  pass,  as  Moses 
entered  into  the  tabernacle,  the  cloudy 
pillar  descended,  and  stood  at  the  door 
of  the  tabernacle,  and  the  Lord  talked 
with  Moses. 

"And  all  the  people  saw  the  cloudy 
pillar  stand  at  the  tabernacle  door: 
and  all  the  people  rose  up  and  wor- 
shiped, every  man  in  his  tent  door. 

"And  the  Lord  spake  unto  Moses  face 
to  face,  as  a  man  speaketh  unto  his 
friend." 

All  these  examples  of  revelations 
from  God  to  man  are  from  the  Old 
Testament.  If  you  turn  to  the  New 
Testament  you  will  find  that  all  these 
modes  of  revelation  are  to  be  found 
upon  its  pages.  I  will  read  one  or  two 
passages  from  the  New  Testament. 

"For  the  invisible  things  of  him  from 
the  creation  of  the  world  are  clearly 
seen,  being  understood  by  the  things 
that  are  made,  even  his  eternal  power 
and  Godhead;" 

Such  are  the  words  of  Paul,  the 
apostle  of  the  gentiles. 

"And  Jesus,  when  he  was  baptized, 
went  up  straightway  out  of  the  water: 
and,  lo,  the  heavens  were  opened  unto 
him  [that  is,  unto  John  the  Baptist, 
who  was  to  be  a  witness  that  Jesus  of 
Nazereth  was  the  Lamb  of  God,  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world;  hence  it  was 
for  him  that  the  heavens  were  opened], 
and  he  saw  the  Spirit  of  God  descend- 
ing like  a  dove,  and  lighting  upon 
him: 

"And  lo  a  voice  from  heaven  saying, 
This  is  my  beloved  Son,  in  whom  I 
am  well  pleased." 

Again,  referring  to  Stephen  at  the 
very  moment  of  his  martyrdom: — 

"But  he,  being  full  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
looked  up  steadfastly  into  heaven,  and 
saw  the  glory  of  God,  and  Jesus  stand- 
ing on  the  right  hand  of  God. 


"And  said,  Behold,  I  see  the  heavens 
opened,  and  the  Son  of  man  standing 
on  the  right  hand  of  God." 

You  who  have  followed  me  in  the 
reading  of  these  passages  of  the  scrip- 
ture, have  doubtless  already  concluded 
in  your  minds  that  it  is  my  purpose 
to  call  your  attention  to  the  various 
modes  through  which  God  reveals  Him- 
self to  the  children  of  men.  You  will 
observe  that  the  first  passage  that  I 
read  calls  attention  to  that  species  of 
revelation  that  is  made  known  through 
the  works  of  nature.  "The  heavens 
declare  the  glory  of  God."  I  presume 
there  are  no  people  living  now  or  in 
past  times  but  must  have  been  im- 
pressed to  a  greater  or  less  extent  by 
that  revelation  which  God  gives  of 
Himself  through  His  works.  Not  only 
■Christian  people,  but  the  Mohammedan, 
the  Buddhist,  the  Deist,  are  all  im- 
pressed by  that  magnificient  revela- 
tion of  God's  power  and  glory  which 
may  be  seen  in  the  magnitude  of  His 
works.  The  Deists,  are  of  opinion 
that  this  revelation  is  all-sufficient  as 
a  foundation  for  natural  religion.  One 
high  in  authority  among  such  people 
has  declared  that  the  wonderful  struc- 
ture of  the  universe  and  everything 
we  behold  in  creation  proves  to  us  bet- 
ter than  books  can  the  existence  of  God, 
and  at  the  same  time  proclaims  His 
attributes.  "It  is  by  the  exercise  of  our 
reason,"  he  continues,  "that  we  are 
enabled  to  contemplate  God  in  His 
work  and  to  meditate  His  ways.  When 
we  see  His  care  and  goodness  extended 
over  His  creatures,  it  teaches  us  our 
duties  towards  each  other,  while  it 
calls  forth  our  gratitude  to  Him." 

But  great  and  magnificent  as  is  this 
revelation  of  God's  glory  and  power 
through  His  works,  it  is  inadequate 
to  meet  all  the  requirements  of  man. 
There  are  great  questions  that  the 
stars  cannot  answer.  There  are  great 
problems  that  this  world  of  ours  can- 
not solve.  I  ask  the  question  in  the 
presence  of  this  great  revelation  that 
comes  from  God,  through  nature. 
Whence  is  man,  and  the  purpose  of  hi« 
existence?  And  the  stars  give  no  an- 
swer to  that  question.  I  ask  the  ques- 
tion, What  is  the  purpose  of  humai 


ELDER  B  HIGH  AM  H.  ROBERTS. 


41 


■existence?  And  nature  gives  no  re- 
ply. I  ask  the  question,  What  is  the 
end  of  human  existence?  And  from 
nature  there  comes  no  satisfactory  an- 
swer. So  that  this  revelation  through 
nature,  however  splendid  it  may  be,  is 
not  sufficient  for  guidance  to  the  chil- 
dren of  men.  So  say  the  Christiana 
of  all  sects.  They  hold  that  something 
must  be  learned  more  than  can  be 
learned  through  the  revelations  of  na- 
ture. Hence  they  accept  the  revela- 
tions that  come  through  the  scriptures. 

I  desire  to  call  attention  to  Christian 
faith  on  this  point,  and  I  desire  also 
to  expound  our  faith,  if  I  can,  upon 
this  great  subject. 

Christians  are  pretty  well  united  in 
believing  that  there  Is  a  revelation  of 
God  through  nature.  They  accept  all 
there  is  in  this  revelation  of  nature, 
and  in  addition  to  that  they  believe 
that  God  is  manifested  in  the  history  of 
the  world.  So  also  do  we.  They  be- 
lieve, too,  that  there  is  a  revelation 
from  God  through  the  human  heart. 
So  do  we  believe  "there  is  a  revelation 
in  the  intelligence  that  is  in  man.  The 
Christian  world  also  believe  in  special 
revelaitions  from)  God — revelaltions 
through  inspiration,  such  as  Job  speaks 
of  when  he  says  that  there  is  a  spirit 
in  man  and  the  inspiration  of  the  Al- 
mighty giveth  them  understanding. 
"This  is  the  kind  of  revelation  which 
has  produced  the  scripture.  Men  spake, 
in  olden  times,  as  they  were  moved 
upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  what  they 
said  under  such  circumstances  became 
the  word  of  God,  the  will  of  God: 
and  being  reduced  to  writing  and  treas- 
ured up  by  the  people,  it  has  come 
down  through  the  ages  as  holy  writ. 
I  say,  all  the  Christians  believe  in 
that  kind  of  revelation.  So,  too,  do 
we.  But  there  is  a  difference  between 
our  faith  in  respect  of  this  class  of 
special  revelation  and  the  belief  of 
the  various  divisions  of  Christendom. 

I  count  myself  happy  that  in  conse- 
quence of  the  recent  interest  awakened 
on  the  subject  of  revelation  we  have 
in  our  city  an  utterance  of  the  Chris- 
tian belief  upon  this  subject.  A  prom- 
inent minister  of  our  city  has  set  forth, 


not  only  the  views  of  the  particular 
church  of  wlych  he  is  the  pastor,  but 
also  the  views  of  the  whole  of  Christen- 
dom with  reference  to  this  subject  of 
revelation.  I  do  not  refer  to  his  dis- 
course with  any  intention  of  entering 
upon  a  controversy.  Far  be  that  from 
me.  I  would  not  for  the  world,  if  I 
can  help  it,  challenge  the  correctness 
of  anything  that  may  have  been  said 
by  our  fellow  Christians.  I  do  not  feel 
antagonistic  toward  them.  I  am  a 
man  of  peace.  But  this  particular  dis- 
course has  afforded  a  good  oppor- 
tunity of  placing  in  contrast  our  be- 
liefs on  the  subject  of  revelation  with 
the  beliefs  of  the  world,  and  I  use  it 
merely  for  this  purpose.  Sometimes, 
you  know,  we  can  appreciate  things 
better  when  we  see  them  in  contrast 
than  in  any  other  way. 

And  now  in  regard  to  special  revela- 
tion by  inspiration,  whence  comes  our 
scriptures.  This  Christian  teacher  has 
this  to  say  about  it: 

"We  are  not  only  at  one  in  gratefully 
receiving  such  scriptures  as  the  faith- 
ful record  of  God's  gracious  revelations 
and  the  sure  witness  of  Christ,  but 
we  are  equally  at  one  in  denying  that 
any  such  record  or  unveiling  of  the  di- 
vine will  has  since  been  given,  or  ever 
will  be  given,  for  the  guidance  of  man- 
kind." 

Why  should  such  a  conclusion  as  that 
be  reached?  When  the  great  apostle 
of  the  Christian  dispensation,  unto 
whom  Jesus  had  said:  "I  give  unto 
you  the  keys  of  the  kingdom,  and 
whatsoever  thou  shalt  bind  on  earth 
shall  be  bound  in  heaven," — when  this 
man,  clothed  with  the  Holy  Ghost, 
stood  before  the  multitude  in  Jerus- 
alem, and  they  said  unto  him,  "Men 
and  brethren  what  shall  we  do?"  He 
gave  this  memorable  answer:  "Repent, 
and  be  baptized  every  one  of  you,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  for  the  re- 
mission of  sins,  and  ye  shall  receive  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost."  Now  mark 
you:  "For  the  promise  is  unto  you, 
and  to  your  children,  and  to  all  that 
are  afar  off,  even  as  many  'as  tke  Lord 
our  God  shall  call." 

If  Peter  had  designed  to  make  this 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


promise  of  the  Holy  Ghost  universal, 
I  cannot  for  the  life  of  me  understand 
what  language  he  could  have  used 
that  would  have  made  the  promise 
more  universal  than  the  language  he 
did  use.  This  promise  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  given  as  a  result  of  obedience 
to  the  gospel,  was  to  them,  to  their 
children,  and  to  all  that  were  afar  off— 
a  hundred  years  off,  five  hundred  years 
off,  five  thousand  years  off — to  all  unto 
whom  this  message  of  repentance  shall 
come  this  promise  is  made.  Very  well. 
How  did  we  receive  the  scriptures? 
"Holy  men  of  God  spoke  as  they  were 
moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost,"  that 
is  how  we  came  by  the  scriptures. 
"There  is  a  spirit  in  man,  and  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Almighty  giveth  them 
understanding."  Now,  if  people  are 
receiving  the  gospel  today,  I  hold  that 
they  are  entitled  to  the  fulfillment  of 
the  promise  that  they  shall  receive 
the  Holy  Spirit — the  power  by  which 
the  scriptures  were  written.  And  hence 
our  friends  are  confronted  with  the 
choice  of  one  of  two  propositions;  either 
they  must  say  that  men  no  longer  re- 
ceive the  Holy  Ghost,  when  yielding 
obedience  to  the  gospel,  or  else  they 
must  say  that  the  Holy  Ghost  has  lost 
His  power  to  reveal  the  will  of  God 
to  man.  To  say  that,  in  my  judgment, 
would  be  blasphemy.  We  Latter-day 
Saints  do  not  say  that.  On  the  con- 
trary, we  say  that  this  Holy  Spirit 
possesses  all  His  powers,  and  those  who 
receive  that  Spirit  receive  His  powers 
and  can  exercise  and  enjoy  them. 

Again:  All  Christians,  together  with 
ourselves,  recognize  that  God  manifests 
Himself  through  mighty  works,  called 
miracles.  Yet  listen  to  this  discourse 
I  am  quoting  on  that  mode  of  revela- 
tion: 

"While  Christians  are  virtually  at  one 
in  recognizing  these  invasions  of  the 
Divine  will,  they  are  well  nigh  as 
thoroughly  agreed  in  denying  that  we 
have  good  reason  to  expect  the  con- 
tinuance of  such  marvels." 

Why?  Whence  came  the  miracles  of 
scripture — the  healing  of  the  sick, 
prophecy,  speaking  in  tongues,  the  in- 
terpretation of  tongues,  the  gift  of 
knowledge?    They  came  from  the  pos- 


session of  this  same  Spirit  and  power. 
This  power,  which  is  imminent  in  na- 
ture, which  fashions  and  molds  mat- 
ter as  God  wills— whence  comes  it? 
It  comes  from  the  possession  and 
operation  of  this  Holy  Spirit.  I  re- 
peat again,  that  to  deny  to  that  Spirit 
the  powers  He  is  accredited  with  in 
scripture  would  be  blasphemy.  To 
deny  Him  His  power  would  be  to  say 
that  He  was  as  salt  that  bath  lost  its 
savor. 

In  common  with  our  fellow  Christians 
we  believe  in  that  mode  of  revelation 
by  which  men  of  God,  such  as  Moses, 
Isaiah,  Jeremiah,  Peter,  John,  Paul,  and 
the  rest  of  the  names  which  blazon  the 
pages  of  sacred  history,  rose  to  such 
high  privileges  that,  like  Moses,  some 
of  them  talked  face  to  face  with  God, 
as  a  man  talks  with  his  friend.  But 
while  the  Christian  world  believes  that 
such  revelation  as  this  obtained  in  the 
past,  listen  to  what  is  said  of  it  at 
the  present  time: 

"Few  Christians  will  deny  that  men 
of  old  had  such  revelations;  few 
Christians  will  claim  that  we  have 
reason  to  look  for  their  continuance." 

Another  mode  of  revelation  recog- 
nized by  ourselves  and  also  by  the 
Christian  world  is  the  revelation  of 
God  through  Jesus  Christ.  He  is  the 
crowning  revelation;  for  in  Him,  in 
His  person  and  character,  was  revealed 
the  Divine..  The  Father  was  revealed 
through  Him.  He  is  spoken  of  as  be- 
ing the  express  image  of  the  Father; 
and  henceforth  the  world  has  a  means 
by  which  they  may  know,  not  only  the 
being,  the  existence  of  God,  but  the 
kind  of  being  He  is,  namely,  that  He 
is  the  express  image  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ;  for  as  the  Son  is  the  express 
image  of  the  Father,  so  also  the  Fath- 
er must  be  the  express  image  of  the 
Son.  Concerning  this,  the  discourse 
to  which  I  am  alluding  says: 

"All  Christians  believe  in  the  incar- 
nation. Very  few  believe  that  this  rev- 
elation will  ever  be  repeated  in  its  ob- 
jective form  till  time,  as  we  measure 
it,  shall  end." 

Well,  no;  the  incarnation  of  the  Son 
of  God  will  not  be  repeated.  He  has 
obtained  His  body,  arid  it  has  beei 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS. 


glorified  through  the  resurrection  from 
the  dead,  and  has  become  as  immortal 
as  the  spirit  that  inhabits  it.  There 
will  be  no  reincarnation  of  the  Son 
of  God,  it  is  true;  but  this  will  be 
true  of  the  Son  of  God,  if  we  may 
trust  the  scriptures  to  guide  us:  He 
will  make  a  glorious  reappearance  in 
the  world.  You  remember  that  occa- 
sion, do  you  not,  when  the  disciples 
were  gathered  together  on  the  Mount 
of  Olives  after  the  resurrection,  and 
Jesus  met  with  them.  Presently,  after 
giving  His  last  benediction,  He  was 
taken  up  into  heaven.  Spell-bound  by 
the  beautiful  sight  of  His  receding  form 
from  earth,  to  heaven,  the  disciples 
stood  gazing  up  at  Him,  and  as  they 
did  so  two  angels  made  their  appear- 
ance and  said  to  them:  "Ye  men  of 
Galilee,  why  stand  ye  gazing  up  into 
heaven?  this  same  Jesus,  which  is 
taken  up  from  you  into  heaven,  shall 
so  come  in  like  manner  as  ye  have 
seen  him  go  into  heaven."  That  kind 
of  a  revelation  of  Jesus  Christ — His 
reappearance  among  men  in  His  resur- 
rected, immortal  body  of  flesh  and 
bones — that  kind  of  a  revelation  of 
Jesus  Christ  is  in  the  future  for  the 
world,  though  there  may  be  no  reincar- 
nation of  Him. 

The  difference  between  the  Christian 
world  and  the  Latter-day  Saints  re- 
specting special  revelations  from  God 
is  this:  The  Christian  world  believe 
that  such  revelations  took  place  in  the 
past,  but  that  they  have  not  taken 
place  since  the  close  of  the  apostolic 
age;  that  miracles  have  ceased:  that 
special  inspiration  has  ceased;  that 
God  conversing  with  man  face  to  face 
has  ceased;  and  they  have  no  hope  of 
these  glorious  kinds  of  revelation  bf>- 
ing-  repeated  in  the  experience  of  the 
world.  The  Latter-day  Saints  on  the 
other  hand  state  boldly  to  the  world, 
and  as  I  remember  it,  one  of  our  arti- 
cles of  faith  declares  that 

"We  believe  all  that  God  has  re- 
vealed, all  that  he  does  now  reveal, 
and  that  he  will  yet  reveal  many  gre  it 
and  important  things  pertaining  to  the 
kingdom  of  God." 

I  want  to  extend  that  a  little  and 


say  that  we  not  only  believe  in  the  rev- 
elations that  have  been  given,  that  are 
now  being  given,  and  that  will  be  given 
in  the  future,  but  we  believe  alsff  in 
all  these  modes  of  revelation — revela- 
tion by  inspiration,  by  the  manifesta- 
tion of  miraculous  powers,  by  face  to 
face  conversations  with  God,  and  com- 
munion with  Jesus  Christ  as  a  man 
might  commune  with  his  friend.  And 
we  believe  that  all  these  modes  of  rev- 
elation will  continue.  But  we  do  not 
believe  that  the  will  of  man  will  con- 
trol in  these  matters.  Prom 
some  things  that  have  been  said  recent- 
ly relative  to  revelation  one  would 
reach  the  conclusion  that  because  we 
have  in  our  midst  prophets  and  apos- 
tles, inspired  men,  God  and  angels  and 
the  Holy  Spirit  are  subject  to  their  beck 
and  call;  and  because  a  man  is  upheld 
as  a  prophet  of  God  some  people  seem 
to  suppose  that  he  may  enter  the  pres- 
ence of  God  when  he  will  and  talk  with 
Him  face  to  face;  or,  that  'by  his  sum- 
mons, a  prophet  may  bring  angels  to 
his  side  at  his  own  sweet  will!  Not 
so.  These  divine  things  are  under  the 
control  of  the  Lord  Almightty,  and 
He  will  reveal  Himself  when  and  in 
whatsoever  mode  seemeth  Him  good. 
Do  you  not  remember  the  scriptures 
which  clearly  indicate  the  correctness 
of  the  view  I  state  upon  this  subject? 
where  it  is  declared  that  unto  one  is 
given  by  the  Spirit  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom, to  another  the  word  of  knowledge, 
to  another  the  gift  of  faith,  to  another 
the  gift  of  healing,  to  another  the 
working  of  miracles,  to  another  proph- 
ecy, etc.,  the  Lord  dividing  to  every 
man  severally  as  He  [the  Lord]  will— not 
as  man  might  will  or  choose.  So  that 
the  times  and  modes  of  revelation  are 
in  the  hands  of  God;  our  faith  is  sim- 
ply this:  that  the  Lord  reigns  supreme 
in  heaven,  aye,  and  on  the  earth,  and 
whenever  His  work  requires  that  His 
hand  should  touch  it  and  guide  it  He 
will  inspire  His  servants  to  take  the 
course  that  is  necessary  to  conform 
His  works  to  His  will.  If  it  be  neces- 
sary to  send  from  the  presence  of  His 
throne  an  angel,  clothed  with  power, 
might  and   majesty,   to  stand  in  the 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


presence  of  prophets  and  apostles,  to 
make  known  a  divine  purpose,  the 
sovereign  will  of  God  is  sufficient  to  or- 
der that  to  be  done;  and  if  it  becomes 
necessary  to  summon  a  prophet  into 
the  presence  of  God  to  commune  face 
to  face  with  Him,  then  He  will  sum- 
mon that  prophet  into  His  presence;  or 
open  the  vision  of  His  mind,  snatch 
away  the  veil  of  the  covering  that  at 
present  separates  us  from  God,  and  will 
commune  with  His  servant  as  He  did 
with  Moses  face  to  face — all  according 
as  God  wills.  That  is  our  faith  con- 
cerning revelation;  and  as  the  great 
Luther  said  of  his  faith  at  the  Diet  at 
Worms — "Here  we  stand;  we  can  do 
no  other;  God  help  us."  If  God  says, 
move  forward,  we  will  move  forward. 
If  He  says,  halt,  we  will  halt.  If  He 
says,  turn  to  the  right  or  turn  to  the 
left,  we  will  turn  accordingly.  And 
our  faith  is  if  we  shall  walk  under  the 
guidance  of  God  no  harm  can  come  to 
us  individually,  nor  harm  come  to  the 
work  of  God.  Only  such  things  will 
happen  as  will  tend  to  the  progress 
of  God's  work,  and  the  glorification  of 
His  name  in  the  earth. 

I  do  not  know  whether  I  am  stating 
exactly  your  faith  in  these  things  or 
not,  but  this  is  my  faith;  and  for  the 
life  of  me  I  cannot  understand  how 
anyone,  Jew  or  Gentile,  Heathen  or 
Christian,  who  believes  in  God  at  all 
can  stop  short  of  this  perfect  submis- 
sion unto  His  will;  which  submission 
of  the  mind  to  God  is  alone  true  wor- 
ship. Once  admitting  the  great  premise 
that  God  lives,  that  He  is  interested 
in  human  affairs,  that  He  not  only 
created  but  governs  and  controls  this 
universe,  it  seems  to  me  that  after  that 
the  only  logical  conclusion  for  one  who 
holds  that  faith'  is  that  if  he  receives 
a  message  from  God,  he  will  perform 
the  mission  that  is  given  to  him  in  that 
message. 

Just  a  word  or  two  in  conclusion.  We 
have  spoken  in  this  conference  a  great 
deal  about  the  world  hating  us.  I 
think  sometimes  we  use  the  term  with- 
out sufficient  and  proper  modification. 
When  Jesus  said  to  His  disciples: 

"Marvel  not  if  the  world  hate  you.  It 


hated  me  before  it  hated  you.  If  ye 
were  of  the  world,  the  world  would  love 
his  own,  but  because  ye  are  not  of  the 
world,  but  I  have  chosen  you  out  of 
the  world,  therefore  the  world  hateth 
you." 

When  the  Master  used  that  language 
I  scarcely  think  He  had  reference 
to  all  the  world,  but  only  to 
those  who  were  "wordly,"  to  those 
whose  hearts  were  set  upon  the 
things  of  this  world,  to  those  who  were 
lovers  of  pleasure  more  than  lovers  of 
God,  to  those  who  were  corrupt  in  their 
hearts;  out  of  which  conditions  the 
Lord  had  called  His  disciples,  and  now 
in  these  days  has  called  His  people. 
When  we  say  "the  world  hate  us," 
let  us  ngt  think  that  that  means  all 
mankind,  but  that  it  means  the  worldly 
portion  of  mankind,  those  who  love 
darkness  rather  than  light.  Those 
whose  deeds  are  evil.  When  we  go  to 
them  with  our  message,  it  reproves 
this  part  of  the  world  for  sin  and  un- 
righteousness; therefore  they  hate  it. 
They  hate  the  light,  because  they  love 
darkness.  But  we  shall  find,  I  am  sure, 
hundreds  of  thousands,  nay  millions  of 
our  Father's  children  who  do  not  and 
who  will  not  hate  us;  but  who  will  be 
responsive  to  the  message  that  we  have 
to  declare  to  them.  So  that  I  am  of 
opinion  that  we  should  keep  this  mod- 
ification in  our  minds  that  it  is  the 
worldly  that  will  hate  us,  while  those 
who  are  honest  in  heart  will  be  re- 
sponsive to  the  testimonies  that  we 
have  to  bear.  I  remember  with  what 
supreme  confidence  President  Brigham 
Young  relied  upon  the  operation  of  the 
Spirit  of  God  upon  the  minds  of  peo- 
ple. He  said  on  more  than  one  occa- 
sion that  no  man  had  yet  so  much  as 
heard  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  but  what 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  whispered  quiet- 
ly to  his  soul  that  that  book  was  true: 
no  man  had  so  much  as  heard  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  but  what  the 
"still  small  voice"  whispered  to  him 
that  he  was  a  true  prophet. 

The  exact  words  of  President  Young 
on  this  subject  are  as  follows: 

"Nothing  short  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
will  do  us  any  lasting  good.  I  told 
you,  in  the  beginning  of  my  remarks, 
the  truth  as  it  is  in  heaven  and  on 
the  earth,  as  it  is  with  the  angels,  and 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS. 


4o 


with  prophets,  with  all  good  people, 
and  with  every  sinner  that  dwells  up- 
on the  earth.  There  is  not  a  man  or 
woman  who  on  hearing  the  report  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon  but  the  spirit  of 
the  Almighty  has  testified  to  them  of 
its  truth;  neither  have  they  heard  the 
name  of  Joseph  Smith  but  the  Spirit 
has  whispered  to  them  'He  is  the  true 
Prophet.' 

It  is  the  spirit  which  is  invisible  to 
the  natural  mind  of  man,  that  pro- 
duces effects  apparently  without  causes, 
and  creates  mysteries,  marvels,  and 
wonders  in  the  earth.  These  things  we 
behold,  but  we  cannot  with  the  natural 
mind  account  for  them,  nor  divine  their 
ultimate  end." 

(Discourse  by  Prest.  Brigham  Young, 
June  13,  1852.  Deseret  News,  Vol.  4, 
No.  6.) 

I  believe  that  doctrine,  and  it  ought 
to  be  a  mighty  source  of  encouragement 
to  the  Elders  who  are  preaching  the 
gospel  among  the  nations  of  the  earth. 
They  toil  and  labor,  they  distribute 
tracts,  they  try  to  make  their  voice 
heard  in  the  midst  of  the  world's  clam- 
or, and  they  may  think  from  surface 
indications  that  their  labors  are  vain, 
that  their  voice  is  lost  as  though  they 
were  crying  in  a  wilderness.  Not  so; 
but  as  they  speak  in  halls  or  crowded 
thoroughfares  God's  Spirit  bears  wit- 
ness to  the  hearts  of  those  at  all  sus- 
ceptible to  its  influence  in  testimony 
of  the  truths  uttered;  and  it  will  be 
because  the  world  rejects  that  testi- 
mony which  comes  to  their  souls  that 
there  will  be  condemnation  for  them, 


and  not  because  they  have  rejected  the 
words  spoken  by  the  Elders. 

Both  we  ourselves  and  the  world 
stand  in  the  presence  of  this  enfolding 
influence  and  power  of  God's  Holy 
Spirit — the  spirit  of  revelation.  Our 
lives  through  the  gospel  may  be  made 
to  touch  the  life  of  God,  and  by  touch- 
ing the  life  ot  God  partake  some- 
what of  His  qualities;  have  brought 
into  our  lives  some  of  His  divine  pow- 
ers, by  which  at  least  we  may  know 
the  truth  and  rejoice  in  it.  And  though 
"the  world" — regarding  "the  world" 
in  the  light  of  my  suggestion — may  hate 
us,  let  us  see  to  it  that  we  do  not 
hate  the  world.  We  may  dislike  their 
acts;  we  may  not  be  able  to  look  upon 
their  actions  with  the  least  degree  of 
allowance;  we  must  say  that  their 
actions  are  wicked  and  that  they 
and  their  actions  are  ungodly;  but 
after  all,  they  are  the  children  of 
God,  though  they  have  wandered 
far  from  Him,  and  it  is  our  mission 
to  send  forth  the  voice  that  shall  call 
them  back,  to  stretch  out  a  hand  that 
shall  lead  them  into  the  fold.  Such  is 
the  spirit  of  the  gospel  as  we  have 
received  it,  and  such  our  faith  in  the 
revelations  of  God.  The  Lord  bless 
you.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Song  of 
the  Redeemed." 

Benediction  by  Patriarch  John  Smith. 
Adjurned  till  10  a.  m.,  Sunday,  the  9th. 


THIRD  DAY. 


Sunday,  April  9,  10  a.  m. 
The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  which  begins: 

We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet 
To  guide  us  in  these  latter  days; 

We  thank  thee  for  sending  the  Gospel 
To  lighten  our  minds  with  its  rays. 

Prayer  was  offered  t>y  Elder  Collins 
P.  Hakes. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Awake 
ye  Mortals." 

PKEST.  JOS.  F.  SMITH. 

Attendance  Exceeding  All  Previous  Con- 
ferences, an  Evidence  of  Increasing 
Faith.— Blesses  All  Who  Desire  to  Do 
Good  and  Establish  Peace.— Strong 
Declaration  of  Loyalty  to  the  Nation 
and  to  the  Government. 

I  would  like  to  say  to  this  vast  con- 
gregation that  I  am  delighted  to  see 
you  here  and  to  note  the  interest  which 
is  manifested  by  the/  Latter-day  Saints 
in  this  conference.  I  sincerely  hope 
that  the  same  calm,  peaceful  spirit 
which  has  pervaded  the  meeting  hith- 
erto will  continue  to  be  with  us  until 
the  close  of  this  seventy-fifth  anniver- 
sary of  the  organization  of  the  Church. 
Let  every  man  and  woman  holding  a 
membership  in  the  Church  exercise 
that  faith  which  it  is  their  right  to 
exercise,  and  let  them  remember  that 
the  Lord  hears  and  answers  the 
prayers  of  those  who  petition  Him  in 
faith,  nothing  doubting,  for  the  peace- 
able influence  of  His  Holy  Spirit,  for 
the  light  thereof  to  shine  upon  their 
understanding,  and  for  the  strength- 
ening of  their  good  resolutions  to 
serve  God  and  keep  His  command- 
ments. Thus  far  I  do  not  think  this 
conference  has  been  surpassed  for  the 
number  of  those  in  attendance,  and  for 
the  warmth  of  fellowship  that  has  been 
manifested  on  the  part  of  all  that  have 
assembled  here.  I  pray  God,  my  Hea- 
venly Father,  that  this  spirit  of  union, 
fellowship  and  love  may  continue  to 
the  end  of  the  conference,  and  that  this 
spirit  may  spread  to  the  uttermost 
bounds  of  the  Church,  that  the  people 
may   be   renewed,    strengthened,  built 


up,  and  established  in  the  truth  of  the 
Gospel  of  the  Son  of  God. 

I  feel  from,  the  depths  of  my  heart 
to  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I 
cry  for  blessings  upon  the  heads  of  all 
people  who  have  in  their  hearts  a 
desire  to  do  good  and  to  establish  peace 
and  goodwill  among  the  children  of 
men. I  pray  not  only-  for  the  prosperity 
of  Zion,  but  for  the  prosperity  of  our 
nation.  We  must  always  bear  in  mind 
that  we  are  not  only  citizens  of  the 
Kingdom  of  God,  but  we  are  citizens 
of  the  United  States,  and  of  the  states 
in  which  we  dwell.  We  have  ever  been 
loyal  both  to  our  State  and  Nation, 
as  well  as  to  the  Church  of  God,  and 
we  are  at  the  defiance  of  the  world  to 
prove  to  the  contrary.  We  have  been 
willing  to  fight  our  country's  battles,  td 
defend  her  honor,  to  uphold  and  sus- 
tain her  good  name,  and  we  propose  to 
continue  in  this  loyalty  to  our  nation 
and  to  our  people  unto  the  end. 

Now,  I  did  not  design  to  speak  this 
morning.  May  God  bless  you,  May 
peace  dwell  in  your  soul.  May  the  love 
of  God  pervade  your  hearts  and  minds. 
May  light  and  truth  shine  upon  your 
understandings.  May  wisdom  be  given 
unto  you.  Be(  prudent  in  all  your  acts. 
May  you  be  devoted  to  the  cause  of 
iZion  and  to  the  upbuilding  of  the 
Church  and  people  of  God  throughout 
the  length  and  breadth  of  the  land. 
Let  every  officer  of  the  Church  be 
loyal  to  his  calling,  loyal  to  his 
people,  and  loyal  to  everything  that  is 
good,  pure,  noble  and  godlike.  Let  no 
man  shrink  from  his  duty  for  fear  of 
consequences, nor  from  the  responsibili- 
ty that  rests  upon  him  by  reason  of  the 
calling  which  he  has  received  through 
the  holy  Priesthood.  Let  us  remember 
that  the  Gospel  has  come  to  stay,  and 
to  be  preached  to  every  nation,  kin- 
dred, tongue  and  people.  We  have 
ourselves  and  mankind  to  save  from 
the  errors  and  sins  of  the  world,  and 
from   those   evils   to   which   men  are 


ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 


47 


prone,  that  they  may  come  to  the 
marvelous  light  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ 
and  be  made  free  from  the  law  of  sin 
and  death,  in  the  glorious  liberty  of  the 
children  of  God.  May  He  bless  you, 
and  may  peace  abide  in  your  hearts,  is 
my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus, 
Amen 

HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 

Evils  of  internal  dissension.— The  insti- 
gator of  crime  as  dangerous  as  the 
criminal. — President  Roosevelt's  courage, 
and  honest  policy.— God  will  vindicate 
His  people. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  the  meetings 
of  this  Conference,  so  far  should  have 
brought  to  the  hearts  of  all  present  un- 
limited joy  and  satisfaction,  in  seeing 
the  unity  with  which  the  Latter-day 
Saints  have  come  together  and  trans- 
acted the  business  pertaining  to  the 
Conference.  In  the  opening  remarks  of 
President  Smith,  he  made  use  of  that 
simile  of  the  Apostle  Paul,  wherein 
the  Church  of  Christ  is  likened  to  the 
perfect  body  of  a  man — a  man  in  whom 
the  mental  faculties  and  the  physical 
powers  are  in  harmony;  one  without 
blemish.  You  know  that  when  a  man 
is  at  war  with  himself,  when  the  flesh 
wars  against  the  spirit,  when  the 
yearnings  and  the  great  desires  of  the 
heart  are  denied  by  an  inexorable  will, 
there  is  internal  strife,  and  that  indi- 
vidual, if  he  be  conscientous,  suffers 
the  fiery  pains  of  a  living  hell.  And 
as  with  a  man,  so  with  a  family.  If 
in  a  family  there  is  strife,  quarreling, 
false  accusation,  partiality,  we  know 
what  the  inevitable  result  will  be,  un- 
less it  is  checked.  As  in  a  man  where 
this  internal  strife  exists,  if  it  be  not 
checked,  distress  must  follow,  so  if  these 
conditions  are  not  checked  in  a  family, 
it  means  the  disintegration  of  that  fam- 
ily, and  the  scattering  of  its  members. 
So  in  a  community,  or  in  an  organiza- 
tion, or  in  a  church;  if  the  members 
thereof  are  at  war  one  with  another,  if- 
they  are  not  in  harmony,  if  they  are 
divided,  if  they  are  contentious,  then, 
unless  these  conditions  are  changed  it 
is  but  a  short  time  until  the  organiza- 
tion, or  the  community,  or  the  church, 
or  the  state,  or  the  nation,  is  dismem- 


bered and  destroyed.  It  was  this  con- 
dition which  disrupted  the  French  peo- 
ple to  such  an  extent.  It  was  their 
civil  3trife  and  fratricidal  revolution, 
wherein  they  fought  and  slew  one  an- 
other, wherein  the  blood  of  noble  and 
peasant  flowed  until  the  people  grew 
weary  with  the  bloodshed.  The  same 
thing  also  distracted  our  own  great 
and  glorious  country  during  the  civ- 
il war,  wherein  citizens  of 
the  same  country,  who  had  pre- 
viously fought  shoulder  to  shoulder 
against  a  foreign  power,  were  them- 
selves found  in  deadly  strife.  There 
is  no  telling  what  might  have  happen- 
ed—worse than  did  happen— had  it  not 
been  that  the  eye  and  the  hand  of  God 
were  over  this  goodly  land,  wherein 
He  raised  up  a  man,  whom  I  verily  be- 
lieve was  impired  to  guide  the  ship  of 
state,  that  it  might  not  be  broken  to 
pieces  on  the  shoals  and  rocks  of  slav- 
ery and  secession.  I  believe  Abraham 
Lincoln  was  raised  up  to  do  God's  will. 

I  have  rejoiced  in  hearing  the  patri- 
otic sentiments  of  the  brethren  who 
have  spoken,  showing  forth  their  love 
and  loyalty  to  the  country  of  which 
we  form  a  part.  I,  too,  love  my  coun- 
try. I  know  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
love  this  nation.  However,  I  see  dan- 
gers today  in  this  land  of  freedom  and 
liberty,  just  as  there  have  been  dan- 
gers in  our  midst  in  times  past.  There 
are  those  who  abuse  the  great  privil- 
eges of  freedom  and  liberty,  and  who 
prostitute  the  powers  and  talents 
God  has  given  them,  and  use 
them  to  the  hurt  of  their  country  and 
its  people,  rather  than  to  the  good  and 
blessing  of  the  land  and  its  inhabitants. 
Abraham  Lincoln,  the  man  who  held 
together  our  country,  through  whose 
wisdom  the  men  of  the  north  and  the 
south  were  again  united  in  the  bonds  of 
brotherhood,  was  put  to  death  by  an 
assassin.  Of  course,  he  who  committed 
the  rash  deed  was  put  to  death  also; 
but  I  ask  you,  were  the  ends  of  justice 
met  when  the  murderer  was  himself 
put  to  death?  Was  the  life  of  the  one 
equal  to  the  life  of  the  other?  Not  at 
all.  The  ends  of  justice  were  no  more 
met  when  the  slayer  of  Abraham  Lin-. 


48 


GENERAI,  CONFERENCE. 


coin. was  put  to  death  than  recompense 
would  he  made  if  the  combined  debt  of 
.  the  world  were  to  be  paid  with  a  coun- 
terfeit penny.  Another  of  the  noble  sons 
of  America  who  stood  at  the  head  of  the 
nation,  James  A.  Garfield,  was  likewise 
slain  by  the  hand  of  an  assassin,  and 
this  assassin  also  was  put  to  death. 
But  was  the  country  and  the  people 
compensated  for  the  loss  of  President 
Garfield  by  the  death  of  his  slayer?  No. 
And  in  later  times,  so  recently  in  fact 
that  it  still  brings  sorrow  to  our  minds 
when  we  think  of  it,  another  presi- 
dent of  the  United  States  has  been 
slain  by  the  hand  of  an  assassin,  who 
was  promptly  taken  and  executed  for 
the  crime.  But  I  ask  you  again,  "Was 
recompense  made  in  the  death  of  this 
man?  Put  the  life  of  this  foreigner 
anarchist,  this  man  with  the  unpro- 
nounceable name,  in  the  scales  with 
the  life  of  William  McKinley,  whom 
he  slew,  and  would  the  scales  of  jus- 
tice be  balanced?    Not  at  all. 

These  men  were  the  assassins,  but,  in 
my  estimation,  they  were  not  the  real 
murderers.  The  real  murderers  are 
still  at  large,  and  still  have  influence 
among  the  children  of  men.  Who  are 
they?  They  are  men  who  live  in  this 
country  of  freedom,  who  have  vouch- 
safed to  them  every  privilege  of  liber- 
ty, and  who  pervert  these  privileges. 
Some  of  them  edit  newspapers,  some 
occupy  pulpits,  and  some  speak  from 
public  platforms;  they  are  the  artists 
who  picture  noble  men  before  the  com- 
munity as  fiends  incarnate;  they  are 
writers  who  describe  them  as  being 
monsters,  as  being  wicked,  cruel,  am- 
bitious, as  men  reaching  out  to  rob  the 
poor,  to  oppress  mankind,  and  to  have 
flow  into  their  own  hands  the  proceeds 
of  the  work  of  the  laborers.  Christ 
said  upon  one  occasion  that  he  who 
looketh  upon  a  woman  to  lust  after  her 
has  committed  adultery  already  in  his 
heart.  I  say  that  the  man  who  looks 
upon  another  with  murder  in  his  heart, 
and  who,  by  speaking  and  writing,  in- 
cites the  feeble-minded  and  vicious  to 
strike  the  blow  which  takes  from  the 
country  her  noble  men  whom  they  hate, 
is  in  fact  the  murderer.      Such  men 


commit  murder  in  their  hearts,  and 
they  are  no  less  murderers  than  they 
would  be  if  they  committed  the  .deed  it- 
self. So  with  the  man  who  covets  that 
which  does  not  belong  to  him;  in  the 
court  of  Almighty  God,  he  will  be 
deemed  a  thief,  just  as  though  he  put 
forth  his  hand  and  took  that  which  be- 
longed to  his  neighbor.  And  when  the 
Lord,  in  His  courts  on  high,  dispenses 
strict  justice,  these  ignorant,  foolish  or 
vicious  individuals  who  have  been  in- 
duced to  take  the  lives  of  good  men, 
through  the  lies  that  have  been  circul- 
ated about  their  victims,  will  be  found 
no  more  guilty  than  will  those  who 
commit  the  murder  in  their  hearts,  and 
whose  writings,  speaking  or  pictures 
have  incited  the  criminals  to  strike  the 
deadly  blow.  This  is  what  I  believe.  To- 
day, in  our  land  of  boasted  freedom 
and  liberty,  whenever  the  President  of 
the  United  States  attends  a  public  func- 
tion, or  goes  abroad,  he  must  needs  be 
surrounded  by  a  corps  of  secret  service 
men,  detectives  and  policemen,  who 
watch  him  and  everyone  who  comes 
in  contact  with  him,  and  look  for  sus- 
picious characters.  Why?  Is  it  be- 
cause President  Roosevelt  is  a  coward, 
that  he  dare  not  go  abroad  without  be- 
ing protected  thus?  No;  no  man  will 
say  that  the  hero  of  San  Juan  hill  is 
a  coward.  No  man  will  say  that  one 
who  boldly,  and  almost  alone,  stands 
out  against  the  oppression  of  the  people 
by  wicked  men  and  by  trusts,  is  a  cow- 
ard. No  man  will  say  that  President 
Roosevelt  is  a  coward  when  he  dare 
stand  unswayed  against  the 'Combined 
cry  of  tens  of  thousands  of  men  and 
women  incited  by  prejudice.  He  is  not 
a  coward;  he  is  a  brave  man.  But  be- 
cause there  are  those  in  the  land  who, 
enjoying  the  liberties  of  a  free  country, 
describe  and  depict  him  as  being  ambi- 
tious, desiring  to  be  an  emperor,  and 
wear  a  crown;  because  there  are  men 
who  use  their  talents  in  cartooning  him 
thus,  representing  him  to  be  an  op- 
pressor of  the  people  and  criminal  in 
his  desires — these  men,  through  their 
writing  and  speaking  from  the  platform 
and  the  pulpit,  have  made  it  necessary 
that  the  President  of  the  United  States, 


ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 


49 


brave  though  he  be,  must  be  surround- 
ed by  a  corps  of  secret  service  men, 
night  and  day,  in  order  that  his  life 
may  be  preserved.  I  say  that  those  who 
make  this  necessary  are  criminals.  Why 
do  not  men  use  the  gifts  God  has  given 
them  in  portraying  before  the  country 
the  virtues  of  their  fellow  men,  in  mag- 
nifying their  good  deeds,  and  in  imput- 
ing to  their  honest  purpose  good  instead 
of  evil?  Why  do  they  not  magnify  hon- 
orable men  in  the  eyes  of  their  fellows, 
rather  than  exaggerate  imaginary 
faults,  and  arouse  hatred  in  the  hearts 
of  the  ignorant  against  men  whose  lives 
are  spent  in  behalf  of  the  people  and 
in  defense  of  righteous  laws  and 
justice? 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  there  is  but 
little  true  justice  done  among  men  in 
this  day  and  age.  The  laws  that  men 
make  are  necessarily  human,  and  men 
will  err;  but,  in  the  day  of  God's  judg- 
ment absolute  justice  will  be  done. 
Then  it  will  not  only  be  the  acts'  of 
men  that  will  be  taken  into  account, 
but  it  will  be  the  thoughts  and  intents 
of  their  hearts  that  will  also  be  con- 
sidered when  they  are  judged.  When 
men  in  the  court  of  Almighty  God  are 
so  judged  and  found  unworthy,  and 
they  are  shut  out  from  the  presence 
and  love  of  their  Pather,there  will  be  no 
meed  then  to  argue  with  them  as  to  the 
truth  of  hell  Are;  they  will  know  it 
without  argument,  you  can  depend  up- 
on it. 

Well,  we  believe  that  in  President 
Rposevelt  we  have  an  unprejudiced 
friend;  and  we  know  that  in  the  Latter-1- 
day  Saints  President  Roosevelt  will  find 
.loyalty  to  the  government  and  the 
greatest  friendship  toward  him.  There 
are  no  people  in  the  nation  more  friend- 
ly to  him;  and  they  will  remain  so  just 
so  long  as  he  remains  true  to  the  cause 
of  humanity.  Furthermore,  we  will  con- 
tinue true  to  Old  Glory,  and  to  our  glor. 
ious  country,  even  though  all  the  world 
should  prove  unjust  to  us.  We  are  a  true 
people.  I  believe  that  President  Roose- 
velt is  a  man  who  has  the  courage  of 
his  convictions.  He  is  fairly  well  ac- 
quainted with  us,  and  he  is  not  a  man 
that  is  moved  by  public  clamor  or  pre- 


judice. I  believe  that  he  will  honest- 
ly and  truly  stand  by  his  great  policy 
of  a  "square  deal  to  all  men,"  and  that 
he  will  accord  us  our  portion  of  the 
"square  deal."  I  do  not  believe  he  is 
the  weak  and  vacillating  man  that  a 
predecessor  of  his  was  who,  knowing, 
our  condition,  said,  "Your  cause  is' 
just,  but  I  can  do  nothing  for  you."  I 
believe  he  is  a  man  who,  so  long  as  he 
believes  our  cause  is  just,  will  be  will- 
ing to  do  something  for  us.  We  as- 
suredly will  do  all  we  can  to  sustain 
him,  and  all  other  good  men.  I  believe 
these  are  the  sentiments  of  the  ten 
thousand  Latter-day  Saints  who  are 
gathered  in  this  building  today.  I  be- 
lieve they  are  the  true  sentiments  of 
*every  member  of  the  Church,  and  we 
will  demonstrate  it  in  the  future,  as  we 
have  done  in  the  past. 

May  God  bless  us.  May  the  Church 
of  Christ  never  be  less  united  than  it 
is  now.  Like  the  nation  of  which  we 
are  a  part,  we  have  gone  through  trials 
of  internal  strife,  but  we  do  not  have 
them  now.  In  early  days,  in  our  weak- 
ness, we  saw  the  witnesses  to  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  who  had  stood  shoulder  to 
shoulder  with  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  turn  away  from  him,  and  op- 
pose him.  We  have  seen  his  counsel- 
ors leave  him;  we  have  seen  members 
of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
leave  the  Church  and  lead  away  many 
others.  That  was  our  internal  struggle, 
but  we  have  overcome  it.  It  has  been 
proven  that  God  is  over  us,  and  He 
will  not  permit  internal  strife  nor  ex- 
ternal persecution  to  destroy  His  work 
in  the  earth,  no  more  than  He  per- 
mitted civil  strife  to  destroy  this  great 
country,  over  which  He  has  had  His 
all-seeing  eye  from  the  very  beginning. 
Let  men  do  what  they  will;  let  those 
whom  Elder  Rich  dignified  by  com- 
paring them  to  the  wolf  (to  my  mind 
you  could  compare  them  more  con- 
sistently to  the  penny  fice,  which  makes 
only  a  noise)  howl  all  they  will,  we  will 
go  right  straight  along,  doing  the  will 
of  Almighty  God,  and  He  will  justify 
and  vindicate  us  in  the  eyes  of  men,  in 
His  own  due  time.  God  bless  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,   and  make  you 


50 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


ever  as  faithful  and  even  more  faith- 
ful than  you  are  today,  is  my  prayer  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  L.  W.  SHURTLIFF. 

(President  of  Weber  Stake.) 

My  beloved  brothers  and  sisters,  the 
few  moments  I  shall  occupy  this  morn- 
ing-, I  trust  that  I  shall  have  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  to  direct  me,  as  it  has 
directed  all  of  the  speakers  during  the 
Conference.  I  have  attended  a  great 
many  conferences  of  the  Church,  and  I 
feel  that  this  is  the  best  one  I  have 
ever  had  the  privilege  of  attending.  I 
rejoice  exceedingly  in  the  truths  of  the 
Gospel,  and  in  my  association  with  the 
people  of  God  in  the  last  days.  It  has 
been  my  good  fortune  to  be  associated 
with  the  Latter-day  Saints  all  the  days 
of  my  life.  I  have  been  personally  ac- 
quainted with  all  of  the  Presidents  of 
the  Church  from  President  Young 
down,  and  have  served  upon  missions 
under  all  of  them,  and  I  thank  God 
this  morning  that  I  can  bear  testimony 
that  they  have  all  been  men  of  God, 
filled  with  light  and  intelligence  and 
the  revelations  of  heaven  to  guide  His 
people  on  earth.  I  am  thankful  that 
I  live  in  this  glorious  republic,  that  I 
was  born  in  this  nation,  that  my  fore- 
fathers fought  in  the  Revolutionary 
war.  I  am  thankful  for  the  liberty 
that  we  have  in  this  great  nation;  and 
although  my  life  has  been  spent  with 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  sometimes  in 
darkness  and  difficulties,  yet  there  has 
always  been  brightness  to  those  that 
were  filled  with  the  love  of  truth.  I 
am  thankful  to  see  this  vast  assembly 
come  here  to  worship,  and  to  hear  the 
word  of  the  Lord.  We  have  alreadv 
heard  it,  we  are  hearing  it  from  day 
to  day. 

So  far  as  the  people  are  concerned 
over  whom  I  have  the  honor  to  ore- 
side,  in  the  Weber  Stake  of  Zion,  I  will 
say  that  we  have  union,  fellowship  and 
love  for  one  another  and  for  those  that 
lead  Israel.  There  may  be  a  few,  and 
they  are  very  few,  that  feel  differently, 
but  T  tell  you  that  the  Latter-dav 
Saints  do  support  the  authorities  of  the 
Church.     They  pray  for  them  and  sup- 


port them  in  every  way,  and  we  are 
united  in  this.  We  have  no  fear  about 
what  shall  be  done  with  the  tithes  and 
offerings  that  are  placed  in  the  hands 
of  the  Trustee-in-trust.  I  believe  that 
the  Latter-day  Saints  who  pay  their 
tithes  and  offerings  are  not  the  ones 
that  are  finding  fault,  but  it  is  those 
that  have  done  little  or  nothing  in  this 
direction.  I  trust  that  we  will  be 
loyal  to  the  servants  of  God.  We  know 
that  God  has  inspired  them  to  lead  Is- 
rael, and  we  have  full  confidence  in 
them,  it  matters  not  what  the 
world  may  say  concerning  them 
or  the  people  of  God.  The  Church 
of  Christ  will  go  forth  in  great  earnest- 
ness in  the  earth,  and  there  is  no  power 
that  can  stay  it.  From  time  to  time 
men  may  rise  up  and  think  they  can 
do  something  that  will  retard  the  pro- 
gress of  the  work  of  God,  but  thev 
will  fail,  as  they  always  have.  Those 
that  have  been  long  in  the  Church  know 
how  freauently  men  have  come  for- 
ward and  said,  "We  will  show  you  the 
way;"  but  they  have  utterly  failed. 

God  bless  Israel,  and  especially  our 
leaders.  I  know  that  Joseph  F.  Smith 
is  a  nrophet  of  God,  I  know  that  his 
counselors  are  men  of  God  also,  and  al- 
so the  Twelve  Apostles,  and  the  others 
whom  we  have  sustained,  and  we  will 
continue  to  sustain  them  whatever  the 
world  may  say  regarding  them.  God 
he1.?  us  to  do  so.  May  Zion  rise  and 
shine.  May  we  still  feel  able  to  main- 
tain the  right  and  build  up  and 
strengthen  the  weak  in  all  parts  of  the 
land.  God  bless  you  and  all  Israel. 
Amen. 

ELDER  JESSE  N.  SMITH. 

(President  of  Snowflake  Stake.) 
Brothers  and  sisters,  I  feel  that  I  am 
one  of  the  least  among  you;  but  not- 
withstanding my  humility  and  my 
nothingness,  I  have  received  a  witness 
of  the  truth  of  this  work.  I  can  relate 
how  it  happened  that  my  lot  was  cast 
among  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  do  not 
suppose  there  was  any  natural  goodness 
about  me  to  boast  of,  but  I  had  very 
choice  parents,  and  they  had  a  great 
interest  for  me,  as  I  have  discovered, 


ELDER  JESSE  N.  SMITH. 


51 


and  I  revere  them.  If  any  of  the  fath- 
ers have  wayward  sons,  probably  if 
they  will  take  the  course  that  my  fa- 
ther took,  they  may  be  enabled  to  in- 
terest those  sons  in  this  work.  My 
religious  impressions  commenced  from 
my  earliest  childhood.  My  father  seem- 
ed to  make  his  religion  first  and  fore- 
most. He  attended  very  strictly  to  his 
family  devotions.  He  did  not  seem  to 
be  hurried.  At  evening  he  read  from 
the  Scriptures,  he  and  my  mother  sang, 
and  we  had  family  prayers.  My  re- 
ligious life,  I  may  say,  my  testimony, 
dates  from  these  things.  My  father 
soon  passed  away  in  death,  but- 1  can 
never  forget  him.  I  felt  that  he  was 
a  minister  of  God.  I  lived  in  very  great 
poverty,  in  much  humility,  privation  I 
may  say.  I  was  taught  early  to  pray, 
and  I  understood  the  meaning  of  those 
words  in  the  Lord's  prayer,  "Give  us 
this  day  our  daily  bread,"  because  we 
did  not  have  much  laid  by.  When  I 
was  enabled  to  go  to  school,  there 
were  no  free  schools  then;  contracts 
were  made  by  the  parents;  and  I  had 
a  very  meagre  supply  of  books,  almost 
none  at  all.  I  heard .  that  they  were 
using  the  Book  of  Mormon  in  the 
schools,  so  I  took  my  father's  Book  of 
Mormon  with  me.  It  was  the  first  edi- 
tion. Our  honored  Patriarch  was  in 
that  class  with  his  Book  of  Mormon; 
young  Joseph  Smith,  the  son  of  Sidney 
Rigdon,  the  son  of  William  Marks,  and 
the  son  of  Peter  Haws  were  also  in  the 
class.  I  was  in  good  company,  but 
they  all  had  books  of  the  second  edi- 
tion, with  new  and  beautiful  binding, 
and  I  felt  I  was  a  little  behind  them. 
As  I  was  going  to  school  one  morning, 
and  passing  the  Prophet's  place,  he  was 
walking  in  the  garden,  and  he  answer- 
ed my  salutation.  I  think  he  would 
answer  a  child's  salutation  just  as 
readily  as  that  of  a  grown  person.  He 
came  up  to  the  fence  and  spoke  very 
kindly  to  me.  He  said,  "You  are  going 
to  school?"  "Yes."  "What  book  do 
you.  read  in?"  "I  read  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon."  "Come  in  here."  I  passed 
in  at  the  gate  and  he  made  me  a  pres- 
ent of  a  Book  of  Mormon  of  the  ne"W 
edition,  with  the  beautiful  binding.  I 
could  then  hold  up  my  head  with  the 


others  of  the  class.  He  gave  me  this 
injunction:  "Read  it  in  school  and  read 
it  at  home."  I  have  done  so.  I  believe 
the  Book  of  Mormon.  I  have  believed 
it  from  my  childhood.  I  have  been  a 
great  reader,  but  it  is  to  me  the  most 
interesting  of  all  books.  I  felt  that 
that  was  the  greatest  treasure  that 
could  be  bestowed  upon  me.  And  when 
I  read  that  David  Whitmer,  one  of  the 
witnesses  to  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and 
his  family,  had  a  superstitious  regard 
for  the  sacred  record  that  was  in  his 
keeping,  and  they  felt  that  no  harm 
would  come  to  them  while  they  were 
the  custodians  of  that  record,  I  could 
comprehend  that.  My  family  have  al- 
most the  same  feeling  for  the  sacred 
volume  that  was  presented  to  me  by 
the  hand  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
In  traveling  around  among  the  people 
as  a  missionary,  which  I  do  consider- 
ably, I  find  many  young  people  just 
starting  out  in  life.  I  call  on  them  in 
their  humble  homes.  When  I  find  the 
Book  of  Mormon  on  their  shelves  and 
see  an  indication  that  it  is  read  and 
considered,  I  feel  thankful,  for  I  have 
a  sort  of  testimony  that  in  that  home 
there  will  be  no  family  jars  and  no 
seeking  for  divorce.  I  have  looked  af- 
ter these  things  In  a  humble  way.  I 
find  that  there  is  power  in  this  Gospel, 
and  that  the  faithful  and  the  true  be- 
lievers are  favored  of  God.  Peace, 
blessed  pence,  comes  to  their  homes. 
Their  homes  are  homes  of  faith  and 
prayer,  and  the  Christian  virtues  clus- 
ter around  their  family  altars. 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  what  I  have  re- 
ceived in  the  Gospel;  chief  of  all,  that  I 
have  received  a  degree  of  faith,  blessed 
faith.  I  have  been  free  from  doubt.  At 
the  death  of  the  Prophet  and  Patriarch, 
the  people  for  a  moment  seemed  help- 
less, and  there  sprang  up  many  aspi- 
rants, who  sought  leadership  and  dig- 
nity and  honor  in  the  Church;  yet  I 
was  blessed,  I  had  no  doubt,  and  I  re- 
alized that  the  Twelve  were  the  men  to 
look  to.  It  was  given  me  of  the  Lord. 
Fortunately  I  was  present  at  that  won- 
derful meeting  where  President  Brig- 
ham  Young  spoke  with  the  voice  of 
Joseph  Smith,  and  I  heard  that  familiar 
voice.     That    strengthened    the  testi- 


52 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


mony  of  many.  It  was  most  wonderful. 
That  voice  which,  as  was  said  of  the 
blessed  Redeemer,  spake  as  never  man 
spake!  I  sincerely  hope  to  remain 
faithful  to  this  cause.  It  has  not  been 
difficult  for  me  so  far.  I  hope  I  may 
have  grace  ana  the  favor  and  blessing 
of  the  Almighty  to  continue. 

The  people  where  I  live  are  not  nu- 
merous, but  I  believe  that,  almost  uni- 
versally, they  are  content  and  satis- 
fied. They  sustain  the  authorities  of 
the  Church  in  word  and  in  deed,  and 
they  are  greatly  blessed.  I  think  it 
very  unfortunate  to  be  discontented,  to 
be  an  agitator,  to  delight  in  turmoil, 
to  seek  to  stir  up  strife.  I  think  there 
is  far  more  happiness,  there  is  far  more 
opportunity  to  be  of  help  to  our  fellow- 
men,  to  be  conservative  in  our  feelings 
and  in  our  spirit,  and  help  along,  in- 
stead of  trying  to  hold  back.  I  regard 
it  as  the  highest  blessing  to  know  the 
will  of  God  and  have  a  disposition  to  do 
it. 

I  pray  that  we  may  all  be  preserved 
in  righteousness,  that  we  may  build  up 
the  kingdom  of  God,  and  bequeath  the 
legacy  of  righteousness  and  good  works 
to  those  who  shall  come  after  us.  Amen. 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith  arose  and 
said,  "Elder  Jesse  N.  Smith,  who  has 
just  addressed  us,  may  properly  be  re- 
garded as  a  modern  Nathaniel— a  man 
in  whom  there  is  no  guile." 

Elder  John  Robinson  sang  a  baritone 
solo,  "O  Lord  Have  Mercy." 

ELDER  E.  H.  SNOW. 
(President  of  St.  George  Stake). 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  ap- 
preciate very  much  the  opportunity 
given  me  to  report  the  condition  of  the 
people  in  the  St.  George  Stake  of  Zion. 
Ours  is  a  stake  of  magnificent  distances, 
requiring  about  eleven  hundred  miles 
to  travel,  all  by  team,  to  reach  the  peo- 
ple. There  are  twenty-two  wards,  most 
of  them  small.  We  have  no  railroad, 
no  corporations,  and  not  much  of  the 
wealth  of  the  world  to  worry  us.  The 
stranger  says  it  is  a  God-forsaken 
country;  but  >we  do  not  believe  him,  for 
we  know  better.  The  Lord  has  justified 
the  wisdom  of  the  servants  of  God  in 
colonizing  this  semi-arid  region.  The 


early  pioneers  have  nearly  all  passed 
away;  but  their  sons  and  daughters 
have  regarded  the  call  of  their  par- 
ents as  equally  binding  upon  them,  and 
they  have  remained  In  the  country,  and 
have  toiled  and  struggled  and  wrung 
from  the  elements  a  fairly  comfortable 
subsistence.  There  is  an  affection  in 
the  hearts  of  the  people  for  the  sanSs 
and  the  rocks  that  have  developed 
strength  in  them.  After  all,  our  best 
crop  has  been  men  and  women.  We 
have  been  engaged  in  building  extensive 
canals..  The  rives  has  washed  some  of 
our  land  away;  and  one  canal,  at  an  ex- 
pense 'of  one  hundred  thousand  dollars 
and  ten  years  in  building,  has  just  been 
completed  and  water  turned  upon 
the  land.  Another  reservoir  scheme  has 
been  perfected,  and  we  are  getting  this 
spring,  for  the  first  time,  the  benefits  of 
that  enterprise.  Years  ago  we  had 
plenty  of  rain,  but  for  the  last  fifteen 
years  there  has  been  drouth.  During 
the  last  winter,  however,  the  rains  have 
come  up  from  the  Gulf  of  California 
and  settled  down  over  the  rim  of  the 
basin,  and  we  have  had  rain,  and  rain, 
and  glorious  rain.  We  have  not  had 
such  rain  for  twenty  years.  So  we  ar» 
happy,  we  are  hopeful,  we  are  content- 
ed, we  are  united.  I  need  scarcely  say 
to  you  that  a  people  who  have  re- 
mained loyal  to  the  country  to  which 
the  servants  of  God  called  them,  are 
still  loyal  to  the  servants  of  God. 

Personally,  I  feel  well  in  the  Gospel. 
Like  Elder  Ben  E.  Rich,  I  can  say  , 
that  there  never  was  a  time  in  my  life 
when  I  was  so  well  satisfied  with  the 
Church  of  God  and  the  administration 
of  His  servants  as  I  am  today.  I  re- 
joice in  the  fact  that  I  have  a  testi- 
mony for  myself  that  this  is  the  work  of 
God.  I  hope  I  shall  always  prove  trua 
and  faithful  to  it;  for  I  can  conceive  ot 
no  worse  spectacle  than  for  the  Saints 
to  tear  down  the  work  of  their  fathers. 
I  have  rejoiced  in  the  spirit  of  this 
conference  and  in  the  spirit  of  the 
brethren  who  have  spoken.  I  testify 
that  this  spirit  is  of  God.  I  pray  God 
to  bless  us  as  a  people,  especially  the 
young,  that  we  may  be  true  and  faith- 
ful, and  that  the  spirit  of  this  confer- 
ence may  go  as  a  great  ground  swell 
and  penetrate  throughout  the  length 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 


53 


and  breadth  of  the  land,  and  stir  up  the 
souls  of  the  people  of  Zion  unto  faith- 
fulness, to  seek  God  and  keep  His  com- 
mandments. Amen. 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 

I  very  much  desire  to  say  the  right 
thing-  at  the  right  time.  I  may  pos- 
sibly speak  by  parable.  Now,  I  intend 
to  say  just  what  the  Lord  will  help 
me  say.  One  parable  is  that  I  do  not 
want  a  rosewood  casket.  I  am  willing 
to  be  buried  among  the  people  in  a 
plain  casket,  and  all  I  want  inscribed 
■on  the  headboard  of  my  grave  is  that 
I  have  been  true  to  this  Church  and  to 
the  Priesthood  of  God,  and  have  walk- 
ed in  the  footsteps  of  my  father. 

I  once  read  a  beautiful  article  about 
anvils  and  hammers  and  I  copied  some 
of  its  sayings;  but  I  have  never  used 
them,  although  I  have  carried  the  copy 
until  it  is  nearly  worn  out.  I  now 
■quote  as  follows:  "Every  man  in  the 
world  who  gives  blows  must  take 
blows,  and  until  a  man  becomes  as 
good  an  anvil  as  he  is  a  hammer  he 
fails  to  be  thoroughly  fitted  for  his 
work." 

I  was  born  in  this.  Church,  and  if 
there  is  any  one  thing  that  I  am  proud 
of  it  is  that  I  am  a  member  of  this 
Church.  You  Latter-day  Saints  know 
well  how  proud  I  am  of  my  parentage. 
When  I  stop  believing  in  my  father 
and  mother,  I  will  stop  believing  in  the 
human  family;  for  where  they  go  I 
want  to  go.  I  love  this  work.  I  may 
not  love  it  quite  so  well  as  some  men 
•do,  but  I  hope  I  will  always  be  given 
the  credit  of  having  integrity,  and  sup- 
port and  sustain  the  Priesthood  of 
God. 

I  will  tell  you  how  I  was  brought  up, 
and  then  you  can  make  borne  excuse 
for  my  general  makeup.  A  lot  of  us 
boys  used  to  meet  up  in  the  Eighteenth 
ward,  right  where  now  stands  the  La- 
fayette school— that  beautiful  building 
which  cost  over  $170,000.  I  was  educated 
in  a  very  small  building  on  the 
same  block.  We  had  a  brother  that 
was  somewhat  of  a  general,  and  he 
trained  us  boys— that  is,  when  father 
^ivas  away.    He  would  get  us  behind 


the  barn,  where  no  one  could  see  us; 
then  he  would  put  a  chip  upon  one  of 
our  shoulders  and  tell  one  of  the  other 
boys  to  knock  it  off,  then  we  would 
fight.  That  was  part  of  the  training 
he  gave  us,  and  when  we  asked  why  he 
did  it,  he  said  it  makes  you  tough.  My 
father  had  a  great  garden  and  it  was 
fenced  in  by  a  six  or  eight  foot  stone 
wall.  Father  told  us  we  couldn't  have 
any  of  the  fruit,  so  we  got  it  anyhow, 
and  I  will  tell  you  how  we  got  it.  This 
sfime  brother  of  ours,  took  one  of  the 
boys  and  dangled  him  over  the  wall 
with  a  rope,  and  he  loaded  his  shirt 
bosom  and  pockets  with  apples.  One 
time,  Father  Tucker,  the  gardener,  got 
after  him  with  a  willow,  and  lambasted 
him.  Brother  said  that  would  make 
him  tough.  Now,  I  have  a  little  boy— 
my  oldest  son — and  when  he  was  a 
child  we  always  made  him  give  up  to 
every  neighbor's  boy  that  came  in  our 
home.  These  are  parables  that  I  am 
telling  you  now.  We  kept  that  up  until 
he  thought  he  had  to  give  up  everything 
in  the  world,  and  it  made  rather  a 
coward  out  of  him.  He  went  to  school, 
and  the  boys  found  out  they  could 
v/hip  him;  and  they  did  so,  until  I  told 
him  that  if  he  didn't  take  his  own  part 
and  fight,  I  would  whip  him.  Not 
long  ago  he  came  home  with  his 
thumb  out  of  joint,  and,  forgetting  all 
about  my  religion,  I  said,  Did  you  whip 
him?  He  said,  yes.  Then  I  gave  him 
some  fatherly  counsel. 

Now  I  grant,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  sometimes  we  have  to  endure,  and 
I  presume  that  if  we  live  the  Gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  we  have  to  en- 
dure all  things;  but  it  requires  a  very 
prayerful  heart  to  enable  us  to  endure 
some  things.  I  realize  that  the  Con- 
gress of  the  United  States,  the  presi- 
dent of  the  United  States,  and  the  com- 
mittee on  privileges  and  elections,  have 
their  duty  to  perform.  I  do  not  object 
to  those  things,  for  it  is  a  doctrine  of 
the  Church  that  we  sustain  the  law  of 
the  land,  and  we  have  done  it,  although 
we  have  fought  valiantly  for  the  prin- 
ciples that  were  revealed  to  the  Proph- 
et Joseph  Smith;  and  I  am  proud  that 
the  people  fought  it  out  until  it  was 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


decided  that  some  parts  of  our  religion 
were  unconstitutional  and  would  not 
be  permitted.  But  the  thing  that  I  ob- 
ject to  is,  for  every  little  gutter-snipe 
that  comes  into  the  country  to  think 
that  he  can  kick  and  maul  and  abuse 
us.  I  occasionally  feel  a  little  like  Joe 
Rich  did  once  when  they  abused  his 
father,  Apostle  Charles  C.  Rich,  who 
spend  a  great  part  of  his  life  as  a 
pioneer  in  that  hard  country  of  Bear 
Lake,  who  used  to  come  over  the  moun- 
tains on  snow  shoes  in  order  to  attend 
conference,  'who  used  to  grind  his  wheat 
in  a  little  coffee  mill  in  order  to  have 
bread,  and  whose  wives  and  children 
lived  in  log  houses  with  dirt  roofs,  for 
many  years.  Joe  went  down  to  a  cer"v 
tain  newspaper  office  and  demanded  re- 
traction. He  told  them  if  they  didn't 
retract  he  would  turn  the  whole  family 
loose  on  them,  and  that  he  was  the 
smallest  one  in  the  family  and  the  big- 
gest coward.  The  retraction  came.  I 
am  not  saying  this  to  be  sensational;  I 
tell  you,  if  it  were  not  for  that  man  of 
God,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  restraining  his 
children,  and  they  being  obedient  unto 
him.  there  would  be  some  men  horse- 
wipped  today.  But,  he  is  a  servant  of 
God.  I  have  known  him  all  my  life.  I 
have  known  every  man  who  has  pre- 
sided over  this  Church  from  President 
Brigham  Young  down,  and  I  know  they 
have  been  men  of  God. 

Now,  I  realize  that  every  man  who 
strikes  blows  for  power,  for  influence, 
for  institutions,  for  the  right,  must  be 
just  as  good  an  anvil  as  he  is  a  ham- 
mer. If  he  is  not,  he  may  properly  con- 
clude that  he  has  no  very  important 
mission  in  the  improvement  and  prog- 
ress of  the  race.  If  private  and  insti- 
tuted sin,  error,  prejudice  and  wrong 
would  stand  quietly  and  let  us  batte? 
in  their  sides,  or  knock  them  down,  re- 
form would  be  easy;  but  they  always 
object  to  this  mode  of  treatment,  and 
any  man  who  attacks  them  must  calcu- 
late on  his  powers  of  resistance,  or  his 
power  to  bear  without  flinching  the 
blows  he  will  receive  in  return. 

We  have  no  small  mission  to  perform. 
I  honor  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet  for 
his  bravery,  for  his  courage,  for  his 


manliness.  He  had  a  message  to  de- 
liver that  was  in  conflict  with  sin  and 
wickedness,  and  it  came  in  contact  also 
with  all  the  man-made  religious  organ- 
izations of  the  world.  But  God  had  re- 
vealed it  to  him,  and  he  would  not  deny 
it,  though  it  cost  his  life.  Do  you  thin* 
we  can  continue  proclaiming  this  mes- 
sage—can we  Elders  continue  telling 
the  world  that  God  did  appear  to  Joseph 
Smith,  and  that  He  did  reveal  these 
things,  and  expect  they  will  receive  us 
with  open  arms?  Never.  But  not- 
withstanding it  is  our  mission  to  treat 
them  kindly,  to  carry  the  olive  branch 
in  our  hands,  to  preach  the  Gospel  ana 
to  deliver  this  message.  At  the  same 
time,  brethren  and  sisters,  we  must 
have  backbone.  The  people  assembled 
here  are  those  who  generally  attend  to 
their  duties,  who  go  to  quarterly  con- 
ferences, and  pay  their  tithing;  but  1 
tell  you  there  are  some  people  in  this 
Church  who  do  not  pay  their  tithing, 
do  not  attend  conference,  do  not  listen 
to  the  words  of  the  Prophets,  and  do 
not  work  for  the  salvation  of  the  souls 
of  the  children  of  men,  and  they  are  the 
ones  that  are  shaking  in  their  shoes  at 
this  very  time.  I  hope  the  ship  will  stop 
just  long  enough  for  them  to  get  off. 
The  door  is  wide  open;  and,  as  someone 
has  said,  "when  you  want  to  go  to  hell, 
black  your  boots  and  go  like  a  gentle- 
man." If  I  leave  this  Church  I  hope  I 
will  have  manhood  enough  to  leave  it 
like  a  man,  and  not  be  a  traitor  and 
fight  the  people.  I  said  to  one  man 
once,  "You  have  a  right  to  leave  this 
Church,  and  it  is  a  very  simple  thine 
to  do.  Just  notify  those  in  authority 
that  you  desire  to  withdraw."  It  is 
our  business  to  treat  all  such  kindly, 
to  sympathize  with  them,  and  if  pos- 
sible to  uplift  them;  but  I  do  not  like 
a  traitor,  and  never  did. 

I  am  going  to  read  some  more  to  you: 
"I  think  there  is  a  contemptible,  quiet 
path  for  all  those  who  are  afraid  of 
the  blows  and  hammers  of  opposing 
forces.  There  is  an  honorable  fighting 
for  any  man  who  is  not  ready  to  for- 
get that  he  has  a  head  to  be  battered 
and  a  name  to  be  besmattered.  Truth 


ELDER  J.  W. 

wants  no  champion  who  is  not  as  ready 
to  be  struck  as  to  strike  for  her." 

Any  of  these  backboneless  people,  any 
who  are  afraid  that  God's  work  will 
not  triumph,  had  better  get  in  the 
background,  and  let  those  that  have 
courage  stand  in  the  front  of  the  bat- 
tle. Of  course,  I  might  be  the  first 
one  to  run;  I  have  not  been  tried  yet; 
but  I  know  I  will  be  tried  if  I  stay  in 
this  Church.  I  know  that  I  cannot  live 
on  borrowed  light.  You  can  talk  and 
preach  and  expound  until  you  are  black 
in  the  face,  but  if  you  do  not  know 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  you  will  never 
stay  in  this  Church. 

I  want  to  read  one  more  Quotation 
and  then  I  will  quit: 

"The  more  one  reads  of  the  newspa- 
pers the  less  clearly  one  sees.  There 
are  days  when  having  read  them  and 
admitting  that  one  believes  their  word, 
the  reader  will  see  himself  obliged  to 
draw  this  conclusion:  Decidedly,  there 
are  none  but  tarnished  men  everywhere. 
There  are  no  men  of  integrity,  but  some 
of  these  chroniclers.  But  that  last 
conclusion  will  fall  in  its  turn!  The 
reader  would  have  before  his  eyes  a 
spectacle  analagous  to  that  represented 
in  the  caricature  called  the  'Combat  of 
the  Serpent.'  After  having  devoured 
everything  around  them,  two  reptiles 
attack  each  other  and  begin  to  swal- 
low each  other,  so  that  there  remains 
in  the  battle  field  but  two  tails." 

I  guess  we  know  where  to  apply  this. 
There  is  one  morning  paper  in  this  city 
that  has  treated  us  reasonably  fair, 
and  they  know  how  well  they  are  suc- 
ceeding in  their  fair  treatment.  As  far 
as  I  am  concerned,  I  want  to  be  broad- 
minded  enough  to  open  my  arms  to  tht 
stranger,  and  to  treat  him  kindly;  but, 
I  will  not  sustain  a  man  who  will  lie, 
abuse,  and  deride  this  people.  It  is 
our  business  to  sustain  this  work,  and 
it  is  our  business  to  uphold  this  State 
and  nation. 

May  God  bless  this  people.  May  He 
bless  the  authorities  of  the  Church.  It 
is  not  often  I  bear  my  testimony,  but 
I  want  to  tell  you  today  that  I  know 
this  work  is  true.  I  know  that  Joseph 
Smith  is  a  Prophet  of  God.  I  honor 
and  love  his  memory,  although  I  never 
saw  him.  I  have  been  acquainted  with 
all  the  Prophets  of  God  from  the  days 
of  President   Bi-igham   Young  down. 


McMURRIN.  55 

They  have  been  kind  to  me  in  my  childr 
hood  and  in  my  manhood.  It  does  not 
matter  much  to  me  where  the  place  is 
that  they  have  gone  to,  but  I  want  to 
tell  you  they  are  good  enough  company 
for  me,  and  I  do  not  want  to  go  with 
any  others,  because  I  would  be  lone- 
some.  God  bless  you.  Amen. 

OVERFLOW  MEETING. 

Sunday  forenoon  an  overflow  session 
was  held  in  the  Assembly  Hall.  It 
commenced  at  10:40  and  was  largely 
attended.  The  presiding  officer  of  the 
occasion  was  Elder  Rudger  Clawson. 

Singing  "Redeemer  of  Israel."  Prayer 
by  Elder  Chas.  B.  Felt.  Singing,  "How 
firm  a  foundation." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN. 

Elder  Joseph  W.  McMurrin  spoke  of 
the  necessity  for  a  speaker  to  enjoy  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  order  to  accom- 
plish good.  He  rejoiced  over  the  in- 
structions thus  far  given  during  the 
Conference,  and  the  testimonies  borne 
as  to  the  divine  principles  of  the  Gos- 
pel and  calling  of  those  who  are  direct- 
ing the  Church  today.  This  is  a  day 
of  restoration  and  of  warning — the  call 
is  to  repentance,  the  testimony  to  the 
world  is  that  the  Redeemer's  work  has 
again  come  to  earth. 

Referring  to  the  dream  interpreted 
by  Daniel,  showing  the  setting  up  of 
God's  kingdom  in  the  latter  days,  of  its 
perpetuity  and  that  it  should  not  be 
given  to  another  people — he  called  at- 
tention to  our  duties;  in  view  of  our 
having  received  a  knowledge  of  the 
restoration,  that  we  treasure  and  cul- 
tivate that  knowledge  and  testimony, 
live  in  accordance  with  it,  and  bear 
that  testimony  to  the  world  by  word 
and  act. 

There  ;seems  to  be  great  anxiety 
among  those  who  are  not  of  us,  lest 
this  people  are  being  led  astray.  The 
enthusiasm  and  unanimity  of  the  thou- 
sands in  attendance  at  this  Conference 
does  not  bear  out  such  a  theory,  but 
it  proves  that  there  never  has  been 
more  confidence  in  the  servants  of  God 
than  exists  now  in  the  hearts  of  the 
people. 


56 


GENERAL,  CONFEK  "\CB. 


He  bore  testimony  that  twenty-two 
years  ago,  when  laboring  in  Scotland, 
Bishop  McKay  told  him  that  he  was 
present  when  President  Wilford  Wood- 
ruff prophesied  that  Joseph  F.  Smith 
would  one  day  stand  in  the  shoes  of  his 
uncle,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  That 
Joseph  F.  Smith  was  chosen  of  God  to 
lead  this  people,  and  he  invited  the  peo- 
ple present  to  write  it  in  their  books. 
He  related  also  another  incident  when 
President  Woodfuff  took  Joseph  F. 
Smith  by  the  hand  and  led  him  before 
a  congregation,  many  years  ago,  and 
told  them  that  he  would  become  presi- 
dent of  the  Church.  (Brother  Henry 
F.  McCune,  from  the  congregation,  con- 
firmed the  statement,  as  he  was  present 
at  the  meeting  referred  to.)  President 
Woodruff  spoke  on  both  occasions  by 
the  spirit  of  prophecy.  Every  Latter- 
day  Saint  is  entitled  to  the  spirit  of 
inspiration,  and  such  cannot  be  led 
astray. 

God  has  given  to  this  people  indi- 
vidually the  testimony  of  the  Gospel, 
and  through  that  they  have  been  led 
here,  and  are  united  in  the  truth,  and 
know  they  have  the  truth,  and  are 
not  led  astray.  This  same  spirit  rests 
upon  the  people  today,  and  it  will  al- 
ways be  the  case.  God  has  manifested 
to  this  people  where  His  authority  is, 
and  they  will  never  lose  this  testimony. 

"As  our  days  may  demand  so  our 
succor  shall  be." 

God  reigneth! 

ELDER  E.  D.  WOOLLEY. 

President  E.  D.  Woolley  of  Kanab 
stake  then  addressed  the  meeting. 

He  stated  that  he  had  attended  all 
the  general  conferences  but  two  for 
the  last  21  years.  During  that  time 
waves  of  trouble  and  times  of  peace 
and  joy  have  passed  over  this  people. 
He  recognized  that  we  are  now  passing 
through  one  of  the  peculiar  experiences, 
and  he  felt,  before  the  voting  upon 
the  general  authorities  of  the  Church, 
that  the  people  would  be  even  more 
anxious  to  vote  to  sustain  them  than 
for  many  years.  The  speaker  bore 
testimony  that  Joseph  F.  Smith  Is  the 
mouth  piece  of  God  to  this  people;  and 


said,  if  the  people  will  observe  his 
teachings,  and  follow  his  instructions, 
they  will  be  blessed  of  the  Lord  and 
make  no  mistake. 

He  reported  the  condition  of  the  Kan- 
ab stake,  referred  to  calling  the  Priest- 
hood together,  with  the  heads  of  de- 
partments, and  later  in  ward  confer- 
ences, when,  with  full  and  free  expres- 
sions from  the  people,  the  authorities 
were  sustained  with  unusual  enthu- 
siasm  and   absolute  unanimity. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON. 

Elder  Joseph  E.  Robinson,  president 
of  the  California  mission,  was  the  next 
speaker.  Referring  to  the  restoration 
of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  through  John 
the  Baptist,  and  of  the  Melchisedek 
Priesthood  through  Peter,  James  and 
John,  called  attention  to  the  many  im- 
portant revelations  given  since  then, 
quoted  from  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  showing  that  His  word  was 
to  all  the  world,  even  the  voice  of  warn- 
ing by  the  mouth  of  His  servants  whom 
He  would  send,  and  who  could  not  be 
staid.  In  the  124th  section,  some  of 
these  servants  are  named,  and  these 
same  men  are  they  who  came  to  these 
valleys  and  assisted  in  establishing  the 
Church  here.  He  exhorted  the  Saints 
to  bear  in  mind  the  promises  of  the 
Lord,  keeping  fresh  the  comforting 
words  and  prophecies  as  given  in  the 
Book  of  Covenants,  and  rejoice  and 
serve  Him  continually.  He  closed  by 
bearing  testimony  that  God  lives  and 
hears  and  answers  the  prayers  of  His 
children,  and  that  we  are  enjoying  the 
gifts  of  the  Gospel  as  did  the  Saints 
of  former  days. 

ELDER  RULON   S.  WELLS. 

Elder  Rulon  S.  Wells  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  spoke  briefly. 

The  Lord  has  declared  that  He  would 
bring  to  pass  His  wonderful  work,  and 
we  know  that  He  is  doing  so;  that  He 
has  opened  the  heavens  and  sent  mes- 
sengers to  the  earth.  The  world,  with- 
out the  Spirit  of  God,  cannot  grasp  nor 
receive  these  things,  but  only  those  who 
through  obedience  to  God's  laws  have 
received  His  Spirit,  and  we  know  them. 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 


57 


"Men  love  darkness  rather  than  light 
because  their  deeds  are  evil,"  applies 
to  men  both  in  and  out  of  the  Church. 
Sin  Is  ofttimes  attractive,  and  owing 
to  weakness,  and  lack  of  the  Spirit, 
men  are  often  led  into  sin.  Were  we 
filled  with  the  Holy  Ghost  we  would 
hate  sin.  The  speaker  exhorted  the 
saints  to  cherish  the  good,  encourage 
the  Spirit,  and  walk  in  the  light.  Let 
us  walk  in  the  light  and  secure  the 
cleansing  from  sin  that  comes  through 
the  Lord's  atonement. 

Obedience  to  God's  laws  always  has 
brought  marvelous  manifestations  of 
His  power.  When  these  wonderful 
things  cease,  it  is  because  men  have 
wandered  away  from  the  light,  but  as 
we  increase  in  righteousness,  whether 
as  individuals,  families  on  peoples, 
God's  marvelous  blessings  will  increase 
upon  us. 

Singing,  "Now  let  us  rejoice."  Bene- 
diction was  pronounced  by  Henry  F. 
McCune. 


SECOND  OVERFLOW  HEETINQ. 

The  assembly  hall  was  crowded  to 
its  utmost  capacity  long  before  the 
time  of  meeting  at  2  o'clock,  Sundav 
afternoon.  Elder  Rudger  Clawson  of 
the  quorum  of  the  Apostles  presided, 
and  with  him  upon  the  stand  were  El- 
ders Seymour  B.  Young,  Angus  M.  Can- 
non, Ben  E.  Rich,  Joseph  E.  Robin- 
son, Andrew  Jenson  and  John  W.  Rig- 
don. 

The  Ogden  Tabernacle  choir,  under 
the  leadership  of  Prof.  Joseph  Ballan- 
tyne,  rendered  the  music  of  the  occa- 
sion. The  first  selection  was  the  hymn 
beginning  with  the  line,  "Prayer  is  the 
Soul's  sincere  desire."  Elder  Walter  J. 
Lewis  offered  the  invocation.  The  choir 
then  sang  "Author  of  faith,  eternal 
word." 

ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 

Elder  Seymour  B.  Young  addressed 
the  congregation.  He  said  he  had  been 
deeply  impressed  with  the  good  spirit 
that  had  been  manifest  during  this 
conference.  He  believed  that  never  had 
the  Saints  had  greater  cause  for  re- 


joicing than  at  the  present  time.  It 
was  his  opinion  that  the  people  were 
more  united  than  ever  before.  He  was 
led  to  this  conclusion  from  his  travels 
among  the  people  from  one  end  of  the 
country  to  the  other.  Zion  is  growing 
and  will  continue  to  grow,  notwith- 
standing the  fact  that  ' many  try  to 
thwart  its  advance  and  bring  trouble 
upon  the  people. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  are  loyal  to  the 
great  government  of  the  United  States. 
It  was  founded  with  the  favor  and  by 
the  Spirit  of  the  Almighty.  When  the 
convention  met  to  frame  the  Constitu- 
tion confusion  reigned,  and  but  little 
progress  was  made  until,  at  the  sug- 
gestion of  John  Hancock,  prayer  was 
offered,  after  which  harmony  and  good- 
will prevailed. 

The  speaker  related  an  incident  of  his 
childhood,  wherein  his  mother  held  him 
up  to  see  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  the 
Patriarch  Hyrum  passing  through  Nau- 
voo  to  surrender  themselves  at  Carth- 
age. In  a  few  days  came  the  dreadful 
news  of  the  martyrdom.  Then  came 
the  .leadership  of  Brigham  Young  and 
his  successors,  all  of  whom  the  speaker 
said  he  knew  were  called  of  God.  Of 
the  present  leader,  President  Joseph  P. 
Smith,  Elder  Young  testified  that  he 
is  the  right  man  in  the  right  place. 

ELDER  BEN  E.  RICH. 

A  sacred  solo  by  Miss  Myrtle  Ballan- 
tyne  of  Ogden  was  followed  by  remarks 
by  Elder  Ben  E.  Rich,  president  of  the 
Southern  States  mission.  He  praised 
the  men  who  at  the  instance  of  King 
James,  had  compiled  and  translated 
the  Bible.  They  had  done  their  best, 
but  being  uninspired,  had  made  mis- 
takes, and  sometimes  filled  in  improper 
words  where  the  original  words  could 
not  be  deciphered.  This  has  at  times 
led  to  confusion  and  misunderstandings. 

Elder  Rich  believed  that  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  are  oft-times  too  submissive 
when  assailed  by  opponents.  He  told 
of  an  endeavor  that  had  been  made  to 
debar  him  from  becoming  a  member  of 
a  certain  society  to  which  he  was  in 
every  way  entitled,  solely  because  he 
was  a  "Mormon."    He  said  that  this 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Church  will  not  fall  to  pieces;  God  will 
not  permit  such  a  thing  to  happen.  The 
speaker  said  that  he  had  never  known 
President  Brigham  Young  to  say  but 
one  inconsistent  thing,  and  that  was 
when  he  advised  those  who  wanted  to 
apostatize  to  do  so,  but  to  be  decent 
about  it,  as  though  such  a  thing  was 
possible. 

OTHERS   MAKE  REMARKS. 

Elders  Andrew  Jenson  and  Joseph 
B.  Robinson  spoke,  the  former  upon 
his  late  missionary  experiences,  and 
the  latter  upon  the  subject  of  true  char- 
ity. 

JOHN  W.  RIGDON. 

John  W.  Rigdon,  a  son  of  Sidney 
Rigdon,  was  then  introduced.  He  said 
that  he  joined  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  six  months 
ago,  and  hoped  to  remain  firm  therein 
until  the  end.  After  a  visit  to  the  west 
in  1864,  he  had  returned  to  the  home  of 
his  father,  who  was  near  the  end  of  his 
mortal  life.  He  said  to  his  sire  that  as 
the  latter  had  not  long  to  live,  he 
owed  it  to  himself,  his  family  and 
to  the  world  to  tell  what  he  knew  about 
the  coming  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon. The  dying  man  raised  his  hand 
and  avowed  before  heaven  that  the  first 
he  knew  of.,  the  book  was  when  it  was 
brought  to  him  by  Oliver  Cowdery.Ziba 
Peterson  and  Parley  P.  Pratt.  His  wife 
and  daughter  (the  latter  is  still  living) 
w-ere  present,  when  the  book  was  pre- 
sented, and  both  testified  to  the  son 
and  the  brother  of  the  facts  as  stated 
by  Sidney  Rigdon. 

Brother  Rigdon  also  said  that  he 
was  present  at  the  Liberty  jail  with 
his  mother,  and  with  Emma  Smith  and 
her  little  son  Joseph,  the  latter  now 
president  of  the  Reorganized  Chruch. 
and  who  is  said  to  have  been  ordained 
and  set  apart  by  his  father  on  that  oc- 
casion. He  testified  that  no  such  or- 
dination or  setting  apart  took  place. 
The  speaker  bore  a  powerful  testimony 
to  the  truth  of  the  latter-day  work. 

The  choir  sang  an  anthem,  and  the 
benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder 
Angus  M.  Cannon. 


OUTDOOR  MEETING. 

By  direction  of  the  First  Presidency, 
an  open  air  meeting  was  held  on  the 
lawn,  just  east  of  the  bureau  of  infor- 
mation building,  Sunday  afternoon, 
April  9,  1905,  Elder  Benj.  Goddard  pre- 
siding. Singing,  "Oh,  ye  mountains 
high."  Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder 
Joseph  H.  Felt.  Sister  Clara  Cluff 
sang  very  feelingly  "O  my  Father," 
accompanied  by  Prof.  W.  C.  Clive,  vio- 
linist. 

President  J.  A.  McRae  of  the  Color- 
ado mission  addressed  the  assem- 
blage. He  expressed  his  pleasure  in 
bearing  his  testimony  to  the  people, 
and  trusted  that  if  any  present  had 
heard  him  bear  testimony  in  the  mis- 
sion field  that  that  testimony  would 
bear  witness  that  what  he  would  now 
say  is  true.  He  spoke  pointedly  of  cer- 
tain influences  brought  to  bear  on  our 
young  men,  and  cautioned  parents  to 
keep  their  boys  under  wholesome  con- 
trol. Boys  have  more  temptations  than 
the  girls.  The  latter  should  also  be 
well  guarded  from  the  snares  of  the 
evil  one.  The  speaker  encouraged  the 
young  people  to  follow  closely  in  the 
foot-steps  of  their  parents,  who  had 
carried  successfully  the  burden  placed 
upon  their  shoulders,  for  they  were 
God-fearing  men  and  women. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Our  God,  we 
raise  to  Thee,"  with  violin  accompani- 
ment by  Prof.  Clive. 

President  Nephi  Pratt,  of  the  North 
western  States  mission,  expressed  his 
gratitude  in  meeting  with  the  Saints 
of  God  in  the  tons  of  the  mountains, 
where  they  have  gathered  in  fulfill- 
ment of  the  prophecy  of  Isaiah.  He 
compared  the  conditions  of  the  pioneers 
when  they  first  entered  this  valley  with 
conditions  at  the  present,  and  recount- 
ed' how  they  had  been  driven  from  a 
"Christian"  community, who  forbade  the 
Saints  worshiping  God  as  they  desired. 

The  speaker  referred  to  the  unstinted 
joy  that  filled  their  hearts,  for  they 
knew  the  Gospel  was  true,  and  were 
willing  to  sacrifice  anything  for  it,  even 
their  lives  if  necessary.  He  also  bore  a 
faithful  testimony  of  the  truth  of  the 
Gospel. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH. 


The  congregation  sang,  "Now  let  us 
rejoice  in  the  day  of  salvation,"  etc., 
and  the  benediction  was  pronounced 
by  J.  L.  Home. 

About  1,500  persons  were  present,  and 
the  best  of  attention  was  given  to  the 
speakers. 

CLOSING  SESSION. 

In  the  Tabernacle,  at  2  p.  m. 
The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "The 
mountain  of  the  Lord's  house." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Edwin 
D.  Woolley,  president  of  Kanab  stake. 

"When  Thou  Comest  to  the  Judg- 
ment," was  sung  by  Sister  Lizzie 
Thomas  Edward  and  the  choir. 

ELDER  GEORGE    ALBERT  SMITH. 

A.  Great  Over-ruling  Providence  Comes 
from  God — Unimpeachable  Evidence 
of  its  Existence. 
When  I  look  at  this  large  audience  I 
am  reminded  of  something  I  read  in  a 
paper  sometime  ago.  A  certain  man 
was  driving  down  a  road  in  the  state  of 
Kansas,  and  he  saw  out  in  a  field  at 
some  distance,  a  man  working  in  ma- 
sonry. It  was  not  near  a  house,  and 
he  could  not  understand  why  the  man 
was  building  a  fence  in  that  particular 
place.  Finally,  he  went  over  to  where 
the  man  was  and  asked  him  what  he 
was  building.  The  man  said,  "I  am 
building  a  fence."  ."Well,"  said  ihe, 
"that  is  the  most  peculiar  looking 
fence  I  ever  saw;  you  are  building  it 
only  three  feet  high,  and  you  are  mak- 
ing it  five  feet  wide,  and  building  it  of 
stone.  Now,  can  you  tell  .me  why  you 
are  doing  that?"  The  man  replied,  "I 
am  doing  it  for  a  joke."  He  then  ask- 
ed what  the  joke  was.  "Well,"  he  said, 
"I  have  built  quite  a  number  of  fences 
in  this  country,  and  every  time  1  get 
one  built  in  good  shape,  one  of  these 
cyclones  comes  along  and  turns  it  over, 
and  I  am  building  this  fence  so  that 
the  next  cyclone  that  comes  along  and 
turns  it  over  will  be  mightily  sur- 
prised to  find'  that  it  is  higher  than  it 
was  before."  When  I  look  into  the 
eager  faces  of  this  large  audience,  I  am 
reminded  that  the  circumstances  and 


developments  of  the  past  few  months 
have  turned  over  the  fence  of  '•'Mor- 
monism"  in  some  quarters,  and  this 
audience,  and  the  audience  without, 
and  the  one  in  the  adjacent  building 
are  evidence  of  the  fact  that  it  has 
been  a  "joke"  thus  far.  In  other  words, 
the  faith  we  have  has  not  been  weak- 
ened or  lessened. 

I  sometimes  wonder  if  people  realize 
the  purpose  of  their  existence,  and  the 
importance  of  the  labor  that  men  and 
women  are  expected  to  perform 
while  on  the  earth.  Some  be- 
lieve that  when  we  pass  from  this 
sphere  of  existence,  that  is  the  end.  It 
seems  incredible  to  me,  when  we  look 
into  the  works  of  nature,  when  we  in- 
vestigate the  organism  of  man,  the  per- 
fection of  .his  body,  the  pulsation  of  his 
heart,  the  building  and  strengthening 
from  childhood  to  manhood,  then  the 
gradual  decline  until  this  life  is  ended— 
that  it  is  possible  any  of  our  father's 
children  can  believe  that  human  beings 
have  been  born  into  the  world  only  to 
live  to  manhood  and  womanhood,  pass 
to  old  age,  and  die,  without  some  pur- 
pose in  their  having  lived  here.  We 
should  remember  that  while  it  is  in 
the  power  of  man  to  take  human  life,  it 
is  not  in  the  province  of  any  human 
being  or  any,  human  agency  to  give  life. 
The  spirit  which  inhabits  the  body  is 
not  the  product  of  man,  and  when  that 
spirit  leaves  the  body  we  believe  that 
it  goes  back  to  the  source  from  whence 
it  came.  When  we  look  around  us  and 
see  the  beautiful  works  of  nature,  we 
find  the  sun  giving  us  light  and  heat 
from  day  to  day  ,the  planets  moving  in 
their  regular  orbits;  we  see  the  trees 
as  they  grow  up  from  the  ground,  and 
the  same  sap  that  makes  the  bark  and 
the  wood  feeds  the  leaf  "and  the  blos- 
som; we  plant  in  some  spot  of  ground 
the  seed  of  a  variety  of  vegetables,  and 
each  comes  forth-  according  to  its  kind, 
although  the  earth  is  apparently  the 
same  that  has  nourished  each.  We  look 
throughout  space,  and  all  the  condi- 
tions that  exist  give  evidence  to  us  that 
there  is  a  power  that  is  greater  than 
that  of  man.  I  am  grateful  that  I  have 
been  born  among  the  Latter-day  Saints, 


60 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


and  that  I  have  been  taught  to  revere 
the  power  we  call  God.  I  am  grateful 
that  I  know  there  is  a  great  and  over- 
ruling providence,  and  I  have  been 
taught  to  believe,  and  do  believe,  that 
it  comes  from  God  the  Eternal  Father. 
We  can  look  back  upon  the  pages  of 
sacred  history  and  find  a  reason  for  our 
belief,  though  our  brethren  and  sisters 
who  do  not  believe  in  God  may  feel  they 
cannot  accept  our  teachings.  We  find 
that  Adam,  our  first  parent  in  the 
world,  was  not  only  given  a  sphere  of 
action  in  which  to  work,  but  was  in- 
structed by  God  the  Father.  He  knew 
he  was  created  in  the  image  of  the 
Father  for  he  had  seen  Him  face  to 
face.  Adam  taught  those  with  whom 
he  was  associated  that  there  was  a 
God  in  heaven,  and  admonished  them 
to  obey  His  laws.  Down  to  the  days  of 
Noah  the  thought  that  there  is  a  here- 
after and  a  home  beyond  the  grave  was 
instilled  into  the  hearts  of  men.  But 
there  is  in  the  world  two  powers — one 
power  for  good,  and  the  other  for  evil. 
At  the  time  of  Noah  the  power  of  evil 
had  so  taken  possession  of  the  hearts 
of  the  children  of  men  that  it  grieved 
Noah  that  God  had  made  man,  and  the 
Lord  in  His  wisdom  sent  the  floods 
from  heaven  and  destroyed  mankind 
from  the  face  of  the  earth,  with  the 
exception  of  a  few  who  listened  to  the 
voice  of  His  servant  Noah.  Then  the 
world  began  to  be  peopled  again,  and 
great  races  inhabited  many  portions  of 
the  earth.  If  we  follow  down  through 
the  line  of  prophets  we  And  that  many 
of  them  walked  and  talked  with  God. 
that  many  received  revelations  from 
heaven  enabling  them  to  convince  the 
children  of  men  that  this  was  no  the- 
ory, but  that  it  was  a  reality,  and 
that  there  was  a  purpose  in  human  be- 
ings dwelling  upon  the  earth,  and 
that  purpose  was  that  they  might  gain 
an  exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of  hea- 
ven. We  And  even  down  to  the  time 
of  our  Savior  men  generally  believed 
in  God.  but  the  power  of  evil  had 
put  into  the  hearts  of  the  children 
of  men  to  destroy  many  of  the  pro- 
phets of  the  Lord,  in  order  that  their 
voices  might  be  stilled,  that  the  influ- 


ences of  evil  might  gain  greater  sway 
among  the  children  of  men.  Our 
Heavenly  Father,  in  His  mercy,  sent 
His  Only  Begotten  Son  into  the  world, 
and  He  told  the  people  as  He  labored 
with  them  that  He  was  the  Son  of  God. 
He  ministered  among  them.  He  healed 
their  sick,  unstopped  the  ears  of  the 
deaf,  restored  the  blind  to  sight,  and 
raisfcd  up  the  dead.  He  convinced 
those  with  whom  He  came  in  contact 
that  there  was  a  hereafter,  and  that 
the  purpose  of  our  living  upon  the 
earth  is  that  we  may  prepare  our- 
selves for  that  great  future  life.  He 
eventually  gave  His  life  that  this  tes- 
timony might  abide  in  the  world.  But 
there  was  another  purpose.  It  re- 
quired in  the  providence  of  our  Fath- 
er a  pure  and  spotless  person  to  find 
the  way  of  the  resurrection.  Jesus 
Christ  was  a  man  without  sin.  By 
reason  of  His  purity,  His  uprightness 
and  His  virtue,  He  was  able  to  unlock 
the  doors  of  the  prison,  to  overcome 
-death  and  the  grave,  and  pioneer  the 
way  for  His  fellow  creatures  unto  that 
heaven  where  we  expect  to  go.  After 
He  gave  his  mortal  life  He  was  per- 
mitted to  come  back  an  immortal  be- 
ing, and  visit  with  men  in  the  flesh,  but 
when  the  time  came  for  Him  to  go 
again,  although  He  was  surrounded  by 
His  apostles,  He  departed  heavenward 
and  was  received  therein.  Two  an- 
gels in  white  stood  before  them  and 
promised  that  as  they  saw  Him  go- 
ing to  heaven  so  should  He  return 
again.  Then  we  find  that  the  Apostles 
who  remained  behind  taught  this  same 
Gospel.  The  power  of  God  descended 
upon  them,  even  the  Holy  Ghost,  which 
the  Savior  had  promised  should  come, 
to  bring  things  past  to  their  remem- 
brance and  to  teach  them  things  to 
come.  It  came  upon  them  in  that  up- 
per room,  in  cloven  tongues  of  fire, 
and  they  knew  as  they  knew  they  lived 
that  they  had  been  endowed  with  pow- 
er from  on  high,  and  they  proclaimed 
it  to  all  men  with  whom  they  came  in 
contact.  They  did  not  fear  death,  but 
they  feared  to  be  recreant  to  the  trust 
our  Father  had  reposed  in  them.  They 
feared  to  turn  their  backs  upon  the 


ELDER  GEORGE  A.  SMITH. 


61 


testimony  they  had  received  from 
heaven  itself  and  from  their  associa- 
tion with  the  Son  of  God.  When  He 
said  to  them,  "Go  ye  into  all  the  world, 
and  preach  the  Gospel  to  every  crea- 
ture; he  that  believeth  and  is  bap- 
tized shall  be  saved,  and  he  that  be- 
lieveth not  shall  be  condemned,"  it 
was  the  voice!  of  God  unto  the  children 
of  men.  When  He  said  to  Nicode- 
mus  that  unless  he  was  born 
again  he  could  not  even  see 
the  kingdom  of  God,  it  was  not  the 
voice  of  man,  it  was  the  voice  of 
God,  and  is  a  law  binding  upon  all 
mankind. 

We  have  been  placed  here  for  a  pur- 
pose. That  purpose  is  that  we  may 
overcome  the  evil  temptations  that  are 
placed  in  our  way,  that  we  may  learn 
•  to  be  charitable  to  one  another,  that 
we  may  overcome  the  passions  with 
which  we  are  beset,  so  that  when  the 
time  comes  for  us  to  go  to  the  other 
side  we  may  be  worthy,  by  reason  of 
the  effort  we  have  put  forth,  to  en- 
joy the  blessings  that  our  Father  has 
in  store  for  the  faithful.  The  Latter- 
day  Saints  are  believers  in  the  words 
contained  in  the  holy  Scriptures.  We 
believe  that  God  created  the  heavens 
and  the  earth;  and  the  same  God  that 
created  the  heavens  and  the  earth 
declared  that  He  made  man  in  His 
own  image;  male  and  female  created 
He  them.  No  matter  if  scientists  and 
great  men  of  the  world  shall  proclaim 
that  we  have  evolved  from  the  lower 
order  of  animals,  the  witness  of  the 
Spirit  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, is  that  you  are  the  offspring  of 
the  Lord,  that  the  spirits  which  in- 
habit your  bodies  are  immortal,  and 
that  in  due  time,  if  you  are  faithful, 
you  will  go  back  to  the  presence  of 
that  God  who  gave  you  life. 

Not  only  do  we  have  the  testimony 
of  men  who  lived  upon  the  eastern 
hemisphere,  but  in  the  providence  of 
the  Almighty  we  have  received  the 
testimony  of  the  people  who  lived  upon 
this  western  hemisphere.  When  the 
Savior  ministered  in  the  flesh  He  told 
His  disciples  at  Jerusalem  that  He 
had  other  sheep,  which  were  not  of 


that  fold,  and  that  He  must  visit  them, 
that  there  might  be  one  fold  and  one 
shepherd.  The  question  has  been 
raised  in  the  old  world  that  Jesus 
was  not  of  divine  origin,  because  He 
was  born  as  a  little  child,  cradled  in 
a  manger,  His  mother  being  Mary  and 
his  reputed  father  Joseph  the  carpen- 
ter. Many  have  admitted  that  He  was 
a  great  and  good  man,  but  they  have 
desired  to  rob  Him  of  the 
divinity  of  His  birth.  Fortunate- 
ly, however,  for  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
we  have  received  a  witness  that  these 
things  are  true;  and  in  addition  to  that, 
we  have  received  the  testimony  that  He 
came  to  this  western  hemisphere,  as  re- 
corded in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and 
ministered  unto  the  Nephites  upon  this 
continent.  He  did  not  come  this  time 
as  a  little  child,  but  He  came  in  the 
clouds  of  heaven;  and  His  coming  was 
proclaimed  by  a  voice  that  penetrated 
to  the  very  center  of  every  person  that 
dwelt  in  the  land.  He  came  this  time 
as  a  man  from  heaven,  and  they  saw 
Him  come.  They  knew  that  He  was  the 
Christ,  for  His  coming  had  been  pre- 
dicted by  their  prophets.  He  gave  to 
them  the  same  organization  that  exist- 
ed in  the  Church  at  Jerusalem. 
He  taught  them  that  they  must 
be  baptized,  as  He  had  been, 
by  those  having  authority  to  officiate 
in  that  ordinance.  This  was  not  the 
word  of  an  ordinary  man;  it  was  the 
word  of  the  Son  of  God,  who  had  as- 
cended to  His  Father,  and  who  had 
come  back  again,  that  the  children  of 
men  might  have  another  testimony  add- 
ed to  the  number  that  had  already  been 
given1  to  them. 

Then  in  the  day  and  age  in  which  we 
live  there  arose  another  individual.  A 
boy  fourteen  years  of  age  believed  what 
was  contained  in  the  Scriptures.  He 
read  in  James,  "If  any  of  you  lack  wis- 
dom, let  him  ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to 
all  men  liberally  and  upbraideth  not: 
and  it  shall  be  given  him."  Believing 
those  words,  he  went  into  the  woods  to 
pray,  and  his  prayer  was  answered. 
His  faith  brought  the  blessing  he  so 
much  desired.  He  received  the  record  o£ 
the  Book  of  Mormon.  He  not  only  had 
the  witness  of  the  Bible  that  Jesus  was 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  Christ,  but  he  saw  God  the  Father 
standing  in  the  clouds  of  heaven, 
clothed  with  glory,  and  Jesus  Christ, 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  exalted  at 
His  right  hand,  and  he  heard  the  voice 
of  the  Lord,  saying,  "This  is  My  Be- 
loved Son,  hear  Him."  He  bore  testi- 
mony of  this  glorious  vision  to  those 
with  whom  he  was  associated.  Others 
also  received  a  -witness  from  on  high. 
Their  testimony  in  the  divinity  of  the 
Savior's  mission  had  been  increased  and 
strengthened,  so  that  it  was  no  longer 
a  matter  of  ancient  history  that  God 
lived  and  that  Jesus  was  the  Christ; 
they  knew  it  personally,  because  they 
had  received  a  testimony  themselves. 

As  I  look  into  the  faces  of  this  audi- 
ence I  realize  that  this  testimony  has 
been  handed  down  to  you,  not  by  mar;, 
but  by  the  power  of  our  heavenly  Fatti- 
er, who  has  promised  it  to  all  of  His 
children  that  will  obey  His  command- 
ments and  keep  His  laws.  You  are  not 
dependent  alone  upon  history,  nor  upon 
the  teachings  of  any  man,  to  know  that 
this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  because 
you  have  had  it  burned  into  your  souls 
by  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  There 
is  no  doubt  in  your  mind  as  to  your, 
origin,  nor  as  to  the  place  you  will  go 
to  when  this  life  is  over,  if  you  are 
faithful  to  the  trust  reposed  in  you.  We 
are  not  here  to  while  away  the  hours* 
of  this  life  and  then  pass  to  a  sphere  of 
exaltation;  but  we  are  here  to  qualify 
ourselves  day  by  day  for  the  positions 
that  our  Father  expects  us  to  fill  here- 
after. We  are  here  to  learn  to  love 
one  another.  The  great  commandment 
that  was  given  by  the  Savior  to  ths 
children  of  men  in  the  day  in  which 
He  lived  is  binding  on  us.  •  We  are  com- 
manded to  love  the  Lord  our  God  with 
all  our  might,  mind  and  strength,  and 
to  love  our  neighbor  as  ourselves.  In 
the,  language  of  the  poet,  "Life  is  real, 
Life  is  earnest,"  and  "the  grave  is  not 
its  goal."  The  spirit  that  inhabits  the 
tabernacle  is  immortal.  It  lives  beyond 
the  grave.  The  body  decays  and  re- 
turns to  earth  but  the  spirit  lives  on. 
None  of  us  brethren  and  sisters,  can 
control  the  beating  of  the  heart?  None 
of  us,  if  it  should  stop,  could  start  it 


again?  Science  has  not  discovered  the 
secret.  Yet  there  is  a  power  that  can 
do  this  and  continues  to  do  it,  and  we 
who  are  members  of  the  fold  of  Christ 
know  whence  that  power  comes. 

If  we  believe  as  we  claim,  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ,  and  that  we  are  the  chil- 
dren of  our  heavenly  Father,  then  how 
careful  we  should  be  to  conduct  our- 
selves that  we  may  be  worthy  of  the 
temples  we  occupy,  which  were  created 
in  the  image  of  God.  How  many  of  us 
realize  that  by  taking  into  our  systeMo 
things  that  our  Father  has  forbidden, 
we  defile  the  temple  of  the  spirit?  How 
many  of  us  stop  to  consider  that  when 
we  give  way  to  weakness  of  the  flesh, 
we  deprive  ourselves  of  opportunities 
that  await  us  in  the  future,  and  cut 
ourselves  off  from  the  blessings  that  the 
Lord  hath  in  store  for  the  faithful.  As^ 
members  of  the  Church  of  Christ,  we 
should  keep  His  commandments  ana 
love  one  another.  Then  our  love  shoulu 
pass  beyond  the  border  lines  of  the 
Church  with  which  we  are  identified, 
and  reach  out  after  the  children 
of  men,  that  the  belief  which  is  grow- 
ing in  the  world  that  God  does  not 
live  and  that  the  grave  is  our  goal 
may  be  dissipated,  and  that  in  the 
place  of  that  disbelief  there  may  come 
a  living  faith,  yea,  a  living  know- 
ledge, that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and 
that  we  are  the  "hilrirpa  of  the  Fa- 
ther. Those  of  you  who  have  received 
this  witness  have  assumed  an  obliga- 
tion which  you  cannot  turn  your 
backs  upon  if  you  would.  It  must  be 
declared  by  you  to  the  children  of 
men.  The  revelation  that  John  re- 
ceived, that  another  angel  should  fly  in 
the  midst  of  heaven,  having  the  ever- 
lasting Gospel  to  preach  to  men  that 
dwell  upon  the  earth,  has  been  real- 
ized. Joseph  Smith  taught  that  he 
knew  there  was  a  hereafter,  and  that 
he  knew  that  God  lived,  and  that  God 
knew  that  he  knew  that  God  lived.  He 
was  "willing  to  give  his  life  in  order 
that  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
might  have  your  faith  strengthened 
and  that  your  confidence  in  him  might 
not  be  shaken.  He  knew  the  purpose 
of  this  life.    He  knew  that  we  were 


ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 


03 


here  to  prepare  for  the  future  and  a 
more  glorious  existence.  And  he  was 
willing,  if  need  be,  to  give  his  own 
life,  not  simply  that  he  might  lose  it, 
for  our  benefit,  but  because  he  knew 
that  the  Father  had  said  that  he  who 
would  save  his  life  should  lose  it, 
but  he  who  would  lose  his  life  for  His 
sake  should  find  it,  even  life  eternal. 
It  was  this  knowledge  that  made  it 
possible  for  the  Prophet  and  Patri- 
arch of  the  Church  in  early  days  to 
turn  their  backs  upon  loved  ones,  to 
be  incarcerated  in  prison,  and  to  give  all 
that  they  had  in  this  world,  that  men 
can  give  for  their  brethren — their  mor- 
tal life. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  this  is  a  ser- 
ious matter.  We  should  think  of  it 
seriouply.  We  should  look  into  our 
own  lives  and  discover  if  we  are  pre- 
pared for  that  great  future  life, 
if  we  were  called  hence  tomor- 
row whether  we  would  be  pre- 
pared to  give  an  account  for  our 
earthly  deeds;  whether  we  can  feel 
that  we  would  receive  from  our  Hea- 
venly Father  the  welcome  plaudit  of 
"Well  clone,  good  and  faithful  ser- 
vant." To  preach  the  Gospel  is  our 
mission.  Your  sons  and  daughters  are 
proclaiming  it  in  the  world.  Let  it  in. 
deed  be  true,  as  was  suggested  by  a 
Mission  President  from  this  stand, 
that  when  our  missionaries  look  home- 
ward from  the  islands  of  the  sea  and 
from  the  nations  of  the  earth  they  may 
see  a  home-guard,  who  are  tried  and 
true,  who  have  been  weighed  in  the 
balances  and  have  not  been  found 
wanting,  that  their  faith  in  us  may  not. 
waver,  and  that  they  may  realize  that 
we  are  willing  and  anxious  to  help 
the  work  of  the  Master  in  every  pos- 
sible way. 

That  the  Lord  may  continue  His 
blessings  upon  this  gathering;  that  the 
peace  which  has  characterized  it  so 
far  may  remain  with  all  of  us;  that  we 
may  take  it  to  our  homes  and  dissem- 
inate it  among  the  people  where  we 
live;  that  we  may  love  the  Lord  our 
God;  and  be  willing  to  keep  His 
commandments,  and  not  only  be 
willing  to  die  for  the  work, 
but    willing    to      live    for      it.  Let 


us  see  to  it  that  we  speak  evil  of  no 
one,  not  even  of  those  who  speak  evil 
of  us.  Let  us  extend  to  all  our  Fa- 
ther's children  the  hand  of  welcome, 
and  teach  unto  them  that  we  know 
without  doubt  that  Jesus  was  and  is 
the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
prophet  of  the  living  God,  and  that 
the  men  who  represent  the  work  today 
receive  from  our  heavenly  Father  the 
inspiration  and  revelation  of  His  mind 
and  will  when  He  desires  to  give  it  to 
them  for  the  benefit  of  His  Church. 
That  we  may  be  worthy  of  the  honor 
God  has  given  us  that  we  may  be 
worthy  of  the  lineage  whence  we  came 
that  we  may  be  faithful  sons  and 
daughters  of  God,  worthy  to  bear  His 
image  in  the  earth,  that  we  may  not 
defile  our  tabernacles  with  anything 
that  is  impure  or  unholy,  but  that 
day  by  day  we  may  let  our  light  so 
shine  that  men,  seeing  our  good 
works,  will  glorify  our  Father  which 
is  in  heaven — that  this  may  be  our 
privilege,  and  that  when  our  labors  are 
finished  and  we  are  summoned  back  to 
our  heavenly  Father  we  may  be  wel- 
come there  because  of  our  faith  and 
faithfulness  here  below,  is  my  prayer 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  soloists  rendered  the 
beautiful  anthem,  "God  of  Israel,  Hear 
our  Prayer." 

ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 

Keport  of  Visit  to  Southern  pan  of  Mexico- 
Wise  Rulers  and  Superior  Rare  of  Natives- 
The  Work  of  God  will  Triumph. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  on  the  21st 
of  February  I  started  upon  a  journey  to 
the  state  of  Tabasco,  telling  President 
Smith  upon  leaving  that  I  would  return 
to  attend  this  conference.  My  purpose 
in  going  was  the  discharge  of  a  sacred 
duty,  and  also  in  the  hope  of  securing 
my  complete  return  to  health.  I  pre- 
sumed that  I  had  so  arranged  matters 
that  I  would  be  able  to  be  in  attend- 
ance at  the  first  day  of  the  conference. 
Two  weeks  ago  yesterday  I  left  the 
town  of  Cardenas,  in  an  Indian  canoe, 
to  make  my  way  with  my  companions 
to  the  capital  of  the  state,  San  Juan 
Baptiste.  We  reached  that  place  in  the 
anticipation  that,  on  the  28th  of  last 
month,    from    Fontara     the  steamer 


64 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


■would  bring  us  to  Vera  Cruz;  but  upon 
our  arrival  we  learned  that  the  steamer 
would  not  sail  until  the  30th,  and  so 
we  remained  in  the  capital  of  the  state 
for  a  few  days,  mingling  with  the  lead- 
ing people,  having  interviews  with  the 
governor  and  .Tifipolitico,  and  finding  to 
our  surprise  a  wonderfully  fine  people. 
The  city  is  said  to  contain  about  20,000 
inhabitants,  and  is  located  upon  Gijalva 
river.  The  people  are  mostly  of  Span- 
ish extraction,  with  an  intermixture  of 
the  Indian  races.  We  were  treated  with 
the  utmost  courtesy  by  the  governor 
of  the  state  and  by  the  people  with 
whom  he  mingled.  We  left  there  on 
the  29th,  in  the  anticipation  that  upon 
the  30th  we  would  be  enabled  to  leave 
Fontara  upon  our  way  home.  On  ar- 
riving there,  we  learned  that  the  sailing 
of  our  boat  would  not  occur  until  the 
first  of  April,  and  on  the  evening  of 
that  day  we  left  Fontara.  We  reached 
Vera  Cruz,  crossing  the  Gulf  of  Mexico, 
just  after  noon  on  Sunday  last,  and  at 
once  made  our  way  to  the  railroad. 
Part  of  our  company  remained  in  Vera 
Cruz;  Elder  B.  F.  Grant  and  myself 
started  immediately  for  home.  We  suc- 
ceeded in  making  our  connections  along 
the  railroads  very  nicely  until  we 
reached  El  Paso,  Texas,  where  we 
found  that  a  quarantine  had  been  put 
into  operation  against  what  was  said 
to  be  the  fever  districts  of  Old  Mexico, 
and  as  we  had  come  from  Vera  Cruz, 
which  had  been  especially  tabooed,  we 
were  restrained  from  continuing  our 
journey  for  24  hours,  thus  preventing 
me  from  reaching  here  yesterday  as  I 
had  expected  to  do. 

I  desire  to  say  that  my  experience  in 
southern  Mexico  has  been  one  of  the 
most  pleasant;  10  days  of  my  time 
on  horseback,  six  in  Indian  canoes,  and 
the  balance  of  the  time  looking  over 
the  country,  studying  the  conditions, 
making  the  acquaintance  of  the  people 
and  satisfying  myself  as  to  the  char- 
acteristics of  the  land.  My  associates 
also  have  been  well  pleased  with  their 
experience.  Some  of  them,  I  presume, 
are  on  the  way  to  this  city,  and  I  ar- 
rived here  at  1:30  today. 

I  am  pleased  to  be  with  you  in  con- 


ference, to  hear  the  voices  of  those  who 
have  sung  their  glorious  songs  for  us, 
to  listen  to  the  remarks  of  the  Elders, 
and  to  hear  the  words  of  prayer  that 
have  gone  up  to  the  Supreme  Being  in 
the  interest  of  the  people  of  God  and 
of  all  the  children  of  our  Father.  I  re- 
joice in  the  glorious  work  the  "Lord 
hath  established,  and  have  always  held 
in  remembrance  the  promise  which  has 
been  made  that  no  weapon  that  is 
formed  against  this  work  shall  prosper, 
and  they  that  rise  Up  in  judgment 
against  it  shall  find  themselves  utterly 
discomfited.  I  trust  that,  in  fulfilment 
of  the  great  mission  God  has  assigned 
to  this  people,  the  spirit  of  liberty,  of 
justice,  of  mercy,  of  determination,  and 
a  willingness  to  devote  themselves  to 
the  betterment  of  the  conditions  of 
mankind,  shall  in  no  sense  be  checked, 
but  that  in  the  onward  march  and 
growth  of  this  work  its  sons  and  daugh- 
ters shall  be  found  upon  the  side  of 
every  correct  principle  and  in  favor  of 
the  broadest  liberty  and  the  greatest 
good  to  our  Father's  children.  When 
we  remember  that  beneath  the  folds 
of  this  great  work  the  whole  human 
race,  excepting  those  who  have  reject- 
ed God  and  consented  to  the  death  of 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  shall  find 
lodgment  in  the  various  kingdoms  our 
Father  has  established,  and  obtain  the 
reward  that  they  justly  earn  as  the  ful- 
filment of  their  part  in  the  world,  it 
should  be  a  joy-  to  every  one  of  tis  to 
krow  that  we  have  part  and  lot  in  its 
accomplishment,  and  our  efforts  for  its 
fulfilment  and  upbuilding  should  be 
shown  in  every  direction.  Our  Father 
has  never  abandoned  this  work  from 
the  moment  that  He  and  His  Son  spoke 
to  the  Prophet.  It  has  been  one  con- 
tinued onward  march.  Many  things 
have  arisen  to  interfere  with  its  de- 
velopment and  growth;  many  schemes 
and  devices  have  been  put  upon  foot 
by  mankind  looking  to  its  overthrow; 
but  the  promise  that  nothing  should 
prosper  that  was  raised  in  opposition  to 
it  has  been  fulfilled  to  the  letter,  and 
in  future  time,  as  we  move  forward 
In  the  accomplishment  of  the  destiny 


ELDER  JESSE 

God  has  marked  out  for  His  work,  the 
same  will  be  true. 

I  have  nothing  but  good  words  for 
the  people  of  Mexico;  for  President 
Diaz  and  his  cabinet;  for  the  cover  - 
nors  of  the  states  which  it  has  been 
my  privilege  to  visit,  for  the  mayors 
of  the  towns,  and  for  the  people  them- 
selves. Those  Indian  races  in  Tabasco 
are  among  the  finest  and  most  industri- 
ous people  I  have  met.  They  lack 
in  some  degree  that  trained  mentality 
which  is  found  among  the  larger  por- 
tion of  the  Christian  people  of  the 
world:  but  there  are  within  them  the 
elements  of  success,  as  has  been  shown 
in  the  lives  of  such  heroic  men  as  Por- 
firio  Diaz  and  Benito  Juarez.  I  trust 
that  the  heroic  spirit  shown  by  these 
men  may  continue  through  their  gene- 
rations, that  liberty  and  truth,  justice 
and  mercy,  may  characterize  that  peo- 
ple, and  that  the  visitation  of  the  Savior 
of  the  world  in  past  times,  which  made 
such  an  impress  upon  their  souls  and 
led  them  to  anticipate  His  coming, 
causing  them  to  surrender  to  the  min- 
ions of  Cortez  because  they  were  look- 
ing for  the  coming  of  the  Redeemer, 
mav  be  realized  more  fully  and  more 
correctly  in  the  future  than  it  was  re- 
alized in  that  experience  of  theirs. 

My  brothers  and  my  sisters,  I  feel  it 
would  be  unwise  upon  my  part  to  take 
more  of  your  time.  I  stand  with  my 
associates  in  the  declaration  of  that 
eternal  truth  that  the  Father  has  es- 
tablished. I  stand  with  them  as  a  wit- 
ness for  God  and  for  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world,  as  a  witness  for  Josenh 
Smith  and  the  men  who  stood  with  him, 
and  who  have  made  successful  the  work 
established  through  him  on  the  earth. 
I  trust  that  in  future,  at  no  time  or 
place,  shall  my  voice  ever  be  raised 
in  condemnation  of  His  work  or  of  its 
continuance  among  the  children  of  men. 
While  I  thus  speak  of  the  work  of  the 
Lord  itself,  I  speak  also  of  my  country 
and  its  glorious  constitution.  I  pray 
for  its  continuance  and  for  the  princi- 
ples enunciated  by  it.  I  trust  that  in 
the  future,  as  in  ihe  past,  we  may  be 
ready  to  maintain  the  liberties  of  all 
men  to  the  utmost  limit,  and  never  be- 


W.  KNIGHT.  65 

tray  a  trust,  nor  turn  back  upon  those 
principles,  while  God  shall  give  us 
breath.  May  peace  and  love  abound 
in  your  hearts  and  homes.  May  the 
songs  of  praise  that  come  from  the  lips 
of  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God  be 
heard  in  every  land  and  clime,  and  may 
the  choice  spirit  that  He  bestows  in  the 
Holy  Ghost  lighten  your  souls  and  lift 
you  up  to  obey  His  will  and  keep  His 
commandments  during  time  and  all 
eternity,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JESSE  W.  KNIGHT. 

(2nd  Counselor  in  Presidency  of  Taylor 
Stake.) 

My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  this  is 
the  first  time  in  my  life  I  ever  stood 
before  an  audience  in  this  house  to 
sneak,  and  I  trust  I  may  be  able  to 
make  you  hear.  It  gives  me  pleasure 
at  this  time  to  stand  before  you  as  a 
representative  of  Taylor  Stake  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-dav 
Saints,  and  to  speak  in  behalf  of  the 
people  of  that  stake  of  Zion.  We  have 
held  ward  conferences  in  the  Stake,  and 
they  have  been  well  attended.  We 
have  also  unanimously  sustained  all 
the  general  authorities  of  the  Church. 
I  do  not  believe  there  ever  was  a  time 
when  I  felt  better  than  at  the  present 
in  regard  to  the  truthfulness  and  the 
onward  progress  of  this  work.  I  re- 
joice to  know-  that  the  authorities  of 
this  Church  have  all  our  interests  at 
heart.  They  do  not  forget  any  of  us, 
not  even  the  people  that  are  far  off. 
The  people  in  the  north  country  last 
year  suffered  somewhat  from  drouth, 
and  this  season  the  Church  has  come  to 
rescue  by  advancing  means  to  help 
some  of  the  people  to  get  seed  grain. 
I  mention  this  to  show  the  interest  and 
the  anxiety  that  the  authorities  of  the 
Church  have  for  the  Latter-day  Saints 
wherever  they  are,  and  that  no  matter 
how  far  we  get  away  from  headquar- 
ters, we  are  not  forgotten.  I  wish  to 
say,  we  appreciate  these  things,  and  I 
know  that  those  who  live  near  by  do 
not  feel  that  they  are  being  robbed 
when  we  are  helped  in  this  way.  This 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


community  has  grown  out  of  toil,  labor, 
industry,  and  the  mutual  support  of  one 
another:  and  we  feel  that  without  the 
support  we  get  from  our  fellow-men 
it  would  be  hard  to  carry  on  this  gi  eat 
■work.  I  rejoice  to  know  that  the  La:- 
ter-day  Saints  are  writing  their  history 
upon  the  soil,  by  industrious  toil,  and 
by  the  building  up  of  new  settlements 
and  towns,  and  in  branching  out  into 
various  parts  of  the  world.  I  can  see 
what  this  is  cooing  for  the  Latter-dav 
Saints.  If  we  were  left  in  crowded 
cities,  we  would  soon  have  the  ;lums 
and  the  beggars;  but  as  it  is,  throug'i 
the  counsel  and  the  wisdom  of  those 
who  are  nlaced  at  the  head  of  the 
Church, when  they  have  seen  young  men 
crowding  the  streets  with  nothing  to 
do,  they  start  some  industry  in  some 
new  country,  and  enable  these  young 
men  to  make  homes  for  them- 
selves. I  rejoice  to  say  that  the 
Latter-dav  Saints  in  Canada  are 
building  up  many  new  homes  and  es- 
tablishing themselves  there:  and  many 
young  people  who,  if  they  had  remained 
in  this  country  would  possibly  be  work- 
ing for  small  wages,  or  perhaps  loaf- 
ing their  time  away,  have  gone  into  a 
new  country,  taken  advantage  of  the 
opportunities  placed  before  them,  and 
have  become  factors  in  building  up  a 
community.  I  do  not  think  the  people 
should  feel  to  mourn  when  their  sons 
and  daughters  desire  to  launch  out  for 
themselves,  when  they  have  not  suf- 
ficient means  and  property  to  keep 
them  at  home.  I  think  it  is  a  good 
thing  for  them  to  go  out  into  these  new 
countries  and  establish  homes  for  them- 
selves. This  is  only  one  phase  of  the 
Church  of  God;  but  I  think  it  spea*B 
well  for  the  wisdom  which  has  been 
manifest  from  the  beginning  of  this 
Church  when  the  leaders  do  these 
things.  We  rejoice  to  know  that  we 
have  established  in  our  country, through 
the  advice  of  the  President  of  the 
Church,  an  industry  which  is  furnish- 
ing employment  for  the  people,  and 
which  is  building  up  that  community. 

I  feel  to  bear  my  testimony  at  th»s 
time.  I  do  not  think  it  would  be  wise 
for  me  to  speak  long,  but  I  trust  that 
the  spirit  which  has  been  with  us  this 


conference  will  continue.  I  know  that 
this  work  is  true,  and  that  the  Lord  is 
blessing  His  people,  especially  those 
who  are  sustaining  the  authorities  and 
helping  to  spread  this  nvork  rather  than 
to  tear  it  down.  I  hope  that  the  time 
will  never  come  when  I  will  feel  that 
my  voice  is  more  potent  than  the  voices 
of  ten  thousand  people,  and  that  I  will 
never  see  the  time  when  I  will  think 
I  am  so  smart,  and  that  the  leaders  of 
the  Church  have  lost  all  their  wisdom 
and  are  such  terrible  hypocrites  and 
robbers,  that  my  hand  will  be  lifted 
against  any  of  them.  I  say  that  we 
have  the  right  to  vote  as  we  feel,  but 
we  should  also  exercise  wisdom  and 
judgment.  I  do  not  think  that  one  man 
can  have  all  the  wisdom  and  brains  for 
such  a  large  community  as  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  I  pray  God  to  bless  us  all, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  ANDREW  KIMBALL. 
(President   of   St.   Joseph  Sjtake.) 

This  suspense  is  painful,  in  waiting 
and  facing  this  immense  congregation. 
The  worst  experience  of  this  kind  I 
ever  had  was  before  I  went  on  my 
mission.  The  mission  was  not  half  so 
bad  as  the  suspense.  Another  time  I 
suffered  was  before  I  went  to  Arizona. 

I  come  from  the  St.  Joseph  Stake 
of  Zion,  where  we  were  cutting  lucern 
hay  when  I  left,  and  wheat  was  in 
head,  roses  in  bloom,  and  the  country 
covered  with  beautiful  grass  and  flow- 
ers. The  California  poppy  was  to  be 
seen  ;n  acres  on  the  hillside,  and  so 
beautiful  that  we  could  even  out-do 
California  in  growing  the  flower  em- 
blem of  their  state.  The  Lord  has 
been  very  kind  to  us  in  one  way,  and 
I  presume  has  been  very  cautious  in 
another  way,  not  to  give  us  too  much. 
We  suffered  from  drouth  for  several- 
years,  until  many  of  our  people  became 
discouraged  and  went  into  the  wet 
country  of  Oregon;  but  now  the  rains 
have  come  to  Arizona,  and  the  people 
are  coming  back  again,  inasmuch  as 
they  have  had  drouth  in  that  usually 
rainy  country.  We  have  had  a  large 
amount  of  rain  during  the  greater  part 
of  this  year;  but  it  has  been  disastrous 


ELDER  ANDREW  KIMBALL. 


67 


to  us  m  the  great  floods  that  followed. 
I  presume  we  have  lost  over  3,000  acres 
ot  choice  farming  land  along  the  river 
banks.  The  heavier  floods  did  not  do 
sr>  much  harm  as  those  that  have  con- 
tinued in  steady  grinding  agains't  the 
bank1?.  The  heavy  floods  in  January 
covered  many  acres  of  ground  that  had 
been  planted,  and  where  the  crops  were 
up  and  doing  well.  After  that  had 
dried,  the  brethren  planted  again.  Then 
in  February  the  floods  came  again  and 
covered  that  over.  They  planted  the 
third  time;  and  if  it  gets  covered  up 
any  more  they  will  plant  corn,  because 
we  can  plant  something  every  month 
in  the  year. 

It  won't  do  for  me  to  undertake  to  tell 
any  stories,  because  when  I  told  about 
a  37  pound  sweet  potato  they  would  not 
believe  me;  and  when  I  tell  about  those 
melons  that  Brother  Clawson,  Brother 
MeMurrin  and  Sister  Aggie  Campbell 
helped  to  eat  down  there,  weighing 
from  40  to  60  pounds,  and  that  we 
raise  from  Ave  to  seven  crops  of  al- 
falfa hay,  and  two  crops  of  field  prod- 
ucts, people  won't  believe  that.  Now  I 
will  tell  you  a  modest  story  about  the 
l'avages  of  the  terrible  old  Gila  river. 
It  was  kind  to  some  people  and  very- 
severe  to  others.  There  was  a  widow- 
woman,  who  paid  her  honest  tithing, 
that  had  50  acres  of  soil  added  to  her 
farm;  while  on  the  other  side  of  the 
river  it  took  65  acres  away  from  an- 
other party.  Then  there  was  another 
widow  lady  that  Imd  her  farm  washed 
away,  wire  fences  and  all,  and  the  next 
siorm  that  came  along  planted  back  on 
that  foundation  the  same  number  of 
acres  of  soil,  .but  it  did  not  give  back 
the  wire  fences,  and  the  land  was  not 
level,  nor  were  there  any  weeds  on  it. 
Down  on  the  Imperial — a  new  country 
that  is  being  established  at  the  mouth 
of  the  Colorado  river—it  is  very  low, 
and  the  water  is  apt  to  cover  it  up; 
so  we  sent  some  soil  on  down  the  Gila 
river  to  try  and  accommodate  them, 
and  make  the  land  higher.  We  are  not 
dwouraged,  if  we  have  lost  3,000  acres 
of  land.  We  are  going  to  where  there 
are  higher  lands;  and  we  can  repair  our 


canals.  There  have  been  22  canals  in- 
jured in  these  floods;  the  heads  of  the 
canals  and  sometimes  miles  of  them 
have  been  torn  away.  Our  people  have 
to  go  to  work  and  rebuild.  The  rains 
have  continued,  and  we  are  going  to 
raise  our  crops  this  year  almost  with- 
out irrigation,  at  least  one  crop  of  grain 
and  two  of  alfalfa.  As  the  flood  waters 
soften  the  banks  along  the  river,  the 
soil  being  of  a  rich  sandy  loam,  it 
crumbles  and  caves  in,  the  water  be- 
comes so  thick  with  sediment  that  it 
rolls  and  tumbles  in  its  rush,  and 
finally  forms  a  levee  or  sand  bar,  this 
diverts  the  stream  and  causes  it  to 
leave  its  natural  channel,  if  it  ever 
had  one,  and  as  it  shoots  across  to  the 
opposite  bank  it  cuts  out  farm  land 
and  carries  the  soil  and  deposits  it 
again  on  another  sand  bar  or  cape  be- 
low. This  makes  it  reasonable  to  under- 
stand how  farms  can  be  shifted  from 
one  place  to  another. 

This  is  only  the  temporal  side.  The 
ptople  of  God  in  that  section  of  the 
country  are  a  good  people.  I  think  they 
are  about  the  best  in  the  world.  I  love 
them,  and  I  believe  they  love  me,  be- 
cause I  champion  their  cause  every  op- 
portunity I  have.  My  counselors  are 
good,  stalwart  men.  We  are  united. 
We  meet  every  Monday  night  in  our 
council  meetings.  The  first  Saturday  in 
every  month  we  meet  with  the  Saints 
in  our  Priesthood  meetings.  The 
Sunday  school  union  assembles  in 
the  chapel  of  our  Academy  building  at 
10  a.  m.  The  High  Council  meet  the 
same  hour  in  the  new  building  that  has 
been  constructed  by  the  Bishop  of 
Thatcher  ward.  At  12:15  all  the  Priest- 
hood come  together,  and  after  the  open- 
ing exercises  they  disperse  to  the  dif- 
ferent rooms,  the  High  Priests  in  one 
room,  the  Seventies  in  another,  the  El- 
ders in  another,  and  they  enter  upon  a 
consideration  of  principles  of  the  Gos- 
pel. We  do  not  have  sufficient  material 
in  any  one  ward  to  organize  the  Priests 
of  the  Lesser  Priesthood,  so  we  have 
made  a  stake  organization  of  the 
Priests,  and  at  1  o'clock  they  meet  in 
the  academy.    They  are  taking  up  the 


68 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


study  of  the  principles  of  the  Gospel, 
so  that  as  they  go  from  house  to  house, 
holding  block  meetings,  they  will  be 
prepared  to  teach  the  people  those  prin- 
ciples, and  be  qualified  to  act  as  block 
teachers.  The  Deacons  collect  the  fast 
offerings  in  the  wards. 

During  the  last  winter  the  presidency 
and  High  Council  divided  the  stake  into 
districts,  and  we  have  gone  on  mis- 
sions  from  house  to   house,  without 
purse  or  scrip.     In  this  way  we  are 
warming  the  people  up.    Some  of  my 
brethren  have  stayed  with  luke-warm 
members  for  three  months,  more  or 
less,  and  have  never  let  up  until  they 
got  them  converted  back  unto  the  Gos- 
pel.   I  am  indeed  pleased  with  the  la- 
bors of  my  brethren.    It  may  not  be 
considered  any  credit  vo  our  stake  that 
we  are  not  troubled  with  High  Council 
trials;  we  win  the  people  unto  the  Gos- 
pel by  loving  kindness,  rather  than  by 
coercion  and  unkind  driving.    Our  High 
Council  meet  in  the  spirit  of  love,  and 
kindness,  and  union,  discuss  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel,  and  keep  in  touch 
with  the  authorities,  and  thus  prepare 
themselves  to  do  good  work.    I  do  not 
suppose  that  down  in  that  far  off  land 
we  are  going  to  set  any  pattern,  but  it 
may  be  that,  after  six  years  of  ex- 
perience, we  are  able  to  offer  some 
suggestions  that  will  help  new  stake 
presidents.    We  invite  the  sisters  into 
our  Priesthood  meeting;    and    at  2 
o'clock  promptly  we  commence.  The 
sisters  join  in  the  opening  exercises, 
singing,  -etc.,  then  we  have  the  roll 
call,  and  each  order  of  the  Priesthood 
stands  up  to  be  counted,  followed  by 
the  auxiliary  organizations.   The  breth- 
ren and  sisters  are  there  also  to  re- 
ceive the  word  of  God  as  it  comes  from 
those  who   preside.     After  these  in- 
structions of  a  general  character,  the 
women  withdraw  and  meet  by  them- 
selves.   The  president  of  the  stake  is 
in  touch  with  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church  and  presiding  Bishopric,  and 
the  presidency  of  the   stake  meet  in 
council  from  week  to  week,  and  are 
prepared  to  counsel  the  people,  so  that 
when  they  come  together  they  are  fed, 
and  when  they  go  back  home  they  say 


to  their  neighbors,  "You  ought  to  have 
been  at  the  Priesthood  meeting,  for  in- 
deed it  was  a  feast  of  fat  things."  Our 
Priesthood  meetings  seem  better  than 
conferences,  they  are  so  representative 
in  character.  The  spirit  is  so  good  that 
pervades  them  and  the  work  that  is 
accomplished  makes  it  appear  like  hav- 
ing a  conference  every  30  days.  In 
those  meetings  we  try  to  get  expres- 
sions from  the  different  sections,  re- 
cognizing all. 

It  is  not  my  purpose  to  do  much 
preaching  there,  but  rather  to  be  the 
general,  if  possible,  directing  the  labors 
in  the  stake,  and  dividing  the  responsi- 
bilities among  the  people.  Myself  and 
counselors  have  apportioned  between 
us  the  supervision  of  the  auxiliary  or- 
ganizations. My  younger  counselor 
takes  the  Young  Men's  and  Young  La- 
dies' associations;  President  Johnson, 
the  old  pioneer,  takes  care  of  the  Re- 
lief society  and  the  Primary,  and  I  look 
after  the  Sunday  school,  which  I  am 
very  much  interested  in,  and  the  Re- 
ligion class.  Then  we  are  in  competi- 
tion to  see  which  can  make  our  or- 
ganizations the  best.  Of  course,  I  look 
after  all  of  them  in  a  general  way. 
The  senior  members  of  the  High  Coun- 
cil gives  special  attention  to  the  home 
missionaries.  The  third  Sunday  in  the 
month  we  meet  together  and  discuss 
current  events  and  principles,  so  that 
when  we  go  out  among  the  people  we 
are  prepared  to  give  them  something  to 
enlighten  their  minds,  under  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Spirit  of  God.  We  are 
united,  and  the  people's  hearts  are 
melted  in  kindness.  The  kindergar- 
ten department  of  our  academy,  desir- 
ing to  make  a  little  means,  proffered  to 
have  a  lunch  at  noon  for  our  Priest- 
hood meetings.  It  went  on  for  a  little 
while,  and  finally  we  established  the 
Priests'  meetings,  and  in  order  to  help 
it  out  the  presidency  met  with  the  boys. 
The  meetings  became  so  interesting 
that  as  soon  as  the  High  Priests  and 
the  Seventies  and  Elders  got  out  of 
their  meetings,  instead  of  them  going  to 
get  something  to  eat,  they  came  in  to 
get  a  little  more  spiritual  food,  and 
listen  to  the  delineation  of  the  princi- 


ELDER  C.  W.  PENROSE. 


69 


pies  of  the  Gospel.  It  was  no  par, 
ticuiar  compliment  to  ourselves,  but  it 
was  one  of  the  greatest  evidences  of 
the  devotion  of  the  people  in  that 
stake  of  Zion,  that  they  hungered  after 
the  Gospel  and  preferred  it  to  some- 
thing to  eat.  Ward  conference  is  also 
"record  day."  When  we  go  out  to  at- 
tend these  gatherings  we  invite  repre- 
sentatives of  each  of  the  auxiliary  or- 
ganizations, and  the  Priesthood,  to  ac- 
company us.  During  the  noon  hour  we 
examine  the  records  and  by  this  means 
we  stir  the  ward  organizations  up,  and 
there  is  an  incentive  for  these  organiza- 
tions to  take  care  of  their  records. 

I  realize,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  there  are  those  whom  we  all  desire 
to  hear.  You  have  not  come  from  a 
lcng  distance  to  hear  me;  but  it  may  be 
that  in  the  exchange  of  ideas  we  can 
all  be  benefitted.  I  have  often  thought 
that  if  the  presidents  of  stakes  could 
get  together  in  a  convention  for  the 
purpose  of  exchanging  ideas  about  how 
best  to  succeed,  we  might  possibly 
elicit  some  ideas  by  which  each  could 
be  benefited.  Our  Bishops  also  might 
get  together  and  converse  upon  their 
duties,  and  get  at  the  best  ideas  to 
accomplish  the  greatest  amount  of  good 
to  the  greatest  number  of  people. 

We  are  indeed  greatly  blessed,  and  I 
know  -  this  is  the  work  of  God.  We 
have  heard  much  about  revelation  in 
the  last  few  months.  My  counselors 
and  myself  sit  in  council  for  the  wel- 
fare of  our  stake,  and  determine  upon 
some  policy.  We  start  upon  that  policy 
for  the  good  of  the  people,  and  often- 
times we  no  more  than  get  started 
than  we  receive  a  letter  from  the  Presi- 
■  dency  of  the  Church  outlining  the  same 
policy,  and  we  found  we  had  been 
sitting  in  council  on  that  question  at 
the  very  same  time  as  the  Presidency 
in  Sa'lt  Lake.  I  will  venture  that  if  1 
were  to  ask  my  brethren  away  up  in 
-  Canada,  and  throughout  Zion,  and  those 
on  missions  all  over  the  world,  I  would 
no  doubt  find  that  these  brethren  are 
inspired  at  the  same  time  and  on  the 
same  subjects  that  are  for  the  inter- 
ests of  the  people  of  God.  We  do  en- 
joy the  spirit  of  revelation.     We  do 


enjoy  that  inspiration  which  guides 
and  directs  us  for  the  welfare  of  the 
people.  Notwithstanding  that  we  live 
away  off,  with  only  a  visit  now  and 
then  from  the  Apostles,  and  once  in  a 
great  while  representatives  from  the 
auxiliary  organizations,  we  do  not  get 
off  on  some  ism  or  schism  and  false 
doctrine,  as  is  the  case  with  the  gen- 
tile world.  We  are  on  good  terms  with 
our  brethren  not  of  our  faith.  Just  re- 
cently I  have  stood  on  the  platform 
with  a  Methodist  minister  two  different 
times  and  preached  funeral  sermons 
ever  Gentile  ladies.  They  keep  sending 
for  me.  Over  in  Safford  not  long  ago 
the  people  said,  "What  a  pity  Brother 
Kimball  is  a  'Mormon,'  the  doctrines 
he  teaches  are  so  comforting." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  this  is  the  work 
of  God.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  Prophet  of  God,  and  was  raised 
up  in  this  the  dispensation  of  the  ful- 
ness of  times,  to  establish  this  work. 
And  these  men  who  have  been  called 
to  preside  are  indeed  leaders  of  the 
Church,  and  God  is  leading  and  direct- 
ing them  and  taking  care  of  this  work. 
God  bless  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

Elder  Charles  Kent  sang  effectively 
the  hymn  which  begins  with  the  line, 
"The  Seer,  the  Seer,  Joseph  the  Seer." 

ELDER  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 

Confidence  in  the  Presidency— Man  is  both 
Spiritual  and  Temporal— True  Religion  is  for 
the  Bodv  and  lire  Spirit— God  Deals  with 
Tbiners  Earthly— The  Elements  of  Ma  tter  and 
Spirit  are  Eternal— Objects  and  Disburse- 
ments of  Tithing— Redemption  of  the  Earth. 

My  brethren  and  sisters, I  have  great- 
ly enjoyed  every  meeting  we  have  held 
during  this  conference.  I  never  en- 
joyed a  conference  better  in  my  life, 
and  I  have  attended  a  great  many. 
I  never  saw  more  unanimity  of  feeling 
among  the  Latter-day  Saints  than  I 
have  witnessed  during  our  gatherings 
in  this  anniversary  of  the  organization 
of  the  Church.  I  have  never  seen 
more  power  and  influence  among  the 
■  Priesthood  in  their  assemblies  than  I 
have  witnessed  during  our  gathering 
here.  There  has  not  been  a  jar;  there 
has  not  been  an   ill  feeling.     All  the 


70 


ELDER  C.  W.  PENROSE. 


brethren  in  the  priesthood  assembled 
have  with  one  heart  and  mind  en- 
dorsed and  approved  the  course  that 
has  been  pursued  by  the  President  of 
the  Church  and  his  counselors  in  all 
the  affairs  pertaining  to  the  Church, 
both  spiritually  and  temporally,  as  we 
divide  them,  although  with  the  Lord 
they  are  all  spiritual.  There  has  been 
a  wonderful  expression  of  confidence 
and  good  will,  love  and  affection  to- 
wards the  man  who  stands  at  the 
head  of  the  Church  today,  and  who  is 
endowed  with  all  the  authority,  keys, 
gifts  and  blessings  to  lead  the  Church 
that  were  conferred  upon  the  mar- 
tyred Seer,  about  whom  we  have  just 
heard  in  the  song.  I  bear  my  testi- 
mony, in  association  with  my  breth- 
ren, that  I  know  that  God  is  with 
His  people;  that  the  power  of  His 
Spirit,  which  is  the  spirit  of  revela- 
tion, rests  down  upon  the  President 
of  the  Church  today,  and  is  with  his 
associates,  and  that  all  things  in  the 
Church  are  being  conducted  for  the  in- 
terest of  the  people,  for  the  kingdom  of 
God,  and  for  the  benefit  of  humanity. 

The  religion  you  and  I  have  em- 
braced, my  brethren  and  sisters,  is 
not  a  mere  psalm-singing,  praying  and 
preaching  religion.  It  is  a  religion  that 
comes  to  us  as  we  are,  as  men  and 
women,  as  beings  living  on  the  earth 
in  the  flesh,  as  persons  who  have  to  do 
with  the  things  of  time  as  well  as  the 
things  of  eternity.  In  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  on  page  307,  you  will  read 
these  words: 

"The  spirit  and  the  body  is  the  soul  of 
man.  And  the  resurrection  from  the 
dead  is  the  redemption  of  the  soul." 

I  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that 
we  are  not  only  spiritual  beings,  who 
have  received  our  origin  as  such  from 
our  Eternal  Father,  but  we  also  have 
bodies,  fashioned  out  of  the  elements 
that  compose  this  earth,  which  God  has 
made  for  that  purpose.  And  the  relig- 
ion that  God  has  sent  down  out  of 
heaven  in  the  last  days  is  a  religion 
for  man  as  he  is,  for  the  souls  of  men. 
In  the  Book  of  Genesis,  1st  chap.,  we 
read  that  God  made  man  in  his  own 
image;  that  He  made  them  male  and 


female,  and  gave  him  the  great  com- 
mandment, the  first  which  was  that 
he  should  "increase  and  multiply  and 
inherit  the  earth  and  subdue  it  and 
have  dominion  over  all  things"  upon 
the  face  of  the  earth  and  in  the:  firma- 
ment around.  We  are  told  in  the  sec- 
ond chapter  of  Genesis  that  He  formed 
the  body  of  man  out  of  the  dust.  God 
did  that.  He  made  the  body  of  man 
as  well  as  his  spirit,  and  He  gave 
him  commandments  in  relation  to  his 
body.  He  gave  him  commandments 
in  regard  to  the  fruits  that  grew  up- 
on the  trees  in  the  Eden  that  God  had 
planted.  He  gave  him  laws  in  relation 
to  the  present  as  well  as  those  that 
pertained  to  the  future. 

"We  should  understand  that  God  has 
something  to  do  with  earthly  things 
as  well  as  those  things  that  we  call 
heavenly.  It  was  He  that  made  this 
globe  on  which  you  and  I  live.  God 
called  the  elements  together — these 
elements  that  He  says  are  eternal. 
You  will  read  that  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  page  331.  The  Lord  says 
that  the  elements— that  is,  the  essence 
of  things  that  we  call  material,  and 
that  scientists  call  matter — are  eternal; 
and  He  called  the  elementary  particles 
together  that  now  compose  this  globe, 
which  at  first  was  covered  with  water. 
Water  is  composed  of  gases,  as  scien- 
tists tell  us,  and  they  are  beginning 
to  understand  that  the  gases  which  in 
certain  proportions  appear  in  the  form 
of  water,  are  themselves  composite; 
that  these  elements,  as  they  were  once 
called,  are  not  elementary ;  but  that  you 
can  go  back  of  the  water  to  the  gases 
of  which  it  is  composed,  and  then  you 
can  dissolve  these  gases  into  still  near- 
er primary  elements.  And  you  may 
go  on  until  you  come  to  the  real  es- 
sence or  atoms  of  elementary  exist- 
ence. The  Lord  says  they  are  eternal. 
They  were  not  created,  in  the  sense 
that  some  people  use  the  term.  Now, 
the  Lord  says  that  these  elements  are 
eternal,  and  that  "spirit  and  element, 
inseparably  connected,  receiveth  a  full- 
ness of  joy,  and  when  separated  man 
cannot  receive  a  fullness  of  joy."  So 
we  shall  find  that  not  only  in  time,  but 


ELDER  C.  W.  PENROSE. 


71 


In  eternity,  when  the  soul  is  re- 
deemed, when  the  spirit  and  the  body, 
which  are  the  soul  of  man,  are 
joined  together  in  the  resurrection  of 
the  dead  and  are  made  eternal  and  im- 
mortal, the  body  as  well  as  the  spirit, 
that  there  Is  something  to  do  in  regard 
to  the  material  elements  in  the  uni- 
verse of  God.  God  is  a  being  that 
takes  cognizance  of  us  as  We  are,  and 
the  religion  He  has  given  us  is  not 
merely  what  is  called  a  spiritual  re- 
ligion, but  it  is  also  a  temporal  religion, 
using  the  term  as  men  use  it. 

In  the  twenty-ninth  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  God  says  that 
He  made  all  things.  He  speaks  there 
of  the  earth  and  the  animals  upon  it, 
and  the  vegetation  that  grows  out  of  the 
ground,  and  of  the  material  things 
which  men  handle.  The  Lord  says  He 
created  them  all  by  the  word  of  His 
power,  "firstly  spiritual,  and  secondly 
temporal;"  and  the  last  of  His  works 
will  be  "firstly  temporal,  and  secondly 
spiritual."  But  He  explains  further, 
that  to  Him  all  these  things  are  spirit- 
ual, because  they  are  eternal.  The  ele- 
ments are  eternal,  and  therefore  God 
calls  them  spiritual;  for  the  things  tlrSt 
are  temporal  are  those  that  pass  away, 
and  the  things  that  are  spiritual  are 
those  that  remain.  So  we  will  find  by 
and  by,  when  we  understand  things  as 
God  understands  them,  that  they  are 
all  eternal  in  His  sight;  for  His  eyes 
penetrate  to  the  essence  of  things, 
while  we  can  only  see  things  on  the 
surface.  The  things  that  pass  away 
from  our  gaze,  caught  up  as  it  were  fn 
the  air  and  passing  out  of  sight,  like 
the  vapors  of  the  sea  drawn  up  by  the 
sun— the  elements  of  these  things  re- 
main and  abide,  and  cannot  be  annihi- 
lated. Not  one  particle  of  matter  can 
be  annihilated;  not  one  particle  of  spirit 
can  be  annihilated;  for  they  are  eter- 
nal. They  always  were,  in  their  essen- 
tial particles,  in  their  primary  elements, 
and  they  always  will  abide,  though 
their  forms  may  be  changed  by  the 
power  of  the  great  Creator.  The  Lord 
tells  us  in  His  revelations,  as  you  will 
find  in  the  131st  section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  that  we  shall  find  some 


time,  when  we  can  see  things  properly, 
that  all  are  to  that  extent  material 
that  they  exist  and  do  not  pass  away; 
that  spirit  is  matter  of  a  refined  and 
purified  nature,  different  from  that  which 
•we  call  matter.  There  are  two  primary 
divisions,  we  may  say,  in  the  universe 
—spirt  and  matter;  or,  as  the  Lord 
calls  them,  spirit  and  element.  God  has 
to  do  with  both.  He  organized  both, 
He  rules  over  both,  and  gives  laws  in 
relation  to  both.  And  it  is  only  by  the 
eternal,  inseparable  union  of  the  spirit' 
ual  and  the  material,  or  elementary, 
that  perfect  happiness  can  come.  So 
God  our  heavenly  Father,  who  is  the 
Father  of  our  spirits  with  whom  we 
dwelt,  with  Jesus  Christ  our  Eldei 
Brother,  before  the  foundations  of 
this  earth  were  laid  is  the 
Father  of  our  spirits  and  the  framer 
and  former  of  our  bodies.  He  prepared 
this  earth  for  our  abode.  He  brought 
together  the  chaotic  particles,  which 
now  are  a  solid  globe  governed  by  His 
laws.  He  brought  forth  the  earth  at 
the  right  time  and  in  the  right  place, 
that  it  might  keep  up  the  equilibrium 
necessary  to  be  maintained  in  the 
worlds  that  He  created  before.  He 
formed  this  earth  for  us,  His  children, 
that  we  might  come  here  and  obtain  a 
portion  of  it,  organized  according  to 
the  laws  of  generation,  which  we  will 
find  also  are  eternal;  that  we  might 
have  a  portion  of  the  elements  of  this 
globe  to  fashion  these  bodies,  in  which 
our  eternal,  immortal  spirits  might  en- 
ter, and  that  we  might  claim  ttiem  as 
ours,  when  the  great  change  that  w* 
call  death  that  must  pass  upon  all  peo- 
ple shall  come.  It  is  necessary  for  our 
education,  for  our  experience,  that  we 
might  know  what  it  is.  When  that 
change  comes,  and  the  spirit  of  man  is 
separated  from  the  body,  that  is  not 
the  end  of  the  body,  any  more  than  it^s 
the  end  of  the  spirit;  but  at  the  wor3 
of  the  Lord,  whose  word  formed  this 
organized  globe  out  of  chaos,  our  bodies 
shall  be  brought  forth  again,  and  Oi8 
particles  that  belong  to  each  other  and 
which  are  essential  to  the  organization 
of  these  bodies,  will  be  brought  from 
the  dust,  and  the  spirit  and  the  body 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


will  be  reunited.  We  will  then  stand  in 
the  presence  of  God,  and  all  he  rele- 
gated to  our  respective  spheres— the 
places  we  have  prepared  ourselves  fui 
by  our  earthly  acts. 

New,  I  want  to  emphasize  the  point 
and  make  it  clear  to  your  minds,  if  1 
can,  that  these  bodies  that  God  has  giv- 
en iis,  fashioned  though  they  be  out  of 
dust,  and  to  all  appearances  are  merely 
temporal,  are  bodies  which  we  shall 
have  in  the  world  to  come.  Our  inheri- 
tance will  be  with  them.  Therefore, 
God  gives  us  laws  for  their  government 
now.  He  gives  laws  for  the  govern- 
ment of  each  individual  as  an  entity. 
He  gives  laws  for  the  government 
of  His  Church,  as  a  collective  body. 
He  places  at  the  head  of  it  a  man  to 
receive  His  word,  whenever  He  de- 
signs to  give  His  word  to  the  people; 
and  we  have  a  man  now  who  is  capable, 
ready  and  willing,  and  who  has  the 
authority,  the  keys  and  the  power  to 
receive  the  word  of  God,  whether  by 
His  own  voice,  by  the  voice  of  angels, 
by  the  manifestation  of  visions,  or  by 
the  power  and  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
by  which  holy  men  of  old  spoke  and 
wrote.  God  will  give  us  laws  for  our 
government,  not  only  in  relation  to 
these  things  that  people  call  spiritual, 
but  also  in  relation  to  what  we  call 
temporalities;  for  He  recognizes  us  as 
we  are.  We  are  His  children,  and  we 
need  to  be  guided  and  directed  in  all 
our  works  and  ways.  The  silver  and 
the  gold,  the  metals  of  every  kind,  the 
wheat  and  the  fine  flour,  the  cattle  on 
a  thousand  hills,  and  all  things 
that  the  earth  produces,  the 
Lord  says  are  His.  And  they 
are;  for  He  made  them,  and  He 
has  care  over  them  all.  To  think  that 
God  cares  for  nothing  but  singing  and 
praying,  and  that  some  time  we  will 
sit  on  the  corner  of  a  cloud  twanging 
a  harp  through  all  eternity,  and  that  is 
to  be  our  heaven,  is  an  absurdity  to 
my  mind.  We  will  be  living  beings, 
with  a  body  as  well  as  a  spirit,  in  the 
image  of  our  God.  As  the  Apostle  John 
said,  "Beloved,  now  are  we  the  sons 
of  God;  and  it  doth  not  yet  appear  what 
we  shall  be,  but  we  know  that  when 


he  appears  we  shall  be  like  him;  for 
we  shall  see  him  as  he  is.  And  every 
man  that  hath  this  hope,  purifieth  him- 
self, even  as  he  is  pure."  That  is  the 
lesson.  God  has  given  these  bodies  to 
us  to  be  preserved  in  purity,  according 
to  the  laws  He  has  given  us  by  revela- 
tion and  in  nature.  We  are  to  govern 
ourselves  by  the  laws  of  God,  revealed 
ficm  on  high,  and  by  the  laws  of  na- 
ture, and  make  ourselves  just  as  happy 
and  as  comfortable  as  we  can  under 
the  circumstances  in  which  we  are 
placed.  Do  right  to  one  another.  Let 
no  man  infringe  upon  the  rights  of  his 
neighbor;  regard  every  man's  rights  as 
sacred,  understanding  that  we  are  all 
the  children  of  our  heavenly  Father, 
all  brethren  and  sisters,  whether  we  are 
Latter-day  Saints  or  latter-day  sinners; 
but  more  especially  should  our  love  and 
affection  and  help  be  extended  to  the 
household  of  faith,  to  those  who  have 
been  baptized  into  Christ,  and  have  put 
on  Christ,  and  have  become  part  of 
Him. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the 
Lord  has  given  us  a  law  in  regard  to 
the  management  of  the  temporalities 
of  the  Church,  which  is  the  law  of  tith- 
ing. It  is  not  a  new  law.  It  was  not 
invented  by  Joseph  F.  Smith,  nor  by 
Joseph  the  Seer.  It  existed  in  the  days 
of  Christ.  It  existed  in  the  days  of 
Moses.  It  existed  in  the  days  of  Abra- 
ham. Abraham  paid  tithes.  To  whom? 
To  Melchisedek,  the  priest  of  the  Most 
High  God.  And  we  have  no  account 
anywhere  of  Abraham  demanding  an 
account  of  how  Melchisedek  handled 
the  tithes.  In  the  days  of  Moses,  you 
will. read  in  the  14th  chapter  of  Num- 
bers (I  have  not  time  to  turn  to  these 
passages;  you  can  read  them  when  you 
go  home)  what  the  tithes  were  for. 
They  were  given  to  the  sons  of  Levi. 
You  can  read  about  it  also  in  the  New 
Testament,  in  the  Vth  chapter  of  He- 
brews. If  you  want  to  know  the  bless- 
ings that  came  when  the  people  paid 
their  tithes,  read  the  30th  chapter  of  II 
Chronicles.  These  tithes  were  given 
to  the  men  that  God  appointed,  arid 
they  handled  them  as  sacred  things, 
and  they  had  the  power  and  authority 


ELDER  C.  W.  PENROSE. 


73 


to  administer  them  as  the  Lord  decreed. 
In  the  last  chapter  of  Malachi,  as 
you  are  well  aware,  the  Lord  reproach- 
ed the  people  in  that  day  because  they 
had  neglected  to  pay  their  tithes.  He 
said  they  had  robbed  Him.  "Will  a 
man  rob  God?  Yet  ye  have  robbed  me. 
Wherein  have  we  robbed  thee?  In 
tithes  and  in  offerings.  Bring  ye  all 
the  tithes  into  my  storehouse,  that 
there  may  be  meat  therein,  and  I  will 
open  the  windows  of  heaven,  and  I  will 
pour  you  out  a  blessing,  that  there 
shall  not  be  room  enough  to  receive  it. 
And  I  will  rebuke  the  devourer  for  your 
sakes;  and  it  shall  no  longer  destroy 
the  fruits  of  your  ground,  and  all  na- 
tions shall  call  you  a  delightsome  peo- 
pe;  for  ye  shall  be  a  blessed  people, 
saith  the  Lord  of  hosts." 

In  the  last  days,  the  Lord  in  the  be- 
ginning gave  the  law  of  consecration, 
and  the  people  of  Israel  in  the  last 
days  were  slow  to  hearken  to  the  com- 
mandments of  God,  as  Israel  was  in  the 
days  of  Moses;  so  the  Lord  introduced 
afterwards  the  law  of  tithing,  which 
you  will  find  in  the  119th  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants.  And  the  Lord 
tells  us  what  it  is  for.  For  the  laying 
•of  the  foundations  of  Zion,  and  also  to 
pay  the  debts  of  my  Priesthood,  the 
Presidency,  saith  the  Lord.  You  read  it 
now,  and  find  out  what  the  Lord  says 
tithing  is  for.  Read  the  120th  section, 
and  you  will  see  how  the  Lord  said  it 
should  be  disbursed  at  that  time.  That 
was  in  Zion,  Jackson  county,  when  they 
first  went  there.  Of  late  years,  the_ 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  in  conference  assembled,  has/ 
voted  for  the  power  to  handle  the  funds 
of  the  Church  and  the  properties  of 
the  Church  by  the  Trustee-in-trust  for 
the  Church.  You  have  done  that  dur- 
ing this  conference.  We  did  it  years 
and  years  ago.  We  have  done  it  every 
conference  from  the  time  we  came  into 
•  these  vales  of  the  mountains.  Now  let 
me  say  that  the  authority  is  given  of 
God  to  the  man  that  stands  at  the 
head  of  this  Church,  to  preside  over  the 
whole  Church,  and  to  be  like  unto 
Moses.  He  is  a  prophet,  and  a  seer, 
and  a  revelator,  and  everything  in  the 


Church  is  under  his  direction.  The 
Bishops  receive  the  tithing.  The  Pre- 
siding bishopric  handle  and  keep  an  ac- 
count of  it.  But  the  Trustee-in-Trust 
is  voted  upon  by  the  people  to  have 
the  control  and  direction  and  to  be 
responsible  for  all  the  funds  and  prop- 
erties of  the  Church.  We  have  en- 
dorsed that  authority  during  this  con- 
ference, as  we  always  have  done.  It 
is  no  new  thing.  Now,  I  bear  my  tes- 
timony, from  what  I  know,  that  the 
man  who  stands  at  the  head  of  this 
Church  is  honest,  honorable,  upric;* 
careful,  full  of  tenderness  and  kind- 
ness to  the  poor.  Thousands  and 
thousands  of  dollars  out  of  the  tith- 
ing are  expended  for  the  benefit  of  the 
poor;  but  you  cannot  find  a  com- 
mand anywhere  in  the  revelations  of 
God  to  the  Church  that  says  the  tun- 
ings are  for  that  purpose.  The  Lord 
says  that  the  rich  are  to  be  humbled 
for  the  benefit  of  the  poor.  He  says 
also  that  the  people  are  to  fast  and 
to  bestow  their  offerings  for  the  poor. 
You  can  read  about  that  in  the  Book 
of  Isaiah,  58th  chap.  But  thousands 
of  dollars  from  the  tithing  are  ex- 
pended for  the  sustenance  of  the  poor, 
as  well  as  the  fast  offerings  and  the 
Relief  society  gatherings.  We  want 
to  understand  these  things  and  look 
into  them,  and  not  be  led  away  by  any 
will-o'-the-wisp  or  jack-o'-lantern  that 
may  come  along.  Get  the  true  light. 
Let  that  day  star  arise  in  your  hearts 
that  the  Apostle  Peter  spoke  of.  We 
have  also  a  more  sure  word  of  proph- 
ecy, he  says,  "which  is  like  unto  a 
light  shining  in  a  dark  place,  where- 
unto  ye  would  do  well  that  ye  take 
heed,  until  the  day  dawn,  and  the  day 
star  arise  in  your  hearts;  knowing  this 
first,  that  no  prophecy  of  the  scrip 
ture  is  of  private  interpretation,  an-' 
that  holy  men  of  old  spoke  as  thev 
were  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost." 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the 
power  of  God,  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord, 
which  declares  His  mind  and  His  will, 
has  been  with  us  during  this  confer- 
ence. Every  man  who  holds  the 
Priesthood  has  a  right  to  its  inspira- 
tions, if  he  will  listen  to  them.  Every 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


man  and  woman  in  Israel,  every  soul 
baptized  into  the  Church,  has  the  right 
to  the  guidance  of  that  Spirit.  And  I 
will  say  for  this  congregation,  that 
during  our  conference  that  Holy  Spirit 
has  rested  down  upon  our  souls  and 
borne  witness  to  the  truth  of  the 
things  we  have  heard,  and  we  feel  in 
our  hearts  thankful  to  God  that  we 
have  a  man  to  stand  at  the  head  of 
the  Church  who  is  imbued  with  the 
spirit  of  his  office  and  calling,  who  has 
power  with  God  and  power  with  man, 
and  in  whom  we  can  repose  the  utmost 
confidence.  There  is  no  need  for  me  to 
dwell  further  on  that  point. 

My  soul  is  full  of  rejoicing;  not  ray 
spirit  merely,  but  my  whole  soul  is 
imbued  with  the  spirit  of  this  work. 
I  love  it  with  all  my  heart.  I  have 
done  so  from  my  boyhood.  I  desire  to 
spend  the  rest  of  my  days,  as  in  the 
past,  in  the  service  of  this  Church.  T 
know  it  is  true.  I  know  it  has  come 
from  God.  I  know  it  will  prevail,  and 
the  opposition  that  may  come  against 
it  will  only  accelerate  its  progress. 
It  will  bind  and  knit  the  Saints  of  God 
together  as  one.  The  power  and  bless- 
ing of  the  Lord  will  be  upon  us,  if  we 
will  pursue  the  right  course.  Let  us 
remember  that  we  are  the  children  of 
God,  in  body  as  well  as  in  spirit;  that 
God  expects  usi  to  preserve  ourselves 
in  purity  of  life  and  holiness  of  charac- 
ter and  conduct;  that  we  will  put  away 
from  us  as  fast  as  we  can  the  weak- 
nesses and  frailties  that  we  have  inher- 
ited from  our  ancestors,  and  every- 
thing contrary  to  His  mind  and  will; 
that  we  will  dwell  together  in  love,  that 
we  will  serve  Him  with  our  might, 
mind  and  strength,  and  love  our  neigh- 
bora  as  ourselves,  and  pursue  the 
course  that  He  marks  out,  whether  in 
temporal  or  in  spiritual  things;  for 
they  arel  all  spiritual  with  Him.  As 
for  me,  I  will  endeavor  with  all  my 
might  to  serve  the  Lord,  and  help 
others  to  do  so,  if  I  can.  I  feel  full  of 
love  and  confidence  and  kindness  to- 
wards my  brethren  and  sisters.  I  know 
these  Latter-day  Saints  are  a  good 
people.  I  know  they  want  to  serve  the 
Lord  and  abide  in  the  covenant  where- 


with God  has  made  them  free.  And 
God  will  bless  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  in  your  basket  and  in  your 
store,  in  your  homes,  in  your  fields  and 
farms.  Your  flocks  and  herds  will  in- 
crease, your  substance  will  increase, 
and  God  will  bless  you  in  the  payment 
of  your  tithes  and  your  offerings, 
which  are  voluntary  and  a  free  will 
offering,  as  your  receipts  show;  and 
when  they  are  made  they  are  under 
the  direction  of  the  authorities  of  the 
Church,  and  the  responsible  person  is 
the  Trustee-in-Trust,  whom  God  has 
appointed  and  whom  you  have  sus- 
tained. 

Now,  may  the  peace  and  blessing  of 
God,  which  passeth  all  understanding, 
rest  down  upon  you.  May  we  be  true 
and  faithful  in  all  things.  May  we 
serve  the  Lord  with  our  bodies  and  our 
spirits,  which  are  His.  And  may  we 
endure  and  overcome  and  be  prepared 
for  the  great  day  when  the  veil  of  the 
covering  shall  be  taken  away  and  we 
will  see  our  Savior  and  our  Father  in 
heaven,  and  recognize  them  again,  al- 
though we  have  for  some  time  been 
from  their  presence.  And  the  Lord 
will  glorify  the  earth,  and  purify  it. 
and  purge  out  all  that  is  evil  by  fire, 
and  make  a  new  heaven  and  a  new 
earth,  wherein  dwelleth  righteousness. 
But  the  temporal  and  the  spiritual  will 
be  joined  together,  and  they  will  be  so 
eternally.  Then  we  will  receive  a  ful- 
ness of  joy,  and  be  crowned  at  His 
right  hand  with  all  things  that  have 
been  promised  unto  us,  and  many 
things  that  we  have  never  heard  of 
and  that  we  cannot  conceive  of.  God 
help  us  to  be  worthy  of  these  blessings, 
through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Smith,  in  announcing  the 
closing  hymn,  said: 

"It  is  proposed  that  this  is  the  end  of 
one  of  the  best  conferences  ever  held  in 
the  Church,  so  far  as  we  have  any  rec- 
ord, and  that  it  now  be  adjourned  for 
six  months."  He  called  for  a  vote, 
which  was  eagerly  and  enthusiastically 
given  by  the  thousands  composing  the 
congregation. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn,  "Peace, 
be  still." 


GENERAL   CONFERENCE.  75 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  John  The  stenographic  work  in  taking-  an 
Smith,  presiding  Patriarch  of  the  account  of  the  proceedings  was  done  by- 
Church.  Eider  Arthur  Winter. 

The    conference    adjourned    for    six  JOHN  NICHOLSON, 

months.  Clerk  of  Conference. 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 


Its  Semi-Annual  Conference,  Held  in  the  Tabernacle, 
Sunday  Evening,  April  9,  1905. 


The  regular  semi-annual  conference 
of  the  Sunday  schools  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Sunday  evening,  April  9,  1905,  at  7 
o'clock,  General  Superintendent  Joseph 
F.  Smith  presiding. 

Present:  Of  the  general  superintend- 
ency,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  George  Reyn- 
olds, Joseph  M.  Tanner;  most  of  the 
members  of  the  Deseret  Sunday  School 
Union  Board,  several  Apostles,  and  a 
congregation  which  taxed  the  capacity 
of  the  Tabernacle. 

The  Ogden  Tabernacle  choir,  under 
the  direction  of  Elder  Joseph  Ballan- 
tyne,  sang  the  Sunday  school  song, 
"True  to  the  Faith,"  composed  by  El- 
der Evan  Stephens. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Charles 
J.  Ross. 

Anthem,  "Lord  of  Heaven"— Ogden 
Tabernacle  choir. 

Secretary  George  D.  Pyper  called  the 
roll  of  stakes — 50  out  of  55  answered 
present.  The  following  missions  were 
also  represented:  California,  Colorado, 
Eastern  states,  Japan  and  the  North- 
western states. 

The  secretary  also  read  the  following 
items  culled  from  the  1904  annual  report 
of  Sunday  schools: 

Total  number  of  Sunday  schools  in. 
the  Church,  1,085,  an  increase  of  27 
schools  since  the  previous  report.  The 
reports  show  a  total  of  106,212  souls  in 
the  wards  between  the  ages  of  4  and  20 
years,  and  of  these  89,031  are  enrolled 
in  the  Sunday  schools,  leaving  the  num- 
ber not  enrolled  at  17,181.  School  ses- 
sions held  46,599.  Total  number  of  offi- 
cers and  teachers  17,219,  an  increase  of 
948  over  1903;  average  per  cent  of  at- 


tendance, 70.  Male  pupils,  57,969;  fe- 
male pupils,  61,338— total  119,309— an  in- 
crease of  3,819.  There  were  3,369  more 
girls  than  boys  in  the  schools  last  year. 
Stake  and  general  officers  not  enrolled 
in  the  Sunday  schools,  473;  grand  total, 
136,999— a  total  increase  of  4,811.  Num- 
ber of  Latter-day  Saint  children  over 
eight  years  of  age  not  baptized,  2,085. 
Eighty-four  per  cent  of  the  officers  and 
pupils  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and 
ninety-four  per  cent  of  the  officers  and 
teachers  are  tithe-payers.  "Volumes  in 
Sunday  school  circulating  libraries  25,- 
664 — an  increase  of  2,918  during  the  year. 

Secretary  George  D.  Pyper  then  pre- 
sented the  officers  of  the  Deseret  S.  S. 
Union, who  were  unanimously  sustained 
as  follows: 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  general  superintend- 
ent; George  Reynolds,  first  assistant 
general  superintendent;  Jos.  M.  Tanner, 
second  assistant  general  superintend- 
ent; Joseph  F.  Smith,  George  Reynolds, 
Joseph  M.  Tanner,  Joseph  W.  Summer- 
hays,  Levi  W.  Richards,  Francis  M. 
Lyman,  Heber  J.  Grant,  George  Teas- 
dale,  Hugh  J.  Cannon,  Andrew  Kim- 
ball, John  W.  Taylor,  James  W.  Ure. 
John  F.  Bennett,  John  M.  Mills,  Wil- 
liam D.  Owen,  Seymour  B.  Young, 
George  D.  Pyper,  Henry  Peterson,  An- 
thon  H.  Lund,  John  R.  Winder,  James 
E.  Talmage,  George  M.  Cannon,  Horace 
Cummings,  Josiah  Burrows,  Wm.  A. 
Morton,  members  of  the  board;  George 
D.  Pyper,  general  secretary;  Wm.  A. 
Morton,  assistant  secretary;  George 
Reynolds,  treasurer;  William  A.  Mor- 
ton, business  manager;  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  editor  Juvenile  Instructor; 
George  Reynolds,  Jos.  M.  Tanner,  as- 
sistant editors;  George  D.  Pyper,  busi- 
ness manager  Juvenile  Instructor. 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


TT 


The  Ogden  Tabernacle  choir  sang  "O, 
Italia,"  Elder  James  E.  Talmage  then 
spoke  as  follows  on 

THEOLOGY  AND  RELIGION. 

The  topic  just  announced  appears  in 
the  published  list  of  prescribed  subjects 
on  which  papers  are  to  be  prepared  for 
presentation  at  the  appointed  district 
conventions  of  Sunday  school  workers. 
Already  many  questions  and  general 
inquiries  have  come  up  in  connection 
with  the  listing  of  this  subject,  and  it 
may  be  the  consideration  of  this  fact 
that  has  caused  the  committee  in 
charge  to  give  place  on  the  program  for 
this  brief  comment. 

The  terms  "theology"  and  "religion" 
are  admittedly  used  in  varied  applica- 
tions and  with  meaning  ranging  from 
that  of  synonyms  to  that  of  complete 
contrast  and  difference. 

By  derivation,  "theology"  is  the  name 
of  a  science — the  science  dealing  with 
man's  knowledge  of  God  and  necessari- 
ly comprising  consideration  of  the  re- 
lationship existing  between  God  and 
His  offspring — man. 

In  this  connection  let  it  be  remem- 
bered that  the  term  "science"  is  not  in- 
frequently misapplied.  It  does  not  mean 
mere  knowledge;  discriminated  facts 
though  bearing  on  the  same  subject, 
and  perhaps  each  of  great  importance, 
do  not  constitute  a  science.  By  way 
of  illustration:  The  uncivilized  Indian 
has  much  knowledge  of  the  plants  and 
animals  with  which  his  mode  of  life 
insures  him  a  close  acquaintance.  He 
is  able  to  tell  you  just  where. the  early 
flowers  are  most  likely  to  be  found; 
he  knows  the  habitat  and  properties 
of  his  medicinal  herbs;  the  haunts  of 
the  different  kinds  of  birds,  and  the 
habits  of  the  wild  beasts.  Yet  he  can- 
not be  credited  with  skill  as  a  bot- 
anist or  zoologist. 

Take  a  further  analogy:  A  house  is 
more  than  a  simple  collection  of  build- 
ing stuff.  Though  stone  and  brick, 
wood,  iron  and  glass,  mortar  and  plas- 
ter, and  all  else  required  in  the  way  of 
actual  material  were  brought  together 
and  piled  or  stacked  on  the  selected 
site,  there  yet  would  be  no  house.  First, 
the  ground  must  be  prepared,  then  the 


foundation  stones  are  to  be  set,  each 
in  its  place,  true  to  square  and  com- 
pass; the  bricks  are  laid  course  on 
course,  then  the  roof  is  placed  on  the 
supportiag  walls,  and  other  operations 
follow  in  their  order. 

Demonstrated  facts — the  substance  of 
knowledge— are  the  building  blocks  of 
which  the  particular  science  comprising 
them  is  constructed.  A  science  there- 
fore implies  a  collated  collection  of 
facts — knowledge  that  is  so  classified 
and  arranged  as  to  show  forth  the  re- 
lation of  part  to  part  and  of  all  the 
parts  to  the  whole. 

Theology,  then,  regarded  as  a  sep- 
arate and  distinct  science,  comprises 
our  collated  and  classified  knowledge 
as  to  "the  being  and  attributes  of  God, 
His  relations  to  us,  the  dispensations  of 
His  providence,  His  will  in  respect  to 
our  actions,  and  His  purposes  with  re- 
spect to  our  end." 

Through  the  prevalent  disregard  of 
this  relationship  between  facts  and 
truths  the  power  to  see  things  in  their 
proper  perspective  is  weakened  or  lost; 
and  the  man  of  a  single  idea  magnifies 
to  distortion  a  fragment  of  a  great 
truth,  and  darkens  his  vision  to  alL 
else. 

The  acceptance  of  theological  truths 
implies,  of  course,  a  belief  that  they  are 
what  they  are  claimed  to  be;  but  such 
belief  may  be  little  more  than  mental 
assent  or  acceptance,  having  to  do 
therefore  with  the  intellect  rather  than 
with  the  heart  of  man. 

Religion  is  the  actual  living  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  laws  of  God,  whether 
those  laws  have  been  studied  as  theo- 
logical propositions  or  not.  Religion 
is  primarily  based  on  faith  and  abiding 
trust  in  Deity,  not  on  mere  belief  such 
as  may  spring  from  the  intellect  and 
be  wholly  lacking  in  the  conviction  of 
the  heart. 

The  jurist  or  the  statesman  may  have 
given  long  and  mature  study  to  the 
science  of  the  law;  he  may  have  become 
conversant  with  the  codes  of  every  na- 
tion, existing  and  ancient;  he  may  be 
intellectually  strong  as  an  authority  on 
intricacies  of  legal  construction,  an  ac- 
cepted arbiter  on  difficult  questions  in, 
controversy,  nevertheless  he  may  be  a 


78 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


wanton,  wilful  violator  of  the  very  laws 
he  helped  to  frame.  It  is  not  enough 
that  he  win  triumph  in  polemic  dis- 
cussion as  to  the  philosophy  of  the  laws 
against  theft,  licentiousness  homi- 
cide, for  in  spite  of  such  skill  and  abil- 
ity, he  may  yet  be  a  robber,  a  liber- 
tine, a  murderer.  Indeed,  I  have  not 
learned  that  lawyers  and  statesmen 
have  won  for  themselves  a  distinctive 
position  of  supremacy  among  law-abid- 
ing citizens,  nor  am  I  convinced  that 
only  by  conning  the  tomes  of  legal  lore 
or  by  graduating  from  a  law  school,  can 
I  hope  to  live  in  accordance  with  the 
laws  of  my  country. 

So,  too,  the  objective  study  of  the- 
ology, the  investigation  of  theological 
principles  by  the  effort  of'  the  mind 
alone  may  fail  to  warm  the  heart  with 
even  the  faintest  glow  of  religious  fer- 
vor, and  may  never  enlighten  the  soul 
with  the  purifying,  germ-destroying 
beams  from  the  source  divine. 

Satan  himself  has  shown  much  craft 
as  a  theologian,  and  has  established 
a  reputation  as  an  arch  accuser.  He 
quoted  Scripture  to  the  Christ  in  the 
hour  of  physical  weakness  following 
the  long  weeks  of  fasting  in  the  wilder- 
ness, and  sought  by  misapplication  to 
cite  argument  and  reason  in  his  attempt 
to  thwart  the  purposes  of  the  Father. 

Religion,  I  repeat,  is  more  than 
knowledge,  though  that  knowledge  be 
classified  and  codified,  and  annotated  to 
perfection.  Religion  is  the  application 
of  the  laws  of  God  in  our  lives,  the 
living  up  to  all  we  have  learned  as  to 
our  duty,  and  it  entails  the  obligation 
to  so  live  until  right  life  is  a  part  of 
our  natures  and  calls  not  for  rule  and 
rote  at  every  turn.  The  religious  man, 
with  the  love  of  God  in  his  soul,  pursues 
his  life  of  service  and  righteousness 
without  stopping  to  ask  by  what  rule 
or  law  each  act  is  prescribed  or  for- 
bidden. 

Now  a  word  as  to  the  teaching  of 
theology  and  the  inculcation  of  the 
spirit  of  true  religion  in  our  Sunday 
school  work.  Remember  that  the  pur- 
pose of  the  great  causd  we  represent 
in  this  organization  is  to  develop  in 
every  soul  the  testimony  of  eternal 
truth,  and  the  spirit  of  true  religion. 


Under  that  influence  the  subject-mat- 
ter of  our  theology  may  be  investigat- 
ed to  the  fullest  possible  extent,  for 
the  application  of  every  added  truth 
will  follow  as  the  student  advances. 
The  subjects  to  be  studied  in  a  course 
in  theology  are  of  themselves  sa- 
cked to  the  religiously-inclined,  and 
will  be  treated  with  the  sanctity  they 
deserve.  While  plainly  proper  sub- 
jects for  earnest,  truth  seeking  investi- 
gation, the  laws  of  God  are  not  to  be 
made  topics  of  acrimonious  debate  and 
ill-Snspired  discussion,  in  which  the 
struggle  is  for  triumph  rather  than 
truth.  Let  culture  in  theology  and 
nurture  in  religion  be  given  together. 
"  Theology  may  develop  strength,  re- 
ligion insures  health  of  soul.  Consider 
the  definition  written  by  the  inspira- 
tion of  olden  times:  "Pure  religion  and 
undeflled  before  God  and  the  Father  is 
this, — to  visit  the  fatherless  and  widows 
in  their  affliction,  and  to  keep  himself 
unspotted  fi'om  thef  world]."  (James 
.1:27). 

The  religion  professed  by  tire  Latter- 
day  Saints  is  distinctly  practical.  Our 
profession  demands  thai  we  be  honest, 
true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and 
that  we  seek  to  do  good  to  all;  that  we 
shall  strive  after  all  that  is  virtuous, 
lovely,  of  good  report  and  praiseworthy. 

Among  the  questions  that  have  al- 
ready risen  from  the  presentation  of 
this  subject  to  Sunday  school  workers, 
is  one  upon  which  I  am  asked  specifi- 
cally to  speak.  It  is  this:  Is  it  not 
true  that  our  religion  does  not  differ 
materially  from  that  of  any  other  de- 
nomination, while  our  theology  does? 
My  personal  answer  to  this  direct 
question  is  simple  and  terse:  No!  such 
is  not  true.  To  me  the  religion  taught 
by  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  is  essentially  different  from 
that  professed  by  other  sects,  even  the 
other  sects  that  are  called  Christian. 
True,  we  in  common  with  them  recog- 
nize the  uSual  requirements  as  to  the 
morals  of  life,  and  denounce  immor- 
ality as  wholly  inconsistent  with  re- 
ligious profession,  but  morality  is  but  a 
part  of  our  religion,  though  as  such  a 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


7!) 


part  strict  morality  is  essential  and 
imperative. 

Our  religion  embraces  more  than  the 
codified  moral  law  as  usually  under- 
stood, it  comprises  right  living  accord- 
ing to  the  intuitions  of  righteousness 
inborn,  and  the  added  active,  positive 
compliance  with  the  revealed  law  of 
God.  And  by  one  of  the  most  prom- 
inent declarations  of  our  doctrine  and 
practise  we  hold  ourselves  ready  to  re- 
ceive other  revelations  as  to  the  will  of 
God  respecting  us.  "We  claim  that  our 
Church  is  the  only  church  on  earth 
authorized  to  bear  the  title  "The 
Church  of  Jesus  Cnrist,"  that  it  is  the 
sole  repository  of  the  holy  Priesthood, 
and  therfore  the  one  Church  through 
which  the  gifts  and  blessings  of  the 
Priesthood  are  manifested. 

But,  the  questioner  may  yet  ask — is 
this  not  a  distinction  between  our  the- 
ology and  the  theologies  of  other  so- 
called  churches  rather  than  a  differ- 
ence between  our  religion  and  the  re- 
ligions of  other  people?  The  difference 
is  a  vital  one,  both  in  theological  sys- 
tem and  religious  practice.  The  man 
who  accepts  the  distinction  between 
this  people  and  other  sects  as  one  of 
cold  theologic  law  alone  and  not  as 
one  entering  into  his  practise  as  a  pro- 
fessed member  of  this  Church  is  not 
imbued  with  the  spirit  of  this  latter-day 
gospel,  the  spirit  of  the  new  and  ever- 
lasting covenant;  and  to  him  I  would 
answer  the  question  personally — there 
may  not  be  much  to  distinguish  your 
religion  from  that  of  others  who  pro- 
fess less. 

There  is  a  dangerous  tendency  mani- 
fested by  ' a  few  of  our  people  to  regard 
their  religion  less  and  less  as  a  distinc- 
tive system,  their  Church  as  but  one 
among  many  churches,  and  their  re- 
sponsibilities as  not  different  from 
those  of  people  in  no  wise  claiming  to 
be  children  of  the  covenant.  Tolera- 
tion of  the  beliefs  of  others  is  a  car- 
dinal feature  of  our  profession;  we 
claim  the  rights  of  worship  and  re- 
ligious practise  for  ourselves,  and  ac- 
cord such  to  others  freely  and  without 
discrimination.  But  however  I  may 
strive  to  secure  religious  freedom  for 


myself  and  others,  I  cannot  lose  sight 
of  the  fact  that  to  me  my  Church  is  the 
one  and  only  Church  offering-  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Priesthood  of  God  and  the 
promise  of  continued  tuition  and  in- 
struction by  increasing  revelation  of 
His  truth. 

May  the  unhindered  progress  of  our 
Sunday  school  work  speedily  develop 
such  a  system  of  instruction,  both  by 
precept  and  example,  that  the  youth  of 
Zion  shall  become  learned  in  the  law 
of  the  gospel  and  valiant  in  the  prac- 
tise thereof  the  working  out  of  goodly 
lives  in  the  flesh,  and  to  the  securing 
of  eternal  lives  in  the  celestial  home. 

Recitation — The  Teachers  Dream,  by 
Elder  John  B.  Maiben. 

Organ  Solo — Pilgrim's  Song  of  Hope, 
by  Elder  J.  J.  McClellan. 

THE   SPIRIT  IN   SUNDAY  SCHOOL 
WORK. 

By  Assistant  Superintendent  J.  M. 
Tanner. 

I  am  very  much  gratified  to  see  so 
many  present  tonight.  Brother  Tal- 
mage  has  been  asking  you  to  consider 
the  marked  and  important  difference 
between  religiojj  and  theology.  The  sub- 
ject assigned  to  me  is  akin  to  that 
upon  which  he  has  been  discoursing; 
and  one  of  the  reasons  for  making  this 
subject  prominent  is  the  fear  that  in 
the  highly  organized  condition  of  our 
■Sabbath  schools  at  the  present  time, 
our  workers  may  misunderstand  our 
purposes.  We  are  now  on  the  third 
year  of  the  Outlines,  which  call  for 
study,  for  technical  consideration,  and 
which  require  preparation  at  the  hands 
of  both  teachers  and  students;  and 
we  may  become  very  proficient  in  our 
knowledge  of  the  scriptures,  and  yet  it 
is  possible  that  some  may  lose  some 
of  the  purposes  or  results  of  the  scrip- 
tural teachings  in  our  Sabbath  school 
by  losing  sight  of  the  spirit  of  its  cul- 
tivation. Then  again,  we  have  our 
prayer  meetings  at  nine  forty-five 
o'clock,  and  these  are  intended  to  create 
a  spirit  of  devotion  and  worship  in 
the  hearts  of  the  teachers  before  they 
begin  the  lessons  of  the  morning.  And 
yet   these   prayer  meetings  and  these 


80 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


Outlines  may  not  result  in  the  spiritual 
growth  of  our  children  as  we  would  like 
to  have  them.  And  the  question  nat- 
urally arises,  how  shall  we  use  them 
so  as  to  promote  the  spiritual  life  that 
our  children  need,  and  plant  in  their 
hearts  the  love  of  God? 

There  is  danger  even  in  the  Outline 
studies.  I  think  I  may  say  that  the 
general  tendency  of  modern  teaching 
is  towards  skepticism,  even  in  the  very 
subjects  that  are  taught  in  the  class 
rooms.  And  why?  Because  the  atti- 
tude that  the  student  takes  is  a  criti- 
cal one.  The  process  is  analytical— he  is 
dissecting  the  subject  to  find  out  its 
weak  points,  to  bring  up  questions  that 
may  be  discussed  and  give  opportunity 
for  controversy;  and  that  method  of 
treating  secular  subjects  in  the  great 
institutions  of  learning  the  the  world 
gives  rise  to  skepticism,  and  I  dare 
venture  the  /statement  that  a  very 
small  per  cent  of  our  young  people  in 
the  land  come  from  these  institutions 
free  from  disbelief  in  divine  things. 

Now,  very  much  depends  in  our  theo- 
logical studies  upon  the  attitude  that 
we  take  toward  them.  Anything  that 
colors  of  controversy  in  our  classes  in 
the  Sabbath  school,  anything  that  tends 
to  argument  has  in  it  a  tendency  to 
destroy  the  spiritual  life  of  the  class, 
so  we  must  be  careful  about  the  at- 
titude that  we  take  toward  the  sub- 
jects that  we  are  discusing.  What  at- 
titude should  we  asume?  It  should 
be  one  of  admiration.  We  should  see 
beauty  and  love  and  goodness  in  the 
things  that  we  teach,  and  we  should 
magnify  these  divine  qualities  before 
our  students.  You  will  pardon  me  if 
I  call  your  attention  to  that  great; 
teacher,  who  was  so  greatly  loved  by 
the  students  of  this  people,  Brother 
Karl  G.  Maeser.  His  attitude  in  the 
school  room  was  always  one  of  admir- 
ation; even  when  he  was  teaching 
secular  subjects  he  aimed  to  reach  the 
feeling  of  the  students.  You  know  it 
was  a  favorite  expression  of  his,'  that 
no  man  could  teach  successfully,  not 
even  arithmetic,  without  the  Spirit  of 
God.  Those  who  have  studied  any  sub- 
ject under  him  will  testify  that  he  pos- 


sessed that  peculiar  quality  of  a  teach- 
er, that  he  always  reached  the  feelings 
in  discussing  the  subject.  There  were 
pleasing  sensations  brought  to  the  feel- 
ings of  the  students  in  whatever  he 
taught.  And  whenever  he  taught  his- 
tory, it  was  always  a  pleasure,  be- 
cause he  showed  in  the  great  charac- 
ters of  history  the  purposes  of  Heaven 
in  the  history  of  the  human  race  and 
the  fulfilling  of  God's  purposes.  He  al- 
ways made  his  students  "feel  good," 
and  if  we  cultivate  the  feelings,  we  are 
cultivating  the  hearts — we  are  cultivat- 
ing the  spirituality  of  man,  and  for 
that  reason  the  spirit  of  admiration 
should  always  be  cultivated  by  the 
teacher  before  his  class.  Indeed  that 
is  very  important  as  an  educational 
principle,  because  the  teacher  who  is 
to  be  successful  in  the  school  room, 
must  first  create  felings  of  admiration 
in  the  minds  of  the  students  toward  all 
the  subjects  that  are  to  be  taught; 
and  I  have  known  young  people  to 
miss  it  very  seriously  in  life  because 
their  attitude  in  the  outset  of  their 
school  career  was  a  false  one;  it  was 
a  critical  attitude;  it  was  that  analyti- 
cal attitude  that  is  taken  by  scholars  of 
the  world,  and  results  in  the  destruc- 
tion of  faith. 

It  may  seem  anomalous  to  you  to 
state  tonight  that  the  ministers  of  the 
world  have  less  religion,  less  spiritual- 
ity than  the  very  congregations  that 
they  speak  to.  Why?  Because  these 
ministers  go  into  schools  of  training. 
They  commence  by  annalyzing  the 
scriptures.  They  criticize  the  scrip- 
tures. We  have  an  educated  ministry 
that  Has  gone  over  to  those  who  call 
themselves  "the  higher  critics;"  and 
the  ministers  of  the  world  while 
they  may  be  theologians  in  their 
sense  of  the  term  are  not  religionists. 
They  have  a  very  little  of  religion.  Now 
can  you  imagine  the  results  of  religious 
teaching  done  by  men  who  have  evi- 
dently far  less  religion,  far  less  spirit- 
uality, far  less  love  of  God  and  devo- 
tion to  Him  and  His  cause  in  their 
hearts  that  the  people  whom  they  are 
addressing — than  their  congregations? 

If  you  were  to  take  the  trouble  to 
study   the   decline   of  religion  among 


DESEKET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


81 


the  people  of  the  world,  you  would 
find  that  it  always  went  hand  in  hand 
with  education,  and  the  consequent 
critical  attitude  of  the  religious  teach- 
ers of  the  age.  We  must  not  take  this 
wrong  attitude.  No,  we  want  to  culti- 
vate the  art.  We  want  our  young  peo- 
ple to  love  the  truth;  we  w-ant  them  to 
feel  that  they  are  in  the  presence  of  their 
Heavenly  Father  by  day  and  by  night. 
There  is  an  old  German  adage  that 
says,  "When  two  men  say  the  same 
thing,  it  is  not  the  same  thing."  If 
you  have  heard  some  of  the  recent 
discussions  about  the  religion  of  Budd- 
ha, and  Zoroaster  and  Bramah,  you 
have  noticed  that  they  have  produced 
sayings  that  are  almost  equal  with  the 
sayings  pf  our  Master;  and  yet  those 
things  were  said  hundreds  and  thou- 
sands of|  years  before  Jesus  is  reported 
to  have  said  them.  But  the  value  of 
what  out  Master  said  does  not  depend 
upon  its  beauty,  upon  its  poetic  form, 
upon  its  force,  but  upon  the  authority 
that  stands  behind  it — the  authority 
of  truth,  the  authority  of  the  purity 
and  righteousness  of  His  life. 

And  so,  when  our  -teachers  enter 
the  schoolroom  they  are  authorities; 
and  religion,  if  it  is  ever  to  become 
successful  and  reach  the  hearts  of  the 
children  of  men,  must  be  a  religion  of 
authority.  Not  only  that  men  hold  the 
priesthood,  not  alone  that  they  have 
been  called  of  God,  but  behind  them  is 
an  authority  of  righteousness,  of  truth, 
of  integrity;  and  so  our  teachers  must 
bear  in  mind  that  they  should  culti- 
vate that  spiritual  life  that  comes  from 
the  highest  degree  of  integrity.  There 
are  places  in  the  scripture  that  afford 
us  warning,  that  show  us  the  results  of 
sin  and  error;  but  in  our  study  the 
great  value  of  the  scriptures  will  be 
found  in  the  admiration  that  they 
create  in  the  hearts  of  our  children  for 
the  nobJe  characters  that  lived  in  an- 
cient days. 

Now,  I  want  to  say  another  thing, 
and  that  is  in  regard  to  the  attitude 
that  our  young  people  should  take  and 
the  feelings  that  should  be  cultivated 
within  them  respecting  the  leaders  of 
the  Church   in    this    dispensation — the 


feeling  of  admiration.  It  makes  all 
the  difference  in  the  world  to  the  faith 
and  the  spiritual  life  of  the  boy  what 
his  attitude  is  toward  his  bishop,  to- 
ward the  president  of  his  stake,  his  at- 
titude toward  the  President  of  the 
Church,  and  those  other  leading  char- 
acters whose  lives  are  familiar  to  our 
young  people.  If  our  youth  are  taught 
to  admire  them,  to  love  them,  to  have 
confidence  in  them,  their  religious  life 
will  be  sweeter  and  purer  and  their 
spiritual  life  will  be  all  the  better  as 
a  consequence. 

So  I  implore  you,  fathers  and  moth- 
ers, let  not  the  spirit  of  criticism  enter 
your  homes.  Never  permit  yourselves 
to  criticise  your  brethren  in  the  pres- 
ence of  your  children.  You  can  tell  a 
child  that  comes  into  the  schoolroom 
if  he  comes  with  a  critical  attitude,  es- 
pecially if  he  has  a  critical  attitude  to 
the  teacher.  Children  with  this  spirit 
show  it.  They  never  make  great  prog- 
ress in  study.  Children  have  a  right  to 
confidence  and  they  should  have  en- 
couraged within  them  the  most  per- 
fect confidence,  because  love  cannot 
exist  without  confidence.  You  may 
criticise,  you  may  think  you  have  de- 
tected some  weakness,  you  may  find 
fault,  but,  when  you  do  so,  you  de- 
stroy confidence  and  you  can  never 
have  love  where  there  is  no  confidence. 
There  must  be  perfect  confidence,  of  the 
teacher  in  the  child  as  well  as  of  the 
pupils  in  the  teacher,  and  in  the  au- 
thorities of  the  Church.  Now  I  hope 
that  you  will  not  think  that  these 
Outlines  are  to  afford  you  opportuni- 
ties for  excellent  discussion,  I  hope 
you  will  not  think  that  you  cani  get  up 
some  good  arguments  to  present  knotty 
questions  that  are  difficult  to  solve,  be- 
cause such  discussions  not  only  waste 
time,  but  they  do  that  which  is  infinite- 
ly worse,  they  create  a  critical  attitude 
in  the  mind  of  the  child;  and  when  that 
feeling  of  criticism  is  encouraged  in 
the  child,  it  is  difficult  in  after  life  to 
overcome  it.  We  can  hear  criticisms 
in  our  older  years  and  throw  them  aside 
very  much  easier  than  we  can  throw 
the  criticisms  aside  that  we  heard  in 
our  youth;  and  so  I  say  that  it  is  one 


S-2 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


of  the  sacred  rights  of  childhood  to 
enjoy  confidence  to  enjoy  love; 
and  we  should  refrain  scrupu- 
lously from  ever  doing  or  saying 
anything  that  will  destroy  the  confi- 
dence of  our  youth  in  humanity  in  their 
brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  presiding 
authority.  They  will  find  in  later  years 
enough  to  criticise.  I  remember  once  in 
the  law  school  listening  to  one  of  the 
great  lawyers  of  this  country.  He 
said  that  often  the  boy  in 
the  schoolroom  who  was  the 
most  competent  in  discussing 
subjects  of  law  made  the  poorest  lawyer 
in  after  life;  because  he  who  is  to  be 
the  great  lawyer  is  the  lawyer  that  sees 
in  the  law  equity  and  justice;  it  is  the 
•lawyer  whose  feelings  are  strengthened 
and  deepened  by  his  knowledge  of  the 
law.  And  so  in  our  schools  let  us  edu- 
cate the  feelings  of  our  children.  And 
I  want  to  say  this:  here  are  two  teach- 
ers coming  before  the  class;  one  teach- 
er will  send  his  students  away  with  a 
considerable'  fund  of  information;  the 
other  teacher  may  not  -give  so  much 
infomiatioin,  will  not  have  imparted 
so  many  facts,  but  will  send  the  ehil- 
-dren  away  feeling  good.  "What:  did 
he  tell  yo«u?"  "Well,  I  do  not  know 
particularly,  only  1  know  that  it  made 
•me  feel  nice,  it  made  me  feel  happy." 
Now  then  with  what  feeUsgs do  you 
send  your  children  out  of  the  Sabbath 
School?  Are  they  sweet  feelings?  Do 
you  appeal  to  the -feelings  of  your  chil- 
dren, for-  in  the  feelings  are,  to  be 
found  the  religious  life  of  man  and  they 
should  be  scrupulously  and  carefully 
cultivated.  But  you  must  have  that 
which  you  give;  theremust  be  a  back- 
gBOsUtBd  to  your  teachings,  the  back- 
ground of  purity,  of  integrity,  of  devo- 
tion, of  love -and  you  should  have  happy 
and  cheerful  natures  and  impart  the 
quality  of  happiness  and  love  to  the 
children  with  whom  you  are  associated. 
In  this  way  our  children  will  learn  to 
love  the  work,  they  will  learn  to-  admire 
it,  and  so  when  they  leave  the  school- 
room and  go  out  into  life  they  go  out 
men  and  women  full  of  confidence  and 
consequently  of  faith  and  Jove.  And 
when  we  see  in  our  fellows,  in  our  stu- 
dents,  a   tendency   towards  criticism, 


we  may  always  be  certain  that  it  is 
not  a  religious  tendency,  because  it  will 
destroy  their  religious  life. 

Bear  your  testimony  to  your  children, 
let  them  know  what  you  know,  let 
them  feel  what  you  feel,  let  them  en- 
joy the  assurances  that  you  have  that 
this  work  is  the  work  of  God,  that  we 
have  an  especial  calling  that  we  are  to 
do  a  particular  work,  that  whatever 
else  we  may  be  doing  the  Lord  has 
something  for  us  to  do;  that  is  dis- 
tinctly our  mission  and  when  our  young 
people  can  feel  that  they  are  thus  call- 
ed, that  they  are  the  salt  of  the  earth, 
then  they  will  realize  more  than  ever 
the  importance  of  their  religion. 

One  desire  I  have  to  express  to  you 
tonight,  and  that  is  that  you  teach' our 
children  loyalty,  loyalty  to  this  people, 
loyalty  to  the  Church.  Create  the  spirit 
of  loyalty  within  them,  because  loyalty 
is  love.  Create  a  spirit  Of  loyalty  to 
the  servants  of  God,  and  do  not  let 
many  Sabbaths  go  by  without  holding 
up  the  examples  in  modern  Israel. 

God  bless  our  leader  «who  preside* 
over  the  Sabbath  Schools  of  Zion.  May 
he  live  long  in  the  enjoyment,  of  health 
and  may  his  spirit  extend  to.  -all  the 
workers  in  the  Sabbath  School.  I  have 
been  testifying  about  Brother  Maeser. 
Brother  Maeser  is  dead  and  I  wnt  to 
testify  about  the  living.  Whenever  our 
General  Superintendent  talks  to  us  it 
makes  us  feel  good,  does  it  iicft?  Does 
he  ever  talk  to  you  when  you  do  not 
feel  good,  when  it  does  not  make  you 
happy,  when  it  does  notcueate  within 
you  assurances  and  fortify  you  with  the 
determination  to  do  better?  Aye,  that 
is  it;  it  is  the  man  that  can  speak  most 
to  our  feelings,  in  our  religious  life  that 
has  most  to  cdo  with  our  spirituality. 
And  I  take  this  pleasure  in.  adding  this 
testimony  of  the  living,  to  that  which 
we  bear  concerning  the  dead. 

God  bless  you  all:  I  ask  it  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

Singing  by  the  Ogden  Tabernacle 
choir,  "O  Lord,  in  Thee  do  I  put  my 
trust." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  SUMMERHAYS. 

The  question  I  have  been  asked  to 
answer  is:     "Is  it  a  requirement  from 


DBSERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


83 


the  general  board  or  from  the  Church 
that  all  ladies  remove  their  hats  in 
Sunday  schools?" 

The  position  of  the  Church  upon  this 
matter  I  am  not  prepared  to  state,  but 
it  is  not  a  requirement  of  the  Sunday 
school  board;  but  it  is  a  recommenda- 
tion of  that  board.  The  board  recom- 
mends that  in  Sunday  school  the  ladies 
remove  their  hats.  But,  in  this  con- 
nection, we  wish  to  say  to  the  brethren 
of  the  superintendencies,  that  you 
should  adopt  some  means  of  taking- 
care  of  the  hats  of  the  little  ladies,  so 
that  when  they  remove  them  from  then- 
heads  they  are  not  compelled  to  retain 
them  in  their  hands,  which  induces  a 
temptation  to  twist  them  all  out  of 
shape  and  destroy  them.  They  are  too 
hard  to  get;  that  is,  I  find  it  so.  But 
we  do  recommend  where  that  is  possi- 
ble, that  the  sisters  in  Sunday  school 
remove  their  hats  and  keep  them  oft 
until  after  the  benediction,  as  we  trust 
you.  will  tonight. 

Religion  and   Theology — Some   of  the 
Fruits  of  the  Spirit. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  P.  SMITH. 

I  shall  not  attempt,  particularly,  to 
dwell  upon  any  subject.  I  shall  per- 
haps make  but  a  few  remarks. 

I  desire  to  say  a  word  or  two  in  praise 
and  commendation  of  the  Ogden  Taber- 
nacle choir.  In  looking  at  the  faces,  es- 
pecially of  the  brethren,  I  find  that  the 
choir  is  largely  composed  of  young  men, 
of  youths;  and  this  has  made  an  im- 
pression upon  my  mind  which  is  highly 
commendable  to  the  people  of  Ogden 
and  to  the  Ogden  Tabernacle  choir.  I 
wish  I  could  say  as  much  for  the  Salt 
Lake  Tabernacle  choir,  although  we 
have  a  number  of  young  men  connected 
with  the  Tabernacle  choir;  yet  we  have 
a  very  heavy  sprinkling  of  the  good  old 
fathers  and  stand-bys  who  have  been 
associated  with  it  almost  from  time 
immemorable.  I  am  glad  to  see  them 
there,  but  I  would  . like  to  see  a  greater 
interest  manifested  in  the  art  of  singing 
by  our  young  men,  and  I  am  glad  to 
see  the  example  that  is  set  before  us 
thiss  evening  in  the  choir  from  Ogden. 
I  have  not  looked  at  the  ladies  so  much. 


I  am  naturally  a  little  timid  about  look- 
ing at  the  ladies,  but  I  notice  that  there 
is  a  large  number  of  them  tnat  are  also 
quite  young,  and  I  am  proud  of  it,  and 
I  am  proud  to  say  that  I  discover  that  I 
have  a  few  kinswomen  myself  in  the 
choir  from  Ogden.    I  recollect  on  one 
occasion  attending  a  conference,  and 
we  had  a  nice  choir,  in  fact,  I  think 
about  one  of  the  nicest  choirs  I  ever 
did  see,  because  they  were  all  ladies 
except  one.     There   was  one  middle- 
aged  man  connected  with  the  choir,  who 
was  present  during  a  portion  of  the 
conference,  but  he  wasn't  there  all  the 
time.   And  the  choir  was  led  by  a  lady, 
and  the  singing  was  all  done  by  the 
sisters,  and  it  was  very  beautiful,  very 
delightful  and  enjoyable  indeed.    But  1 
happened  to  inquire  why  it  was  that  we 
did  not  have  some  of  the  young  men 
in  the  choir,  and  I  was  informed  that 
the  young  men    of    the  community 
thought  it  beneath  their  dignity  to  sing, 
and  it  reminded  me  of  a  saying  of  Dr. 
Talmage   (not  our  Dr.   Talmage,  but 
the  wonderful   Dr.   Talmage  of  New 
York)— a  particular  friend  of  the  "Mor- 
mon" people,  you  know.  (Laughter.) 
The  gentleman  who  was  going  to  herd 
all    the    "Mormon"    people   in   to  the 
Tabernacle  and  Temple  and  then  open 
the  guns  of  Port  Douglas  and  put  an 
end  to  them.   Nevertheless,  he  said  one 
good  thing  while  he  was  lecturing  here 
in  the  Theater.   He  said  something  like 
this,  that  a  man  that  could  sing  and 
wouldn't  sing  ought  to  go  to  Sing  Sing, 
and  I  always  remembered  it.    And  I 
am  greatly  pleased  to  see  our  young 
people  taking  an  interest  in  choir  sing- 
ing, and  I  congratulate  Brother  Ballan- 
tyne  in  having  the  beautiful  voices  that 
he  has  to  assist  him  in  his  choir.  Cer- 
tainly not  only  the  citizens  of  Ogden 
have  occasion  to  be  proud  of  the  Ogden 
Tabernacle  choir,  but  all  the  Latter-day 
Saints  have;  and  I  need  not  repeat  here 
what  I  have  said  many  times  before, 
that  all  Israel  have  reason  to  be  proud 
of   the   Salt    Lakfe    Tabternacle  choir. 
And  then  there  are  a  great  many  more 
choirs  among  the    Latter-day  Saints 
who  deserve  the  praise  and  the'  pride  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints. 
I  am  sorry  to  be  under  the  necessity 


84 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


of  expressing  my  deep  regrets  at  the 
departure  from  among  us,  since  the  last 
meeting  of  this  conference  six  months 
ago,  of  one  of  our  most  faithful,  ener~ 
getic  and  intelligent  laborers  in  the 
Sunday  school  cause.  We  have  been 
called  upon  to  part  with  one  of  our  best 
men,  one  of  our  truest  men,  a  man  in 
whom  all  men  could  place  confidence 
and  have  no  fear  that  they  would  ever 
be  deceived  or  feel  that  they  had  mis- 
placed their  confidence.  It  is  but 
recently  that  we  have  carried  to  his 
last  resting  place  our  beloved  brother, 
Leonard  John  Nuttall,  who  was  one  of 
the  most  faithful  workers  in  the  Sab- 
bath school.  I  sincerely  hope  that  we 
shall  not  be  called  upon  to  part  with 
any  others  that  are  still  here  among 
us  until  we  shall  have  the  pleasure  of 
meeting  again  in  this  building  six 
months  hence. 

The  attendance  at  this  conference  and 
the  attendance  at  this  meeting  is  phe- 
nomenal. I  do  not  remember  ever  be- 
fore seeing  so  many  people  together  on 
an  occasion  like  this.  The  body  of  the 
hall  is  almost  filled,  besides  the  great 
numbers  in  the  gallery. 

I  sincerely  hope  that  the  instructions 
that  have  been  given  us  by  Dr.  Tal- 
ntage  and  by  Brother  Joseph  M.  Tan- 
ner, will  sink  deep  into  our  hearts,  and 
that  we  may  be  able  to  draw  the  dis- 
tinctions that  have  been  so  clearly  de- 
fined by  these  able  speakers,  that  we 
may  understand  the  difference,  the  real 
difference,  between  true  religion  and 
undefiled  before  God,  the  Father,  which 
is  "to  visit  the  fatherless  and  the 
widow  in  their  affliction  and  to  keep 
oneself  unspotted  from  the  world"  and 
the  theology  of  the  world;  theology, 
speaking  of  it  in  words  used  by  the 
learned  divines  of  the  present  day,  in 
which  they  profess  their  faith  in  that 
which  they  call  energy,  and  call  it  God. 
Now,  surprising  as  this  may  be  to  you, 
and  surprising  as  it  was  to  me  to  learn 
this  fact,  I  had  an  opportunity  of  sit- 
ting in  the  tabernacle  of  Henry  Ward 
Beecher  in  Brooklyn — since  his  death — 
and  listening  to  the  Rev.  Lyman  Ab- 
bott deliver  one  of  the  most  eloquent 
discourses  I  ever  listened  to,  eloquent 


in  words,  eloquent  in  figure,  and  very 
beautiful  in  expression;  and  the  sum- 
ming up  of  the  whole  discourse  was, 
that  the  thing  that  he  worshiped  and 
the  thing  that  he  called  God  was  noth- 
ing more  and  nothing  less  than  energy. 
Now  that  may  be  theology,  but  it  is 
not  true  religion.  It  is  false  religion, 
if  you  can  call  it  religion  at  all.  Then 
the  difference  between  the  practical  re- 
ligion of  Jesus  Christ,  based  upon  the 
doctrine,  "Whosoever  heareth  these 
words  of  mine  and  doeth  them,  I  will 
liken  him  unto  a  man  who  built  his 
house  upon  a  rock,  and  when  the 
storms  descended  and  the  winds  blew 
and  beat  upon  the  house  it  fell  not, 
for  it  was  founded  upon  a  rock."  This 
is  true  religon,  and  it  is  very  different 
indeed  from  the  religion  of  the  people 
of  the  world,  who  worship  the  Lord 
only  knows  what,  for  they  themselves 
do  not  know.  The  fact  of  the  matter 
is,  they  have  confessed  it  as  a  part 
of  their  religious  belief,  that  to  know 
God  would  be  to  destroy  God.  God,  in 
order  to  be  God,  must  be  incomprehen- 
sible to  man,  and  therefore  the  moment 
that  a  man  could  comprehend  Deity, 
He  would  cease  to  be  God.  I  read 
that  many  years  ago  as  being  the 
thought  of  some  very  learned  theolo- 
gians. And  yet  it  is  said  in  the  scrip- 
tures, "To  know  Thee,  the  only  true  and 
living  God  and  Jesus  Christ  whom  Thou 
hast  sent,  is  life  eternal."  And  if  we 
can  only  attain  life  eternal  by  knowing 
and  understanding  the  only  true  and 
living  God  and  Jesus  Christ  whom  He 
hath  sent  into  the  world,  we  must  not 
worship  energy.  Neither  must  we  come 
to  the  conclusion  to  rest  on  the  idea 
that  God  is  something  incomprehensi- 
ble, not  describable,  something  that  fills 
the  immensity  of  space,  without  form 
or  fashion,  and  yet  so  small  that  He 
can  dance  a  jig  on  the  point  of  a  cam- 
bric needle.  Now  that  may  be  theology, 
but  it  is  not  reliigon. 

Just  a  word  or  two  in  relation  to  our 
children  and  to  their  training  at  home, 
as  also  the  training  that  they  should 
receive  carefully  in  the  Sabbath  schools. 

Parents,  in  the  first  place,  whether 
.they  do  it  or  not,  should  love  and  re- 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


85 


aspect  each  other,  and  treat  each  other 
-with  respectful  decorum  and  kindly 
regard  all  the  time.  The  husband 
should  treat  his  wife  with  the  utmost 
courtesy  and  respect.  The  husband 
should  never  insult  her,  he  should  never 
speak  slightingly  of  her,  but  should  al- 
ways hold  her  in  highest  esteem  in-  the 
home,  in  the  presence  of  their  chil- 
dren. We  do  not  always  do  it,  per- 
haps; some  of  us,  perhaps,  do  not  do  it 
at  all.  But  nevertheless  it  is  true 
that  we  ought  to  do  it.  The  wife,  also 
should  treat  the  husband  with  the 
greatest  respect  and  courtesy.  Her 
words  to  him  should  not  be  keen  and 
cutting  and  sarcastic.  She  should  not 
cast  slurs  or  insinuations  at  him.  She 
should  not  nag  him.  She  should  not  try 
to  arouse  his  anger  or  to  make  things 
unpleasant  about  the  home.  The  wife 
should  be  a  joy  to  her  husband;  and 
she  should  live  and  conduct  herself  at 
home  so  that  the  home  will  be  the  most 
joyous,  the  most  blessed  place  on  earth 
to  her  husband.  This  should  be  the 
condition  of  the  husband  and  the  wife, 
the  father  and  the  mother  within 
the  sacred  precincts  of  that  holy 
place,  the  home.  Then  it  will  be 
easy  for  the  parents  to  instil  into  the 
hearts  of  their  little  children,  oiot  only 
love  for  their  fathers  and  their  mothers, 
not  only  respect  and  courtesy  toward 
their  parents,  but  love  and  courtesy 
and  deference  between  the  children  at 
home.  The  little  brothers  will  respect 
their  little  sisters.  The  little  boys  will 
respect  one  another.  The  little  girls 
will  respect  each  other,  and  the  girls 
and  boys  will  respect  each  other,  and 
treat  each  other  with  that  love,  that 
deference  and  respect  that  should  be 
observed  in  the  home  on  the  part  of  the 
little  children.  Then  it  will  be  easy 
for  the  Sunday  School  teacher  to  con- 
tinue the  training  of  the  child  under  the 
hallowed  influence  of  the  Sabbath 
school;  and  the  child  will  be  tractable 
and  easily  led,  because  the  foundation 
of  a  correct  education  has  been  laid 
in  the  heart  and  mind  of  the  child  at 
home.  The  teacher  can  then  help  the 
little  children  brought  up  under  these 
proper  influences,  to  render  respect  and 


courtesy  to  all  men  and  especially  to 
the  unfortunate,  the  aged  and  the  in- 
firm. If  we  could  only  bring  up  our 
children  in  this  way  at  home,  and  this 
home  influence  be  extended  in  the 
Sabbath  schools  as  well  as  in  the  day 
schools,  it  would  not  be  long  before 
children  would  meet  a  cripple  in  the 
street  with  reverence  and  pity.  They 
would  express  the  very  picture  of  sym- 
pathy In  their  faces,  and  their  souls  full 
of  love  and  sympathy  would  go  out 
for  the  unfortunate.  How  is  it  to- 
day? Too  often  it  is  the  case  that  we 
see  a  poor  half-demented  person,  the 
poor  cripple,  the  aged  and  infirm,  per- 
haps the  ill-clad  and  uncanny  pass- 
ing along  and  the  boys  in  the  street  are 
abusing  them,  throwing  snow  balls  at 
them,  perchance  throwing  stones  at 
them,  and  doing  anything  in  their  pow- 
er to  annoy  and  make  their  miserable 
lives  still  more  miserable;  and  this  be- 
cause of  the  want  of  respect,  of  sym- 
pathy and  love  that  they  should  feel 
for  the  unfortunate. 

We  have  too  much  of  such  conduct 
amongst  us;  there  is  too  much  of  it  in 
the  world,  and  there  is  too  little  train- 
ing of  children  toward  respecting  all 
men. 

I  believe  in  the  example  that  was  set 
by  the  illustrious  father  of  our  country. 
On  one  occasion,  it  is  told  of  him,  as  ho 
was  passing  along  with  some  of  his 
aides,  dressed  in  his  uniform  as  gen- 
eral of  the  armies  of  the  United  States, 
that  he  met  a  colored  man.  The  col- 
ored man,  most  reverently  and  courte- 
ously took  off  his  hat  and  made  a  low 
bow  to  the  general.  The  general  took 
off  his  hat  and  bowed  as  courteously  to 
the  colored  man.  His  associate  generals 
.'remonstrated  with  him.  They  said, 
"General,  it  is  beneath  your  dignity  to 
bow  to  a  negro."  General  Washington 
turned  to  them  and  said,  "Gentlemen,  I 
cannot  afford  to  have  a  negro  outdo 
me  in  courtesy."  So  it  would  be  well 
for  us  as  Latter-day  Saints,  and  as  the 
children  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and 
as  the  teachers  of  the  children  of  this 
people,  to  teach  courtesy  and  respect 
toward  all  mankind,  and  implant  kind- 
ness in  the  hearts  of  our  children  to- 


so 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL,  UNION. 


wards  the  unfortunate  especially.  There 
is  too  little  of  it.  I  go  along  the  street 
here  and  I  see  little  boys  with 
cigarettes  in  their  mouths;  I  actually 
see  young  men,  just  budding  into  man- 
hood with  nasty  stinking  old  pipes  in 
their  mouths,  or  with  cigars  between 
their  teeth,  as  they  walk  along  the 
streets.  I  see  boys  walk  with  beautiful 
young  ladies  on  the  sidewalks,  smoking 
their  cigars.  I  think  it  is  contemptible 
to  see  boys  with  cigarettes  and  pipes  and 
cigars  in  their  mouths,  puffing  their  in- 
famous smudge  into  the  faces  of  beau- 
tiful women.  It  is  abominable.  And 
when  I  see  a  man,  a  boy  especially, 
with  a  cigar  or  a  pipe  in  his  mouth— 
the  pipe  is  the  worse,  it  stinks  worse 
and  it  is.  more  poisonous,  a  great  deal, 
than  the  cigar  is,  although  I  have  never 
tried  either  of  them  very  much;  but 
when  I  meet  a.  youth  with  these  at- 
tachments, I  feel  that  if  I  could  be  jus- 
tified under  any  circumstances  in  pass- 
ing anyone  by  with  contempt,  they  are 
the  fellows  that  I  would  pass  with  con- 
tempt. I  never  like  to  bow  or  take  off 
my  hat  to  a  boy  or  a  young  man  with 
a  cigar  or  a  cigarette  in  his  mouth.  I 
don't  like  to  bow  to  a  cigarette.  I  don't 
like  to  bow  and  pay  deference  to  a  nas- 
ty old  stinking  tobacco  pipe.  1  thin  is 
that  is  more  condescending  by  far  than 
to  bow  to  a  courteous  gentlemanly  man 
who  is  unfortunate  enough  to  be  col- 
ored with  a  black  skin.  I  have  seen 
many  polished  gentlemen  in  my  life  who 
have  been  unfortunate  enough  not  to  tt 
white,  that  is  in  their  skin;  but  in  their 
hearts  and  in  their  manners,  in  their 
courtesy  and  conduct,  they  were  far 
superior  to  many  of  their  boasting 
white  brothers. 

Teach  your  children  not  to  smoke. 
Persuade  them  not  to  do  it.  Watch 
and  look  after  them,  and  try  to  teach 
them  better,  and  to  be  courteous  ana 
kind. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  in  your  most  important  du- 
ties as  teachers  in  the  Sabbath  Schools 


of  the  youth  of  Zion.  May  the  Lord 
guide  you  by  His  Spirit.  Remember 
this,  that  the  great  difference  between 
the  theology  that  we  have  been  hearing 
of  and  true  religion  is  this,  that  the 
fruits  of  the  Spirit  of  God— the  fruits 
of  the  spirit  of  true  religion — are  peace 
and  love,  virtue  and  honesty,  and  in- 
tegrity, and  fidelity  to  every  virtue 
known  in  the  law  of  God,  while  the 
spirit  of  the  world  is  vicious.  Read  the 
fifth  chapter  of  Galatians,  and  ther« 
you  will  discover  the  difference  between 
the  fruits  of  the  Spirit  of  God  and  the 
fruits  of  the  spirit  of  the  world.  That 
is  one  of  the  great  and  chief  differences 
between  "Mormonism,"  so  called,  ana 
the  theology  of  the  world.  If  "Mormon- 
ism" is  anything  at  all  more  than  other 
religions,  it  is  that  it  is  practical,  that 
the  results  of  obedience  to  it  are  prac- 
tical, that  it  makes  good  men  better  men, 
and  that  it  takes  even  bad  men  and 
makes  good  ones  of  them.  That  is  what 
"Mormonism"  will  do,  if  we  will  oni.v 
permit  it;  to  do  it,  if  we  will  bow  to  its 
mandates  and  adopt  its  precepts  in  our 
lives  it  will  make  us  the  sons  and  the 
daughters  of  God,  worthy  eventually,  to 
dwell  in  the  presence  of  the  Almighty  in 
the  heavens.  God  bless  us  and  help  us 
to  become  so;  worthy,  is  my  prayer,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

President  Smith  then  added,  "It  ts 
moved  and  seconded  that  we  offer  a 
sincere  and  hearty  vote  of  thanks  to 
Brother  Joseph  Ballantyne  and  the  Og- 
den  choir  for  the  pleasure  of  their  visit 
amongst  us,  and  for  the  enjoyment 
they  have  given  us  tonight  in  their 
beautiful  singing."  The  motion  was 
carried  unanimously. 

Conference  concluded  by  the  Ogden 
Tabernacle  choir  singing  "Closing  Chor- 
us," and  benediction  by  President 
Francis  M.  Lyman. 

GEORGE  D.  PYPER, 

General  Secretary. 

P.  E.  BARKER, 
Stenographer. 


❖  * 

I  | 

X  .  % 

1  DESERET  NEWS  ! 

BOOK  STORE  ! 


t  t 

STATE  DEPOSITORY  I 

|  FOR  SCHOOL  BOOKS.  | 

I  w  I 

x  I 

X  ■  y 

*  .  X 

:|  School  Stationery,  Supplies.  I 

|  Kindergarten  and  Busy  Work  Materials.  J 

♦:♦  Largest  Stock  in  the  State.  % 

Y  Lowest  Wholesale  Prices.  v 

♦♦♦  ♦•♦ 

X  Send  for  Price  Lists.  V 

*  X 

t  1 

X  t 

x  I 

X  X 

x   .  x 


DESERET  NEWS  BUILDING, 


£ 
t 
X 

* 

X       6  Main  Street,  SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH  X 

t  | 
I  i 


i 


HISTORY  OF  CHURCH  f 

HAVE  YOU  SECURED  VOLS.  I  AND  II  ?  | 
VOL.  Ill  IN  PRESS  AND  WILL  SOON  BE  ISSUED.  % 


PROCURE      THE3K      c4  S      THEY      <ARE      ISSUED  $ 

I 
❖ 

I 

X 


❖  The  History  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  written  * 

£  by  himself,  with  introduction  and  notes  by  B.  •!< 

X  H.  Roberts.  f 

X  *  '2 

X  Low  prices  have  been  fixed  by  the  First  * 

g  Presidency,  that  the  work  may  secure  the  widest  X 

X  possible  circulation. 


± 


%  Cloth  Embossed,     -     per  vol.  $1 .50  Post  Paid  * 

f  Half  Morocco,  Gilt  Top,     "       2.50       "     -  J 

❖  Half  Calf,  Gilt  Top,  "       2.50       "  I 

£  Full  Morocco  Gilt,  "        4.00       "  I 


Every  Association,  Sunday  School,  Quorum  £ 
and  Private  Library  should  have  it,  * 


DESERET  NEWS  BOOK  STORE 

6  MAIN  STREET,  -  SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


