//  \ 

NINETY-FIFTH 

CONFERENCE 

of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle  and  Assembly  Hall 
Salt  Lake  Gity,  Utah 

October  69  4  and  5 
1924 

W ith  a  Full  Report  oj  all 
the  Discourses 

W 

Pnhli^hprf  hv  th<* 

r  UUii^ii^u   ■  '  jr    ill t 

Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

V  J 

4 

^.■■iiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaifliiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiiE3iiiiiiiiiiiicaiiEiiiii]iiic3iiiiiiiiiiiic2iiiiiiiiiiiiEaiiiiiiiiiiiiEaiiiinii^ 


=       Can  you  answer  all  of  the  questions  that  are  put  to  you  e 

§                               about  the  Church?  s 

I              THE  OFFICIAL  1 

I  History  of  the  Church  1 

3                  Will  answer  many  of  these  questions  for  you.  = 

j       IN  SIX  LARGE  VOLUMES  j 

|       Compiled  by  the  Church  Historians  and  published  by  = 

=                                    the  Church.  = 

"  — 

Completing  the  First  Period.  EE 

"The  History  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,"  with  3 

S       introduction  and  notes  by  B.  H.  Roberts.  | 

I          Every  Association,  Sunday  School,  Quorum  and  9. 

j|       Private  Library  should  have  a  set.  5 

j|  Cloth — Embossed,  per  vol...  $2.50  Postpaid  = 

S  Half  Morocco — Gilt  Top,  per  vol...  3.50 

Full  Morocco— Full  Gilt  Edge,  vol.  6.00        "  1 

g  g 

I          The  above  work  is  suggested  as  reference  in  con-  | 

D       nection  with  the  study  of  Church  History  in  all  of  S 

I       the  activities  of  the  Church.  {§ 

I           SEND  FOR  OUR  NEW  CATALOG  FREE  | 

I   Deseret  Book  Company  | 

}:  44  Easl  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  | 
^tiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiiEaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiiEaiiiiiiiiiiiiEaiiiiiii^ 


Ninety-Fifth  Semi-Annual  Conference 

of 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 

of 

Latter-day  Saints 

FIRST  DAY 

The  95th  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-Day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 
Friday,  October  3,  1924. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  and  announced  the  opening  of 
the  Conference  at  10  o'clock  a.  m. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  Anthony  W.  Ivins. 
Charles  W.  Penrose  was  absent  owing  to  illness,  but  through  the  radio 
heard  the  proceedings,  and  enjoyed  the  conference  very  much.  . 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve :  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed  Smoot, 
George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Orson  F.  Whitney*,  Joseph 
Fielding  Smith,  James  E.  Talmage,  Stephen  L.  Richards**,  Melvin  J. 
Ballard,  John  A.  Widtsoe. 

Presiding  Patriarch :    Hyrum  G.  Smith. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy:  Seymour  B.  Young,  B.  H. 
Roberts,  J.  Golden  Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin, 
Charles  H.  Hart***. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  Charles  W.  Nibley,  David  A  Smith, 
John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants,  Andrew  Jenson,  B.  H.  Roberts,  A.  William  Lund, 
and  Junius  F.  Wells. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  were  well  represented  from  the  ninety-two 
stakes  of  Zion,  with  their  counselors;  patriarchs,  bishops  of  wards 

*David  O.  McKay,  absent  presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 
**Richard  R.  Lyman,  absent  in  the  interest  of  government  service,  as  Consult- 
ing Engineer  in  the  Columbia  Basin  Irrigation  Project. 
***Levi  Edgar  Young,  absent  at  Columbia  University. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  their  counselors,  and  numerous  other  prominent  officers  represent- 
ing the  quorums  of  the  Priesthood,  also  general,  stake,  and  ward  officers 
of  the  auxiliary  organizations  of  the  Church. 

Mission  Presidents  as  follows  were  in  attendance:  B.  H.  Roberts, 
Eastern  States ;  John  H.  Taylor,  Northern  States ;  Samuel  O.  Bennion, 
Central  States;  Charles  A.  Callis,  Southern  States;  John  M.  Knight, 
Western  States;  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  California;  Brigham  S.  Young, 
Northwestern  States ;  Rey  L.  Pratt,  Mexico ;  Joseph  Quinney,  Jr., 
Canada;  and  Benjamin  Goddard,  Bureau  of  Information,  Temple 
Block,  Salt  Lake  City. 

The  Tabernacle  was  filled  to  capacity  and  numbers  were  standing 
in  the  side  aisles  of  the  main  floor  and  in  the  galleries. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints." 

Elder  Adam  S.  Bennion,  superintendent  of  Church  schools,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

A  sacred  solo,  "Open  the  Temple  Gates,"  was  sung  by  Jessie 
Evans. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  rejoice  again  at  having  the  opportunity  of  meeting  with  the  Saints 
in  General  Conference.  It  is  a  very  inspiring  sight  to  see  this  large 
Tabernacle  filled  to  overflowing,  and  people  standing,  at  the  first 
session. 

THE  RADIO 

The  exercises  of  today  and  throughout  the  conference  are  to  be 
broadcasted;  and  it  is  estimated  that  in  the  neighborhood  of  a  million 
people  will  be  able  to  hear  all  that  is  said,  provided  they  are  listening 
in  during  the  conference  sessions.  The  radio  is  one  of  the  most  mar- 
velous inventions  man  knows  anything  about.  To  have  the  voice 
carried  for  thousands  of  miles  seems  almost  beyond  comprehension. 

LET  US  SERVE  GOD  WITH  ALL  MIGHT,  MIND  AND  STRENGTH 

I  rejoice  in  the  remarkable  and  wonderful  growth  of  the  Gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  our  day.  Over  a  year  before  the  Church 
was  organized  a  short  revelation  was  given  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  directed  to  his  father.    It  reads  as  follows : 

"Now  behold,  a  marvelous  work  is  about  to  come  forth  among  the  children 
of  men. 

"Therefore,  O  ye  that  embark  in  the  serivce  of  God,  see  that  ye  serve  him 
with  all  your  heart,  might,  mind  and  strength,  that  ye  may  stand  blameless 
before  God  at  the  last  day. 

"Therefore,  if  ye  have  desires  to  serve  God  ye  are  called  to  the  work; 

"For  behold  the  field  is  white  already  to  harvest;  and  lo,  he  that  thrusteth  in 
his  sickle  with  his  might,  the  same  layeth  up  in  store  that  he  perisheth  not,  but 
bringeth  salvation  to  his  soul; 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  3 

"And  faith,  hope,  charity  and  love,  with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God, 
qualify  him  for  the  work. 

"Remember  faith,  virtue,  knowledge,  temperance,  patience,  brotherly  kind- 
ness, godliness,  charity,  humility,  diligence. 

"Ask,  and  ye  shall  receive;  knock,  and  it  shall  be  opened  unto  you."  , 

If  there  is  any  one  thing  more  than  another  that  I  desire  to  im- 
press upon  the  hearts  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  it  is  that  we  should  in 
very  deed  serve  God  with  all  our  might,  mind  and  strength,  that  we 
may  keep  pace  with  the  progress  of  his  work  here  upon  the  earth. 
This  very  audience  here  today,  the  immense  auditorium  filled  to  over- 
flowing, testifies  more  eloquently  than  any  language  of  mine  regard- 
ing the  growth  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  When  I  recall  the 
revelations  that  were  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  prior  to  the  organ- 
ization of  the  Church  foretelling  the  growth  and  the  accomplish- 
ments of  the  work  of  God  here  upon  the  earth,  it  is  one  of  many 
testimonies  to  me  regarding  the  divinity  of  this  work  in  which  you  and 
I  are  engaged. 

OUTSTANDING  EVENTS  AND  ACTIVITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 
IN  THE  PAST  SIX  MONTHS 

I  believe  the  Saints  will  be  interested  in  knowing  something  of 
the  progress  in  various  ways  that  has  taken  place  in  the  Church  since 
we  last  assembled  here.  Within  a  few  weeks  after  the  April  con- 
ference it  fell  to  my  lot  to  go  East  and  to  hold  meetings  in  Denver, 
of  the  Western  States  mission,  in  Independence,  Kansas  City  and  St. 
Louis  of  the  Central  States  mission,  and  later  to  visit  Omaha  in  the 
Western  States  mission.  I  had  the  privilege  of  speaking  in  all  of 
these  places.  Also  meeting  with  and  instructing  our  elders.  I  found 
a  wonderful  spirit  of  loyalty  on  the  part  of  the  Mission  presidents,  of 
the  elders,  and  of  the  lady  missionaries  in  all  of  these  places.  I  re- 
joiced exceedingly  in  visiting  with  them.  I  came  in  contact  with  a 
number  of  influential  men,  some  of  whom  attended  our  services.  Sev- 
eral of  them  afterward  expressed  their  pleasure  in  having  heard  some- 
thing regarding  our  faith  that  was  new  to  them.  The  great  majority  of 
mankind  pay  little  or  no  attention  to  the  message  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  but  many  pay  a  great  deal  of  attention  to  the  things  of  a  detri- 
mental character  that  are  published  against  us.  Today  men  of  intelli- 
gence, men  of  thought,  and  men  who  are  studying,  in  seeing  the  won- 
derful progress  of  the  work  of  God  here  on  the  earth,  are  beginning  to 
realize  that  there  must  be  something  good  in  it,  considering  the  class 
of  people  that  are  attracted  to  it. 

I  had  the  pleasure  of  playing  a  game  of  golf  in  Kansas  City, 
and  learned  that  the  title  to  part  of  the  very  ground  upon  which  we 
were  playing  originally  stood  in  the  name  of  the  Bishop  of  the  "Mor- 
mon" Church.  I  also  learned  that  a  large  proportion  of  Kansas  City 
stands  upon  ground  once  owned  by  the  Latter-day  Saints.    The  title 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  much  of  it  has  never  passed,  and  the  only  title  people  today  have  to 
a  portion  of  that  great  city  is  by  possessing  the  ground.  In  tracing  the 
abstracts  back  they  find  that  the  title  originally  was  in  the  name  of 
the  Bishop  of  the  "Mormon"  Church.  We  all  remember  with  gratitude 
the  wonderful  courage  and  manhood  of  General  Doniphan  in  sav- 
ing the  life  of  the  Prophet  Joseph.  Part  of  our  holdings  in  that  sec- 
tion of  the  country — thousands  of  acres,  as  I  remember  it — was  turned 
over  to  Doniphan  as  a  fee  for  legal  services.  The  price  of  those  lands 
then  was  very  insignificant,  but  I  was  assured  that  the  very  land 
turned  over  to  General  Doniphan  is  today  worth  more  than  ten  mil- 
lions of  dollars. 

After  returning  from  visiting  the  Western  and  the  Central  States 
missions,  in  June,  I  went  East  and  visited  the  Northern  States  mission, 
the  Canadian  mission  and  the  Eastern  States  mission.  I  had  the  priv- 
ilege for  the  first  time  of  visiting  Montreal,  in  Canada,  and  of  attend- 
ing one  of  the  sessions  of  the  Rotary  Club  in  Toronto.  The  work  in 
all  of  the  missions  I  have  visited  since  the  last  conference  is  pro- 
gressing in  a  splendid  way. 

Since  our  last  conference,  President  Anthony  W.  Ivins  and  Elder 
Richard  R.  Lyman  have  visited  the  Hawaiian  Islands  with  members 
of  their  families.  The  work  there  is  progressing  splendidly.  Our 
sugar  plantations  there  are  progressing  more  satisfactorily  at  the 
present  time  than  for  many  years  past. 

New  chapels  are  being  erected  in  many  of  our  missions.  A  site 
for  a  new  chapel  has  been  purchased  on  one  of  the  principal  streets 
in  Washington,  D.  C,  and  we  expect  to  erect  a  place  of  worship  there 
that  will  be  a  credit  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  worthy  of  that  city 
of  beautiful  churches,  wonderful  public  buildings,  and  palatial  resi- 
dences. We  hope  to  have  a  building  there  that  will  be  as  much  of  a 
credit  to  us  at  Washington  as  our  magnificent  office  building  is  to 
us  here — not  as  expensive,  of  course,  but  in  every  respect  worthy  of 
the  Church  of  Christ. 

Brother  James  E.  Talmage  has  been  chosen  to  preside  over  the 
European  mission.  Elder  David  O.  McKay  will  have  been  in  that 
mission  two  years  by  the  time  he  leaves  it.  Previous  to  his  being 
called  there,  he  and  Brother  Hugh  J.  Cannon  spent  a  year  in  traveling 
around  the  world,  visiting  nearly  all  of  the  missions  in  the  world. 
Therefore  we  felt  it  was  only  fair  to  him  to  allow  him  to  return  to 
his  mountain  home  without  staying  the  usual  three  years  that  the 
brethren  spend  in  England. 

We  have  sent  considerable  sums  of  money  to  the  Norwegian  and  Danish 
missions  for  final  payment  on  meetinghouses  purchased  years  ago.  We  have 
purchased  a  fine  large  meetinghouse  at  Rotterdam.  There  has  been  erected  a 
splendid  meetinghouse  at  Honolulu ;  and  others  are  now  authorized  in  the 
Hawaiian  Islands.  We  have  secured  a  long  lease  of  farming  lands  for  the 
Tongan  mission,  not  being  able  to  purchase  and  get  title  there. 

The  baptisms  in  the  missions  during  the  past  six  months  number  3,156,  a 
very  decided  increase  over  the  average  in  years  past. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


5 


Two  new  stakes  have  been  organized  since  our  last  conference,  namely,  the 
Grant  stake,  taken  from  the  Granite  stake,  and  the  Minidoka  stake,  a  part  of 
the  Blaine  stake. 

Twelve  new  wards  have  been  organized  during  the  past  six  months. 

A  large  number  of  new  meeting  houses  are  being  erected  in  Zion.  I 
believe  more  building  is  going  on  at  the  present  time  in  the  various  stakes  of 
Zion  than  for  many  years  past. 

We  have  ordered  a  monument  to  be  erected  at  the  grave  of  Martin  Harris, 
in  Clarkston,  Utah. 

A  new  home  is  being  provided  for  the  Lamanites  located  near  Cedar  City, 
in  order  that  they  may  be  more  comfortably  situated. 

Successful  conventions  of  auxiliary  organizations  are  in  progress  at  the 
present  time  all  over  the  Church. 

Quite  a  number  of  seminary  buildings  have  been  erected  by  the  Saints  in 
various  parts  of  the  Church. 

There  is  a  large  and  increased  attendance  at  the  Brigham  Young  University 
and  our  other  Church  schools. 

A  very  remarkable  increase  is  noted  in  the  attendance  at  all  of  our  temples. 
The  Manti  temple  has  been  overhauled,  and  extensive  repairs  made  there,  making 
it  very  much  more  comfortable  and  convenient  than  in  the  past.  The  repairs 
being  made  at  the  Salt  Lake  temple  are  now  all  completed.  Rapid  progress 
is  being  made  in  the  erection  of  the  Arizona  temple. 

We  have  decided  to  erect  on  this  block  a  monument  in  honor  of 
the  Three  Witnesses  (perhaps  we  will  include  the  Eight  Witnesses), 
to  be  located  in  the  rear  of  the  statues  of  Presidents  Joseph  and  Hyrum 
Smith.  The  design  has  not  yet  been  decided  upon  ;  but  we  will  endeavor 
to  have  something  that  will  be  as  attractive  and  as  creditable,  and  that 
will  preach  the  wonderful  message  proclaimed  in  the  Book  of  Mormon 
as  effectively  as  the  Sea  Gull  Monument  preaches  the  wonderful 
deliverance  wrought  by  the  Lord  in  the  days  when  the  crickets  threat- 
ened to  destroy  everything.  Undoubtedly  some  of  the  inspirational 
passages  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  also  the  fact  that  these  three  wit- 
nesses declare  that  an  angel  of  God  came  down  from  heaven  and  laid 
before  their  eyes,  that  they  beheld  and  saw  the  plates  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  and  the  engravings  thereon,  and  that  the  voice  of  the 
Lord  commanded  them  that  they  should  bear  record  of  it,  with  other 
incidents  that  proclaim  the  divinity  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  will  be 
features  of  the  monument. 

We  are  pleased  to  note  that  there  is  an  improvement  in  the  sup- 
port of  our  foreign  newspapers.  There  are  many  faithful,  diligent 
Latter-day  Saints  who,  having  embraced  the  Gospel  in  foreign  lands 
at  an  advanced  age,  cannot  read  the  English  language,  and  it  is  a  great 
comfort  and  blessing  to  them  to  have  some  of  the  sermons,  messages, 
and  news,  regarding  the  work  of  God  published  in  their  own  language. 
We  bespeak  for  these  papers  the  loyal  patronage  of  those  of  foreign 
birth.  Young  men  who  have  prospered  here  in  the  things  of  this 
world  should  be  willing  to  assist  in  circulating  at  home  and  abroad 
the  word  of  God  through  the  papers  published  in  the  mother  tongue 
of  their  parents. 

We  have  been  called  upon  during  the  past  six  months  to  part  with 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


one  of  our  loyal  stake  presidents, — President  Andrew  Kimball.  It 
fell  to  my  lot  to  have  the  privilege  of  going-  to  Thatcher,  Arizona,  and 
attending  the  funeral,  at  which  there  was  a  wonderful  outpouring  of  the 
people,  showing  their  respect  and  love  for  their  president.  It  was  a 
source  of  satisfaction  to  me  to  have  the  opportunity  of  paying  a  tribute 
of  love  and  respect  to  him  at  the  services. 

We  have  to  announce  the  death  of  Sister  Elizabeth  C.  McCune, 
who,  in  connection  with  her  husband,  presented  to  the  Church  some 
years  ago  the  magnificent  McCune  mansion  on  upper  Main  street, 
the  name  of  which  has  been  changed  since  the  death  of  Sister  McCune 
to  The  McCune  School  of  Music  and  Art.  We  hope  at  no  far  distant 
date  to  have  a  portion  of  that  building  devoted  to  the  fine  arts  in  the 
form  of  beautiful  paintings  and  sculpture.  There  are  two  magnificent 
pieces  of  sculpture  there  now,  probably  the  finest  in  our  state,  which 
were  presented  with  the  mansion  at  the  time  it  was  given  to  us. 

I  believe  this  covers  the  activities  of  the  past  six  months  that  I 
thought  would  be  of  interest  to  the  people.  Of  course,  you  will  realize 
that  if  I  were  to  enter  into  detail  regarding  these  activities  I  could 
occupy  not  only  the  entire  time  of  this  morning's  session  with  interest 
to  the  Saints,  but  even  longer. 

On  my  way  home  after  attending  the  funeral  of  Brother  Kimball, 
in  Arizona,  I  stopped  for  a  few  days  in  California,  and  the  work  in 
the  California  mission  is  progressing  in  a  very  favorable  way. 

THE   DIVINITY   OF   JESUS  CHRIST 

There  is  one  thing  that  I  desire  to  refer  to,  and  a  part  of  one 
of  the  revelations  that  I  desire  to  read.  There  are  no  revelations  in 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  that  have  made  such  a  profound  im- 
pression upon  my  heart  and  my  mind  as  the  one  known  as  The  Vision, 
recorded  in  the  76th  section,  and  the  one  known  as  Prayer  and 
Prophecies,  given  in  Liberty  Jail,  and  to  be  found  in  the  121st  section. 
I  rejoice  every  time  I  read  the  wonderful  testimony  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  and  Sidney  Rigdon  as  contained  in  The  Vision.  When  bishops 
over  large  churches  in  England  announce  that  Jesus  Christ  was  not 
the  Son  of  God ;  that  he  was  not  divine,  but  merely  a  great  moral 
teacher ;  when  men  who  are  ministers  deny  the  divinity  of  Christ  and 
are  being  tried  for  their  lack  of  faith,  I  rejoice  in  reading  the  testimony 
of  these  two  men,  and  never  read  it  but  my  heart  swells  with  gratitude 
to  God : 

"And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies  which  have  been  given  of  him,  this  is 
the  testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we  give  of  him :  That  he  lives ! 

"For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right  hand  of  God ;  and  we  heard  the  voice 
bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father — 

"That  by  him,  and  through  him,  and  of  him,  the  worlds .  are  and  were 
created,  and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten  sons  and  daughters  unto  God." 

I  rejoice  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  is  founded  upon  the 
first  great  vision  that  was  enjoyed  by  the  boy  Joseph  Smith  over  one 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


7 


hundred  years  ago.  He  declared  that  he  saw  two  heavenly  beings, 
whose  glory  and  grandeur  were  beyond  the  power  of  man  to  describe 
and  that  one  of  them  addressed  him  and  pointed  to  the  other  and  said : 
"This  is  my  beloved  Son,  hear  him."  There  cannot  be  any  doubt  in 
the  heart  of  a  Latter-day  Saint  regarding  Jesus  Christ  being  the  Son 
of  the  Living  God,  because  God  himself  introduced  him  to  Joseph 
Smith.  It  is  a  fundamental  truth  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  in  our 
day  that  Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  and  ever  will  be  a  prophet  of  the 
living  God ;  and  with  Joseph  Smith  recognized  as  a  prophet  of  God, 
and  the  testimony  in  our  hearts  of  that  fact,  there  will  never  be  any 
schism,  so  to  speak,  in  the  Church  of  Christ.  Any  individual  who 
does  not  acknowledge  Jesus  Christ  as  the  Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world,  has  no  business  to  be  associated  with  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  This  Church  is,  as  I  read  to  you 
it  should  be,  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder.  There  is  nothing  like 
it  in  all  the  world,  because  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God  established 
it,  and  is  the  head  of  it ;  because  Jesus  Christ  manifested  himself  to  the 
Prophet  and  Oliver  Cowdery,  and  to  others;  and  because  God,  in 
answer  to  prayer,  has  given  to  people  all  over  the  wide  world  where 
the  Gospel  has  gone,  an  individual  knowledge  and  testimony  regarding 
the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged. 

A  PROFOUNDLY  IMPRESSIVE  COMPARISON 

Never  have  I  been  more  profoundly  impressed  with  the  power 
and  blessing  of  God  than  I  was  when  I  visited  Nauvoo  upon  my 
recent  trip  East.  Three  quarters  of  a  century  ago  there  were  twenty 
thousand  prosperous  Latter-day  Saints  in  that  city,  with  a  magnificent 
temple.  Today  there  is  not  a  single  stone  left  of  the  temple  where 
it  was  once  erected,  and  the  population  has  dwindled  to  about  one 
thousand  people.  Men  have  told  me  that  the  site  of  the  City  of  Nauvoo 
is  one  of  the  finest,  if  not  the  finest,  to  be  found  upon  the  great 
Mississippi  river,  yet  to  get  there  now  you  have  to  cross  the  Mississippi 
river  in  a  little  tub  of  a  steamer,  on  the  deck  of  which  there  are  but 
five  chairs,  and  as  there  happened  to  be  six  in  our  party  one  of  us  had 
to  stand ;  and  there  are  cities  with  thousands  of  inhabitants  on  the 
Mississippi  and  on  the  Missouri  that  have  grown  up  since  that  was 
the  great  city  of  Illinois.  When  I  contemplate  all  these  things  and 
then  come  home  and  gaze  upon  the  Temple  of  God  in  the  eastern 
part  of  this  block;  when  I  look  at  our  office  building,  at  the  Utah 
Hotel,  and  at  the  magnificent  bank  buildings  in  our  city ;  when  I  think 
of  the  prosperity  of  the  Saints,  with  beautiful  temples,  not  only  in 
Utah,  but  in  Canada  and  in  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  as  well  as  one  in 
course  of  construction  in  Arizona ;  when  I  think  of  all  the  accomplish- 
ments of  the  work  of  God,  my  language  utterly  fails  me  to  speak  in 
just  praise  of  all  that  has  been  done.  When  I  realize  the  condition  of 
the  place  from  which  we  were  driven,  the  lack  of  prosperity  and  of 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


success  in  that  country,  I  thank  God  that  we  are  located  here  in  these 
mountains.  I  feel  that  the  very  persecutions  and  troubles  through 
which  we  passed  prepared  us  and  educated  us  and  strengthened  us 
as  a  people  for  greater  things.  Perhaps  the  very  finest  residence, 
with  one  exception,  to  be  found  today  in  Nauvoo  is  the  one  erected 
by  Erastus  Snow.  They  told  me  that  it  was  erected  by  Lorenzo  Snow, 
but  I  have  since  been  informed  that  the  people  there  were  mistaken, 
and  that  it  was  erected  by  Erastus  Snow.  One  of  the  fine  dwellings 
there  was  built  with  stones  taken  from  the  Temple  Block. 

I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  of  my  own  dear  mother,  also  in  the 
testimony  of  Aunt  Emmeline  B.  Wells  and  scores  of  men  and  women 
who  were  present  upon  that  memorable  occasion,  after  the  martyrdom 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph,  when  Sidney  Rigdon  endeavored  to  be  ap- 
pointed as  guardian  of  the  Church.  I  rejoice  in  the  wonderful  mani- 
festation that  was  given  to  the  people  there,  including  my  mother  and 
other  relatives  of  mine,  when  the  mantle  of  Joseph  Smith  fell  upon 
the  Prophet  Brigham  Young,  and  he,  Brigham,  stood  there  and  talked 
as  with  the  voice  of  Joseph,  his  face  being  illumined  and  in  appear- 
ance like  unto  the  face  of  Joseph.  The  sheep  knew  the  voice  of  the 
true  shepherd.  And  from  that  day  to  this,  of  the  hundreds  who  were 
present  on  that  occasion,  nearly  every  one  has  lived  and  died  faith- 
ful and  true  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  loyal  supporters  of  the 
Prophet  Brigham  Young  and  his  successors. 

HOW  TO  EXERCISE  THE  POWER  OF  THE  PRIESTHOOD 

I  desire  to  read  part  of  the  wonderful  revelation  given  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  in  Liberty  Jail.  Remember,  though  he  was  chained 
in  that  prison,  the  Lord  Almighty  could  and  did  speak  to  him,  and 
gave  to  him  a  revelation  that  I  commend  here  today  to  every  Latter- 
day  Saint.  I  particularly  commend  it  to  every  man  presiding  in  the 
stakes  and  wards  of  Zion,  and  in  the  various  missions  throughout  the 
world.  If  we  exercise  the  power  of  the  Priesthood  of  the  living  God 
as  he  tells  us  in  this  wonderful  revelation  to  exercise  it,  then  there 
never  can  be  and  there  never  will  be  any  just  complaint  made  against 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  because  of  the  use  of  the  Priesthood  that 
has  been  restored  again  to  the  earth.  It  is  when  men  do  not  follow 
the  teachings  and  the  revelations  given  of  God  to  us  through  his 
prophet  that  mistakes  are  made.  This  revelation  declares  that  by 
incarcerating  the  Prophet  Joseph  men  could  not  rob  him  of  the  inspira- 
tion of  the  Living  God,  which  revealed  to  him  these  wonderful  words 
in  that  prison.    Starting  with  verse  33,  I  read : 

"How  long  can  rolling  waters  remain  impure?  What  power  shall  stay 
the  heavens?  As  well  might  man  stretch  forth  his  puny  arm  to  stop  the 
Missouri  river  in  its  decreed  course,  or  to  turn  it  up  stream,  as  to  hinder  the 
Almighty  from  pouring  down  knowledge  from  heaven  upon  the  heads  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints. 

"Behold,  there  are  many  called,  but  few  are  chosen.  And  why  are  they 
not  chosen? 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


9 


"Because  their  hearts  are  set  so  much  upon  the  things  of  this  world,  and 
aspire  to  the  honors  of  men,  that  they  do  not  learn  this  one  lesson — 

"That  the  rights  of  the  priesthood  are  inseparably  connected  with  the  powers 
of  heaven,  and  that  the  powers  of  heaven  cannot  be  controlled  nor  handled 
only  upon  the  principles  of  righteousness. 

"That  they  may  be  conferred  upon  us,  it  is  true;  but  when  we  undertake 
to  cover  our  sins,  or  to  gratify  our  pride,  or  vain  ambition,  or  to  exercise  con- 
trol or  dominion  or  compulsion  upon  the  souls  of  the  children  of  men,  in  any 
degree  of  unrighteousness,  behold,  the  heavens  withdraw  themselves;  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  grieved ;  and  when  it  is  withdrawn,  Amen  to  the  priest- 
hood or  the  authority  of  that  man. 

"Behold,  ere  he  is  aware,  he  is  left  unto  himself,  to  kick  against  the  pricks, 
to  persecute  the  Saints,  and  to  fight  against  God. 

"We  have  learned  by  sad  experience  that  it  is  the  nature  and  disposition  of 
almost  all  men,  as  soon  as  they  get  a  little  authority,  as  they  suppose,  they  will 
immediately  begin  to  exercise  unrighteous  dominion. 

"Hence  many  are  called,  but  few  are  chosen. 

"No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of  the 
priesthood,  only  by  persuasion,  by  long-suffering,  by  gentleness  and  meekness, 
and  by  love  unfeigned; 

"By  kindness,  and  pure  knowledge,  which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the  soul  with- 
out hypocrisy,  and  without  guile — 

"Reproving  betimes  with  sharpness,  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost; 
and  then  showing  forth  afterwards  an  increase  of  love  toward  him  whom  thou 
hast  reproved,  lest  he  esteem  thee  to  be  his  enemy ; 

"That  he  may  know  that  thy  faithfulness  is  stronger  than  the  cords  of 
death. 

"Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  charity  towards  all  men,  and  to  the  house- 
hold of  faith,  and  let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts  unceasingly ;  then  shall  thy 
confidence  wax  strong  in  the  presence  of  God ;  and  the  doctrine  of  the  priest- 
hood shall  distil  upon  thy  soul  as  the  dews  from  heaven. 

"The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  constant  companion,  and  thy  scepter  an 
unchanging  scepter  of  righteousness  and  truth ;  and  thy  dominion  shall  be  an 
everlasting  dominion,  and  without  compulsory  means  it  shall  flow  unto  thee 
forever  and  ever." 

I  feel  that  I  cannot  close  my  remarks  with  anything  better  than 
this  wonderful  revelation  given  to  the  Prophet  of  the  living  God. 

god's  blessings  invoked  upon  the  church  and  nation 

I  pray  God's  blessings  to  be  upon  the  Latter-day  Saints  all  over 
the  wide  world.  I  pray  for  those  who  stand  as  the  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church.  I  pray  for  those  who  preside  in  the  stakes  and  the 
wards  and  the  branches,  and  in  all  parts  of  the  Church,  from  Canada 
on  the  North  to  Mexico  on  the  South,  and  for  those  who  preside  and 
labor  in  the  various  missions  all  over  the  wide  world.  I  pray  for  the 
people  of  the  world;  not  only  for  the  Latter-day  Saints,  but  I  pray 
God's  blessings  upon  every  loyal,  patriotic  man  and  woman  that  is 
endeavoring  to  do  right,  and  to  uphold  the  laws  of  the  countries  where 
they  reside.  I  pray  God's  blessings  upon  the  President  of  these  United 
States  of  America.  I  thank  God  for  the  loyalty  and  the  patriotism 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  thank  God  that  we  believe  that  the  con- 
stitution of  our  country  was  given  to  us  under  the  inspiration  of  the 
Living  God,  and  that  the  Lord  supported  George  Washington  and  the 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


patriot  fathers  of  this  country.  I  pray  that  God  will  inspire  us  to 
continue  loyal  and  true  to  him,  to  our  country,  and  to  its  institutions ; 
and  that  we  may  in  very  deed  preach  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  by  our  acts;  that,  as  we  grow  in  years  and  increase  in  under- 
standing, we  may  grow  in  the  power  and  ability  to  live  the  Gospel, 
that  our  example  of  integrity,  of  honesty,  of  loyaltv  to  God  and 
country  may  inspire  others  to  investigate  the  message  of  life  and 
salvation. 

CLOSING  TESTIMONY 

Before  sitting  down,  I  bear  my  testimony  to  you  and  to  all  the 
world  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world,  the  Savior  of  mankind,  the  Creator  of  heaven  and  earth ;  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  his  prophet,  the  instrument  in  his  hands  of  establish- 
ing again  the  Gospel  of  life  and  salvation.  That  we  who  have  that 
knowledge  may  live  the  Gospel  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer  and  Savior.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  very  happy  to  have  the  privilege  of 
again  meeting  with  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  a  General  Conference. 
I  did  not  have  this  privilege  six  months  ago,  and  I  have  felt  the  loss 
which  is  sustained  by  every  member  of  this  Church  who  does  not 
participate  in  the  spirit  and  the  exercises  of  these  great  gatherings. 

A  TESTIMONY  OF  JESUS 

I  bear  witness  to  the  testimony  borne  by  President  Grant  this 
morning.  I  say  with  him  that  I  know  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  Christ 
is  the  Son  of  God,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  the  prophet  of  these 
latter  days,  called  to  restore  the  eternal  gospel  of  Christ.  I  am  happy 
in  the  possession  of  this  truth ;  and  I  ask  for  nothing  more  than  that 
the  Lord  may  so  help  me  to  live,  day  by  day  throughout  the  years 
that  may  remain,  that  I  may  retain  this  testimony  and  be  willing  to 
(bear  it  to  all  who  may  care  to  listen. 

A  REMARKABLE  AGE  OF  THE  WORLD 

Yesterday  morning,  before  I  left  my  home,  I  picked  up  a  paper 
which  is  circulated  in  this  country  by  the  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
copies.  I  turned  to  the  editorial  page,  and  to  my  surprise  saw  a  state- 
ment by  the  editor  to  the  effect  that  what  this  great  country  needs 
today,  these  great  United  States  of  America,  is  a  close  of  Voltaire.  I 
suppose  he  meant  by  that  a  dose  of  atheism.  That  statement  has  re- 
mained in  my  thoughts,  because  it  seems  to  be  another  evidence  of  the 
fact  that  after  these  many  centuries  of  light,  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  many  in  the  world,  even  among  professed  Christians,  are  unable 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


11 


or  unwilling  to  accept  the  truth  of  the  gospel,  or  the  existence  of  God. 

This  is  a  marvelous  age.  It  is  clear  to  all  who  follow  the  events  of 
the  day,  and  who  note  the  great  steps  of  progress  from  month  to  month, 
that  this  is  in  many  respects  the  most  remarkable  age  that  the  world 
has  known.  The  air  above  us,  the  seas,  the  solid  earth,  the  whole  physi- 
cal universe,  all  seem  unitedly  to  bow  before  man,  to  his  acquired 
power  over  the  natural  forces  of  the  universe.  Today,  man  is  able 
to  do  things  that  in  clays  gone  by  were  conceivably  done  only  by  God. 
Yet,  as  I  read  the  editorial  in  this  famous  newspaper,  an  old  thought 
came  back  to  me,  that  the  airship,  the  steamship,  the  telephone,  the 
radio  and  all  the  other  marvels  of  this  age,  are  but  as  the  clothing  of 
the  body,  but  as  instruments  to  be  used  by  man.  By  means  of  these 
great  inventions  and  discoveries,  great  gifts  of  God  to  the  people  of 
these  latter  days,  it  is  possible  for  the  righteous  man  to  accomplish 
righteousness  more  widely  and  more  speedily,  but  it  is  equally  true  that 
by  means  of  these  great  modern  developments  the  wicked  man  may  do 
wickedness  much  more  easily  and  much  more  comprehensively  than  in 
the  days  gone  by.  The  discoveries  with  which  we  conjure  in  this  day 
have  not  touched  the  mainspring  of  human  character,  have  not  shaped 
or  reshaped  human  conduct.  Something  deeper  than  material  con- 
quests relates  itself  to  human  conduct,  to  that  manner  of  life,  which  in 
the  end  makes  the  world  great  or  small,  good  or  bad.  A  knowledge  of 
God,  and  faith  in  his  word  have  ever  been  the  determining  force  in  the 
making  of  the  character  of  a  man  or  a  nation. 

MAN  HELPLESS  WITHOUT  GOD 

If  the  world  needs  atheism,  at  this  day,  then  the  faith  of  this 
poor  world  of  ours  must  concern  itself  entirely  with  man's  own 
powers.  Take  God  away  from  the  earth  and  man  has  left  only  that 
which  his  own  powers  may  produce,  and  he  must  become  a  worshiper 
of  his  own  power.  Centuries  of  human  experience,  and  the  events  of 
every  day,  demonstrate  the  utter  inadequacy  of  man's  unaided  power 
in  winning  human  happiness.  Life  becomes  full  and  rounded  only  as 
the  forces  beyond  man  are  accepted  and  used  by  him..  Man  is  help- 
less without  God. 

A   GREAT  INTELLECTUAL  AND  SPIRITUAL  CONTROVERSY 

Such  thoughts  have  been  brought  home  to  us  especially  during 
the  last  twelve  months  by  a  great  intellectual  and  spiritual  controversy, 
among  honest  people,  which  has  shaken  this  country,  and  which  is 
spreading  across  the  seas  into  other  countries,  the  result  of  which  will 
probably  appear  much  more  important  when  history  is  written  than 
the  great  wars  and  political  contentions  of  the  day.  The  modernists 
who  already  have  been  discussed  from  this  stand  say  that  they  believe 
in  an  Almighty  God,  but  declare  that  they  are  unable  to  believe  in 
the  virgin  birth  of  the  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ.  They  declare 
themselves  unable  to  accept  as  real  the  miracles  of  Christ  as  recorded 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


in  Holy  Writ.  They  say  that,  above  all  things,  they  cannot  believe 
that  man  after  death  may  be  brought  into  a  life  again,  to  live  forever 
as  a  personal  embodied  being.  These  doubts  are  before  them,  as  they 
say,  because  man  is  not  able  to  understand  how  such  things  may  be 
done. 

These  people,  however  good  and  sincere  they  may  be,  are  engaged 
in  an  old  pastime;  they  limit  God  and  try  to  make  him  great  only  as 
man  is  great.  They  say  in  substance  that  God  can  do  only  that  which 
man  himself  is  able  to  do,  or  only  that  which  can  be  understood  by 
man.  This  limitation  has  been  attempted  before ;  it  is  not  a  new  thing. 
It  is  surprising  how,  in  this  latter  day,  in  this  greatest  civilization,  we 
return,  over  and  over,  to  such  age-old  controversies.  I  have  no  doubt 
that  in  the  days  of  Adam  men  differed  as  do  these  modernists  and 
others  of  today,  with  respect  to  the  nature  and  character  or  the  exist- 
ence of  God. 

It  seems  curious  to  me  that  a  man  can  say  that  he  believes  in  a 
God  who  is  the  author  of  life,  of  the  unfathomable  mystery  of  life, 
and  in  the  same  breath  can  declare  that  he  cannot  believe  that  God  is 
able  to  cause  the  immaculate  conception  of  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  difficult 
for  me  to  understand  the  mind  of  a  man  who  believes  in  a  God  who 
has  raised  the  bottom  of  the  sea  into  mountains,  and  has  made  the 
mountain-tops  into  sea-bottoms,  and  yet  cannot  believe  in  the  possibility 
of  the  miracles  of  the  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  still  more 
mysterious  to  me  how,  in  this  modern  day,  men  may  say  that  they 
believe  in  a  God  who  has  made  this  great  earth  out  of  eternal  elements 
and  indestructible  forces,  but  that  man,  the  sum  of  creation,  the  most 
marvelous  product  of  God's  handiwork,  upon  this  earth,  is  a  transitory 
being,  to  be  laid  down  in  the  grave,  and  if  he  ever  emerges,  to  be" 
merged  quiescently  with  the  forces  of  the  hereafter. 

DANGEROUS  TO  LIMIT  THE  POWERS  OF  GOD 

I  am  inclined  to  think,  though  I  recognize  that  these  seekers  after 
truth  are  honest  and  desire  to  do  the  right  thing  in  their  seeking  after 
truth — I  always  desire  to  give  them  credit  for  that — that  there  is  no 
great  difference  between  the  modernist  of  today  and  the  idol  wor- 
shiper of  the  past.  Heathen  nations  have  set  up  a  god  to  produce 
rain,  and  another  to  produce  crops,  and  in  a  dry  year  of  small  har- 
vests they  have  slapped  the  ears  of  both  gods.  It  is  dangerous  to 
limit  in  our  thinking  the  powers  of  God,  to  allow  ourselves  to  say  that 
God,  the  Maker  of  the  heavens  and  the  earth,  the  Founder  of  truth, 
is  limited  simply  because  we  are  limited  in  our  understanding.  It 
leads  men  to  unbelief  and  atheism. 

i 

SOMETHING,  HOWEVER,  TO  BE  SAID  FOR  THE  MODERNIST 

Yet,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  would  like  to  say  that  there  is  some- 
thing to  be  said  for  the  modernist,  because,  after  all,  he  has  broken 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


13 


away  from  the  unacceptable  traditions  of  the  past.  What  has  the 
fundamentalist,  his  brother,  to  give  him?  Just  a  short  time  ago  I 
met  two  priests  of  a  church  well  known  in  the  world,  who  explained 
to  me  at  great  length  that  God  is  a  person,  yes,  but  a  person  who  fills 
the  whole  universe  in  person,  and  who,  at  the  same  time,  in  person 
complete  and  whole,  is  in  every  human  heart.  That  is  beyond  my 
understanding.  This  summer  I  met  a  minister  of  another  church  well 
known  in  the  world,  who  explained  to  me  that  God  made  matter  out 
of  nothing,  and  then,  having  made  sufficient  matter  out  of  nothing, 
he  proceeded  to  build  an  earth  from  the  matter  so  created.  I  cannot 
understand  that.  A  few  weeks  ago,  a  member  of  another  Church 
wrote  to  me  and  said  that  God  was  in  the  beauty  of  the  rose,  in  the 
melody  of  a  song,  in  the  tenderness  of  a  mother's  heart;  and  that  was 
all  there  is  of  God.  No  wonder  people  break  away  from  such  con- 
ceptions. No  wonder  that  we  have  modernists  breaking  away  from 
fundamentalists.  The  fact  of  the  matter  is  that  in  this  day  with  re- 
spect to  the  existence  and  character  of  God  the  blind  are  leading  the 
blind. 

A  FUNDAMENTAL  DOCTRINE 

Among  the  great  doctrines  revealed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
none  is  greater  or  more  fundamental,  as  has  been  explained  today  by 
the  living  Prophet  of  today,  than  that  God  is  from  everlasting  to 
everlasting ;  so  far  as  we  can  understand  without  beginning  and  with- 
out end ;  the  Father  of  our  spirits,  who  in  so  far  as  he  deals  with 
human  life  may  be  understood  by  us,  and  who  understands  us  because 
we  are  his  children ;  a  God  whose  glory  is  intelligence,  and  whose  work 
and  glory  is  to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man. 
There  is  no  need  for  us  of  this  Church  to  become  fundamentalists  or 
modernists  or  to  set  up  new  theories  as  to  divinity,  for  God  has  re- 
vealed himself  so  clearly  in  these  latter  days  that,  with  respect  to  our 
human  life,  every  one  of  us  may  understand  to  a  sufficient  degree  the 
nature  of  God  and  his  relationship  to  the  human  family. 

THE  LORD  HAS  DECLARED  HIMSELF  IN  ALL  GENERATIONS 

I  rejoice  in  such  truths.  T  rejoice  to  know  that  God  in  person 
came  down  to  commission  the  boy,  Joseph  Smith,  with  prophetic 
power  in  these  latter  days.  As  President  Grant  has  stated  here  today 
there  is  no  doubt  in  our  minds  about  the  reality  of  the  First  Vision  of 
Joseph  Smith.  Every  religion  is  built  upon  a  conception  of  God.  The 
Lord,  knowing  this,  has  declared  himself  in  all  generations.  The 
first  statement  in  Holy  Writ  makes  it  clear  that  man  must  understand 
the  true  God  and  must  not  worship  false  gods  nor  set  up  gods  for 
himself.  "In  the  beginning  God  created  the  heavens  and  the  earth" — 
Almighty  God,  not  blind  forces,  made  the  earth  and  the  heavens  above. 
Later  on,  out  of  the  thunders  and  lightnings  of  Sinai,  the  first  com- 
mandment was :  "Thou  shalt  have  no  other  gods  before  me."  And 
on  the  back  of  the  statue  of  Joseph  Smith,  in  this  square,  you  will 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


find  as  a  great  fundamental  message,  that  "It  is  the  first  great  prin- 
ciple of  the  gospel  to  know  for  a  certainty  the  character  of  God." 

ALL  SH4.LL  BOW  BEFORE  THE  ONE  TRUE  GOD 

The  people  of  the  earth  are  gradually  beginning  to  understand 
the  truths  respecting  God,  though  they  are  unwilling  to  abide  by  them. 
I  read  in  a  recent  magazine — I  clipped  out  the  verses  because  they 
seemed  so  applicable  to  our  belief — a  verse  which  reads  something 
like  this : 

"We  serve  no  God  whose  work  is  done, 

Who  rests  within  his  firmament. 
Our  God,  his  labors  but  begun, 

Toils  evermore,  with  power  unspent." 

And  so,  the  truth  of  this  latter  day  work  is  filtering  in  among  the 
nations,  and  filling  the  hearts  and  souls  and  understandings  of  men. 
After  a  while  I  have  no  doubt  that  all  shall  bow  before  the  one  true 
God,  the  one  who  made  the  heavens  and  the  earth,  and  who  has 
spoken  throughout  all  these  ages  to  his  children,  even  if  obedience  is 
not  shown  him. 

It  is  possible  to  know  God.  There  are  thousands  in  this  Church, 
there  have  been  hundreds  of  thousands,  who  are  and  have  been  able  to 
bear  witness  to  that.  There  are  hosts  of  people,  who,  in  this  Church, 
have  sacrificed  all  for  the  love  of  the  gospel,  separated  from  their 
kindred,  met  the  hardships  of  pioneer  life,  sacrificed  all  worldly  ambi- 
tions, and  then,  at  the  close  of  life,  have  testified  fearlessly  that  God 
has  been  good  to  them,  that  throughout  their  lives,  in  all  their  sacrifices, 
they  have  been  simply  carrying  out  the  great  purposes  of  Almighty 
God,  that  they  have  been  engaged  in  the  cause  of  truth,  that  they  know 
of  a  certainty  that  God  lives,  that  he  has  spoken  in  these  latter  days, 
and  that  it  is  good  to  be  in  his  work.  These  testimonies  from  the 
thousands  who  have  borne  them  become  one  great  shout  to  heaven 
that  God  may  be  known,  and  that  this  work  is  a  work  of  truth.  A 
knowledge  of  God  is  the  need  of  this  and  of  every  land.  To  know 
him  and  to  serve  him  is  the  certain  way  to  human  happiness. 

WE  REST  UPON  THE  GOSPEL  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 

There  is  no  other  gathering  on  the  face  of  the  earth  such  as  we 
have  here  this  morning;  such  a  great  body  of  men  and  women  who 
see  alike  and  think  alike.  We  rest  ourselves  upon  truth,  the  simple 
truth,  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  We  are  willing  to  live  by  that  truth, 
and  if  necessary  to  die  for  it.  I  am  deeply  grateful  that  I  know  this 
truth;  that  God,  in  his  mercy,  brought  it  to  my  mother  and  to  me.  I 
praise  God  for  it  every  day  of  my  life.  I  know  that  you  do  the  same. 
May  the  Lord  be  with  us  and  make  us  strong  in  his  cause.  May  we 
grow  in  a  knowledge  of  God  and  his  desires  with  respect  to  us,  and 
be  willing  always  to  sacrifice  whatever  may  be  required  of  us  for  his 
great  cause,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 


15 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 

(Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church) 

It  is  indeed  a  pleasure  and  a  great  privilege  to  be  present  here 
this  morning,  and  to  stand  before  this  great  audience  and  bear  testi- 
mony to  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged.  I  trust  that 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  will  direct  the  few  remarks  which  I  may  make. 

Listening  to  the  revelation  which  was  read  by  our  President  this 
morning,  and  which  was  given  by  the  Lord  to  a  kinsman  of  mine  whom 
the  Lord  gave  responsibility  in  the  early  history  of  the  Church  in  this 
dispensation,  I  was  touched  with  the  simplicity  of  the  words  of  our 
Father  to  a  great  grandsire  of  mine — counsel  and  advice  which  is  good 
today  for  the  souls  of  men.  Without  referring  to  the  whole  revelation 
I  should  like  to  refer  to  one  of  the  remarkable  paragraphs  in  that  im- 
portant and  wonderful  revelation. 

"Remember  faith,  virtue,  knowledge,  temperance,  patience,  broth- 
erly kindness,  godliness,  charity,  humility,  diligence."  Do  you  know 
of  any  advice  or  counsel  that  is  not  contained  in  those  words?  There 
is  one  word  which  may  be  implied  but  is  not  said — no  Latter-day  Saint 
can  receive  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  without  honesty.  We  must  be 
honest  with  ourselves,  honest  with  our  neighbors,  honest  with  our  God, 
and  then  we  are  entitled  to  his  blessings,  to  the  confidence  of  our  neigh- 
bors, to  the  confidence  and  fellowship  of  those  who  are  around  us. 
These  words  of  counsel  are  applicable  to  all  of  us  as  members  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

In  visiting  among  the  people,  as  it  is  my  privilege,  I  have  dis- 
covered that  the  Lord  has  been  very  kind  to  us  as  a  people.  We 
have  struggled  through  this  year  which  has  beer.1  and  is  known  to  us 
as  one  of  the  dry  years,  when  we  have  not  had  sufficient  rain  and 
moisture  for  our  needs  in  many  cases ;  but  in  the  kindness  of  the  Lord 
conditions  have  been  brought  about  which  have  brought  us  to  a  very 
happy  condition,  for  there  are  none  among  us  who  are  suffering  to  the 
extreme.  True  there  have  been  many  losses,  true  we  have  not  accom- 
plished all  that  we  might  have  done ;  but  the  Lord  has  been  merciful 
and  I  wish  to  acknowledge  his  hand,  not  only  in  behalf  of  myself,  but 
in  behalf  of  the  people  and  of  the  Church,  and  I  praise  the  Lord  in 
your  behalf  that  He  has  been  mindful  of  and  merciful  to  us  as  a  people, 
as  individuals  and  as  an  organized  Church. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  organized  for 
the  last  time.  It  is  the  kingdom  of  God  that  has  been  set  up  in  the  last 
day  never  more  to  be  thrown  down  nor  given  to  another  people.  It  is 
that  organization  which  was  made  plain  to  the  great  king  of  Babylon 
through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet  Daniel;  that  in  the  last 
days  the  God  of  heaven  should  set  up  a  kingdom  likened  unto  a  stone 
cut  out  of  the  mountains  without  hands,  that  should  smite  the  great 
beast  which  the  king  saw  and  break  it  in  pieces,  and  this  stone  should 
roll  forth  and  fill  the  whole  earth.    The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Latter-day  Saints  is  that  kingdom  of  God  which  has  been  set  up  never 
more  to  be  thrown  down  nor  given  to  another  people.  It  has  not 
come  from  men  of  earthly  power  or  from  any  earthly  or  man-made 
organization.  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  has 
neither  father  nor  mother  in  the  earth,  for  it  has  not  come  out  of  any 
organization  in  the  earth.  It  has  corne  in  the  manner  predicted,  as 
a  stone  cut  out  of  the  mountain  without  hands,  for  the  power,  the  keys, 
the  authority  and  all  the  privileges  that  come  to  us  to  serve  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  have  come  from  heaven,  through  heavenly  powers  and 
heavenly  messengers. 

I  bear  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  know  with 
all  the  powers  that  I  have  to  know,  that  these  heavenly  messengers 
did  come  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  did  restore  to  the  earth 
all  the  keys  and  powers  of  authority  which  are  in  the  Church  today, 
and  that  men  are  called  upon  to  bear  the  Holy  Priesthood  which  is  the 
power  to  officiate  in  the  Church  for  the  Lord,  to  do  his  work,  to 
bring  about  his  marvelous  work  on  earth  in  these  the  last  days.  I 
bear  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  power  and 
keys  of  authority  to  officiate  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  for  the  salvation 
of  the  souls  of  men  both  for  the  living  and  for  the  dead  are  in  the 
Church  today.  I  have  seen  their  marvelous  power  made  manifest.  I 
know  that  this  power  rests  with  the  authorities  of  the  Church  as  they 
are  at  present  constituted  the  prophets,  apostles,  pastors,  evangelists, 
teachers  and  other  men  who  are  called  to  bear  this  important  responsi- 
bility, to  bring  about  the  mighty  purposes  of  God  in  these  the  last  days. 
I  thank  the  Lord  for  this  testimony.  I  know  it  is  the  truth  and  I 
praise  the  Lord  for  his  kindness  and  his  mercy  in  bestowing  upon  his 
children  this  plain  truth,  so  that  we  are  not  in  doubt.  We:  do  not 
wander  in  our  minds,  but  we  know,  like  little  children,  that  we  have 
a  father,  and  a  .mother  in  heaven,  and  that  we  have  our  loved  ones 
there.  We  know  that  if  we  are  true  to  the  teachings,  counsels  and 
instructions  that  are  given  unto  us ;  that  if  we  are  honest  and  virtuous 
and  faithful,  and  patient,  and  diligent,  and  practice  all  these  other 
qualities  that  belong  to  Latter-day  Saints,  we  shall  receive  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord,  we  shall  find  that  happy  clay  in  the  hereafter  when 
we  shall  be  associated  with  our  loved  ones,  and  with  the  men  and 
women  whom  God  has  honored,  who  have  gone  before  us.  Certain 
powers  are  in  the  Church  today  which,  if  we  are  faithful  in  receiving, 
will  bind  us  together  in  families,  in  the  links  of  brotherhood  and  father- 
hood forever:  we  will  claim  a  natural  relationship,  to  our  fathers  and 
our  mothers,  and  to  our  brothers  and  sisters,  not  for  this  life  only,  but 
for  all  eternity.  These  are  the  keys  and  the  powers  and  the  blessings 
that  will  come  to  us  if  we  will  only  live  worthy  lives  and  be  obedient 
to  the  teachings  and  counsels  which  come  to  us  from  our  merciful 
Heavenly  Father. 

Now  brethren  and  sisters,  as  a  servant  of  the  Lord,  in  humility  I 
pray  God  to  bless  you,  and  say  unto  you  that  he  will  bless  you.  He 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 


17 


will  continue  to  bless  those  whom  he  has  called  to  preside  in  this  great 
and  important  work,  from  the  President  of  the  Church  to  the  least  and 
last  one  who  is  or  who  may  be  called ;  whether  to  labor  at  home  or 
abroad ;  for  this  is  God's  work  and  not  the  work  of  man  or  men,  and 
it  will  roll  forth  even  as  Daniel  declared  when  he  interpreted  the  great 
king's  dream  that  it  should  in  time  fill  the  whole  earth. 

May  God  bless  you  in  your  homes,  may  he  continue  to  be  mind- 
ful of  you  in  your  labors,  that  you  may  be  honest  with  him  in  all  of 
the  possessions  and  blessings  that  came  to  you,  that  you  may  remember 
the  Lord — whether  in  poverty  or  wealth,  it  matters  not.  The  Lord  will 
require  only  a  certain  amount  from  each  of  us.  Let  us  be  true  and 
honest  and  faithful  to  the  end.  I  pronounce  upon  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  and  upon  the  Church,  the  blessings  of  the  Lord,  the  bless- 
ings of  Jesus  Christ,  for  this  is  his  Church,  and  his  blessings  will  con- 
tinue with  his  Church  and  with  his  people.  I  pray  that  his  mercies  may 
continue  to  attend  us,  and  for  his  spirit  to  inspire  those  who  speak  and 
pray  and  sing,  and  take  other  parts  in  this  conference,  that  we  may 
be  encouraged  and  built  up  in  our  faith  to  return  to  our  homes  and 
abiding  places  after  this  conference,  inspired  and  blessed  and  com- 
forted and  sustained  to  serve  God  and  keep  his  commandments,  and 
work  out  his  mighty  purposes  according  to  his  will  as  it  has  been  made 
known  to  us,  and  may  the  peace  and  blessing  of  the  Almighty  be  upon 
you  all,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Elder  Orson  F.  Whitney,  will  be  our  next  speaker.  We  all 
rejoice  in  the  recovery  of  Brother  Whitney's  health.  On  account  of 
being  in  Europe  for  some  time,  he  has  not  had  many  privileges  of  speak- 
ing to  us.    He  will  occupy  the  balance  of  the  time. 

ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 

THE  MARVELOUS  WORK  AND  WONDER 

Seven  hundred  years  before  the  birth  of  the  Savior,  a  Prophet  oi 
God  upon  the  Eastern  hemisphere  proclaimed  the  coming  forth  of  a 
marvelous  work  and  wonder.  The  reason  for  its  coming  forth  was 
given  by  the  Lord  through  that  Prophet  as  follows : 

"Forasmuch  as  this  people  draw  near  me  with  their  mouth,  and  with 
their  lips  do  honor  me,  but  have  removed  their  heart  far  from  me,  and 
their  fear  toward  me  is  taught  by  the  precept  of  men: 

"Therefore  behold,  I  will  proceed  to  do  a  marvelous  work  among  this 
people,  even  a  marvelous  work  and  wonder:  for  the  wisdom  of  their  wise 
men  shall  perish,  and  the  understanding  of  their  prudent  men  shall  be 
hid,"— Isaiah  29:13,  14. 

The  angel  Moroni,  who  appeared  to  Joseph  Smith  on  the  night 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  the  21st  of  September,  one  hundred  and  one  years  ago,  cited  this 
prediction,  among  others,  as  relating  to  the  Lord's  work  in  latter  days. 
He  identified  those  words  of  Isaiah  with  the  movement  which  the 
world  now  calls  "Mormonism." 

FUNDAMENTAL  FACTS 

And  what  could  be  more  wonderful,  more  marvelous,  than  the 
basic  facts  upon  which  "Mormonism"  rests  ? — beginning  with  the  appear- 
ance of  the  Father  and  the  Son  to  a  boy  fourteen  years  of  age,  announcing 
the  opening  of  a  new  Gospel  dispensation ;  then  the  coming  of  an 
angel  to  reveal  the  hidden  past  and  future  of  the  American  continents, 
as  set  forth  in  that  ancient  record,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  containing 
also  the  fulness  of  the  everlasting  gospel ;  the  coming  of  another  angel, 
John  the  Baptist,  to  confer  upon  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  which  holds  the  keys  of  the  ministering  of 
angels  and  of  baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins ;  the 
visitation  of  three  other  heavenly  messengers,  the  Apostles  Peter,  James 
and  John,  delivering  the  keys  of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  the 
power  to  bestow  the  Holy  Ghost  upon  those  baptized  in  the  right 
manner  and  by  the  proper  authority.  By  virtue  of  these  priesthoods  this 
Church  was  organized,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
(April  6,  1830),  and  thus  was  lifted  the  ensign  for  the  gathering  of 
scattered  Israel,  the  children  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob,  that  they 
might  be  ready  to  meet  their  God  and  King,  who  is  coming  to  reign 
literally  upon  the  earth.  Subsequently  came  Moses,  to  restore  the  keys 
of  the  gathering,  to  authorize  the  assembling  of  the  House  of  Israel ; 
then  Elias,  repeating  the  promise  made  to  Abraham,  that  in  him  and 
in  his  seed  should  all  the  nations  of  the  earth  be  blessed — a  promise 
fulfilled  in  the  coming  of  Christ  through  the  lineage  of  the  Hebrew 
patriarchs,  and  in  the  dispersion  of  Israel  among  all  nations,  so  that 
the  [blood  that  believes,  that  has  faith  in  '  the  true  God,  might  be 
sprinkled  over  the  world,  and  that  out  of  every  nation  under  heaven 
might  come  in  the  last  days  some  of  the  chosen  people,  to  build  up  Zion 
on  this  goodly  land  and  prepare  the  way  before  the  glorious  coming 
of  the  Lord.  Finally  the  Prophet  Elijah,  who-  holds  all  the  keys  of  the 
Priesthood,  appears  and  confers  upon  Joseph  and  Oliver  "the  keys  to 
turn  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children,  and  the  children  to  the 
fathers,"  in  order  that  a  link  might  be  welded  between  the  living  and  the 
dead,  between  the  present  and  the  past,  and  a  work  done  that  will 
eventually  unify  and  bring  together  all  things  in  Christ,  both  in  heaven 
and  on  earth.  What  could  be  more  marvelous,  more  wonderful  than 
this?  And  yet  the  wisdom  of  the  world  passes  it  by  as  a  thing  of 
naught. 

WORLDLY  WISDOM'S  ATTITUDE 

Wise  and  gifted  men  will  come  into  the  midst  of  God's  people ; 
they  will  praise  the  industry,  the  thrift,  the  honesty  and  uprightness 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


19 


of  the  Latter-day  Saints ;  but  they  seem  to  have  no  conception  of  the 
more  glorious  features  of  the  Lord's  Work.  They  praise  Brigham 
Young  as  a  colonizer,  as  a  builder  of  cities,  as  the  founder  of  a  common- 
wealth; but  they  know  nothing  at  all  about  Brigham  Young  as  a 
prophet,  seer  and  revelator.  Agriculture,  mining,  and  other  tempor- 
alities, things  of  earth  and  time,  they  appreciate ;  but  they  take  no 
cognizance  whatever  of  spiritual  things,  things  pertaining  to  heaven 
and  eternity. 

Horace  greeley's  visit 

Many  years  ago  a  famous  and  prominent  personage  came  to  Utah. 
It  was  in  the  days  of  the  stage  coach  and  the  pony  express,  before  the 
transcontinental  railroad  had  crossed  the  country,  before  there  was 
even  a  telegraph  line  between  the  Missouri  and  the  Pacific.  He  was 
the  founder  and  editor  of  a  great  newspaper — the  New  York  Tribune. 
His  word  was  more  influential  than  that  of  the  President  of  the  United 
States.  Whatever  Horace  Greeley  said  was  accepted  by  the  American 
people  almost  as  the  word  of  God.  He  came  here  and  spent  a  week 
or  more,  had  several  long  interviews  with  President  Brigham  Young, 
and  after  returning  East  wrote  and  published  a  book  entitled  "Across 
the  Continent."  In  it  he  praised  the  "Mormon"  people  for  their 
sobriety  and  industry.  He  did  not  believe  that  they  were  robbers  and 
murderers,  as  he  had  been  told.  They  were  sincere  and  honest,  he  said, 
and  had  done  a  wonderful  work  in  peopling  the  waste  and  redeeming 
the  desert.  But  he  had  not  a  word  to  say  concerning  the  glories  of 
our  religion.    Why  was  it  ? 

A  CATHOLIC  COMMENT 

I  bear  in  mind  another  noted  visitor,  a  great  scholar,  who  came 
here  many  years  after  the  advent  of  the  railroad.  I  became  we1!  ac- 
quainted with  him,  and  we  had  more  than  one  conversation  together. 
I  admired  his  vast  erudition.  He  seemed  to  know  all  about  law,  litera- 
ture, science,  philosophy,  and  had  a  dozen  languages  at  his  tongue's 
end.  He  said  to  me  one  day:  "You  Mormons  are  all  ignoramuses. 
You  don't  even  know  the  strength  of  your  own  position.  It  is  so 
strong  that  there  is  only  one  other  position  tenable  in  the  whole  Christian 
world,  and  that  is  the  position  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church.  The 
issue  is  between  Mormonism  and  Catholicism.  If  you  are  right,  we 
are  wrong.  If  we  are  right,  you  are  wrong.  And  that's  all  there  is  to 
it.  These  Protestant  sects  haven't  a  leg  to  stand  on ;  for  if  we  are 
right,  we  cut  them  off  long  ago  as  apostates ;  and  if  we  are  wrong,  they 
are  wrong  with  us,  for  they  were  part  of  us  and  came  out  of  us.  If 
we  have  the  apostolic  succession  from  St.  Peter  as  we  claim,  there 
was  no  need  of  Joseph  Smith  and  Mormonism ;  but  if  we  have  not 
that  succession,  such  a  man  as  Joseph  Smith  was  necessary  and  Mor- 
monism's  position  is  the  only  consistent  one.    It  is  either  the  per- 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


petuation  of  the  gospel  from  ancient  times,  or  the  restoration  of  the 
gospel  in  latter  days." 

I  replied :  "Doctor,  I  agree  with  you  in  almost  everything  that 
you  have  said ;  but  don't  deceive  yourself  with  the  notion  that  we 
'Mormons'  do  not  know  the  strength  of  our  own  position.  We  know 
it  better  than  you  do ;  we  know  it  better  than  any  other  people  can 
know  it.  We  have  not  all  been  to  college;  we  cannot  all  speak  the 
dead  languages,  and  we  may  be  ignoramuses  as  you  say,  but  we  know 
we  are  right,  and  we  know  that  you  are  wrong."  I  was  just  as  frank 
with  him  as  he  had  been  with  me. 

Now  what  was  the  position  of  this  learned  man?  He  could  not 
see  into  the  heart  of  "Mormonism,"  with  all  his  learning,  his  dead 
and  living  languages,  his  knowledge  of  science,  law  and  literature. 
He  could  not  comprehend  this  great  problem.  Why?  Because  God 
Almighty  had  said  concerning  him  and  bis  class  :  "The  wisdom  of  their 
wise  men  shall  perish,  and  the  understanding  of  their  prudent  men 
shall  be  hid."  He  thought  that  Joseph  Smith  had  stumbled  upon 
something  of  which  he  did  not  know  the  true  value.  A  greater  mistake 
was  never  made,  a  grosser  error  never  committed.  Joseph  Smith  re- 
ceived his  knowledge,  his  power,  and  wisdom  from  on  High.  He 
did  not  stumble  upon  it ;  it  came  by  divine  revelation,  and  he  knew, 
better  than  anyone  else,  the  strength  of  the  "Mormon"  position. 

AN  EPISCOPAL  VIEW 

Years  later  I  formed  the  acquaintance  of  a  bishop  of  the  Episcopal 
Church,  a  very  worthy  and  scholarly  gentleman,  whose  untimely,  ac- 
cidental death  in  this  city  we  all  deplored.  He  remarked  to  me  on 
one  occasion :  "If  Joseph  Smith,  at  the  outset  of  his  career,  had  made 
the  acquaintance  of  the  Episcopalians,  he  never  would  have  sought 
any  further  for  spiritual  light.  But  instead,  he  came  upon  the  Method- 
ists, the  Baptists,  the  Presbyterians ;  and  their  conflicting  creeds  and 
claims  bewildered  the  boy,  compelling  him  to  look  elsewhere.  Now  if 
he  had  only  become  acquainted  with  Episcopalianism,  which  has  an  un- 
broken succession  of  authority  all  down  the  centuries,  he  never  would 
have  gone  to  the  trouble  of  organizing  another  church."  Such  was  this 
wise  man's  opinion.  "Mormonism"  was  to  him  only  one  more  broken 
off  fragment  of  the  ancient  Christian  faith.  He  could  not  grasp  the 
idea  of  its  being  the  ancient  Christian  faith  restored. 

AN  ABSURD  THEORY 

But  I  think  the  shallowest  and  vainest  attempt  to  explain  away 
Joseph  Smith  and  "Mormonism."  was  made  by  a  learned  man  who 
was  applying  for  a  Doctor's  degree  from  Yale  University.  He 
wrote  a  thesis,  as  the  basis  for  his  application,  taking  Joseph  Smith 
and  "Mormonism"  as  his  subject.  And  all  that  he  could  say  concern- 
ing this  marvelous  work  and  wonder,  was  that  a  boy  named  Joseph 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


21 


Smith,  being  an  epileptic,  had  fallen  in  a  fit  and  imagined  that  he  saw 
the  Father  and  the  Son ;  imagined  that  he  beheld  angels ;  imagined 
that  the  heavens  were  opened  to  him  and  that  he  received  communica- 
tions from  Above. 

Think  of  it !  Here  is  a  great  Church  organization  which  challenges 
the  admiration  of  intelligent  men  all  over  the  world.  I  wish  I  had 
time  to  describe  it,  even  hastily — but  you  know  it.  This  Church  was 
once  compared  to  the  German  army,  in  the  excellence  and  perfection  of 
its  organization.  That  was  when  Germany  had  an  army — but  of  course 
no  comparison  is  possible  between  the  work  of  God  and  the  work  of 
man.  This  Church  is  conceded  to  be  a  most  superior  organization,  and 
"Mormonism,"  as  you  all  know  who  have  studied  it,  is  replete  with 
doctrines  of  beauty  and  sublimity,  unequaled  anywhere — full  of  science, 
full  of  poetry,  full  of  philosophy,  full  of  truth.  And  yet  this  wonder- 
ful scheme  of  religion  and  this  unparalleled  system  of  government, 
all  sprang  from  the  disordered  brain  of  a  fourteen-year  old  boy  who 
had  fallen  in  an  epileptic  fit !  There  are  some  things  that  do  not  need 
answering;  they  answer  themselves.    This  is  one  of  them. 

THE  REVEALING  SPIRIT 

There  is  only  one  way  to  comprehend  God  and  the  things  of 
God,  and  the  Apostle  Paul  struck  the  keynote  when  he  said : 

"Eye  liath  not  seen,  nor  ear  heard,  neither  have  entered  into  the  heart 
of  man,  the  things  which  God  hath  prepared  for  them  that  love  him. 

"But  God  hath  revealed  them  unto  us  by  his  Spirit;  for  the  Spirit 
searcheth  all  things,  yea,  the  deep  things  of  God. 

"For  what  man  knoweth  the  things  of  a  man,  save  the  spirit  of  man 
which  is  in  him?  Even  so  the  things  of  God  knoweth  no  man,  but  the 
Spirit  of  God."— 1  Cor.  2:9-11. 

And  that  is  why  the  Spirit  of  God  is  given  to  every  man,  woman 
and  child  who  joins  the  Church  of  Christ.  We  have  received  that 
Spirit  as  a  gift  from  God,  because  we  have  done  His  will.  Therefore 
we  "know  of  the  doctrine."  We  have  had  faith,  have  repented  of 
our  sins,  have  had  our  sins  washed  away  by  baptism,  and  have  re- 
ceived the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  hands.  That  is  the  key  to  the 
situation. 

Why  couldn't  Horace  Greeley  see  what  you  and  I  see  in  "Mor- 
monism?" Why  couldn't  Dr.  Reiner  see  it?  Why  couldn't  Bishop 
Spalding  or  Mr.  Riley  see  it?  Because  they  were  without  the  Spirit 
that  comprehends  the  things  of  God.  And  we,  without  that  Spirit,  would 
be  just  as  short-sighted  in  our  views,  would  make  just  as  many  mistakes 
as  do  other  men  in  relation  to  the  Lord's  work.  It  is  not  our  smartness, 
not  our  native  intelligence  that  enables  us  to  understand  these  things. 
We  have  come  out  from  the  Gentile  world.  We  have  their  blood  in 
our  veins.  We  are  no  more  intelligent  than  they,  naturally ;  but  we 
have  received  something  that  they  do  not  possess ;  that  is  the  whole 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


solution.  The  credit  is  not  to  us ;  it  is  to  our  Father  in  Heaven,  who 
has  given  us  this  precious  gift,  the  power  to  comprehend  him  and 
his  purposes,  and  rightly  interpret  his  word. 

ST.  JOHN  INTERPRETED 

Suppose  we  should  open  the  Bible  at  the  first  chapter  of  St. 
John,  and  read :  "In  the  beginning  was  the  Word,  and  the  Word  was 
with  God,  and  the  Word  was  God,  *  *  *  and  the  Word  was  made 
flesh  and  dwelt  among  us,  and  we  beheld  his  glory."  And  then  read 
a  little  farther  on:  "No  man  hath  seen  God  at  any  time."  Who  can 
interpret  that?  Evidently  "the  Word"  means  our  Savior,  in  whom 
dwelt  "the  fulness  of  the  Godhead  bodily."  He  was  God  in  the  flesh, 
and  many  men  saw  him;  and  yet  John  says,  or  is  made  to  say:  "No 
man  hath  seen  God  at  any  time."  Who  can  interpret  it?  Who  can 
explain  the  apparent  contradiction? 

THE  FATHER  AND  THE  SON 

True,  it  might  be  shown  that  when  John  said :  "No  man  hath 
seen  God  at  any  time,"  he  was  referring,  not  to  the  Son  of  God,  but 
to  God  the  Father.  This  is  evident  from  the  text  (1:14,  18).  But 
even  here  the  same  difficulty  arises;  for  Adam  had  seen  God,  Enoch 
had  walked  with  him,  and  he  had  appeared  to  Abraham,  Moses, 
Aaron,  and  others,  long  before  "the  Word  was  made  flesh"  and  was 
called  the  Son  of  God  "because  of  the  flesh."  Joseph  Smith  saw  both 
the  Father  and  the  Son,  but  the  wise  world  rejects  his  testimony, 
and  most  believers  in  the  Bible  adhere  to  the  dead  letter  of  John's 
declaration,  (which  may  or  may  not  have  been  correctly  transmitted), 
unheeding  the  divine  admonition :  "The  letter  killeth,  but  the  Spirit 
giveth  life." 

a  "mormon"  boy's  wit 

One  of  our  "Mormon"  boys  out  on  a  mission  was  confronted  with 
this  question.  He  had  just  been  preaching  that  the  Father  and  the 
Son  appeared  to  Joseph  Smith,  when  a  voice  rang  out :  "No  man  hath 
seen  God  at  any  time,"  The  boy  had  his  wits  about  him.  "Of  course 
not,"  said  he,  "God  is  a  business  man — you  can't  see  him  at  any  time; 
you  have  to  make  a  special  appointment  with  him."  (Laughter.)  He 
answered  a  fool  according  to  his  folly,  but  that  of  course  is  not  the 
explanation. 

MOSES  EXPLAINS 

Read  the  Book  of  Moses.  That  mighty  man  of  God  had  an 
experience  of  which  Joseph  Smith's  was  almost  the  exact  counterpart. 
He  wrestled  with  Satan,  and  was  delivered  from  darkness.  He  saw 
God,  and  tells  how  he  saw  him,  in  these  words : 

"Now  mine  own  eyes  have  beheld  God;  but  not  my  natural,  but 
my  spiritual  eyes,  for  my  natural  eyes  could  not  have  beheld ;  for  I 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


23 


should  have  withered  and  died  in  his  presence ;  but  his  glory  was  upon 
me;  and  I  beheld  his  face,  for  I  was  transfigured  before  him." 

THE  SPIRIT  SIGHT 

That  is  what  John  meant  when  he  said :  "No  man  hath  seen  God 
at  any  time."  And  that  is  what  Paul  meant,  in  saying:  "Eye  hath 
not  seen,  nor  ear  heard."  It  means  that  no  man  with  his  natural  eyes 
can  see  God  in  his  glory.  He  must  use  his  spirit  eyes,  the  eyes  with 
which  he  "walked  by  sight"  when  a  spirit  in  the  spirit  world,  the  eyes 
that  he  saw  with  before  coming  to  earth  and  receiving  his  natural  eyes. 
In  this  second  estate,  where  we  "walk  by  faith,"  we  are  not  permitted 
to  use  at  all  times  our  spirit  sight.  But  now  and  then  the  Lord  chooses 
one  from  among  men,  and  gives  him  that  rare  privilege.  The  power 
of  God  comes  upon  such  a  one,  transfigures  him,  opens  his  spirit  eyes, 
and  constitutes  him  a  seer  in  the  highest  sense  of  the  term.  Such  a 
man  was  Moses.  Such  a  man  was  the  brother  of  Jared,  such  a  man 
was  Nephi,  and  such  a  man  was  Joseph  Smith.  There  have  been  many 
such  men.  They  have  seen  God  actually,  literally,  but  it  was  with 
their  spiritual  and  not  with  their  natural  eyes.  "The  natural  man  is 
an  enemy  to  God ;"  the  natural  eye  cannot  behold  him,  the  natural  ear 
cannot  hear  him.  But  the  spirit  eye  can  behold  him,  and  the  spirit 
ear  can  hear  him.  With  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  upon  us,  we  can  see 
and  comprehend  God,  so  far  as  he  chooses  to  make  himself  known. 
This  is  the  great  differentiating  feature  between  the  Latter-day  Saints 
and  those  who  have  not  received  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

God  grant  us  the  power  to  retain  this  precious  gift,  which  com- 
prehends all  things,  which  explains  the  past,  the  present  and  the  future, 
shows  us  where  we  came  from,  why  we  are  here,  and  where  we  are 
going  when  we  leave  this  life,  making  manifest  the  things  o'f  God, 
both  of  time  and  of  eternity.  May  we  keep  the  fire  burning-,  the 
lamp  lit,  which  the  Lord  has  lighted  within  us,  to  lead  and  guide  us 
into  all  truth,  Amen. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  gave  notice  that  a  free  concert  will  be 
held  in  the  Tabernacle  this  evening,  to  which  all  are  invited.  An  ex- 
cellent program  of  singing  has  been  arranged. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Do  what  is  right." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Byron  O.  Colton,  president 
of  the  Roosevelt  stake  of  Zion. 

The  meeting  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

AFTERNOON  SESSION 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  announced  at  2  o'clock  that  the  choir 
and  congregation  would  sing,  "O  say  what  is  truth  ?" 

After  the  singing,  Elder  Franklin  S.  Harris,  president  of  the  Brig- 
ham  Young  University,  opened  the  meeting  with  prayer. 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "How  firm  a  foundation,  ye 
Saints  of  the  Lord." 

PRESIDENT   RUDGER  CLAWSON 

I  am  dependent  this  afternoon  upon  the  Lord  and  the  faith  of 
the  congregation  for  what  I  shall  say.  We  had  a  very  excellent 
meeting  this  morning.  I  trust  that  the  Lord  by  his  spirit  will  continue 
to  be  with  us. 

A  CONUNDRUM 

I  have  in  my  hands  an  article  entitled  "Happiness,"  written  by 
Bruno  Lessing.    I  will  read  a  few  lines  of  said  article. 

"Many  a  philosopher  has  propounded  the  conundrum,  What  is 
the  object  of  life?  Why  have  we  been  placed  upon  this  planet,  to 
struggle  along  for  a  few  years  and  then  to  die  ?  Has  a  beneficent  Provi- 
dence some  scheme  which  we  cannot  fathom?'  This  conundrum  has 
not  yet  been  answered." 

THE  ANSWER 

In  reply  to  these  words  I  may  say  that  the  conundrum  here 
spoken  of  has  been  answered,  and  that  a  beneficent  Providence  has 
some  scheme  which  we  are  able  to  fathom  in  order  to  arrive  at  a 
satisfactory  solution  of  this  great  and  important  question,  "What  is 
the  object  of  life?"  We  must  necessarily  hark  back  to  the  pre-existent 
state  of  our  spirits.  I  know  that  this  will  seem  to  be  a  strange  doctrine 
to  many — the  pre-existence  of  our  spirits — but  the  scriptures  are  replete 
with  references  to  this  important  subject.  We  are  living  here  now. 
We  lived  before  we  came  here.  Let  me  submit  a  scripture  or 
two  bearing  upon  this  subject : 

Hebrews  12:9:  "Furthermore  we  have  had  fathers  of  our  flesh 
which  corrected  us,  and  we  gave  them  reverence :  shall  we  not  much 
rather  be  in  subjection  unto  the  Father  of  spirits,  and  live?" 

Numbers  16 :22 :  "And  they  fell  upon  their  faces,  and  said,  O 
God,  the  God  of  the  spirits  of  all  flesh,  shall  one  man  sin,  and  wilt 
thou  be  wroth  with  all  the  congregation?" 

Ecclesiastes  12:7:  "Then  shall  the  dust  return  to  the  earth  as  it 
was :  and  the  spirit  shall  return  unto  God  who  gave  it." 

WE  WERE  THE  CHILDREN  OF  GOD  IN  THE  SPIRIT  WORLD 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  and  as 
these  scriptures  which  I  have  read,  and  many  other  scriptures,  indi- 
cate, we  existed  before  we  came  here  and  belonged  to  a  great  family 
of  spirits  in  heaven.  We  speak  of  our  Father  in  heaven.  Jesus  said, 
When  you  pray,  say,  "Our  Father  which  art  in  heaven."  We  were  his 
children  in  spirit,  in  heaven,  and  suffice  it  to  say  we  also  have  a  mother 
in  heaven.   There  were  parents  in  heaven — parents  and  children. 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


25 


THE  PURPOSE  OF  THE  CREATION  OF  THE  WORLD 

Let  me  say  to  you  that  when  the  earth  was  organized  and  rolled 
into  existence,  the  Lord  had  a  great  and  glorious  purpose  in  view,  and 
it  was  that  these  sons  and  daughters  in  the  spirit  world  should  come 
down  to  the  earth  and  inhabit  it.  Now  the  first  great  creative  act 
in  the  beginning  of  the  world  indicates  the  importance  of  this  subject. 
We  read  in  Genesis  2:7: 

"And  the  Lord  God  formed  man  of  the  dust  of  the  ground,  and 
breathed  into  his  nostrils  the  breath  of  life ;  and  man  became  a  living 
soul." 

MAN'S  CREATION 

What  a  wonderful,  marvelous  statement  this  is.  Think,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  what  it  signifies!  We  learn  from  this  passage 
that  man  could  only  develop  into  a  perfect  soul  by  taking  a  body. 
Perhaps  that  passage  might  be  better  understood  if  it  were  rendered 
in  a  little  different  way  but  with  the  same  meaning — The  Lord  God 
formed  man  of  the  dust  of  the  ground  and  breathed  into  his  nostrils 
his  spirit,  and  man  became  a  living  soul.  It  is  the  spirit  which  is 
the  breath  of  life.  And  so  man  never  did  develop,  and  never  could 
have  developed  into  a  perfect  soul  without  the  body.  And  thus  we 
begin  to  get  an  insight  into  the  purpose  of  life.  The  Lord  said  in 
one  of  the  revelations  to  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet,  section  88 : 

"And  the  spirit  and  the  body  are  the  soul  of  man.  And  the 
resurrection  from  the  dead  is  the  redemption  of  the  soul." 

REDEMPTION  THROUGH  THE  GOSPEL  AND  TPIE  RESURRECTION 

So  that  we  get  the  impression  from  these  scriptures  that  when 
man  comes  into  the  world,  as  we  have  done,  he  begins  almost  from  the 
first  to  look  forward  to  the  redemption  of  his  soul  through  the  resurrec- 
tion. And  how  may  this  redemption  be  accomplished  ?  The  answer 
has  a  bearing  directly  upon  the  object  and  purpose  of  life.  Surely  no 
man  can  be  redeemed  except  he  will  obey  the  commandments  of  God. 
I  take  it  that  redemption  means  that  we  are  redeemed  from  sickness, 
disease,  trouble,  sorrow  and  sin ;  and  that  can  only  be  brought  about 
through  obedience,  as  T  said,  to  the  commandments  of  God.  These 
commandments  of  the  Almighty  are  set  forth  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  if  men  reject  the  gospel  how  can  they  hope  to  come  into 
the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God,  and  be  saved  and  redeemed? 

You  will  remember  doubtless  the  conversation  between  Nicodemus 
and  the  Savior,  when  Nicodemus  came  to  him  privately  by  night,  in 
order  possibly  to  get  further  light  and  information.  He  confessed 
that  he  knew  the  Savior  was  a  prophet  because  of  the  great  works  he 
had  done.  The  Savior  made  what  might  seem  to  be  a  peculiar  answer. 
He  said:  "Except  a  man  be  born  again,  he  cannot  see  the  Kingdom 
of  God."    That  was  very  confusing  to  Nicodemus.    He  could  not 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


comprehend  such  a  statement.  He  wondered  how  it  might  be.  Could 
a  man  return  to  the  spirit  world  and  then  be  born  again?  In  answer 
the  Savior  said,  amplifying  his  first  statement :  "Except  a  man  be 
born  of  water  and  of  the  Spirit  he  cannot  enter  into  the  kingdom  of 
God." 

Now,  brethren  and  .sisters,  a  rejection  of  the  gospel  is  a  bar, -an 
absolute  bar,  against  any  man  or  woman  entering  into  the  kingdom 
of  God. 

The  importance  of  the  body,  and  we  have  been  emphasizing  that 
thought  very  considerably,  is  greatly  emphasized  by  another  revelation 
given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  section  93 : 

THE  PURPOSE  OF  man's  LIFE 

"For  man  is  spirit.  The  elements  are  eternal,  and  spirit  and 
element,  inseparably  connected,  receive  a  fulness  of  joy; 

"And  when  separated,  man  cannot  receive  a  fulness  of  joy. 

"The  elements  are  the  tabernacle  of  God ;  yea,  man  is  the  taber- 
nacle of  God,  even  temples;  and  whatsoever  temple  is  defiled,  God 
shall  destroy  that  temple." 

Now  you  see  how  directly  this  passage  refers  to  the  object  of 
life,  the  very  purpose  of  life.  In  securing  a  body,  we  are  at  once 
put  upon  the  line  of  progress  that  leads  to  exaltation  and  glory.  We 
could  not  do  this  in  our  spirit  state,  but  the  opportunity  is  before  us 
here,  because  the  Lord  tells  us  that  the  body  of  man  is  composed  of 
eletment,  that  spirit  and  element  inseparably  connected  receiveth  a 
fulness  of  joy,  or  a  fulness  of  happiness.  Happiness  is  the  very  thing 
that  this  writer  is  dealing  with,  and  that  is  how  it  is  to  be  obtained. 

THE  WONDERFUL  BEAUTY  OF  THE  GOSPEL  OF  CHRIST 

How  beautiful,  how  wonderful,  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ ! 
What  marvelous  light  is  thrown  upon  our  lives  in  mortality  through 
the  scriptures  that  we  have.  The  question  might  be  asked :  How  is 
it  that  philosophers  and  wise  men,  many  of  them,  reject  this  light, 
reject  the  principles  of  the  gospel?  The  answer  is:  Because  they  are 
not  spiritually  minded.  These  things  can  only  be  comprehended  and 
fully  understood  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  and  not  otherwise.  And  so 
vital  is  this  question,  so  important  to  our  welfare  and  happiness,  that 
the  Savior  delivered  this  tremendous  charge  to  his  apostles  after  the 
crucifixion ;  he  said  to  them :  "Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the 
gospel  to  every  creature.  He  that  believeth  and  is  baptized  shall  be 
saved ;  but  he  that  believeth  not  shall  be  damned,"  or  condemned,  which 
means  the  same.  So  that  those  who  turn  away  from  the  light  and 
who  reject  the  gospel,  be  they  the  learned  or  the  unlearned,  men  or 
women,  they  are  under  condemnation,  and,  of  course,  will  not  attain 
to  a  fulness  of  happiness,  to  complete  and  perfect  joy.  Their  wings, 
so  to  speak,  will  be  clipped  and  they  will  come  short.    Now  is  it  any 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


27 


wonder,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  in  which  is  to  be  found  the  gospel  in  its  fulness, 
should  send  it  message  to  the  ends  of  the  earth  by  our  elders? 

OUR  DUTY  TO  CARRY  THE  GOSPEL  MESSAGE  TO  THE  WORLD 

It  seems  to  me  that  it  is  our  bounden  duty,  that  the  responsibility 
which  was  placed  upon  the  apostles  in  early  days  rests  now  also  upon 
the  apostles  of  latter  days  and  also  upon  the  elders  of  Israel,  to  carry 
this  message  to  the  world;  and  as  we  have  received  the  light  freely, 
we  are  to  give  it  to  others  freely.    We  cannot  escape  the  responsibilty. 

Standing  before  you  this  afternoon,  I  solemnly  testify  that  this 
work  in  which  we  are  engaged  is  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God, 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  his  Prophet, 
and  the  instrument  in  the  hands  of  God  in  founding  his  Church  upon 
the  earth  in  these  latter  days.  This  is  my  testimony,  and  I  rejoice  in 
it.  I  glorify  the  Lord,  and  I  am  striving,  and  I  hope  to  be  able,  to 
live  the  religion  which  has  come  to  me,  which  is  so  perfect  in  all  of 
its  principles,  and  in  the  organization  of  the  Church.  Brethren  and 
sisters,  the  Lord  in  heaven  bless  you  and  sustain  you  and  strengthen 
you  for  your  duties,  and  guide  you  continually,  is  my  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

I  desire  to  read  a  portion  of  the  86th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  the  same  being  a  communication  from  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, — and  the  address  is  made  to  all 
the  Saints  and  elders  of  the  Church. 

PROMISES  TO  BE  FULFILLED  IN  OUR  DAY 

The  Lord  admonishes  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  have  faith  and 
confidence  in  the  former  promises  made  by  the  prophets  of  old,  and 
gives  us  an  assurance  that  we  are  living  in  a  day  when  these  great  and 
precious  promises  are  to  be  fulfilled;  and  the  language  which  I  now 
quote  is  as  follows  : 

"Therefore,  thus  saith  the  Lord  unto  you,  with  whom  the  priesthood 
hath  continued  through  the  lineage  of  your  fathers — 

"For  ye  are  lawful  heirs,  according  to  the  flesh,  and  have  been  hid 
from  the  world  with  Christ  in  God — 

"Therefore  your  life  and  the  Priesthood  have  remained,  and  must  needs 
remain  through  you  and  your  lineage  until  the  restoration  of  all  things 
spoken  by  the  mouths  of  all  the  holy  prophets  since  the  world  began. 

"Therefore,  blessed  are  ye  if  ye  continue  in  my  goodness,  a  light  unto 
the  Gentiles,  and  through  this  Priesthood,  a  savior  unto  my  people  Israel. 
The  Lord  hath  said  it." 

How  great  and  wonderful  is  this  promise,  that  through  this 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Church  and  this  Priesthood  shall  be  restored  ultimately  all  that  has 
been  predicted  and  prophesied  of  concerning  the  great  things  God  would 
do  for  men;  and  that  these  things  are  to  be  fulfilled  and  realized  in 
our  time.  The  Latter-day  Saints  are  a  people  with  a  mission  and  a 
destiny,  and  we  have  not  forgotten,  I  am  sure,  by  the  presence  of  this 
vast  assembly,  that  we  are  still  pursuing  our  destiny.  We  did  not 
aspire  to  it,  the  Lord  appointed  it  unto  us,  and  the  fulfilment  of  these 
promises  surely  can  be  and  shall  be  realized  in  the  Lord's  own  due 
time,  and  through  his  providing. 

THE  PEOPLE,  PLACE  AND  PLAN  IN  THE  ACCOMPLISHMENT 
OF  THESE  PROMISES 

Three  things  seem  to  me  to  be  essential  in  the  accomplishment  of 
these  wonderful  promises :  The  Lord  must  have  the  right  kind  of 
people  to  do  his  work ;  he  must  have  them  in  the  right  place,  and  they 
must  have  the  right  plan.  I  said  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  a  people 
with  a  mission,  they  are  entitled  to  that  mission. 

THE  DESCENDANTS  OF  JOSEPH  THE  RIGHT  PEOPLE  OF  PROMISE 

I  was  thrilled  not  long  ago  when  I  read  an  article  appearing  in 
one  of  our  national  magazines.  The  author  was  discussing  the  ques- 
tion: "Are  the  Jews  the  Chosen  People  of  God?"  He  denied  them 
the  right  to  claim  for  themselves  and  their  posterity  all  the  blessings 
pronounced  upon  all  the  sons  of  Jacob,  but  limited  their  blessings  to 
their  own  particular  line— the  tribe  of  Judah.  After  tracing  the 
history  of  the  Jews  and  the  several  tribes  of  Israel  the  author  con- 
cludes :  "If  we  could  find  in  the  earth  somewhere  today  the  descend- 
ants of  Joseph,  we  would  find  the  chosen  people  of  God,"  because  the 
blessings  of  Joseph  were  so  much  greater  than  the  blessings  of  his 
brethren  that  you  will  recall  they  despised  him  and  were  jealous  of 
his  blessings,  and  sold  him  into  Egypt;  but  the  Lord  was  with  him 
and  raised  him  up  and  made  him  mighty  to  become  the  deliverer  of  his 
father's  household.  I  say,  when  I  read  that  statement  my  soul  thrilled 
with  a  new  sensation  of  gratitude  to  God  that  I  live  to  see  the  day 
when  Joseph's  children  are  being  gathered  again,  and  realize  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  are  of  Joseph,  children  of  his  favored  son,  Ephraim, 
gathered  "one  of  a  city  and  two  of  a  family,"  a  few  from  the  midst  of 
the  nations  of  the  earth,  whither  they  have  been  scattered,  and  brought 
to  the  land  of  Zion.  The  Lord  has  selected  and  picked  them.  They 
were  chosen  spirits  before  they  were  born.  He  knew  them  in  the 
spirit  world.    He  held  them  in  reserve  to  come  forth  at  the  right  time. 

GOD  HAS  GATHERED  THEM  TO  THE  RIGHT  PLACE 

He  has  brought  them  to  the  right  place.  Joseph's  blessings  were 
to  obtain  above  the  blessings  of  his  progenitors,  even  to  the  utmost 
bounds  of  the  everlasting  hills.  It  is  no  chance  circumstance  that  we 
are  here.    Notwithstanding  all  the  drivings,  the  sorrows  and  distresses, 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


29 


at  Nauvoo  and  Missouri,  the  difficulties  in  gathering  the  Saints  from 
the  Old  World — these  were  but  God's  providences  in  gathering  his 
people  to  the  right  place. 

I  was  deeply  impressed  with  the  statement  made  not  long  since 
by  a  man  who  has  been  gathering  statistics  of  an  eminent  character, 
wherein  he  calls  attention  to  the  fact  that  while  the  United  States  is 
but  seven  percent  of  the  world's  land,  and  has  but  six  percent  of  the 
world's  population,  nearly  one-half  of  the  world's  natural  wealth  is  in 
the  United  States  of  America.  This  surely  is  a  choice  land  above  all 
other  lands.  And  then,  as  I  thought  of  our  habitations  in  these  moun- 
tains, I  feel  a  confidence  in  the  statement  that  taking  a  survey  two 
hundred  miles  from  this  city  in  either  direction,  and  circumscribing  a 
district  within  that  radius,  there  may  be  found  more  natural  wealth 
than  in  any  other  like  territory  in  any  other  portion  of  this  choice 
land.  We  are  not  only  in  the  right  nation,  we  are  in  the  right  part 
of  that  nation. 

I  used  to  think  about  it  while  laboring  as  a  missionary  in  the 
Northwest,  for  there  was  some  thought,  evidently,  in  the  mind  of 
the  Prophet  at  one  time  that  he  might  go  to  the  northwest  country,  for 
he  offered  the  services  of  the  Latter-day  Saint  men  to  man  the  mili- 
tary posts  along  the  old  Oregon  Trail.  Tie  said,  "we  can  render  this 
service  cheaper  than  any  one  else  since  we  expect  to  be  in  that  country 
when  we  have  concluded  our  service  for  the  government."  But  the 
measure  was  defeated.  You  remember  the  discussion  brought  out  the 
statement  of  Daniel  Webster  to  this  effect:  "What  do  we  want  with 
this  vast  wilderness  of  shifting  sands  and  cactus,  prairie  dogs,  etc." 
He  said  he  would  not  vote  one  dollar  from  the  public  treasury  to  bring 
the  Pacific  Coast  one  mile  nearer  Boston  than  it  was  at  that  time. 
And  another  senator  said  in  the  same  discussion  that  he  would  not 
give  a  pinch  of  snuff  for  all  the  Rocky  mountain  country.  And  yet 
it  was  through  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty  that  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  almost  at  that  time,  said  that  the  Saints  would  continue  to 
suffer  and  be  driven  to  these  mountains,  and  many  should  live  to  see 
them  become  a  mighty  people.  God's  providence  has  been  over  the 
gathering  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  this  place.  This  is  yet  the  place 
.  for  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

HOW  TO  SECURE  A  PERMANENCY  IN   THE  RIGHT  PLACE 

A  very  significant  thing  is  that  as  you  read  the  history  of  the 
past,  the  peoples  who  have  survived  have  been  the  owners  of  the  soil 
and  the  tillers  of  the  land,  and  the  keepers  of  flocks.  By  natural 
inclination  it  is  the  occupation  of  the  majority  of  the  Latter-day  Saints; 
indeed,  it  was  the  natural  occupation  of  the  majority  of  the  children  of 
Israel  in  ancient  times,  to  be  the  tillers  of  the  soil  and  the  keepers  of 
flocks.  While  you  Latter-day  Saint  brethren  on  the  farms  have  had 
a  trying  time,  be  ye  patient  and  do  not  desert  the  very  foundation  of  our 
independence  in  this  country — the  farm.    Better  days  for  you  will 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


come  if  you  can  weather  the  storm,  and  you  will  preserve  not  only 
for  yourselves  but  for  the  Church  a  permanency  that  is  essential  in 
working  out  this  great  problem.  We  are  in  the  right  place,  and  yet 
while  this  vast  wealth  may  be  here  it  is  not  easily  accessible  and  can 
only  be  had  with  much  labor,  much  patience  and  persistence.  I  doubt 
if  there  is  another  section  in  all  the  world  that  would  call  forth  more 
physical  strength,  greater  faith,  patience  and  endurance,  with  a  long- 
range  vision  of  waiting  and  laboring  to  reach  the  destiny,  than  in 
these  Rocky  mountains.  Lofty  mountains,  an  inspiration!  Clear 
streams  of  water,  health-giving!  Pure  air,  every  setting  is  here  to 
develop  the  finest  physical  race  that  has  ever  graced  this  footstool  of 
God.  The  Lord  brought  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  the  right  place,  and 
we  are  engaged  in  the  right  business  to  make  us  the  kind  of  people 
the  Lord  wants  us  to  be. 

THE  RIGHT  PLAN  REVEALED  TO  GATHERED  JOSEPH 

And  then  we  have  the  plan  revealed,  as  you  heard  this  morning 
from  our  President,  by  the  visitation  of  no  less  a  personage  than  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  himself.  It  is  his  plan,  and  it  contemplates  a  solu- 
tion of  every  problem  that  now  vexes  this  distressed  world.  The 
Lord  saw  the  needs  of  this  hour,  1924,  more  than  a  hundred  years  ago, 
and  he  provided  for  it  a  plan,  and  those  who  follow  it  shall  survive, 
and  those  who  do  not  accept  the  plan  shall  be  shaken ;  for  this  is  a  time 
when  all  that  can  be  shaken  will  be  shaken,  and  that  shall  stand  which 
God  has  planned.  I  said  that  the  plan  contemplates  a  solution  of  all 
the  problems  that  now  vex  us,  and  I  am  thinking  of  political  prob- 
lems. I  thought  of  it  this  morning  as  one  of  the  brethren  was  speaking. 
I  shall  not  be  surprised  if  this  shall  be  the  last  national  campaign  that 
we  shall  conduct  in  this  country  with  the  two  great  parties  that  have 
so  long  obtained  here,  arrayed  one  against  the  other.  I  tell  you  that 
the  day  is  coming  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  predicted,  when 
the  Constitution  shall  be  in  peril,  when  it  shall  be  necessary  for  the 
men  of  all  parties  who  stand  for  the  Constitution  and  law  and  order, 
to  stand  together,  or  this  thing  that  we  hold  so  sacred  and  dear,  that 
our  fathers  established,  cannot  be  preserved.  Now  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  by  reason  of  the  fact  that  they  have  been  taught  that  God  estab- 
lished the  Constitution  of  the  United  States,  adhere  to  it  as  earnestly 
and  devotedly  as  to  any  other  of  our  principles  of  faith  and  belief. 
By  reason  of  the  training  we  have  received  we  are  on  the  side  of  the 
Constitution,,  on  the  side  of  law,  on  the  side  of  order.  In  the  training 
and  discipline  that  has  come  to  us  in  the  keeping  of  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom, in  the  payment  of  our  tithes  and  offerings,  God  was  but  prepar- 
ing us  to  meet  the  emergencies  of  this  hour.  It  is  his  plan,  and  we 
shall  succeed  if  we  adhere  to  it  being  led  successfully  through  all  the 
difficulties;  and  directed  safely  to  that  goal  and  haven,  our  natural 
heritage,  the  realization  of  all  these  sacred  promises  that  have  been 
made  by  all  the  prophets  since  the  world  began. 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


31 


HOWEVER  WE  MUST  ADHERE  TO  OUR  STANDARDS 

I  tell  you  Latter-day  Saints,  however,  that  we  need  to  adhere  to 
our  standards  as  never  before  in  the  history  of  this  Church,  because 
sin  is  rampant.  Self-indulgence  is  the  key  word  of  the  hour  in  the 
world,  and  I  confess  that  I  tremble  and  fear  when  I  see  the  things 
that  men  boast  of  as  the  evidence  of  our  high  civilization,  being  really 
the  very  things  that  brought  the  ruin  and  the  destruction  of  empires 
that  have  long  since  perished.  I  say  it  is  a  time  when  we  need  to 
adhere  to  our  standards,  to  protect  ourselves  against  the  waves  of  sin 
and  immorality  that  shall  come  in  from  the  world.  And  yet  I  have  no 
fear,  if  we  shall  be  true  to  his  plan  for  in  it  is  our  redemption  and 
our  salvation. 

WE  HAVE  AN  INSPIRED  INTERPERTER  FOR  THE  PLAN 

I  am  grateful  that  we  not  only  have  the  plan,  but  we  have  an 
inspired  consulting  engineer,  an  inspired  man  who  can  and  does  re- 
ceive from  time  to  time,  the  word  of  the  Lord  for  this  people  in 
interpreting  that  plan,  so  that  we  never  come  to  difficulties  in  under- 
standing the  plan.  If  we  are  in  doubt,  we  know  where  to  go,  and  we 
do  receive  the  continual  inspiration  of  the  Lord  for  the  government 
and  guidance  of  his  people.  Behold,  the  plan  is  unfolding  under  the 
guidance  of  God's  inspired  servants.  And  each  hour  shall  find  God's 
provision  adequate  for  that  hour's  need,  if  this  people  shall  only -listen 
to  the  voice  of  the  servants  of  the  Lord,  whom  he  has  appointed  to 
lead  and  guide  and  interpret  his  plan  and  purpose.  Through  obe- 
dience I  am  as  sure  as  that  I  live  that  we  shall  see  realized  and  ful- 
filled all  of  these  wonderful  things  that  the  Lord  has  promised  shall 
come.  Though  exiled,  as  many  have  been,  driven  from  their  homes, 
and  much  like  Joseph,  if  not  sold  into  Egypt,  banished  into  the  wilder- 
ness where  it  was  thought  they  might  perish,  yet  that  which  happened 
to  Joseph  shall  yet  happen  to  his  Saints  in  latter  days.  Into  the  place 
God  has  led  us,  under  the  training  he  has  given  us,  under  the  plan  he 
has  provided,  he  is  preparing  this  people  to  become  the  saviors  of 
the  whole  house  of  Israel,  not  to  feed  them  physical  bread,  but  the 
bread  of  life,  that  will  be  more  essential  and  necessary  for  the  world's 
salvation  and  preservation  than  any  other  kind  of  bread.  These  things 
I  am  as  sure  as  that  I  live  shall  come. 

LET  US  KEEP  THE  GREAT  VISION  BEFORE  US 

I  pray  God  to  bless  us,  that  we  shall  keep  the  vision  of  it  before 
us  and  be  working  towards  it,  and  see  in  the  practical  things  that  we 
have  been  given  in  each  of  these  commandments  the  Lord  has  revealed 
for  the  government  and  guidance  of  our  own  lives.  It  is  after  all  a 
bigger  thing  than  merely  yielding  obedience  to  the  Lord's  wishes ;  for 
he  must  have  had  an  object,  and  that  object  is  to  fit  and  prepare  us 
to  meet  the  emergencies  of  this  hour,  to  succeed  in  weathering  the 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


storms,  and  to  come  through — the  salt  of  the  earth,  the  light  of  the 
world !  The  power  to  do  it  is  here — not  only  the  plan,  but  the  power 
and  right  to  execute  it  in  the  bestowal  upon  men  of  the  holy  Priesthood. 

God  bless  the  Priesthood  and  his  Church  for  the  comfort  and 
salvation  of  all  flesh.  May  God  speed  the  day  that  we  shall  be  pre- 
pared to  take  those  steps.  The  Lord  is  waiting  for  this  people,  and 
for  the  world  to  bring  to  pass  his  righteous  purposes,  and  if  we  shall 
prepare  ourselves,  he  is  ready  and  willing  to  lead  us  to  our  glorious 
destiny !  May  he  grant  it  unto  us  who  now  live,  if  not  in  our  day, 
in  the  day  of  our  children,  or  our  children's  children — but  it  shall  come ; 
whether  to  me,  whether  to  you,  I  cannot  say,  but  it  will  come  to  those 
who  are  true  to  the  truth !  Many  may  fall  away,  lose  the  faith,  but 
those  who  stand  true  and  faithful  shall  be  victorious,  and  they  shall 
be  the  recipients  of  all  these  great  things.  God  speed  that  day  I  pray, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES   H.  HART 

( Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy ) 

When  Abraham  Lincoln  was  a  child,  residing  in  the  wilds  of 
Kentucky,  his  prayer  was:  "Lord,  bless  father,  bless  mother,  bless 
sister,  bless  everybody.  Teach  me  to  read,  and  write.  Watch  over 
Honey  and  make  him  a  good  dog,  and,  Lord,  keep  us  all  from  being 
lost  in  the  wilderness." 

Lincoln  himself,  brought  up  under  much  the  same  circumstances 
as  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet,  so  far  as  living  in  the  wilderness  was 
concerned,  tells  us  that  in  his  boyhood  days  there  were  many  bears  and 
other  wild  animals  in  the  woods.  No  doubt  he  knew  of  his  grand- 
father having  met  his  death  by  an  arrow  shot  by  an  Indian  in  ambush, 
and  how  his  father,  Thomas  Lincoln,  had  avenged  the  death  of  his 
father. 

It  is  something  to  have  a  laudable  ambition  to  learn  to  read  and 
write ;  but  it  was  of  the  last  verse,  in  the  child's  prayer,  that  I  was 
going  to  speak — guidance  in  the  wilderness,  not  only  in  the  literal 
wilderness,  in  the  woods,  but  also  in  other  wildernesses  in  life  that  we 
encounter.  The  children  of  Israel  received  guidance  in  the  wilderness, 
and  they  needed  it,  for  we  learn  that  although  they  might  have  dry 
passage  across  the  Red  Sea,  although  they  might  be  guided  by  the 
pillar  of  cloud  by  day,  and  a  pillar  of  fire  by  night,  and  have  their 
thirst  quenched  by  the  water  which  flowed  from  the  rock,  at  the  touch 
of  Moses'  rod ;  although  they  might  be  fed  on  manna,  yet  they  were 
ready  to  engage  in  idol  worship,  framing  the  golden  calf  in  imitation 
of  Egyptian  idolatry.  Miriam,  the  sister  of  Moses,  was  outside  of  the 
cam.])  of  Israel  seven  days  before  she  was  cleansed  of  the  leprosy  which 
she  brought  upon  herself  by  rebellion  against  her  great  law-giving 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


33 


brother  Moses,  and  ten  of  the  chosen  twelve  who  went  down  to  spy 
out  the  land  of  promise  were  unworthy  to  live,  notwithstanding  their 
training  in  the  wilderness.  The  Lord  has  been  very  good  to  those 
whom  he  has  sent  into  the  wilderness.  Abraham,  who  was  called 
from  Ur,  of  the  Chaldees,  into  a  new  land,  was  promised  blessings 
and  received  them  just  as  his  posterity  were  promised  blessings — bless- 
ings to  Jacob,  meaning,  I  suppose,  his  posterity  whom  the  Lord  found 
in  the  wilderness  and  led  in  the  wilderness,  and  guided,  and  who  were 
precious  to  him  as  the  apple  of  his  eye,  so  the  scriptures  inform  us. 

And  then  there  was  the  guidance  of  modern  Israel  in  their  wander- 
ings in  the  wilderness.  And  it  isn't  a  bad  training,  these  wilderness- 
instructing  experiences  that  men  may  have,  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
have  had — guidance  as  they  passed  from  the  Missouri  river  to  Utah, 
guidance  no  doubt  to  the  citizen  soldiers  called  the  "Mormon"  Battalion 
in  their  march  through  the  wilderness,  an  event  being  celebrated  by  the 
State  of  Utah  just  now  in  the  erection  of  a  suitable  monument,  to  cost 
some  two  hundred  thousand  dollars  to  properly  commemorate  the  march 
in  the  wilderness  and  the  behavior  of  these  men  upon  that  march. 

But  as  I  said,  it  is  not  particularly  of  the  guidance  in  the  wilder- 
ness, the  physical  wilderness,  that  I  wish  to  speak,  although  that  is  of 
importance,  and  we  have  experienced  much  of  it,  as  indicated  by  the 
maps  prepared  by  the  Smithsonian  Institute  and  exhibited  in  the  north- 
west, showing  the  trail-blazing  done  by  the  Latter-day  Saints  from 
New  York  to  Oregon,  and  also  to  Southern  California. 

There  are  other  wildernesses,  as  indicated  by  the  remarks  of  the 
brethren  this  morning.  We  have  the  commercial  wilderness,  the  fin- 
ancial wilderness,  that  men  are  groping  in,  and  need  guidance  in,  for 
them  to  devise  ways  and  means  that  are  honorable  in  the  sight  of  all 
men  for  the  support  and  education  of  their  families.  There  is  the 
intellectual  wilderness  in  which  there  is  danger  of  men  losing  their 
bearings.  When  I  think  of  Abraham  Lincoln  having  all  together  only 
twelve  months  of  schooling,  and  that  scattered  over  a  period  of  nine 
years,  and  then  of  what  a  wonderful  English  scholar  and  philosopher 
he  became,  I  think  it  is  a  reproach  to  some  of  the  present  generation 
who  have  such  splendid  opportunities  for  education  and  who  make  so 
little  use  of  them.  It  takes  our  young  people  sometimes  some  months, 
or  some  years,  to  get  their  bearings  again  after  they  have  gone  through 
the  education  which  is  given  to  them  by  the  current  system  of  education 
that  prevails  in  our  land.  If  our  educational  system  is  what  it  should 
be,  and  our  home  training  is  what  it  should  be,  how  comes  it  then  that 
there  is  such  lawlessness  in  the  United  States?  Some  one  professing 
a  knowledge  of  the  statistics  upon  the  subject  has  designated  the 
United  States  as  one  of  the  most  lawless  nations  in  the  world.  If  we 
can  rear  such  characters  as  the  prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  his  brother 
Hyrum,  and  Abraham  Lincoln,  who^  was  born  only  a  little  over  three 
years  after  the  prophet  was  born,  by  proper  religious  instruction  in  the 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


home  and  by  divine  guidance,  then  we  may  well  pay  greater  attention 
to  the  things  which  will  produce  such  men. 

I  think  it  was  a  great  slander  upon  Abraham  Lincoln  when  his 
partner  published  that  Lincoln  was  an  infidel.  I  think  nothing  could 
be  farther  from  the  truth.  In  a  large  work  entitled  The  Soul  of 
Abraham  Lincoln,  written  by  one  who  carefully  considered  the  sub- 
ject, proof  is  given  that  Abraham  Lincoln  was  of  a  strongly  religious 
nature.  His  own  words  as  quoted  by  one  of  his  biographers,  Mr.. 
Holland,  are  as  follows : 

"I  know  there  is  a  God,  and  that  he  hates  injustice  and  slavery.  I  see 
the  storm  coming,  and  I  know  that  his  hand  is  in  it.  If  he  has  a  place,  a 
work  for  me — and  I  think  he  has — I  believe  I  am  ready.  I  am  nothing,  but 
truth  is  everything.  I  know  I  am  right,  because  I  know  that  liberty  is  right; 
for  Christ  teaches  it,  and  Christ  is  God." 

If  we  would  have  the  sort  of  a  world  that  the  author  would  have, 
who  was  quoted  by  Brother  Widtsoe  this  morning — a  dose  of  atheism 
— we  would  have  the  sort  of  a  world  pictured  by  Carlyle  in  one  of  his 
chapters  entitled,  "The  Everlasting  No,"  in  which  he  uses  this  language  • 

"Thus  has  the  bewildered  wanderer  to  stand,  as  so  many  have  done, 
shouting  question  after  question  into  the  sibyl  cave  of  destiny  and  receive 
no  answer  back  but  an  echo.  It  is  all  a  grim  desert,  this  once  fair  world 
of  his,  wherein  is  heard  only  the  howl  of  wild  beasts,  or  the  shriek  of 
despairing,  hate-filled  men;  and  no  pillar  of  cloud  by  day  and  no  pillar  of 
fire  by  night  any  longer  guides  the  pilgrim  *  *  *  The  whole  world  is 
like  thee,  sold  to  unbelief,  their  old  temples  of  the  Godhead  which  for  long 
has  not  been  rainproof,  crumble  down,  and  we  ask  now,  'Where  is  the  God- 
head ?    Our  eyes  never  see  him.'  " 

A  doubt-filled  world  is  the  picture  given,  where  no  faith  exists 
and  where  atheism  prevails. 

The  explanation  of  attributing  infidelity  to  Lincoln  is  given 
by  the  author  of  the  book,  The  Soul  of  Abraham  Lincoln.  He  suggests 
that  it  was  the  contention  of  the  different  denominations,  many  of 
which  were  mentioned  this  morning  by  Elder  Whitney,  that  may 
have  distracted  Abraham  Lincoln,  just  as  we  know  at  about  the  same 
time  it  distracted  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  led  him  to  prayer  and 
to  the  truth. 

I  am  very  grateful  to  the  Lord  for  his  guidance  to  the  pioneers  in 
their  wanderings  in  the  wilderness,  and  in  their  settlements  in  the 
valley,  and  that  the  great  landmarks  have  been  given  to  us  for  our 
educational  system,  and  for  our  theological  learning  and  religious  train- 
ing. We  are  in  the  happy  position  of  being  able  to  sail  between  the  two 
extremes  of  the  fundamentalist  and  the  modernist,  being  able  to  sail  be- 
tween Scylla  and  Charybdis,  so  to  speak,  without  striking  the  rock  on 
the  one  hand,  or  being  drawn  into  the  whirlpool  on  the  other. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  to  appreciate  all  that  the 
restoration  of  the  gospel  means  to  us,  and  all  that  the  guidance  by  the 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


35 


Priesthood  has  meant  to  us  and  to  our  fathers,  and  will  mean  to  our 
prosterity,  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT 

"I  stand  all  amazed  at  the  love  Jesus  offers  me, 
Confused  at  the  grace  that  so  fully  he  proffers  me, 
I  tremble  to  know  that  for  me  he  was  crucified, 
That  for  me,  a  sinner,  he  suffered,  he  bled  and  died. 

"I  marvel  that  he  would  descend  from  his  throne  divine, 
To  rescue  a  soul  so  rebellious  and  proud  as  mine; 
That  he  should  extend  his  great  love  unto  such  as  I, 
Sufficient  to  own,  to  redeem  and  to  justify. 

"I  think  of  his  hands,  pierced  and  bleeding  to  pay  the  debt; 
Such  mercy,  such  love  and  devotion,  can  I  forget? 
No,  no,  I  will  praise  and  adore  at  the  mercy-seat, 
Until  at  the  glorified  throne  I  kneel  at  his  feet. 

"Oh,  it  is  wonderful  that  he  should  care  for  me, 

Enough  to  die  for  me ! 

Oh,  it  is  wonderful,  wonderful  to  me !" 

Last  Wednesday  morning  I  had  the  great  pleasure  of  speaking 
to  the  temple  workers,  and  this  song  was  sung  by  two  of  the  sisters. 
Perhaps  it  was  the  surroundings,  perhaps  it  was  the  sweet  voices,  but  I 
never  before  heard  it  when  it  impressed  me  so ;  and  I  thought  to  myself 
how  wonderful !  how  wonderful !  And  that  expression  may  be  made 
by  any  member  of  this  Church  when  contemplating  the  work  of  God, 
beginning  with  the  creation  of  the  world,  for  it  was  wonderful.  The 
great  plan  of  the  Father,  the  plan  of  life  and  death  is  all  wonderful ; 
and  it  seems  to  me  that  a  man  must  have  lost  all  devotion,  all  respect 
for  power  on  earth  or  in  heaven  when  he  takes  the  position  that  there  is 
no  God,  that  we  come  to  this  earth  by  chance,  that  the  earth  was 
created  by  chance,  and  then  that  we  are  here  the  same  as  any  other  life, 
be  it  plant  or  animal.  I  cannot  understand  any  man  whose  thoughts 
run  in  that  channel. 

Then  how  wonderful  is  the  regulation  of  the  universe,  causing 
the  seasons  to  come  and  go.  Mankind  can  depend  upon  them,  but 
man  has  no  influence  over  them ;  all  is  directed  by  a  higher  Power. 

I  often  think  of  the  organization  of  the  Church ;  how  wonderful 
it  is !  It  was  referred  to  this  morning  as  being  compared  with  the 
great  German  army,  when  Germany  had  an  army.  There  is  no  such 
comparison,  for  one  is  of  man,  the  other  of  God.  One  was  organized 
for  destruction  of  life,  the  other  organized  for  the  salvation  of  men's 
souls.  I  feel  grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  the  plan  of  life  and 
salvation.  I  never  forget  to  thank  my  heavenly  Father  that  I  was  born 
a  member  of  the  Church.  I  never  forget  to  thank  him  that  that  birth 
came  through  a  mother  and  a  father  who  have  acknowledged  hirri  as 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  King  of  kings  and  Lord  of  lords,  and  had  a  testimony  that  "Mor- 
monism,"  if  you  please,  is  his  divine  Church.  I  never  forget  to  thank 
him  that  I  was  born  under  the  holy  covenant,  and  I  know  as  I  know  I 
live,  it  has  had  a  great  influence  upon  me  in  my  every  walk  of  life. 
I  care  not  what  it  may  be,  business  of  any  name  or  nature,  things 
pertaining  to  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  I  acknowledge  to  my  heavenly 
Father  that  I  have  been  benefited  more  perhaps  than  I  am  entitled  to 
by  having  been  born  under  the  everlasting  covenant. 

What  a  wonderful  thing  is  this  government  of  ours !  How  blessed 
are  we  that  we  live  under  a  form  of  government  such  as  ours.  I  am 
one  who  believes  that  there  is  no  other  form  of  government  in  all  the 
world  in  which  "Mormonism,"  so-called,  could  have  been  established. 
The  religious  liberties  granted  are  necessary  for  the  people  to  live  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  its  fulness.  It  required  just  such  a  form  of 
government  as  ours.  And  when  I  see,  as  I  think  I  see,  the  least  move 
upon  the  part  of  men  claiming  to  be  citizens  of  this  government  to 
destroy  the  very  foundations  upon  which  it  stands,  to  cut  from  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States,  that  which  gives  and  is  the  bulwark 
of  our  liberty,  1  feel  that  every  man  and  every  woman  should  lift  their 
voices,  if  necessary  cry  aloud,  against  any  such  action  upon  the  part 
of  any  clique  or  group  of  people.  I  thank  God  for  America.  I  thank 
him  that  I  was  born  under  the  Stars  and  Stripes.  I  thank  him  for  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States.  I  thank  him  for  the  laws  and  for  the 
institutions  created  under  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States;  and 
I  shall  continue  to  pray  with  all  the  fervor  at  my  command  to  the  over- 
ruling God  of  nations  in  the  world  to  preserve  the  Constitution  of  our 
country,  to  preserve  our  country  from  those  without  and  from  those 
within :  America,  the  most  blessed  of  all  lands  in  the  world. 

Brother  Ballard  just  referred  to  the  fact  that  nearly  one-half  of 
all  the  natural  resources  of  the  world  are  found  in  our  America,  held, 
as  I  have  often  said,  in  the  hollow  of  God's  hand  for  ages,  that  liberty 
may  be  planted  here  and  a  free  government  established,  that  would 
be  an  ensample  to  all  other  governments  of  the  earth.  When  I  see 
that  there  is  the  least  inclination  on  the  part  of  any  one  to  destroy 
even  a  part  of  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States,  II  shall  bitterly 
oppose  it.  I  have  no  reference  now  to  the  few  amendments  to  the 
Constitution  that  have  been  made,  they  were  incidental  to  the  great 
document  itself,  and  to  the  principles  upon  which  it  was  founded.  When 
it  comes  to  destroying  the  fundamentals,  then  action  must  be  taken, 
and  the  only  action  that  can  be  taken,  is  by  the  people  themselves. 
Power  is  in  your  hands,  the  power  is  with  the  people  of  the  country, 
and  I  trust,  as  I  believe  with  all  my  soul,  that  the  opposition  will  never 
be  successful,  and  the  Constitution  will  remain  intact  in  its  funda- 
mentals forever. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  of  all  the  blessings  that  I  have  received 
from  our  heavenly  Father,  and  they  are  many,  and  I  acknowledge  them, 
there  are  none  so  dear  to  me  as  the  fact  that  I  know  that  Jesus  is 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


37 


the  Christ  and  that  God  lives,  the  fact  that  I  am  a  member  of  his 
Church,  that  I  know  it  was  organized  by  revelation,  that  it  is  a  power 
for  good  in  the  world,  that  if  the  principles  of  the  gospel  were  acknowl- 
edged and  adhered  to  by  the  peoples  of  the  world,  this  world  of  ours 
would  be  a  better  place  for  God's  children  to  live  in.  "Oh,  the  sweet 
joy  this  sentence  gives :  I  know  that  my  Redeemer  lives."  God  bless 
his  work,  God  bless  his  people.  May  our  heavenly  Father  watch 
over  our  nation,  that  it  may  have  a  powerful  influence  with  all  other 
nations  of  the  world,  making  them  better  places  for  people  to  live  in. 
Hasten  the  day  when  the  gospel  shall  be  preached  to  all  the  peoples  of 
the  earth.  Hasten  the  day,  O  Father,  when  thy  work  will  be  under- 
stood by  the  peoples  of  the  world,  and  the  honest  in  heart,  wherever  they 
may  be,  will  acknowledge  the  truth  of  the  same.  God  grant  it,  I 
ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

If  we  can  say  that  during  this  conference  the  principle  of  man's 
pre-existence  has  been  established  by  scriptural  proof,  we  can  also 
say  that  the  principle  of  the  fatherhood  of  God  and  the  brotherhood  of 
man  has  been  proved. 

THE  GOSPEL  OF  CHRIST  ORIGINATED  IN  HEAVEN 

Understanding  the  true  relationship  of  man  to  his  Maker,  we 
are  better  able  to  appreciate  the  scriptural  reference  to  the  love  the 
Father  has  for  his  children.  We  read  that,  "God  so  loved  the  world, 
that  he  gave  his  Only  Begotten  Son,  that  whosoever  believeth  in  him 
should  not  perish,  but  have  everlasting  life."  In  this  scripture  we 
learn  that  God  so  loved  his  children  that  he  made  provision  for  their 
salvation.  This  is  the  end  our  Father  has  in  view.  All  else  is  but  a 
means  to  this  end.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  has  left  of  record  this 
statement,  "At  the  first  organization  in  heaven,  we  were  all  present 
and  saw  the  Savior  chosen  and  appointed,  and  the  plan  of  salvation 
made,  and  we  sanctioned  it."  The  truth  of  his  statement  is  fully  sus- 
tained by  scriptural  proof.  It  is  clear  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
had  its  origin  in  heaven  before  the  world  was.  "We  believe  that 
through  the  atonement  of  Christ,  all  mankind  may  be  saved,  by  obe- 
dience to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  gospel." 

THE  RESTORATION  OF  THE  GOSPEL 

The  gospel  has  been  upon  the  earth  at  different  periods  of  the 
world's  history.  After  the  death  of  the  Savior  and  his  disciples  there 
was  a  general  departure  from  the  truth,  so  that  when  Joseph  Smith 
had  his  vision  of  the  Father  and  the  Son,  he  was  told  that  the  churches 
were  all  wrong  and  that  he  should  join  none  of  them.    He  was 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


informed  by  an  angel  from  heaven  that  God  had  a  work  for  him  to  do, 
and  that  his  name  should  be  had  for  good  and  evil  among  all  nations. 
By  the  gift  and  power  of  God  unto  him,  Joseph  Smith  has  given  unto 
the  world  the  Book  of  Mormon  which  gives  an  account  of  the  former 
inhabitants  of  this  American  continent,  and  contains  the  fulness  of 
the  everlasting  gospel  as  given  by  the  Savior  to  the  ancient  inhabitants. 
Other  angels  appeared  to  him  and  conferred  upon  him  the  Priesthood, 
with  power  and  authority  to  establish  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
upon  the  earth,  and  to  preach  the  gospel  in  all  the  world,  administering 
the  ordinances  of  salvation  to  those  who  are  prepared  to  receive  them. 
Thus  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  has  been  restored  to  earth 
in  these  last  days,  line  upon  line,  and  precept  upon  precept,  in  ful- 
filment of  the  holy  scriptures,  with  authority,  keys,  powers,  gifts  and 
blessings,  the  same  as  were  in  the  primitive  Church. 

OUR  RESPONSIBILITY  TO  PREACH  THE  GOSPEL 

It  is  our  responsibility  to  preach  this  gospel  of  the  kingdom  in  all 
the  world  for  a  witness  unto  all  nations  before  the  end  shall  come.  It 
is  the  responsibility  of  the  world  to  accept  the  message  which  we  have 
for  them.  To  them  it  becomes  as  a  savor  of  life  unto  life  or  of  death 
unto  death.  On  this  point  I  will  read  to  you  from  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon as  follows : 

"Therefore,  wo  be  unto  the  Gentiles  if  it  so  be  that  they  harden  their 
hearts  against  the  Lamb  of  God.  For  the  time  cometh,  saith  the  Lamb  of 
God,  that  I  will  work  a  great  and  a  marvelous  work  among  the  children 
of  men;  a  work  which  shall  be  everlasting,  either  on  the  one  hand  or  on 
the  other — either  to  the  convincing  of  them  unto  peace  and  life  eternal,  or 
unto  the  deliverance  of  them  to  the  hardness  of  their  hearts  and  the  blind- 
ness of  their  minds  unto  their  being  brought  down  into  captivity,  and  also 
into  destruction,  both  temporally  and  spiritually,  according  to  the  cap- 
tivity of  the  devil,  of  which  I  have  spoken." — I  Nephi  14:6,  7. 

MANY  LACK  COURAGE  TO  JOIN  THE  CHURCH 

There  are  thousands  of  people  within  the  stakes  of  Zion,  and  in 
the  world,  who  have  become  convinced  of  the  truth  of  "Mormonism" 
but  who,  for  one  cause  or  another,  have  not  become  members  of  the 
Church. 

A  short  time  ago,  I  heard  of  a  man  joining  the  Church  who  had 
lived  among  our  people  for  nearly  forty  ye&rs.  He  stated  to  some  of 
his  friends  that  he  had  for  many  years  been  a  "Mormon"  at  heart. 
When  asked  why  he  had  not  earlier  joined  the  Church,  his  reply  was 
that  he  lacked  the  courage.  This  represents  a  class  of  which  there 
are  many.  Some  who  believe  do  not  join  because  of  the  cost,  others 
because  of  what  people  would  think  and  say,  and  still  others  because 
the  standards  of  the  Church  are  too  high. 

Some  years  ago  while  in  England  I  was  visiting  a  family  of 
Saints,  and  an  elderly  sister  was  telling  me  how  she,  and  her  hus- 
band recently  deceased,  had,  during  his  life  time,  entertained  a  great 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


39 


many  Latter-day  Saint  missionaries.  I  asked  how  she  accounted  for 
the  fact  that  under  such  circumstances  her  husband  had  never  joined 
the  Church.  Her  reply  was  that  he  had  never  been  invited  to  join.  I 
wonder  if  there  are  those  among  us  who  are  Latter-day  Saints  at  heart 
but  are  waiting  for  an  invitation  to  become  members.  We  invite  all 
men  to  repent  <and  yield  obedience  unto  the  laws  and  ordinances  of 
the  gospel  that  the  atoning  blood  of  our  Savior  may  wash  them  clean 
and  prepare  them  for  salvation. 

QUALIFICATIONS  FOR  BECOMING  A  MEMBER  OF  THE  CHURCH 

As  qualifications  for  baptism  into  the  Church,  I  will  read  to  you 
a  paragraph  from  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  as  follows: 

"And  again,  by  way  of  commandment  to  the  Church  concerning  the 
manner  of  baptism — All  those  who  humble  themselves  before  God,  and 
desire  to  be  baptized,  and  come  forth  with  broken  hearts  and  contrite  spirits, 
and  witness  before  the  Church  that  they  have  truly  repented  of  all  their 
sins,  and  are  willing  to  take  upon  them  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  having  a 
determination  to  serve  him  to  the  end,  and  truly  manifest  by  their  works 
that  they  have  received  of  the  Spirit  of  Christ  unto  the  remission  of  their 
sins,  shall  be  received  by  baptism  into  the  Church." 

The  gospel  is  the  law  of  life  as  lived  by  the  Savior.  It  made  him 
what  he  was  and  is,  and  it  is  designed  to  make  us  like  him  and  to  save 
us  with  him.  It  is  the  highest  possible  standard  of  life — the  straight 
gate  and  the  narrow  way. 

When  the  rich  young  man  came  to'  the  Savior  and  asked  what 
good  thing  he  might  do  that  he  might  have  eternal  life,  he  was  told 
to  go  sell  what  he  had,  and  give  to  the  poor,  and  come  follow  him  of 
whom  it  was  said  that  he  had  nowhere  to  lay  his  head.  We  are  told 
that  the  rich  man  went  away  sorrowful ;  and  the  Savior  said :  "A  rich 
<■  man  shall  hardly  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven."  On  another 
occasion  the  Savior  made  use  of  this  expression:  "So  likewise,  who- 
soever he  be  of  you  that  forsaketh  not  all  that  he  hath,  he  cannot  be 
my  disciple." 

Those  who  embrace  the  gospel  have  as  their  object  the  obtaining 
of  eternal  life,  which  is  the  greatest  gift  of  God  to  man.  No  sacri- 
fice should  be  considered  too  great  in  order  to  attain  eternal  life,  and 
there  is  no  other  way  to  obtain  it. 

THE  SPEAKER'S  TESTIMONY 

As  a  witness  for  the  Lord,  I  testify  that  God  the  eternal  Father 
lives,  an  immortal  and  glorified  being,  after  whose  image  and  likeness 
man  is  created  and  made,  male  and  female,  being  born  sons  and  daughters 
of  God.  He  is  a  being  having  a  body  of  flesh  and  bones  and  spirit. 
He  has  created  all  things  through  his  Son  Jesus  Christ.  The  earth  is 
his,  and  the  fulness  thereof,  and  all  blessings,  spiritual  and  temporal, 
come  from  him. 

I  also  testify  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God  the  eternal 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Father,  that  he  is  the  first  born  of  the  Father  in  the  spirit,  and  the 
Only  Begotten  of  the  Father  in  the  flesh,  that  he  is  the  Savior  and 
Redeemer  of  the  world,  that  he  was  scourged  and  crucified,  and  that 
he  died  and  was  resurrected  and  ascended  to  heaven  where  he  sits 
upon  the  throne  of  the  Father  at  his  right  hand  in  glory.  I  know  that 
my  Redeemer  lives. 

I  bear  testimony  also  that  I  do  know  that  Joseph  Smith,  the 
founder  of  this  work,  was  a  divinely  inspired  prophet  of  God,  and 
that  those  who  have  succeeded  to  the  Presidency  of  this  Church,  each 
in  his  time,  has  been  inspired  of  the  Lord  for  his  particular  work  and 
responsibility;  that  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  no  less  than  his  pre- 
decessors, is  inspired  of  the  Lord,  and  under  his  presidency  the  work 
is  prospering  and  is  becoming  more  and  more  a  marvel  and  a  wonder 
to  the  world.  It  is  the  work  of  God  and  not  the  work  of  man,  and 
no  power  can  stay  its  progress.  The  purposes  of  the  Almighty  will 
be  accomplished,  and  all  who  will,  shall  be  saved,  and  all  honor  be 
to  the  Father  through  his  son  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord  and  Redeemer. 
Amen. 


ELDER  RULON   S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  hope  I  may  enjoy  the  favor  of  the  Lord  while  I  stand  before 
you  here  this  day.  I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  of  the  gospel  that  has 
been  restored  to  the  earth  through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith. 

When  Nephi,  one  of  the  ancient  prophets,  began  his  historical 
record  he  used  these  words  by  way  of  introduction:  "Having  been 
born  of  goodly  parents,"  and  thereby  he  made  it  plain  that  he  honored 
his  parents — his  father  and  his  mother.  He  deemed  it  a  blessing  to 
him  that  he  had  thus  been  favorably  born  into  this  world.  And  I 
wonder  how  far  the  sons  and  daughters  of  Zion  appreciate  the  won- 
derful advantage  that  has  come  to  them  by  having  been  born  of  goodly 
(parents. 

In  the  Young  Men's  and  Young  Ladies'  Mutual  Improvement 
Association  they  have  adopted  as  their  slogan  for  this  year  the  com- 
mandment: "Honor  thy  father  and  thy  mother."  To  what  extent  are 
the  children  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  obeying  that  commandment,  that 
commandment  which  God  wrote  with  his  own  finger  upon  the  tablets 
of  stone,  and  which  was  delivered  by  the  prophet  Moses  unto  the  chil- 
dren of  Israel,  the  descendants  of  Jacob,  the  son  of  Isaac  who  was  the 
son  of  Abraham — the  children  of  Israel,  whom  God  loved  and  desig- 
nated as  his  very  own,  the  chosen  people  of  God?  We,  who  have 
embraced  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  are  the  children  of 
Abraham.  What  a  splendid  heritage  and  advantage  it  is  to  come 
through  that  noble  lineage. 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


41 


How  do  we  know  that  we  are  of  Israel  ?  It  is  the  blood  of  Israel 
that  recognizes  the  voice  of  the  true  Shepherd :  "My  sheep  hear  my 
voice  and  follow  after  me  but  a  stranger  they  will  not  follow,"  said 
the  Savior  of  old.  It  has  been  declared  by  the  Prophets  of  God,  it  has 
been  sealed  upon  our  heads  by  the  patriarchs  when  we  received  our 
patriarchal  blessings.  Our  lineage  has  been  declared  by  the  inspiration 
of  the  Lord  to  his  servants  the  Patriarchs,  and  that  we  have  believed 
in  the  gospel  is  further  evidence  of  that  fact.  Why  should  the 
believers  come  through  that  lineage?  I  believe  with  all  my  soul  that 
in  our  pre-existent  state  we  were  chosen  to  come  through  that  lineage 
because  of  our  fidelity  in  the  world  before  this  one,  in  our  first  estate, 
and  the  advantages  that  have  come  to  us,  who  have  accepted  the  word 
of  the  Lord  and  who  have  received  the  testimony  of  the  truth  of  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  have  come  to  us  because  of  our 
fidelity  and  faithfulness  to  the  will  of  God  before  the  foundations  of 
this  earth  were  laid.  Abraham  was  among  the  great  and  mighty  ones 
in  that  primeval  day,  when  the  great  plan  of  life  and  salvation  was  first 
proclaimed  to  the  children  of  God,  the  day  that  we  read  about  in  the 
scriptures,  "when  the  stars  sang  together,  and  all  the  sons  of  God 
shouted  for  joy." 

It  is  to  that  day  that  I  now  refer,  when  Abraham  was  known  to 
God  as  one  of  the  great  and  noble  ones;  and  when  he  came  upon  the 
earth  the  Lord  still  loved  him  and  gave  him  a  marvelous  promise, 
and  told  him  that  through  him  and  his  seed  all  the  nations  of  the  earth 
should  be  blessed.  We  now  live  in  a  day  when  the  descendants  of 
that  great  patriarch  are  being  gathered  into  the  fold  of  Christ.  We 
belong  to  one  of  the  branches  of  that  great  family.  Abraham  had  a 
son  who  was  a  son  of  promise,  Isaac.  Isaac  had  a  son  whom  they 
called  Jacob,  and  Jacob's  name  was  changed  to  Israel,  and  from  him 
came  the  twelve  tribes  of  Israel.  One  of  these  tribes  was  the  tribe  of 
Joseph.  It  is  through  this  lineage  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  have 
come.  Do  we  appreciate  the  wonderful  privilege  that  comes  to  us 
by  having  been  born  of  these  goodly  parents,  that  we  have  inherited 
from  them  that  faith  that  enables  us  to  accept  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ?  No  matter  to  what  extent  that  posterity  may  have  been 
scattered  throughout  the  nations  of  the  earth,  it  is  through  this  lineage 
that  the  truth  shall  be  accepted  and  preserved  and  heralded  in  the  earth. 
It  has  been  through  that  lineage  that  the  scriptures  have  been  handed 
down  from  generation  to  generation,  that  the  knowledge  of  the  true 
and  living  God  has  been  preserved  among  mankind,  land  it  is  through 
that  lineage  that  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  shall  be  promul- 
gated among  all  the  nations  of  the  earth,  and  every  nation,  kindred, 
tongue  and  people  shall  be  blessed  through  the  seed  of  Abraham  in 
fulfilment  of  the  promise  that  was  made  by  God  unto  that  great  man. 
I  hope  it  will  not  sound  egotistical  if  I  declare,  in  the  language  of  the 
poet,  that  indeed 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"We  are  the  true-born  sons  of  Ephraim, 
Who,  with  us,  that  can  compare? 
We  are  of  the  royal  house  of  Joseph, 
That  bright  and  glorious  morning  star." 

This  is  our  declaration,  and  we  have  been  sounding  it  for  miany 
years  past.  It  is  written  in  our  very  souls.  The  House  of  Israel  is 
being  gathered  from  the  nations  of  the  earth,  and  we,  being  the  chil- 
dren of  Abraham,  have  a  wonderful  obligation  resting  upon  us  to 
see  that  all  nations  are  blessed  through  our  being  and  coming  of  these 
goodly  parents.  It  should,  however,  be  remembered  that  God  is  no 
respecter  of  persons  and  therefore  the  gospel  must  be  preached  to  every 
creature  and  those  that  believe  and  obey  it  shall  be  saved  and  further- 
more those  who  reject  it,  even  though  they  may  be  of  Israel's  blood, 
will  surely  have  to  take  the  consequences. 

I  rejoice  today  that  I  have  been  born  of  goodly  parents,  that  I 
have  been  born  under  the  new  and  everlasting  covenant.  I  rejoice 
in  the  work  that  is  being  accomplished  by  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  the 
building  of  these  great  temples  wherein  work  may  be  performed  for 
the  living  and  for  the  dead;  and  while  I  remember  those  who  imme- 
diately are  responsible  for  my  birth  upon  this  earth,  my  heart  goes  back 
throughout  the  generations  that  have  passed,  and  gone,  until  I  con- 
nect and  link  myself  up  with  the  great  household  of  God  through 
Abraham  his  servant,  and  I  believe  with  all  my  soul  that  there  must 
be  a  welding  link  between  each  of  us  and  those  that  have  gone  before 
until  we  shall  indeed  become  members  of  that  wonderful  family  that 
was  chosen  in  that  primeval  day  to  come  through  his  lineage,  through 
the  lineage  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob.  This  is  the  heritage  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  our  destiny  is  to  fulfil  these  obligations,  to 
carry  the  gospel  to  all  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  that  they  mlay 
hear  the  truth,  and  that  the  honest  in  heart  among  every  nation  shall 
be  gathered  into  the  fold  of  Christ  and  brought  under  the  new  and 
everlasting  covenant  which  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  the 
family  may  be  united  in  that  welding  link  that  shall  connect  us,  for 
without  them  we  cannot  be  saved,  and  without  us  neither  can  they  be 
saved ;  and  it  is  essential  that  this  work  shall  go  on.  For  what  man  or 
what  woman  would  rejoice  or  be  happy  if  he  could  not  be  associated 
with  his  own  kindred  ?  What  man  or  what  woman  would  feel  that 
he  was  enjoying  a  blessing  in  the  world  to  come  if  it  were  not  in  the 
association  of  his  father  and  his  mother?  What  parent  could  possibly 
feel  that  heaven  would  be  heaven  to  him  unless  he  could  be  associated 
there  with  his  own  children?  What  is  true  of  these  immediate  con- 
nections is  true  of  those  that  have  gone  on  before.  Our  fathers  and 
our  mothers  would  never  be  happy  nor  f  eel  that  they  could  be  exalted 
and  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God  unless  they  could  be  associated  with 
their  fathers  and  their  mothers.  And  so  it  will  be  until  we  connect 
ourselves  and  reunite  in  that  one  great  family,  the  family  of  God, 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


43 


united  together  with  that  welding  link  under  the  new  and  everlasting 
covenant. 

May  we  appreciate  our  heritage  and  the  blessings  that  have  come 
to  us  by  having  been  born  of  these  goodly  parents,  I  humbly  pray,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

The  audience  has  no  doubt  noticed  the  absence  of  President  Charles 
W.  Penrose.  Brother  Penrose  was  taken  very  sick  a  little  over  a  week 
ago,  but  I  am  pleased  to  announce  that  he  is  very  much  better,  that  he 
intended  to  come  here  today,  but  we  felt  it  was  much  better  for  him  to 
n:st  today  and  tomorrow,  and  we  hope  that  he  may  be  with  us  on 
Sunday. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Redeemer  of  Israel,  our  only 
delight." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  M.  Howard  Randall,  president 
of  the  Morgan  stake  of  Zion. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  Saturday. 


SECOND  DAY 


MORNING  SESSION 

Promptly  at  10  o'clock  Saturday,  October  4,  1924,  President  Heber 
J.  Grant  opened  the  meeting  by  announcing  that  the  congregation  would 
sing,  "High  on  the  mountain  top." 

After  singing,  Elder  William  M.  Waddoups,  President  of  the  Ha- 
waiian Temple,  offered  the  opening  prayer. 

Eva  Aird  sang  a  solo  entitled,  "The  Hour  of  Hallowed  Peace." 

ELDER   GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Truly  those  who  are  assembled  in  this  house  this  morning  have 
reason  to  be  grateful  for  the  blessings  by  which  we  are  surrounded. 
A  more  beautiful  morning  could  hardly  be  desired,  and  the  weather 
conditions  are  so  delightful,  that  we  must  all  feel  uplifted.  The  privilege 
we  have  of  meeting  our  friends  from  all  parts  of  the  Church  is  a 
blessing  that  I  am  sure  is  greatly  appreciated. 

OUR  DUTY  TO  ASSIST  IN  PERPETUATING  LIBERTY 

In  this  day  when  strife  is  everywhere  apparent,  when  there  is 
contention  between  individuals  of  various  parties,  it  is  pleasing  to  me 
as  a  member  of  the  Church  to  know  that  our  heavenly  Father  is  inter- 
ested in  us,  and  in  our  government.  We  are  fortunate  in  having  our 
agency.  The  Lord  has  blessed  each  of  us  with  intellect  and  has  of- 
fered to  direct  our  thoughts  if  we  will  approach  him  in  a  proper  manner. 
The  mind  of  man  is  affected  by  good  and  by  evil  influences,  and  there 
are  in  the  world  those  two  powers  that  have  been  active  from  the  begin- 
ning. Knowing  that  we  may  be  directed  by  proper  influences  as 
members  of  this  great  Church,  and  as  citizens  of  this  wonderful  govern- 
ment, surely  we  will  not  depart  from  the  advice  and  counsel  of  our 
heavenly  Father  and  follow  those  teachings  that  will  lead  us  to  des- 
truction. Knowing  that  the  Lord  prepared  this  land  that  it  might  be 
a  haven  of  liberty  for  those  who  dwell  here,  and  understanding  that  he 
desires  a  continuation  of  those  conditions  that  the  builders  of  this 
republic  contended  for,  we  who  are  members  of  his  Church  ought,  in 
every  possible  way,  to  assist  in  perpetuating  that  liberty  that  means  so 
much  for  the  children  of  men. 

THE  CONSTITUTIONAL  LAW  OF  THE  LAND  TO  BE  SUPPORTED 

We  find  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  that  the  Lord  gave  to  his 
people  a  revelation  on  August  6,  1833,  (Doc.  and  Cov.  98.)  That 
seems  to  me  has  a  bearing  on  conditions  as  they  exist  in  our  country 
today : 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


45 


"Verily  I  say  unto  you  my  friends,. fear  not,  let  your  hearts  be  comforted; 
yea,  rejoice  evermore,  and  in  everything-  give  thanks; 

"Waiting  patiently  on  the  Lord,  for  your  prayers  have  entered  into 
the  ears  of  the  Lord  of  Sabaoth,  and  are  recorded  with  this  seal  and  testa- 
ment— the  Lord  hath  sworn  and  decreed  that  they  shall  be  granted. 

"Therefore,  he  giveth  this  promise  unto  you,  with  an  immutable  cove- 
nant that  they  shall  be  fulfiled;  and  all  things  wherewith  you  have  been 
afflicted  shall  work  together  for  your  good,  and  to  my  name's  glory,  saith 
the  Lord." 

When  that  revelation  was  given,  our  people  were  being  harassed 
and  annoyed  by  those  who  did  not  accept  the  revelations  of  the  Lord 
to  us,  and  their  lives  were  made  almost  intolerable  by  their  fellow 
citizens,  but  they  claimed  the  blessings  of  our  heavenly  Father,  and  in 
this  revelation  he  assured  them  that  their  prayers  had  been  answered, 
and  that  the  fulfilment  of  his  promise  to  them  for  their  faithfulness 
would  be  certain.  They  at  that  time  were  living  at  Kirtland,  Ohio, 
where  the  first  temple  was  erected  in  this  dispensation,  to  the  glory 
of  our  heavenly  Father.  He  said  to  them  regarding  the  laws  of  the 
land : 

"And  now,  verily  I  say  unto  you  concerning  the  laws  of  the  land,  it  is 
my  will  that  my  people  should  observe  to  do  all  things  whatsoever  I  com- 
mand them. 

"And  that  law  of  the  land  which  is  constitutional,  supporting  that  prin- 
ciple of  freedom  in  maintaining  rights  and  privileges,  belongs  to  all  mankind, 
and  is  justifiable  before  me. 

"Therefore,  I,  the  Lord,  justify  you,  and  your  brethren  of  my  Church, 
in  befriending  that  law  which  is  the  constitutional  law  of  the  land; 

"And  as  pertaining  to  law  of  man,  whatsoever  is  more  or  less  than  this 
comcth  of  evil." 

In  other  words,  if  we  fail  to  sustain  the  constitutional  law  of  the 
land  we  have  transgressed  the  will  of  our  heavenly  Father. 

"I,  the  Lord  God,  make  you  free,  therefore  ye  are  free  indeed;  and 
the  law  also  maketh  you  free. 

"Nevertheless,  when  the  wicked  rule  the  people  mourn. 

"Wherefore,  honest  men  and  wise  men  should  be  sought  for  diligently, 
and  good  men  and  wise  men  ye  should  observe  to  uphold;  otherwise  what- 
soever is  less  than  these  Cometh  of  evil." 

WE  SHOULD.  NOT  BE  LED  A  STRAY  BY  FALLACIES 

In  these  days  of  confusion,  when  the  Constitution  of  our  country 
is  assailed,  by  those  who  have  no  understanding  of  the  purpose  of 
God  regarding  this  great  country,  it  behooves  those  who  do  under- 
stand to  consider  seriously  and  faithfully,  the  benefits  that  will  flow 
to  us  by  honoring  and  sustaining  the  government  that  was  reared 
under  the  direction  of  our  heavenly  Father. 

We  are  a  peculiar  people  in  many  ways,  and  in  this  particularly 
are  we  peculiar,  in  that  we  believe  that  the  constitution  of  the  United 
States  was  inspired  by  our  heavenly  Father,  and  he  has  told  us  that 
he  raised  up  the  very  men  who  should  frame  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States.    Knowing  that,  we  should  not  be  led  astray  by  the 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


fallacies  of  individuals  whose  selfishness  inclines  them  to  attack  that 
which  our  heavenly  Father  has  prepared  for  the  people  of  this  land. 

A  DECLARATION  OF  BELIEF  REGARDING  GOVERNMENTS  AND 
LAWS  IN  GENERAL 

In  a  very  early  day  in  the  Church  our  people  promulgated  their 
attitude  with  reference  to  the  law  of  the  land  and  the  purpose  of  govern- 
ment. I  believe  I  will  take  time  this  morning  to  read  it  to  you.  It  is 
found  in  the  Doc.  and  Cov.,  sec.  134;  and  in  the  History  of  the  Church, 
Vol.  2,  p.  247: 

"A  declaration  of  belief  regarding  governments  and  laws  in  general, 
adopted  by  a  unanimous  vote  at  a  general  assembly  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  held  at  Kirtland,  Ohio,  August  17,  1835,  with 
the  following  preamble:  That  our  belief  with  regard  to  earthly  govern- 
ments and  laws  in  general  may  not  be  misinterpreted  nor  misunderstood, 
we  have  thought  proper  to  present  at  the  close  of  this  volume  our  opinion 
concerning  the  same." 

And  this,  is  what  our  people  subscribed  to  in  conference  assembled : 

"We  believe  that  governments  were  instituted  of  God  for  the  benefit  of 
man;  and  that  he  holds  men  accountable  for  their  acts  in  relation  to  them, 
both  in  making  laws  and  administering  them,  for  the  good  and  safety  of 
society. 

"We  believe  that  no  government  can  exist  in  peace,  except  such  laws 
are  framed  and  held  inviolate  as  will  secure  to  each  individual  the  free 
exercise  of  conscience,  the  right  and  control  of  property,  and  the  protection 
of  life. 

"We  believe  that  all  governments  necessarily  require  civil  officers  and 
magistrates  to  enforce  the  laws  of  the  same;  and  that  such  as  will  administer 
the  law  in  equity  and  justice  should  be  sought  for  and  upheld  by  the  voice 
of  the  people  if  a  republic,  or  the  will  of  the  sovereign. 

"We  believe  that  religion  is  instituted  of  God:  and  that  men  are  amen- 
able to  him,  and  to  him  only,  for  the  exercise  of  it,  unless  their  religious 
opinions  prompt  them  to  infringe  upon  the  rights  and  liberties  of  others; 
but  we  do  not  believe  that  human  law  has  a  right  to  interfere  in  pre- 
scribing rtiles  of  worship  to  bind  the  conscience  of  men,  nor  dictate  forms 
for  public  or  private  devotion;  that  the  civil  magistrate  should  restrain 
crime,  but  never  control  conscience;  should  punish  guilt,  but  never  suppress 
the  freedom  of  the  soul. 

"We  believe  that  all  men  are  bound  to  sustain  and  uphold  the  respective 
governments  in  which  they  reside,  while  protected  in  their  inherent  and 
inalienable  rights  by  the  laws  of  such  governments:  and  that  sedition  and 
rebellion  are  unbecoming  every  citizen  thus  protected,  and  should  be  pun- 
ished accordingly;  and  that  all  governments  have  a  right  to  enact  such  laws 
as  in  their  own  judgments  are  best  calculated  to  secure  the  public  interest;  at 
the  same  time,  however,  holding'  sacred  the  freedom  of  conscience. 

"We  believe  that  every  man  should  be  honored  in  his  station,  rulers  and 
magistrates  as  such,  being  placed  for  the  protection  of  the  innocent  and  the 
punishment  of  the  guilty;  and  that  to  the  laws  all  men  owe  respect  and 
deference,  as  without  them  peace  and  harmony  would  be  supplanted  by 
anarchy  and  terror;  human  laws  being  instituted  for  the  express  purpose  of 
regulating  our  interests  as  individuals  and  nations,  between  man  and  man; 
and  divine  laws  given  of  heaven,  prescribing  rules  on  spiritual  concerns,  for 
faith  and  worship,  both  to  be  answered  by  man  to  his  Maker. 

"We  believe  that  rulers,  states,  and  governments  have  a  right,  and  are 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


47 


bound  to  enact  laws  for  the  protection  of  all  citizens  in  the  free  exercise 
of  their  religious  belief;  but  we  do  not  believe  that  they  have  a  right  in 
justice  to  deprive  citizens  of  this  privilege,  or  proscribe  them  in  their  opinions, 
so  long  as  a  regard  and  reverence  are  shown  to  the  laws  and  such  religious 
opinions  do  not  justify  sedition  nor  conspiracy. 

"We  believe  that  the  commission  of  crime  should  be  punished  according 
to  the  nature  of  the  offense;  that  murder,  treason,  robbery,  theft,  and  the 
breach  of  the  general  peace,  in  all  respects,  should  be  punished  according 
to  their  criminality  and  their  tendency  to  evil  among  men,  by  the  laws  of  that 
government  in  which  the  offense  is  committed;  and  for  the  public  peace  and 
tranquility  all  men  should  step  forward  and  use  their  ability  in  bringing 
offenders  against  good  laws  to  punishment. 

"We  do  not  believe  it  just  to  mingle  religious  influence  with  civil 
government,  whereby  one  religious  society  is  fostered  and  another  proscribed 
in  its  spiritual  privileges,  and  the  individtial  rights  of  its  members,  as  citizens, 
denied. 

"We  believe  that  all  religious  societies  have  a  right  to  deal  with  their 
members  for  disorderly  conduct,  according  to  the  rules  and  regulations  of 
such  societies;  provided  that  such  dealings  be  for  fellowship  and  good  stand- 
ing; but  we  do  not  believe  that  any  religious  society  has  authority  to  try 
men  on  the  right  of  property  or  life,  to  take  from  them  this  world's  goods, 
or  to  put  them  in  jeopardy  of  either  life  or  limb,  or  to  inflict  any  physical 
punishment  upon  them.  They  can  only  excommunicate  them  from  their 
society,  and  withdraw  from  them  their  fellowship. 

"We  believe  that  men  should  appeal  to  the  civil  law  for  redress  of  all 
wrongs  and  grievances,  where  personal  abuse  is  inflicted  or  the  right  of  prop- 
erty or  character  infringed,  where  such  laws  exist  as  will  protect  the  same;  but 
we  believe  that  all  men  are  justified  in  defending  themselves,  their  friends, 
and  property,  and  the  government,  from  the  unlawful  assaults  and  encroach- 
ments of  all  persons  in  times  of  exigency,  where  immediate  appeal  cannot 
be  made  to  the  laws,  and  relief  afforded. 

"We  believe  it  just  to  preach  the  gospel  to  the  nations  of  the  earth, 
and  warn  the  righteous  to  save  themselves  from  the  corruption  of  the 
world;  but  we  do  not  believe  it  right  to  interfere  with  bond-servants,  neither 
preach  the  gospel  to,  nor  baptize  them  contrary  to  the  will  and  wish  of  their 
masters,  nor  to  meddle  with  or  influence  them  in  the  least  to  cause  them  to 
be  dissatisfied  with  their  situations  in  this  life,  thereby  jeopardizing  the 
lives  of  men;  such  interference  we  believe  to  be  unlawful  and  unjust,  and 
dangerous  to  the  peace  of  every  government  allowing  human  beings  to  be 
held  in  servitude." 

NO  ONE  A  GOOD  MEMBER  OF  THE  CHURCH  WHO  REFUSES 
TO  SUSTAIN  THE  LAW  OF  THE  LAND 

I  felt  that  on  this  occasion,  and  at  this  time,  when  there  is  so 
much  unrest  in  our  land,  that  I  would  like  to  read  to  you  what  our 
people  conceived  to  be  their  duty  to  the  government  under  which  they 
lived.  We  still  believe  that  there  is  only  one  way  whereby  we  may 
enjoy  peace  and  happiness,  and  that  is  by  observing  the  constitu- 
tional law  of  our  land,  and  by  sustaining  that  constitutional  law 
that  was  inspired  by  our  heavenly  Father  at  the  inception  of  this 
great  government.  There  are  those  who  are  misguided  in  the  belief 
that  they  may  organize  groups  and  take  into  their  own  hands  the  punish- 
ment of  those  who  have  differed  from  them  in  their  ideas  of  religion 
or  government.   We  may  well  understand  that  men  who  do  that  come 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


in  conflict  with  the  orderly  system  that  our  heavenly  Father  has  de- 
creed should  govern  the  children  of  men.  So,  as  Latter-day  Saints 
in  these  times  of  unrest  we  may  know  that  no  man  is  a  faithful  member 
of  this  Church,  in  good  standing,  who  refuses  to  sustain  the  law  of  the 
land,  and  who  lends  himself  in  any  way  to  break  down  that  organized 
system  of  laws  that  has  been  prepared  for  the  good  of  the  com- 
munity. The  Lord  directs  that  we  seek  after  good  men  and  great  men, 
and  that  we  pray  for  and  sustain  them  in  order  that  the  laws  that  are 
enacted  for  our  government  may  be  such  as  he  would  be  pleased  to 
indorse.  This  people  may  go  on  exercising  a  power  for  the  blessing 
of  the  children  of  men  in  this  land  that  will  be  felt  from  shore  to  shore, 
and  from  border  line  to  border  line.  I  am  grateful  that  I  belong  to  a 
Church  that  has  been  directed  by  our  heavenly  Father  to  observe 
the  constitutional  law  of  the  land.  I  am  grateful  that  those  men  who 
have  led  this  Church  have  been  inspired  by  the  Lord  to  teach  obedience 
to  law.  I  am  thankful  that  on  the  eve  of  a  great  election,  when  we 
are  to  choose  those  who  will  preside  over  the  destinies  of  the  nation 
and  the  states,  that  we  have  the  word  of  our  heavenly  Father  that  we 
should  select  good  men,  and  honorable  men,  and  that  the  franchise 
that  we  are  blessed  with  shall  be  exercised  in  the  interest  of  orderly 
government,  and  in  the  interest  of  the  perpetuation  of  a  system  of 
laws  that  shall  continue  peace  and  contentment  and  satisfaction  to  all 
who  dwell  in  this  land. 

THANKFUL  FOR  THE  BLESSINGS  OF  LIBERTY 

This  is  God's  work  that  we  are  identified  with.  He  has  established 
his  Church  in  this  latter  day.  He  has  blessed  us  with  the  opportunity 
to  seek  him  in  prayer,  and,  if  we  are  humble,  he  will  lead  us  to  do 
those  things  that  will  make  for  righteousness  and  for  contentment  in 
life.  Today,  let  us  feel  as  we  go  from  this  delightful  conference  that  we 
will  draw  near  unto  the  Lord,  that  we  will  honor  him  and  honor  the 
Government  that  he  has  prepared  for  us,  under  which  we  live  and  in 
which  he  have  part  in  protecting. 

This  Church  is  our  Father's  work.  It  is  the  advocate  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  and  this  government  is  established  by  the  will  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  is  a  part  of  his  plan  whereby  men  may  enjoy  liberty 
and  freedom,  and  where  all  faiths  and  beliefs  and  doctrines  may  enjoy 
liberty  and  be  amenable  to  the  law  of  the  land ;  and  where  no  group  of 
individuals  may  array  themselves  against  the  rights  and  privileges 
of  their  fellows.  I  thank  my  Father  in  heaven,  for  the  knowledge 
that  he  loves  liberty.  I  thank  him  for  the  blessings  that  he  has  given 
to  us  of  peace  and  happiness  in  these  everlasting  hills.  I  am  grateful 
for  my  companionship  with  men  and  women  such  as  are  assembled  here 
today,  and  such  as  you  represent  throughout  this  great  land.  That  the 
Lord  may  help  us  that  we  may  be  worthy  of  our  birthright,  that  we 
may  live  such  pure  and  holy  lives  that  the  adversary  will  have  no  power 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


49 


to  tempt  us,  or  direct  us  into  evil  paths,  and  that  we  may  listen  to  the 
whisperings  of  that  still  small  voice,  to  which  all  good  men  are  en- 
titled, and  know  that  voice  when  it  shall  come  to  us,  for  it  will  point  us 
the  way  of  peace  and  happiness  and  eternal  life,  is  my  prayer,  and  that 
God  may  grant  it  to  us  all,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  of  the  Church 

I  have  listened  with  a  great  deal  of  pleasure  and  appreciation  to 
the  remarks  that  have  been  made  yesterday  and  today.  They  have 
been  a  source  of  joy  to  my  soul,  and  I  appreciate  most  sincerely  this 
opportunity  of  being  present  to  listen  to  the  words  of  life,  of  counsel, 
and  of  advice  that  have  been  given  already  and  will  yet  be  given  during 
this  conference. 

This  vast  congregation  is  unique.  It  is  composed  not  of  delegates 
whose  expenses  have  been  paid  by  organizations  that  they  might  come 
to  attend  these  sessions,  but  is  made  up  of  Latter-day  Saints  who  of 
their  own  free  will  have  assembled  in  this  great  building  for  the  pur- 
pose of  worshiping  God  and  for  the  purpose  of  being  blessed  and 
inspired  by  truth  and  a  fuller  understanding  of  the  Gospel.  They 
have  assembled  from  places  all  the  way  between  Canada  and  Mexico, 
as  far  southeast  as  Georgia,  northeast  up  to  New  York  and  vicinity, 
from  Chicago  and  from  such  western  states  as  California,  and  from 
points  as  far  west  as  the  Hawaiian  Islands.  They  have  gathered  here 
for  the  purpose  of  listening  to  words  of  inspiration  and  of  being 
encouraged  in  their  holy  faith.  So.  in  that  respect,  this  gathering  is 
unique ;  and  I  am  thankful  and  glad  that  I  am  privileged  to  be  one 
who  is  here. 

While  Brother  George  Albert  Smith  was  speaking  I  thought  to 
myself,  "What  more  am  I  thankful  for  than  those  things  which  he 
has  expressed  this  morning?"  I  am  thankful,  as  I  believe  we  all  are, 
for  the  blessings  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ ;  for  the  kind  and  tender 
mercy  of  our  Father  in  heaven  in  giving  us  the  privilege  in  these  latter 
days  of  hearing  and  embracing  the  truth,  as  revealed  from  our  heavenly 
Father  to  his  servant  the  Prophet  Joseph.  I  am  thankful,  and  I  think 
that  we  all  are  thankful,  for  this  goodly  land,  for  this  land  choice 
above  all  other  lands,  protected  by  two  mighty  oceans  from  Old  World 
hatreds  and  feuds,  this  land  where  there  can  be  developed  the  highest 
civilization  the  world  has  yet  seen.  I  am  thankful  that  the  Lord  has 
so  abundantly  blessed  his  people.  Though  adversity  brought  that  Pio- 
neer band  here,  he  himself  placed  them  in  the  center  of  this  great 
country,  in  the  valleys  of  these  great  mountain  ranges,  where  wealth 
and  peace  and  comfort  prevail ;  and  how  different  we  find  the  world 
to  be  when  we  leave  these  vales  and  these  peaceful  towns  and  villages 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  how  glad  we  are  to  get  back  again.  I 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


am  thankful  that  the  Lord  has  reserved  this  land  as  the  place  in  which 
his  mighty  purposes  were  to  be  brought  about,  that  the  Gospel  was 
restored  in  a  land  where  liberty  prevails.  These  happenings  were  not 
haphazard ;  they  did  not  come  by  chance.  The  Prophet  Nephi  saw  in 
vision  the  very  man  who  would  discover  this  land  and  prepare  the 
way  for  the  coming  of  the  great  stream  of  the  House  of  Israel  into 
this  country,  which  has  been  occupied,  and  is  still  being  occupied  and 
deve'oped,  by  that  mighty  race  of  Israelites  scattered  as  they  were 
years  ago,  and  remaining  so  until  the  sound  of  the  Gospel  message 
came  to  them. 

I  am  thankful,  too,  for  the  peace  that  prevails  among  us  as  Lat- 
ter-day Saints ;  for  the  happiness  and  comfort  which  abide  about  us ; 
for  the  well-fed  and  well-clothed  people;  for  the  comfortable  homes 
and  beautiful  surroundings  of  the  farms  and  the  property  which  the 
Lord  has  permitted  us  to  acquire  that  we  might  use  it  to  his  honor 
and  glory.  It  was  with  joy,  too.  that  I  heard  this  morning  the  reading 
of  the  statement  made  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  concerning  our  rights 
and  privileges ;  and  I  am  thankful  that  among  the  fruits  of  the  Gospel 
is  the  demonstration  that  people  can  live  in  harmony  and  in  peace. 
While  one  Latter-day  Saint  committing  a  felony  would  be  one  too 
many,  yet  there  is  no  community  in  this  world  where  less  crime  is 
committed  and  where  there  is  less  need  for  courts  of  justice  and  order 
than  in  the  communities  where  our  people  are  thickly  settled.  Such 
are  the  results  of  obedience  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  I  am 
indeed  thankful  for  it. 

Another  thought  concerning  the  progress  and  development  of  the 
work  of  God :  The  Lord  has  given  us  the  light  of  the  Gospel,  and  a 
part  of  the  responsibility  of  continuing  his  great  work  rests  upon  us. 
As  I  said  to  Bishop  Nibley  this  morning,  the  Lord  has  placed  upon  the 
Latter-day  Saints  three  great  duties.  One  is  that  they  shall  save  them- 
selves ;  another,  that  they  shall  warn  the  world  :  and  the  third,  that 
they  shall  redeem  their  dead ;  and  nearly  all  we  do  in  this  Church  is 
fundamentally  based  on  one  or  more  of  these  three  propositions. 

I  have  been  thinking  concerning  our  personal  salvation,  the  de- 
velopment of  our  spiritual  life,  increased  devotion  to  duty  in  our  wards 
and  stakes,  the  higher  and  better  family  life;  for  after  all  family  life 
is  the  basis  of  all  the  development  of  this  Church.  We  are  an  aggre- 
gate of  families  organized  into  branches  and  wards  and  stakes  and 
missions,  and  we  need  development  in  the  home,  the  basis  of  all  our 
growth  and  improvement.  I  would  like  to  see  scripture  reading  in 
the  homes,  and  family  prayers  carefully  attended  to,  that  the  spirit 
and  idealism  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  might  be  instilled  into  us 
in  the  home,  for  that  is  where  we  will  save  ourselves  and  our  children. 
In  this  Church  the  Lord  has  placed  the  priesthood  to  act  as  his  agents, 
that  whatever  they  perform,  in  righteousness  and  under  the  proper  di- 
rection, will  be  binding  on  this  earth  and  in  the  heavens.  This  priest- 
hood has  been  graded  into  various  orders,  each  with  very  specific  and 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


51 


well-defined  duties,  and  the  Lord  called  and  appointed  two  of  the 
orders  of  this  priesthood  for  the  very  purpose  of  looking-  after  the 
home  life  of  the  community.  The  Lord  shows  this  in  Section  20,  that 
famous  and  wonderful  revelation  given  a  short  time  before  the  Church 
was  organized,  and  he  placed  upon  the  priests  and  teachers  these  duties : 

"The  priest's  duty  is  to  preach,  teach,  expound,  exhort,  and  baptize,  and 
administer  the  sacrament, 

"And  visit  the  house  of  each  member,  and  exhort  them  to  pray  vocally 
and  in  secret  and  attend  to  all  family  (duties.    *    *  * 

"The  teacher's  duty  is  to  watch  over  the  church  always,  and  be  with  and 
strengthen  them: 

"And  see  that  there  is  no  iniquity  in  the  church,  neither  hardness  with 
each  other,  neither  lying,  back-biting,  nor  evil  speaking; 

"And.  see  that  the  church  meet  together  often,  and  also  see  that  all 
members  do  their  duty." 

The  Lord  did  not  intend  that  it  should  be  left  entirely  with  the 
priests  and  teachers.    In  section  107,  he  says : 

"High  priests  after  the  order  of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  have  a  right 
to  officiate  in  their  own  standing,  under  the  direction  of  the  presidency,  in 
administering  spiritual  things,  and  also  in  the  office  of  an  elder,  priest  (of 
the  Levitical  order),  teacher,  deacon,  and  member." 

So,  it  is  plain  that  the  Lord  has  placed  some  responsibility  upon 
every  Latter-day  Saint  holding  the  Priesthood,  and  one  of  the  greatest 
of  these  responsibilities  I  have  just  mentioned,  that  of  developing  the 
spiritual  life  of  the  Latter-day  Saints ;  and  it  is  a  privilege  to  be  called 
by  the  bishopric  of  a  ward  to  labor  in  the  ministry  over  a  few  families, 
to  visit  with  them,  to  teach  them,  as  the  Lord  says,  and  to  be  their 
counselors.  It  is  an  oportunity  that  comes  to  but  few.  It  is  the  only 
organization  in  the  Church  by  which  the  Lord  has  provided  that 
those  laboring  in  it  shall  go  into  the  homes  and  teach  the  Saints  their 
duties.  I  believe,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  should  take  seriously 
our  duties  in  this  respect,  feeling  the  weight  of  responsibility  and  real- 
izing that  the  spiritual  development  of  this  Church,  the  upbuilding  of 
family  life,  and  the  guiding  and  training  of  the  youth  of  Zion  depend 
so  largely  on  the  twenty  thousand  men  and  boys  who  are  laboring  in 
the  ministry  as  Ward  Teachers. 

I  believe  the  time  has  come  when  the  young  men  called  to  hold 
the  offices  of  priest  and  teacher  should  accompany  older  men.  and  I 
believe  that  these  older  men  should  be  responsible  for  the  spiritual 
training  of  the  boys  placed  in  their  charge.  This  reminds  me  of  the 
incident  I  have  heard  our  President  tell  concerning  that  rugged  Scotch- 
man, Hamilton  G.  Park,  a  man  whom  I  loved  and  revered,  for  I  lived 
in  the  same  stake  as  did  he  and  learned  to  know  and  appreciate  him. 
President  Grant  was  called  to  labor  as  a  teacher  with  Brother  Park, 
and  the  President  has  often  told  of  the  times  they  have  gone  visiting  to- 
gether to  the  homes  of  the  Saints  in  the  Twelfth-Thirteenth  ward,  of  the 
inspiration  and  encouragement  he  has  received  from  that  staunch  Lat- 
ter-day Saint  who  never  deviated  from  his  duty,  Hamilton  G.  Park. 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


That  same  opportunity  of  helping  to  train  the  youth  of  Zion  comes 
to  you  and  to  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  I  believe  we  would  be" 
derelict  in  our  duty  if,  when  young  boys  are  called  to  labor  with  us 
older  men,  we  did  not  instil  into  their  hearts  by  testimony,  by  good 
conduct,  by  righteous  living,  a  love  of  the  Gospel,  and  a  love  of  truth, 
so  that  they  will  be  able  to  say,  as  President  Grant  has  said  about 
Hamilton  G.  Park,  that  we  have  been  a  source  of  encouragement  and 
inspiration  to  them. 

I  believe  that  the  development  of  this  Church  in  the  stakes  and 
wards  will  evolve  largely  around  the  home.  You  remember  that  a 
lawyer  sent  to  the  Lord  at  one  time  and  said  to  him :  "Master,  which 
is  the  great  commandment  in  the  law  ?"  and  the  Lord  told  him :  "Thou 
shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all. thy  soul, 
and  with  all  thy  mind.  This  is  the  first  and  great  commandment.  And 
the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself." 
There  must  grow  among  the  Latter-day  Saints  a  greater  love  and  spirit 
of  neighborliness  among  us ;  a  co-operative  spirit,  with  a  desire  to 
help  one  another  in  commercial  and  in  other  forms  of  business  life ; 
a  willingness  to  be  kind  and  considerate  and  helpful  to  our  neighbors. 
This  spirit  prevails  among  us  to  a  greater  degree  than  anywhere  else 
in  the  world.  Every  Latter-day  Saint  has  need  for  the  faith  and  help 
of  his  neighbors.  Their  lives  and  our  lives  will  be  benefited  by  their 
good  conduct  and  by  ours. 

So  I  appeal  to  my  brethren  and  sisters  that  we  go  home  with  the 
determination  that  our  home  life  shall  improve  where  necessary ;  that 
our  spiritual  life  shall  be  developed  through  laboring  in  the  ministry ; 
that  we  will  serve  the  Lord  with  all  our  hearts,  with  all  our  might, 
with  all  our  minds,  and  with  all  our  strength,  that  his  great  work  may 
,grow,  that  it  may  never  be  said  of  us  that  if  we  had  been  better  men  and 
women  the  work  of  the  Lord  might  have  progressed  just  a  little  faster. 

The  Lord  bless  you  and  me  and  help  us  to  appreciate  the  oppor- 
tunities of  today.  The  Lord  bless  us  with  a  desire  that  we  make  the 
best  use  of  today.  Yesterday  has  gone ;  tomorrow  we  may  never  see. 
May  we  grasp  our  opportunities  and  make  the  most  of  them,  so  that 
our  Father  may  say  to  us,  "Well  done,  thou  good  and  faithful  servant : 
thou  hast  been  faithful  over  a  few  things,  I  will  make  thee  ruler  over 
many  things:  enter  thou  into  the  joy  of  thy  Lord."  The  Lord  bless 
us,  and  help  us  to  keep  these  facts  and  ideals  before  us  all  the  days  of  our 
lives,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH   W.  McMURRIN 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  and  President  of  the  California 

Misdon 

It  is  a  very  great  privilege,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  present 
in  this  great  conference  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  It  is  a  great  privilege 
also  to  have  the  opportunity  of  occupying  a  few  moments  in  this 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 


53 


session  of  the  conference.  I  have  rejoiced  very  greatly  in  listening 
to  the  instructions  that  have  been  imparted,  and  in  partaking  of  the 
spirit  of  the  testimonies  that  have  been  borne  from  the  lips  of  the  Lord's 
servants  who  have  been  called  to  address  the  people.  I  am  happy 
in  the  work  that  has  been  allotted  to  me  to  labor  as  a  missionary  in  the 
California  mission,  and  I  am  glad  to  say  that  my  companions  in  that 
mission,  as  a  rule,  are  at  the  present  time  in  the  enjoyment  of  good 
health  They  manifest  an  anxious  desire  to  magnify  their  callings 
and  discharge  the  responsibilities  that  have  been  placed  upon  them  by 
virtue  of  their  appointment  as  missionaries  and  representatives  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The  missonaries  are 
very  largely  young  men  and  young  women  who  have  not  had  very 
much  experience  in  Church  responsibility.  It  is,  however,  universal 
that  when  they  come  to  the  mission  headquarters,  they  come  with  a 
full  determination  to  try  to  play  the  part  that  may  be  allotted  to  them 
to  the  very  best  of  their  ability.  They  are  ready  and  willing  to  go 
wherever  they  may  be  appointed ;  and  it  has  been  a  source  of  constant 
wonder  to  note  the  manner  in  which  they  come  to  understand  the  prin- 
ciples and  doctrines  of  the  gospel,  and  acquire  the  ability  to  expound 
them.  It  has  been  a  source  of  very  great  joy  to  me  to  be  associated 
with  the  missionaries  of  the  California  mission,  and  I  am  sure  that  their 
hearts  are  touched  and  pricked  by  the  power  of  God,  and  that  they 
do  believe,  with  just  as  great  fervency  as  their  fathers  and  mothers 
believe,  in  the  truth  of  the  restored  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

We  try  to  encourage  men  and  women  to  believe  that  the  Lord 
our  Godj  as  has  been  declared  during  these  services,  has  manifested 
himself  again  to  the  children  of  men,  that  he  has  revealed  anew  the 
doctrines  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  he  has  con- 
ferred upon  men,  by  the  sending  of  holy  angels  from  his  presence, 
the  authority  that  is  necessary  not  only  to  expound  understandingly,  but 
to  administer  legally  and  properly  the  saving  ordinances  of  the  gospel. 
We  try  to  impress  upon  the  minds  of  these  young  missionaries  that 
without  that  divine  authority  that  was  bestowed  upon  the  head  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  at  the  opening  of  this  dispensation,  there  can- 
not be  any  salvation.  Salvation  is  obtained  through  obedience  to 
the  doctrines  of  the  gospel,  and  no  man  can  teach  those  doctrines  and 
administer  those  ordinances,  except  he  be  called  of  God  as  the  Scriptures 
teach.  We  [try  to  impress  upon  them  the  truth  of  the  doctrine  set 
forth  by  one  of  the  old  prophets  when  he  made  the  statement  that  we 
must  go  to  the  law  and  to  the  testimony,  and  if  we  speak  not  according 
to  that  word  there  is  no  light  in  us.  I  believe,  and  I  am  satisfied  my 
companions  believe,  and  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  reside  in  the  mission 
believe,  that  there  has  been  committed  to  this  people  a  great  and  im- 
portant message,  and  that  that  message  has  been  committed  to  them  in 
fulfilment  of  the  promises  made  by  the  Lord  our  God  long  ago.  For  our 
Father  in  heaven  declared  by  the  mouths  of  holy  prophets,  in  ages 
long  gone  by,  that  in  the  latter  days  the  Lord  God  of  heaven  would 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


set  his  hand  to  accomplish  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder.  He  de- 
clared that  truth  by  the  mouth  of  the  Prophet  Daniel  when  the  king's 
dream  was  interpreted,  and  he  declared  that  the  dream  was  certain 
and  the  interpretation  thereof  was  sure.  We  believe  therefore  we  are 
to  go  to  the  law  and  to  the  testimony  to  discover  the  will  of  God  and 
the  doctrines  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

While  we  find  many  people  in  the  mission  who  profess  to  be  be- 
lievers in  the  law  of  God,  and  who  apparently  are  quite  sincere  when 
they  make  such  declarations,  we  discover  that  when  we  read  from  the 
law  of  the  gospel  and  the  doctrines  that  were  taught  by  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world  and  his  apostles  whom  he  commissioned  to  teach  the  in- 
habitants of  the  earth,  that  they  do  not  believe,  as  they  claim  to 
believe,  in  the  messages  found  in  the  holy  scriptures.  We  believe  that 
we  place  in  the  hands  of  all  men  the  key  to  prove  the  falsity  of  the 
religion  we  are  representing,  if  it  be  not  true,  from  the  fact  that  we  say 
that  it  is  the  old  gospel  restored  anew ;  and  the  inhabitants  of  the 
earth  have  in  their  hands  the  record  that  contains  the  doctrines  of  that 
gospel,  as  they  were  taught  by  an  inspired  ministry  in  the  meridian 
of  time.  And  I  am  happy  to  say  that  it  is  not  the  experience  of  the 
missionaries  in  the  California  mission  that  men  come  to  them  with  the 
word  of  God  in  their  hands,  and  call  to  their  attention  doctrines  that 
are  being  taught  that  are  not  in  harmony  with  the  law  of  the  Lord. 

We  believe  and  teach  that  there  is  but  one  gospel ;  and  that 
seems  at  times  not  to  be  very  palatable  to  many  people  with  whom 
we  come  in  contact.  It  seems  popular  in  the  feelings  of  men  and  women 
today  to  feel  that  there  are  many  systems  of  religion  which  will  carry 
them  back  into  the  presence  of  God,  to  be  approved ;  and  we  do  not  feel 
that  it  is  our  privilege  to  delude  people  with  any  intimation  that  if  they 
will  continue  in  good  living,  being  good  citizens  and  good  neighbors, 
all  will  be  well  in  the  life  to  come!  We  do  feel  that  responsibility  rests 
upon  us  to  bear  testimony  to  the  things  that  the  Lord  our  God  hath 
wrought — and  that  is,  the  restoration  of  the  authority  to  speak  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  When  we  speak  by  that  authority  we  teach 
only  the  doctrines  that  have  been  given  by  the  Redeemer  of  the  world 
by  which  men  are  to  be  saved.  We  feel  in  our  hearts  that,  "we  are  not 
ashamed  of  the  gospel  of  Christ,  for  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salva- 
tion." We  are  under  obligation  to  our  Father  in  heaven,  and  to  his 
Church  here  upon  the  earth,  to  expound  those  doctrines  and  to  de- 
clare to  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  that  there  is  but  one  gospel,  and 
that,  though  we  or  an  angel  from  heaven  or  representatives  from  any 
religious  denomination  on  the  face  of  the  earth,  preach  not  the  doctrine 
and  the  gospel  that  was  taught  by  the  ancient  apostles,  the  curse  of 
God  will  be  upon  us.  We  believe,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the 
beginning  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  just  as  it  is  de- 
clared by  St.  Mark,  that  the  forerunner  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  taught 
the  beginning  of  that  gospel,  when  he  taught  men  the  gospel  of  re- 
pentance and  the  gospel  of  baptism  for  the  remission  of  sins.    We  be- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 


55 


lieve  that  in  this  age  of  the  world,  just  as  in  that  age  of  the  world, 
men  reject  the  counsel  of  God  against  themselves,  not  being  willing  to 
receive  the  principle  and  ordinance,  given  by  the  Lord  our  God,  that 
initiates  them  into  the  Kingdom  of  God  and  that  makes  them  members 
of  the  Church  of  Christ. 

You  know  that,  in  the  gospel  according  to  St.  Luke,  the  declaration 
is  made  that  the  people  who  would  not  receive  the  ordinance  of  bap- 
tism, that  was  being  administered  to  the  people  by  John  the  Baptist, 
rejected  the  counsel  of  God  against  themselves,  being  not  thus  bap- 
tized. We  are  trying  to  impress  upon  the  minds  of  the  people  that  there 
is  necessity  in  this  age  of  the  world  to  hearken  to  those  doctrines,  and 
that  it  is  of  the  greatest  importance  that  they  shall  put  away  from 
them  the  follies  in  which  men  have  believed  and  in  which  they  are 
believing  today,  and  that  they  shall  receive  the  truth  which  has  been 
made  manifest  by  the  revelations  of  the  Lord  our  God.  We  are  trying 
to  convince  men  that  the  authority  of  which  we  speak  has  always  been 
essential  and  necessary  in  the  accomplishment  of  the  purposes  of  our 
Father  in  heaven.  Whenever  God  has  had  a  message  for  the  inhabit- 
ants of  the  earth  he  has  raised  up  men  who  have  been  clothed  with 
power  from  on  high  and  who  have  been  commissioned  by  the  voice 
and  commandment  of  God  (o  carry  to  the  children  of  men  the  message 
that  the  Lord  has  for  them.  God  has  always  operated  through  his 
chosen  servants,  and  by  them  he  has  made  known  his  will  to  the  peo- 
ples of  the  earth  in  all  past  dispensations. 

We 'are  trying  to  convince  men  and  women  of  the  truth  and  the 
fulfilment  of  the  promise  made  by  the  Almighty  through  the  lips  of 
an  inspired  apostle  regarding  a  great  event  in  the  latter  time — for  so 
he  did  promise.  The  angel  told  John,  "Come  up  hither  and  I  will 
show  thee  things  that  shall  be  hereafter" — not  things  that  were  trans- 
piring then,  in  the  meridian  of  time,  but  things  of  importance  that 
would  transpire  in  the  future  history  of  the  world.  So  says  the  law  of 
God,  the  law  and  the  testimony.  We  invite  men,  whatever  their  re- 
ligious persuasions  may  be,  or  whatever  their  expectations  may  be,  to 
remember  that  if  they  speak  not  according  to  the  law  and  to  the 
testimony  it  is  because  there  is  no  light  in  them,  and  the  law  and  the 
testimony  given  by  God  through  the  mouth  of  an  inspired  Apostle  is  that 
in  the  latter  times  another  angel  should  "fly  in  the  midst  of  heaven, 
having  the  everlasting  gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell  on  the 
earth,  and  to  every  nation,  and  kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people,  say- 
ing with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God,  and  give  glory  to  him ;  for  the  hour 
of  his  judgment  is  come."  So  says  the  law.  Let  who  will  dispute  it,  let 
who  will  denounce  it,  and  oppose  it,  it  is  the  law  and  word  of  God, 
and  we  are  under  obligation  and  responsibility,  in  this  great  dispensa- 
tion of  the  fulness  of  times,  to  bear  witness  that  God  is  true  and  that 
the  promises  that  have  been  made  by  him  in  ancient  times,  through 
his  inspired  ministry,  are  being  fulfilled;  and  to  bear  record  that  the 
very  heavens  and  the  earth  may  pass  away  but  the  promise  of  God  in 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


relation  to  the  restoration  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  the  latter 
times  cannot  pass  away  without  fulfilment. 

We  are  joyful  in  bearing  witness,  wherever  we  have  opportunity, 
that  we  have  been  made  acquainted  with  that  message,  thus  revealed, 
and  that  the  angel,  promised  by  the  Lord  our  God,  has  come  to  the 
earth;  and  upon  the  head  of  the  Prophet  Joseph,  by  holy  beings,  the 
authority  and  power  and  the  commandment  and  direction  of  the  Lord 
our  God  were  given  for  the  establishment  of  the  great  work  to  which 
we  have  given  our  allegiance.  We  call  men's  attention  to  the  manner 
in  which  this  work  was  introduced  by  an  innocent  boy  falling  upon 
his  knees  and  pleading  with  the  Lord  for  information,  that  his  soul 
might  be  saved.  Who  is  there  that  can  find  fault  with  the  boy  ap- 
pealing to  God  in  this  manner,  and  the  answer  that  was  given  of  our 
Father  in  heaven  ?  Men  do  not  believe  it,  but  we  not  only  believe,  but 
we  know,  that  in  answer  to  that  prayer  our  Father  in  heaven  and  our 
Redeemer,  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  made  answer,  and  made  the  declara- 
tion that  the  time  had  come,  that  was  spoken  of  by  the  holy  prophets,  in 
relation  to  the  work  of  the  latter  times.  That  knowledge  has  come  into 
our  souls.  It  has  gladdened  our  hearts.  It  has  filled  us  with  a  desire 
and  a  determination  to  clear  our  skirts  of  the  blood  of  all  men,  and  to 
bear  witness  that  God  has  sent  his  hand  to  accomplish  that  work,  and 
that  the  work  will  be  accomplished.  May  the  Lord  God  help  us  to 
play  our  part  therein,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  of  the  Church 

I  am  thankful  this  morning,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  having 
this  opportunity  of  meeting  with  you  in  conference,  in  having  fellow- 
ship with  you  and  with  these  my  brethren  whose  lives  are  devoted  to 
the  service  of  the  Lord.  I  rejoice  in  the  opportunity  I  have  of  labor- 
ing with  you  and  of  trying  in  my  humble  way  to  further  the  cause  of 
the  Lord.  I  sincerely  pray  that  while  I  shall  stand  before  you  this 
morning  he  will  bless  and  strengthen  me  that  I  may  speak  words  of 
counsel  and  bear  testimony  to  you  of  his  goodness  which  will  be 
acceptable  unto  him. 

Many  good  things  have  been  said  to  us  during  this  conference' 
thus  far.  I  was  thinking  this  morning,  and  I  have  been  thinking  for 
a  number  of  weeks,  in  the  few  moments  I  have  had  when  I  could 
think  of  things  other  than  those  things  which  come  to  us  in  the  regular 
course  of  business — I  have  tried  to  think  of  something  that  would  be 
well  to  say  to  this  congregation.  I  have  gone  home  weary  at 
night,  after  having  had  a  strenuous  day,  and  upon  awaking  in  the 
morning,  I  have  thought  and  read  and  studied,  and  I  have  been 
bewildered  in  the  thought  of  approaching  this  task.  Not  that  the  task 
is  burdensome  to  me,  but  that,  as  I  serve,  the  field  of  service  opens 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


57 


up  so  broad  and  appears  to  me  so  big,  I  wonder  if  I  will  ever  be 
equal  to  it! 

When  Brother  George  Albert  Smith  was  speaking  of  the  govern- 
ment of  the  United  States,  my  mind  turned  to  the  government  of  the 
Church.  How  well  has  God  provided  for  the  government  of  his 
Church,  and  for  the  training  of  his  children.  My  particular  duty  in 
the  Church  does  not  take  me  especially  to  the  outsiders;  that  is,  to 
those  who  do  not  believe  as  I  believe ;  but  my  labor  is  more  particularly 
with  the  members  of  the  Church,  the  Lesser  Priesthood,  which  holds 
the  keys  of  the  ministering  of  angels  and  the  preparatory  gospel,  which 
gospel  is  the  gospel  of  repentance,  and  baptism,  by  immersion,  for  the 
remission  of  sins.  One  of  the  first  commandments  given  by  God  to 
Adam  was  that  he  be  baptized  and  that  he  teach  his  children  to  be 
baptized.  Adam  asked:  "Why  is  it  that  men  should  be  baptized?" 
and  the  Lord's  answer  was  that,  "all  men  must  repent  and  be  bap- 
tized by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins  in  the  name  of  mine  Only 
Begotten,  the  only  name  under  heaven  by  which  man  might  be  saved." 

This  preparatory  gospel  is  the  field  of  service  in  which  I  am  called 
to  labor,  and  I  rejoice  in  it.  As  I  labor,  from  day  to  day,  I  see  in  it 
great  responsibility.  I  wonder  sometimes  if  we  who  hold  the  Priest- 
hood of  the  living  God  fully  realize  what  it  means  to  us  to  be  so  blessed. 
I  recall  that  so  far  as  we  have  record,  this  Lesser  Priesthood  was  held 
anciently  only  by  mature  men.  In  the  beginning  of  the  Church  this 
/Priesthood  was  conferred  upon  men,  but  the  Lord  to  my  mind  has 
clearly  shown  that  it  was  not  intended  that  it  should  be  held  only  by 
mature  men,  but  its  real  purpose,  to  my  mind,  is  to  prepare  men  for 
service  in  this  Church.  Men  who  enter  the  Church  in  their  mature 
years  should  gain  their  experience  through  the  Lesser  Priesthood.  Boys 
who  are  just  entering  into  their  ministry  should  gain  their  experience 
through  this  Priesthood,  which  holds  the  keys  of  the  ministering  of 
angels  and  the  preparatory  gospel.  You  will  recall  that  the  keys  of 
the  ministering  of  angels  are  given  to  prepare  for  service.  It  is  a 
preparatory  work.  This  is  clearly  shown  in  section  20  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  in  which  the  Lord  has  defined  the  duties  of  the 
Priesthood.  The  Priest's  especial  duty  it  is  to  be  with  the  Church 
' — and  I  take  it  where  the  Lord  said,  "to  be  with  the  Church,"  he 
meant  those  who  are  faithful,  those  who  are  diligent,  those  who  are 
humble  and  striving  earnestly  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God. 
The  duty  of  the  Priest  is  to  be  with  them,  to  preach,  teach,  expound, 
exhort  and  baptize,  and  to  see  that  they  pray  vocally  and  in  secret. 
The  duty  of  the  Teacher  is  to  be  with  the  Church ;  not  those  who  are 
indifferent,  not  those  who  are  antagonistic,  but  those  who  have  faith 
in  God  and  desire  to  help  their  fellowmen  in  their  desire  to  learn  of  God 
and  his  purposes.  In  this  office,  the  duty  is  to  see  that  there  is  no 
iniquity  in  the  Church,  no  evil  speaking,  no  backbiting  or  fault-find- 
ing, but  to  see  that  the  members  meet  together  often  and  do  their,  duty. 
The  duty  of  the  Deacon  is  to  assist  the  Teacher  and  the  Priest  when- 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ever  occasion  requires.  To  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  means  this : 
Although  in  the  beginning  this  Priesthood  was  conferred  upon  mature 
men,  to  my  mind  it  has  been  given  for  the  purpose  of  developing  young 
men,  or  boys,  as  they  grow  and  begin  to  gain  knowledge,  which  knowl- 
edge is  only  of  value  to  them  as  they  can  make  use  of  it  through 
service. 

So  I  take  it,  the  Lord  intended  that  in  the  Church,  when  fully 
established,  young  men  should  have  opportunity  to  serve  along  with 
the  older  men.  So  it  has  been  decided  by  his  servants  that  young  men 
might  have  this  opportunity.  The  Deacons  are  ordained  in  their 
tender  years;  no  fixed  time  in  which  they  should  be  ordained.  This 
should  be  measured  by  their  ability  to  serve,  and  their  desire  to  serve, 
that  they  may  gain  experience  in  this  work,  this  ministry  in  which  out- 
ward ordinances  are  the  field  of  labor.  They  are  put  to  work  passing 
the  sacrament,  running  errands,  acting  as  messengers  doing  a  hundred 
and  one  things  they  can  do,  to  help  impress  upon  them  the  import- 
ance of  service,  and  the  importance  of  their  position  in  the  Church. 
After  a  few  years  of  such  service,  under  proper  guidance,  they  step 
into  the  next  field  of  labor,  that  of  the  teacher,  where  it  is  their  duty 
to  see  that  there  is  no  iniquity,  no  evil-speaking,  backbiting,  or  fault- 
finding. Can  you  conceive  of  any  work  that  might  come  into  the 
life  of  a  boy  at  the  age  of  fourteen  or  fifteen  years  that  will  bring  to 
him  greater  protection  than  to  have  a  knowledge  of  the  fact  that  it  is 
his  duty  to  help  keep  the  Church  clean  spiritually  and  physically? 

And  I  take  it,  it  is  his  duty  at  this  age  to  visit  the  homes  of  the 
members,  for  his  duty  is  with  the  Church,  those'  who  sympathize  with 
him  and  know  something  of  his  problems,  and  have  a  desire  to  help 
him  in  his  struggle  in  life.  Think  what  it  would  mean  to  him  to  enter 
the  homes  of  the  members  of  the  Church  to  teach  these  things,  and  in 
return  receive  the  blessings  of  the  members  of  these  households.  Then, 
after  years  of  service  in  this  work,  under  the  guiding  hand  of  wise 
men,  he  steps  into  the  office  of  Priest  where  he  learns  to  preach,  teach, 
expound  and  exhort,  not  among  those  who  are  unfriendly  and  who  do 
not  believe  as  he  believes,  but  among  those  who  sympathize  with  him, 
those  who  realize,  to  a  certain  extent,  the  task  that  is  before  him  and 
those  who,  guided  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  reach  out  a  helping  hand  to  lift 
him  over  that  rugged  road  and  help  place  him  firmly  upon  his  feet  in 
the  service  of  God. 

This  is  a  work,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  depending  upon  no  one 
individual,  every  one  who  holds  the  Priesthood  and  all  who  hold  the 
Priesthood  combining  together  in  service  to  carry  on  the  work  of  the 
Lord.  This  is  a  wonderful  opportunity  we  have,  and  I  am  wonder- 
ing if  there  isn't  more  we  can  do  unitedly  to  carry  on  this  great  work 
of  the  Lord,  to  see  to  it  that  the  young  men  in  the  Church  are  better 
prepared  for  the  rriinistry  when  the  time  shall  come  for  them  to  be 
called  to  go  into  the  world  to  preach  to  those  who  are  unfriendly  and 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


59 


do  not  believe  as  we  believe.  Let  me  call  your  attention  to  a  parable 
given  to  us  by  the  Savior : 

"And  ye  yourselves  like  unto  men  that  wait  for  their  Lord  when  he  will 
return  from^  the  wedding;  that  when  he  cometh  and  knocketh,  they  may 
open  unto  him  immediately. 

"Blessed  are  those  servants,  whom  the  Lord  when  he  cometh  shall  find 
watching:  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  he  shall  gird  himself,  and  make  them 
to  sit  down  to  meat,  and  will  come  forth  and  serve  them. 

"And  if  he  shall  come  in  the  second  watch,  or  come  in  the  third  watch, 
and  find  them  so,  blessed  are  those  servants. 

"And  this  know,  that  if  the  good  man  of  the  house  had  known  what 
hour  the  thief  would  come,  he  would  have  watched,  and  not  have  suffered 
his  house  to  be  broken  through. 

"Be  ye  therefore  ready  also:  for  the  Son  of  man  cometh  at  an  hour 
when  ye  think  not. 

"Then  Peter  said  unto  him,  Lord,  speakest  thou  this  parable  unto  us, 
or  even  to  all? 

"And  the  Lord  said,  Who  then  is  that  faithful  and  wise  steward,  whom 
his  Lord  shall  make  ruler  over  his  household,  to  give  them  their  portion  of 
meat  in  due  season? 

"Blessed  is  that  servant,  whom  his  Lord  when  he  cometh  shall  find 
so  doing. 

"Of  a  truth  I  say  unto  you,  that  he  will  make  him  ruler  over  all  that 
he  hath. 

"But  and  if  that  servant  say  in  his  heart,  My  Lord  delayeth  his  coming; 
and  shall  begin  to  beat  the  men  servants  and  maidens,  and  to  eat  and  drink, 
and  to  be  drunken; 

"The  Lord  of  that  servant  will  come  in  a  day  when  he  looketh  not  for 
him,  and  at  an  hour  when  he  is  not  aware,  and  will  cut  him  in  sunder,  and 
will  appoint  him  his  portion  with  the  unbelievers. 

"And  that  servant,  which  knew  his  Lord's  will,  and  prepared  not  himself, 
neither  did  according  to  his  will,  shall  be  beaten  with  many  stripes. 

"But  he  that  knew  not,  and  did  commit  things  worthy  of  stripes,  shall 
be  beaten  with  few  stripes.  For  unto  whomsoever  much  is  given,  of  him  shall 
be  much  required:  and  to  whom  men  have  committed  much,  of  him  they  will 
ask  the  more." 

I  pray,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  may  be  found  faithful 
and  diligent  to  the  end,  that  when  the  time  shall  come  for  us  to  be 
called  by  the  Master  we  will  be  found  worthy  of  an  exaltation  with 
him.   May  God  so  bless  us.  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Eastern 
States  Mission 

Through  President  Joseph  W.  McMurrin  you  have  heard  a  report 
from  the  shores  of  the  Pacific.  I  feel  myself  particularly  happy  to  be 
able  to  follow  him  so  nearly  by  making  something  of  a  report  of  the 
work  of  the  Lord  from  the  Atlantic  seaboard,  so  that  you  may  hear 
this  morning,  and  in  this  same  meeting  a  report  from  the  shores  of 
the  sea  west  and  a  report  from  the  shores  of  the  sea  east  of  the  land  of 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Zion.  I  too  can  report  that  the  health  condition  of  the  missionaries 
in  the  Eastern  states  is  very  fine,  and  also  that  the  spiritual  health  of 
our  mission  is  splendid.  That  thing  we  used  to  speak  of  in  the  army 
as  the  corps  d 'esprit  is  most  excellent  in  the  Eastern  States  mission. 
At  the  present  time  there  are  no  doubt  many  more  Latter-day  Saints 
on  the  shores  of  the  Pacific  than  there  are  on  the  shores  of  the 
Atlantic.  Perhaps  if  our  missions  were  to  be  judged  as  to  its  success 
by  the  number  of  baptisms,  there  might  be  considerable  discouragement, 
for  acceptance  of  our  great  latter-day  message  is  rather  slow  on  that 
tier  of  states  that  constitute  the  Eastern  States  mission  of  our  Church. 
It  is  only  proper  to  say,  however,  that  the  slow  progress  of  our  work 
is  not  due  to  any  lack  of  effort  or  earnestness  of  purpose  on  the  part 
of  the  missionaries  who  represent  the  work  of  the  Lord  in  that  place ; 
and,  in  order  that  you  may  have  data  on  which  you  may  form  your 
judgment  as  to  that,  I  am  going  to  read  as  rapidly  as  I  may  an  account 
of  a  few  of  our  activities.  I  did  hope  that  I  should  be  able  to  have 
in  my  hands,  before  I  made  this  report,  a  compiled  report  for  the  last 
nine  months,  closing  with  September.  That  report,  however,  has  not 
reached  my  hands  yet,  so  I  am  going  to  take  our  report  of  the  month 
of  August,  from  which  you  can  form  some  judgment  as  to  the  activities 
of  the  representatives  of  the  Church  in  the  Eastern  States  mission: 

Through  the  month  of  August  we  had  129  missionaries  in  active  service. 
The  number  of  hours  spent  in  tracting,  by  that  number  of  mission- 


aries, was    18,924 

Hours  visiting  saints,  of  course  for  purposeful  labor,   9,547 

Hours  spent  in  attending  meetings    4,491 

Hours  visiting  investigators,  teaching  them  the  gospel  at  their  firesides  4,186 

Hours  spent  in  gospel  conversations   14,659 

Hours  devoted  to  study  by  this  body  of  (129)  missionaries    8,443 

Number  of  families  visited    35,594 

Number  of  investigators  visited    1,890 

The  number  of  gospel  conversations  in  the  month,  of  this  body  of 

missionaries    28,087 

Number  of  Books  of  Mormon  sold,  for  the  month   197 

Other  books  distributed    527 

Tracts    distributed    43,105 

Pamphlets  distributed   26,942 

Hall   meetings  held    394 

Cottage  meetings  held    205 

Open  air  meetings  held    303 

Making  a  total  of  meetings  in  halls,  cottages  and  open  air,  for  the 

month  of  August    902 


Perhaps  you  will  be  disposed  to  agree  with  me  that  these  figures 
represent  a  great  volume  of  missionary  activity. 

Now  I  am  almost  loath  to  read  the  next  item  because  the  numbers 
are  so  small,  but  I  feel  that  we  are  not  responsible  for  the  smallness 
of  these  numbers,  so  you  must  have  it  with  the  rest.  Out  of  all  this 
effort,  and  perhaps  very  much  effort  that  preceded  the  month  of 
August,  we  only  had  thirty  baptisms.    You  see  we  have  to  put  forth  a 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS 


61 


ton  of  effort  in  order  to  get  an  ounce  of  results ;  but,  thank  God,  we 
did  put  forth  the  ton  of  effort.  And  then,  if  we  count  the  value  of 
souls,  as  God  counts  them,  perhaps  we  had  great  reward  for  our  efforts. 
The  Lord  in  this  new  dispensation  of  the  gospel  has  made  it  known  that 
the  value  of  a  soul  is  great  unto  God.  One  of  the  elders  in  an  early 
day  of  the  Church  was  told  that  if  he  should  devote  his  whole  life  to 
the  ministry,  and  should  save  only  one  soul,  yet  great  would  be  his 
joy  with  that  one  soul  in  heaven. 

During  the  last  six  months,  nay  during  just  the  last  month, 
September,  we  have  completed  and  dedicated  two  chapels  in  the  Eastern 
States  mission;  one  in  Baltimore,  Maryland,  and  one  in  Fairmont, 
West  Virginia.  These  two,  with  the  chapel  that  was  dedicated  last 
January  in  Charleston,  West  Virginia,  makes  three  chapels  within 
the  past  two  years  that  we  have  built  and  dedicated  to  the  Lord  in  that 
land,  at  an  aggregate  cost  of  about  $54,000.  One  third  of  the  amount 
in  the  case  of  the  West  Virginia  chapels  has  been  raised  by  the  sub- 
scriptions of  the  Saints  and  their  friends  in  that  land.  I  have  been 
tempted  to  believe,  that  perhaps  the  establishment  of  chapels  in  the 
Eastern  States  mission  marks  progress  in  the  development  of  the  work 
of  the  Lord  on  the  Atlantic  seaboard  of  the  land  of  Zion.  It  rather 
indicates  that  we  are  approaching  that  time  when  we  shall  establish 
permanent  stations  in  that  part  of  the  land,  when  we  shall  carry  to 
the  people  the  institutions  of  Zion,  not  only  the  regular  Church  organiza- 
tion as  expressed  in  branches,  but  our  Sabbath  schools,  Mutual  Im- 
provement associations,  Primary  associations,  Relief  Societies  and  all 
those  helps  in  government  which  can,  as  I  believe,  be  made  mighty 
agencies  for  reaching  the  lives  of  the  people  in  those  communities; 
using  not  only  the  testimony  of  the  missionaries,  but  likewise  the  testi- 
mony of  the  institutions  of  Zion  in  bringing  men  to  a  knowledge  of 
the  latter-day  word  of  God. 

I  believe  that  this  note  of  permanency  given  to  our  work  in  the 
Eastern  States  mission  means  a  return  to  the  vision  and  purpose  that 
were  in  the  mind  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  in  the  last  conference  that  he 
held  in  Nauvoo,  April  1844.  At  that  time  many  of  the  Saints  felt 
that  the  ideas  about  the  establishment  of  Zion  in  Jackson  county  had 
been  somewhat  disrupted,  and  certainly  postponed.  The  Prophet,  to 
reestablish  confidence  in  the  minds  of  his  people  concerning  Zion,  and 
in  the  promises  which  God  had  made  concerning  Israel,  enlarged 
their  vision  about  Zion  by  calling  their  attention  to  the  fact  that  it  was 
not  circumscribed  by  the  lines  of  Jackson  county,  nor  by  the 
lines  of  the  State  of  Missouri,  but  under  a  very  burst  of 
inspiration  from  God,  he  made  known  that  the  whole  land 
of  America,  North  and  South,  was  the  land  of  Zion ;  and  that  God's 
purposes  concerning  Zion  (sometimes  also  called  the  land  of  Joseph), 
contemplated  larger  things  than  the  brethren  had  so  far  dreamed  of. 
He  announced  at  that  conference  that  the  whole  land  of  America — this 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"land  choice  above  all  other  lands,"  was  Zion ;  wherever  the  elders  went, 
and  could  find  those  who  would  receive  the  testimony  which  they  bore, 
they  were  at  liberty  to  establish  "stakes  of  Zion"  through  their  ministry 
in  all  parts  of  the  land ;  and  he  specifically  named  the  city  of  Boston 
as  a  suitable  place  for  a  stake  of  Zion,  and  New  York  as  a  suitable 
place  for  a  stake  of  Zion,  also  I  think  Philadelphia.  President  Brig- 
ham  Young,  following  him  at  the  conference,  in  his  remarks  declared 
that  the  prophet's  announcement  was  a  "sweepstakes"  in  giving  this 
larger  vision  of  what  would  constitute  Zion.  Well,  of  course,  the 
martyrdom  of  the  Prophet,  the  expatriation  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
from  the  United  States,  and  their  journey  to  these  mountains,  post- 
poned, for  a  time,  the  things  contemplated  at  that  time  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph.  Perhaps,  as  a  community,  we  were  to  learn  what  we  some- 
times find  out  as  individuals,  namely,  that  the  farthest  way  around  is 
often  the  nearest  way  home.  It  was  necessary  that  these  decades,  between 
themartyrdom  of  the  Prophet  and  now,  should  pass.  The  history  that  we 
have  written  in  our  exodus  to  these  western  lands,  the  establishment  of 
stakes  of  Zion  here — and  the  growth  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  into  a 
great  and  united  community,  where  they  could  accumulate  means,  and 
experience,  that  would  enable  them  to  take  possession  of  their  larger 
inheritance  throughout  the  land  of  Zion,  were  necessary.  But  now, 
strengthened  as  we  are,  experienced  as  we  have  come  to  be,  may  we  not 
lift  our  vision  to  comprehend  the  larger  purpose  of  God  in  the  gathering 
of  Israel  out  of  the  world  to  the  whole  land  of  Zion,  and  the  redemption 
of  it  through  stakes  of  Zion  bein^  established  east  as  well  as  west?  For 
I  do  want  to  claim  for  the  Eastern  States  that  they  constitute  just  as 
acceptable  regions  in  which  stakes  of  Zion  can  be  established  as  are  to  be 
found  on  the  Pacific  shores  of  the  land  of  Zion.  And  when  we  sing, 
"America,"  that  great  American  anthem — "My  country  'tis  of  thee, 
sweet  land  of  liberty,  of  thee  I  sing" — we  want  to  have  a  larger  vision 
than  the  State  of  Utah  affords;  or  that  any  other  state  affords.  We 
want  to  include  in  our  thoughts  every  part  of  the  land  that  is  under 
the  protecting  aegis  of  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States,  which 
God  established,  by  raising  up  inspired  men  to  lay  the  true  founda- 
tions of  civil  liberty  in  the  world.  So,  too,  when  we  speak  of  Zion  and 
God's  purposes  with  reference  to  the  gathering  of  Israel,  and  the 
establishment  of  Zion,  we  want  to  have  a  larger  vision  than  these  valleys 
of  the  Rocky  Mountains  afford,  splendid  and  glorious  as  they  are  to 
us,  and  dear  to  our  affections,  for  they  are  not  the  whole  of  Zion,  nor 
even  the  center  of  Zion  ;  and  to  those  who  understand  aright,  never  were 
thought  upon  as  more  than  a  resting  place  for  Israel  while  preparing 
for  greater  possessions,  including  these.  We  want  to  remember,  Latter- 
day  Saints,  that  Zion,  her  center  place,  the  center  city  of  Zion,  where 
God's  house,  The  Temple  of  temples  is  to  be  erected,  has  not  been 
moved  out  of  her  place.  It  is  still  where  God  declared  it  to  be,  near 
Independence,  Jackson  county,  Missouri,  in  the  center  of  the  land. 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS 


63 


The  center  as  to  these  United  States  of  America,  midway  be- 
tween "the  sea  east  and  the  sea  west;"  midway  between  our 
boundary  line  on  the  north  and  our  boundary  line  on  the  south ; 
and,  strangely  enough,  when  contemplated  with  reference  to  the  old 
North  American  Continent — the  land  of  Eden,  as  well  as  the  land  of 
Zion — contemplated  with  reference  to  the  whole  continent ;  midway,  the 
Panama  region  and  the  far  North  beyond  the  Hudson  Bay ;  and  as 
already  I  have  told  you,  about  equal  distance  between  the  west  sea 
and  the  east  sea.  Well,  Zion  has  not  been  moved  out  of  her  place,  and 
God's  decree  must  be  fulfilled  in  relation  to  the  establishment  of  Zion 
itself,  as  well  as  the  stakes  of  Zion.  We  want  to  keep  that  within  the 
range  of  our  vision. 

I  am  happy  to  say  to  you  that  in  the  East,  no  less  than  in  the  West, 
we  are  making  proclamation  of  this  same  gospel  to  which  President 
Joseph  McMurrin  bore  such  splendid  testimony.  We  had  made  the 
keynote  of  our  ministry  in  the  Eastern  States :  "The  Lord  hath 
spoken!"  We  open  with  Isaiah's  text:  "Hear,  O  heavens,  and  give 
ear,  O  earth,  for  the  Lord  has  spoken !"  And  from  that  starting  point 
we,  too,  develop  the  message  of  the  new  dispensation  of  the  gospel. 
Not  a  new  gospel.  We  have  no  new  God  to  present  to  the  world ;  no 
new  Redeemer  to  offer;  no  new  plan  devised  for  man's  salvation,  but 
"the  everlasting  gospel."  That  gospel  which  was  formulated  and 
agreed  upon  by  the  children  of  God,  even  before  the  foundations  of  the 
earth  itself  were  laid ;  being  that  covenant  of  eternal  life  which 
God,  who  cannot  lie,  promised  (Titus  1 :2-3)  before  the  foundation  of 
the  earth  itself  were  laid.  We  are  preaching  this  new  dispensation  of 
the  old  gospel ;  and  your  sons  and  your  daughters  in  the  east-lands, 
O  Latter-day  Saints,  are  faithful  and  true  to  the  dispensation  of  that 
gospel  committed  unto  them.  God  grant  that  they  may  continue  true, 
and  that  we  may  be  able  to  impress  upon  the  hearts  of  the  children 
of  men  that  God  has  again  spoken  from  heaven,  and  is  reestablishing 
his  Church  in  the  earth,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Guide  us,  O  thou  great  Jehovah." 

President  Soren  M.  Nielsen,  of  the  North  Sanpete  stake  of  Zion, 
offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION 

At  2  o'clock  p.  m.,  October  4,  1924,  President  Heber  J.  Grant, 
who  presided,  announced  that  the  congregation  would  sing,  "We  thank 
thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet." 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


After  the  singing,  Elder  Wayne  H.  Redd,  President  of  the  San 
Juan  stake  of  Zion,  offered  the  opening  prayer. 

Pearl  Robbins  sang  a  solo  entitled,  "The  Song  of  Ruth." 

ELDER  STEPHEN   L.  RICHARDS 

IN  A  GREAT  PESENCE 

I  stand  in  a  great  presence.  Surrounded  by  the  First  Presidency 
and  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  confronted  by  those  who 
are  appointed  and  set  apart  as  administrators  of  the  Lord's  work  in 
the  stakes  and  wards  and  missions  of  the  Church,  and  in  the  midst  of 
other  Saints  of  the  Lord,  it  is  not  surprising  that  one  should  feel  the 
weight  of  the  responsibility  of  attempting  to  deliver  a  message  which 
shall  be  compatible  with  the  Spirit  of  our  Father  and  acceptable  to 
these  men  and  women.  I  am  always  awed  in  this  great  building  at  one 
of  our  general  conferences.  There  devolves  upon  one  such  a  tre- 
mendous sense  of  responsibility  as  to  make  one  crave  more  than  under 
almost  any  other  circumstances,  the  guidance  and  the  promptings  of 
the  Holy  Spirit,  and  I  sincerely  trust  that  that  which  I  may  say  may 
ring  true  to  my  brethren,  and  with  the  remarks  and  the  testimonies 
which  have  been  heretofore  given. 

A  COMPARISON 

Some  few  years  ago,  through  the  courtesy  of  Brother  Snroot,  1 
had  the  privilege  of  attending  the  second  plenary  session  of  the  great 
Disarmament  Conference  which  was  held  in  the  city  of  Washington, 
where  representatives  of  great  nations  of  the  earth  met  to  consider 
plans  for  the  limitation  of  the  armaments  and  military  operations.  I 
remember  distinctly  that  upon  that  occasion  I  was  deeply  impressed 
with  the  importance  of  the  great  subject  to  be  discussed,  and  with  the 
dignity  of  the  men  who  came  to  represent  the  various  countries.  I 
saw  such  men  as  Balfour  of  England,  the  great  ex-premier,  Ex-premier 
Briand  of  France,  and  the  notable  Kato  of  Japan,  and  other  dignitaries, 
standing  in  that  assembly  representing  and  speaking  for  their  peoples ; 
and  I  was  rather  overwhelmed  with  the  transcendent  importance  of 
these  men  and  the  occasion.  But  I  have  since  thought  that  as  we  gather 
together  here  in  the  semi-annual  conferences  of  the  Church,  such  con- 
ferences as  that  which  I  attended,  and  which  so  impressed  me,  had 
no  more  and  greater  significance  and  deep  meaning  to  the  people  of 
the  world  than  do  these  assemblies.  Those  men  met  to  represent  the 
nations.  We  meet  to  represent  God  and  his  work  in  the  earth.  We 
come  together  to  hear  the  voice  of  his  prophet  and  to  feel  the  flow 
of  his  Spirit  course  through  our  beings,  to  stimulate  us  to  higher 
endeavor  in  his  mighty  service,  and  to  give  us  vision  of  the  great 
work  he  designed  we  shall  accomplish  as  his  representatives  here  on 
the  earth. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


65 


HERE  ONLY  MAY  BE  HEARD  THE  WORD  OF  GOD 

I  am  aware  that  it  always  seems  a  highly  presumptuous  thing  to 
make  the  statement  that  here  only  may  be  heard  the  word  of  God 
through  his  living  oracles.  In  a  sense  it  is  embarrassing  to  make  that 
statement,  either  to  ourselves  or  to  the  world.  We  are,  however,  con- 
strained to  make  it,  because  God  himself  hath  said  it,  and  we  do  but 
our  duty  in  proclaiming  to  the  children  of  men  that  here  with  this 
comparably  small  people  is  to  be  found  the  word  of  God,  delivered 
to  the  people  of  the  world,  under  the  only  authority  existent  upon 
the  earth  at  this  time. 

A  TREMENDOUS  RESPONSIBILITY 

When  I  contemplate  the  tremendous  responsibility  that  devolves 
upon  us  as  a  people  in  the  assertion  and  the  statement  that  we  so  make, 
I  tremble  lest  we  may  not  measure  up  in  highest  degree  to  the  fulness 
of  the  Lord's  expectations  of  us.  I  say,  I  stand  in  a  great  presence, 
in  the  presence  of  my  brethren  of  the  Priesthood.  May  I  not  safely 
conclude,  as  well,  in  the  presence  of  my  living  God  ?  Is  it  unreasonable 
to  think  that  after  having  caused  his  Church  to  be  established  and 
set  up  in  the  world  as  he  has  done,  that  he  is  "listening  in"  at  these 
conferences,  and  that  "listening  in,"  he  likewise  gives  inspiration  and 
direction  to  those  who  undertake  in  his  name  to  represent  him  and  to 
speak  his  word  to  the  assembled  Saints? 

REVERENCE  FOR  GOD  ESSENTIAL  TO  THE  PEACE  OF  MANKIND 

I  have  long  been  persuaded  that  a  definite,  conscious,  genuine 
reverence  for  God  is  essential  to  the  peace  and  joy  of  mankind,  and 
I  know  likewise  that  no  wholesome  reverence  for  the  Lord  will  ever 
come  except  there  be  an  understanding  and  comprehension  of  him. 
It  follows,  too,  that  there  may  never  be  a  full  understanding  of  him, 
his  personality,  his  powers,  his  attributes,  unless  men  live  his  com- 
mandments and  do  his  will.  To  some,  that  seems  to  be  a  very  para- 
doxical situation,  not  to  be  able  to  understand  the  Lord  without  keep- 
ing his  commandments,  and  not  to  be  able  to  keep  his  commandments 
unless  we  understand  him.  But  it  is  the  true  condition  under  which 
we  must  come  to  a  realization  and  testimony  of  his  truth,  his  supremacy, 
his  Fatherhood  and  his  great  and  wonderful  power.  I  do  not  believe 
that  in  this  great  country  of  ours  which  has  been  so  lauded  during  this 
conference,  there  will  ever  be  a  satisfactory  upholding  of  the  Con- 
stitution, a  decent  conformity  to  laws  and  statutes  and  ordinances  un- 
less there  be  at  the  basis  of  all  patriotism  and  loyalty  to  country,  a  deep- 
seated  conscious  reverence  for  the  God  of  the  land.  It  may  seem  to 
some  of  my  fellow  citizens  an  almost  fanatic  view  to  take  that 
religion  is  so  inseparably  associated  with  the  inception  of  this 
great  government  and  its  existence  as  to  form  an  integral  part  of  the 
loyalty  and  devotion  of  true  citizens  of  the  State ;  but  I  assert  it  never- 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


theless.  I  believe  America  to  be  a  Christian  country.  I  believe  the 
principles  which  are  set  forth  in  her  fundamental  laws  to  be  derived 
from,  consciously,  the  Savior  of  the  world.  His  precepts,  his  prin- 
ciples of  truth  and  living,  have  been  set  forth  by  the  founders  and 
the  fathers  in  our  laws  and  statutes;  and  America,  in  order  to  con- 
tinuously and  satisfactorily  fill  her  great  mission  as  a  mighty  nation, 
must  conform  to  those  fundamental  laws  and  principles  of  truth,  in 
my  humble  judgment.  Reverence  for  the  Lord  does  not  bring  forth 
the  class  of  men  and  women  who  ,today  assail  the  fundamental  laws 
of  this  land.  They  who  are  designated  as  the  Reds,  the  Anarchists, 
those  who  are  inimical  to  our  established  institutions,  I  venture,  could 
they  all  be  found  out  and  analyzed,  would  not  be  men  who  love  God 
and  who  revere  his  name  and  who  acknowledge  his  power  and  his 
supremacy  in  the  earth.  The  loyal  citizens  in  this  country,  in  my 
humble  opinion,  are  to  be  found  .among  the  God-fearing,  God-loving 
people  jvho  still  trust  him  and  honor  him,  who  recognize  his  great 
providence  in  the  inception  and  growth  of  this  mighty  country;  and 
when  reverence  for  God  fades  and  gives  way,  loyalty,  patriotism,  de- 
votion to  country,  will  likewise  vanish. 

OUR  COUNTRY  AND  OUR  CHURCH   COMMAND  OUR  ALLEGIANCE 

And  this  is  the  thought  that  primarily  I  would  like  to  give  today : 
that  our  Country  and  our  Church  so  command  our  allegiance  and  our 
whole-souled  devotion  that  we  have  no  time,  no  excess  energy  to 
devote  to  other  and  extraneous  purposes  which  in  any  sense  might  be 
concluded  to  be,  in  the  least  degree,  inimical  to  the  interest  of  either 
Church  or  Country.  Every  Latter-day  Saint  finds  within  the  Church 
so  many  opportunities  for  the  expression  of  his  service,  his  good  will, 
and  his  love  for  his  fellows  that  he  need  not  go  beyond  the  organ- 
izations and  agencies  of  the  Church  to  find  places  where  he  can 
expend  his  time  and  his  energy  and  his  money  for  the  uplift  of 
mankind. 

I  do  not  mean  to  imply  that  certain  co-operative  efforts  on  the 
part  of  people  engaged  in  similar  lines  of  endeavor  are  not  desirable. 
I  believe  in  co-operation,  for  the  stimulation  of  our  markets  and  other 
economic  advantages.  I  believe  in  the  protection  of  our  trade  and  in 
the  safeguarding  of  our  institutions  by  proper  kinds  of  co-operation ; 
but  I  maintain  that  a  man  who  divides  his  allegiance  and  his  energy 
and  his  endeavor  along  many  lines  will  usually  fail  to  accomplish  any- 
thing very  significant  in  any  one  of  them.  I  believe  that  the  old 
message  which  has  come  to  us  for  years  and  years  past,  to  confine 
our  endeavor  to  the  spreading  of  the  gospel,  to  the  teaching  of  its 
principles,  to  the  people,  to  the  building  up  of  our  country,  to  the 
sustaining  of  those  great  institutions  which  have  been  inspired  to  safe- 
guard liberty,  equity,  and  justice  in  the  earth,  comprehends  about  all 
that  any  man  may  give  to  people,  country  or  church. 

I  regard  it  as  unfortunate  that  there  should  arise  in  the  midst  of 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


67 


the  people  of  the  country  institution  after  institution  claiming  the 
allegiance  and  devotion  and  energy  of  the  citizens  of  our  country,  and 
in  some  measure  at  least  winning  them  away  from  the  one  true  ob- 
jective which,  in  our  case,  is  the  establishment  of  the  Lord's  work  and 
the  maintenance  of  principles  of  righteousness  and  justice  in  the  world. 
Any  man  who  bears  the  Priesthood  of  God  has  the  power  to  serve 
mankind.  Indeed,  others  who  do  not  bear  it  have  a  power  to  serve 
mankind,  but  not  in  the  same  effective  way.  They  cannot  perform  the 
ordinances,  the  great  and  helpful  things  so  indispensable  to  the  hap- 
piness and  joy  of  men.  But  they  who  are  endowed  with  this  .holy 
.Priesthood,  who  are  so  favored  of  God  as  to  share  a  portion  of  the 
power  by  which  he  himself  rules  the  world  and  ministers  to  man  are 
entitled  to  go  forth  in  his  name  and  do  his  work,  and  that  work  com- 
mands their  whole  thought,  time,  and  energy,  their  devotion,  their 
love  and  their  loyalty.  I  am  conscious  of  the  fact  when  I  say  this, 
that,  engaged  as  we  are  in  promoting  the  great  work  of  the  Lord,  we 
have  numerous  secular — if  I  may  use  that  word — duties  to  perform. 
We  are  engaged  in  financial  endeavor  and  enterprise.  We  seek  to 
build  up  the  country  in  one  way. and  another;  but  every  true  Latter- 
day  Saint  does  all  this  with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God,  con- 
secrating, dedicating  and  devoting  all  his  time,  talent  and  energy  to 
the  great  purpose  of  building  up  the  Lord's  kingdom.  He  does  that 
even  in  the  accumulation  of  his  own  private  means  and  property,  be- 
cause in  his  heart  there  is  a  disposition  to  devote  that  property  and, 
if  need  be,  all  that  comes  into  his  possession,  to  the  establishment  of 
our  Father's  work. 

AN  APPEAL  FOR  UNDIVIDED  SUPPORT 

My  brethren  and  my  sisters,  too,  I  appeal  for  your  undivided 
support  for  the  great  work  which  finds  itself  in  prosperous  condi- 
tion as  reported  by  the  President  of  the  Church,  and  by  the  brethren 
who  have  spoken.  We  have  reason  to  feel  encouraged,  but  our  safety 
and  the  eternal  progress  of  the  work  depends  upon  our  continued 
vigilance,  upon  our  steadfast  devotion  and  upon  giving  to  this  work 
the  utmost  of  talent  and  thought  and  study  and  prayerful  considera- 
tion. I  know  that  the  work  will  receive  that  kind  of  consideration.  I 
have  faith  and  confidence  in  my  brethren.  Personally,  I  am  grateful 
for  their  association.  When  I  contemplate  the  fact  that  my  lot  is  cast 
with  the  men  in  whose  midst  I  now  stand,  I  raise  my  voice  to  God  in 
thanksgiving  and  in  gratitude  for  that  blessed  privilege.  As  I  move 
about  among  the  Presidents  of  Stakes,  and  the  Bishops  of  Wards  I 
ever  say  to  myself:  where  else  could  I  be  thrown  into  such  good 
company?  where  I  could  meet  such  good,  honest,  upright,  noble  men 
whose  contact  with  my  life  lifts  me  up  and  builds  me  every  time  I  meet 
them  and  go  among  them?  God  bless  the  men  who  preside  in  and 
direct  the  destinies  of  the  people  of  the  stakes  and  the  wards,  and  the 
missions;  and  God  let  his  choice  blessings  rest  upon  the  man  who, 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


under  God,  directs  the  destinies  of  the  Church.  I  pray  for  him,  I 
uphold  him,  and  I  sustain  him,  and  I  know  that  God  gives  his  word 
through  him.  I  testify  to  this,  and  I  appeal,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
for  your  undivided  support,  your  devotion,  your  whole-souled  loyalty 
to  the  great  institutions  of  the  Church  and  of  our  beloved  Country, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG 

President  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

My  Brehren  and  Sisters :  I  heartily  endorse  the  remarks  that  have 
been  made  at  this  conference.  The  speakers  have  given  to  the  con- 
gregation ideas  of  helpfulness  and  encouragement,  and  with  all  my 
heart,  I  echo  the  sentiments  of  the  last  speaker  in  regard  to  the  Pres- 
ident of  the  Church  and  those  associated  with  him. 

Today  we  see  evidence  of  the  truth  of  that  prophetic  utterance 
made  by  the  prophet  Joseph  Smith  on  the  12th  day  of  August,  1842,  on 
the  banks  of  the  Mississippi  river,  in  the  little  town  of  Montrose, — that 
the  Saints  would  finally  be  driven  from  city  to  city,  from  state  to  state, 
and  finally  from  the  United  States  into  the  midst  of  the  Rocky  Moun- 
tains where  they  would  become  a  great  people.  I  am  sure  today  that 
this  prophecy  is  being  fulfilled;  that  is,  the  clause  referring  to  the 
greatness  of  the  people.  There  is  no  evidence  of  lack  of  loyalty  to  the 
cause  of  truth  by  many  thousands  and  tens  of  thousands  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  The  testimonies  received  when  the  door  of  baptism  was 
entered  seems  to  have  been  lasting,  and  to  have  increased  in  power 
from  the  time  of  the  faithful  seekers  after  truth  joining  the  Church 
until  the  present  day. 

The  prophet  himself  desired  to  know  of  his  relationship  with 
the  heavenly  Father.  He  went  to  the  Lord,  as  the  scripture  designated 
to  him,  and  prayed  for  light  and  knowledge  and  for  wisdom ;  and  in 
response  to  his  prayer,  the  Father  and  the  Son  appeared  to  him  and 
gave  to  him  knowledge  of  their  personality ;  and  his  vision  and  the 
testimony  of  it  has  never  been  successfully  contradicted,  although  for 
fourteen  years  after  the  call  came  to  him  as  a  prophet  of  God,  he 
saw  nothing  but  tribulations  and  trials.  There  were  in  conflict  with 
him  many  leading  religious  men,  men  of  influence,  seemingly,  with 
the  world  at  large.  He  had  all  this  to  face.  Finally,  as  the  end  drew 
near,  his  faith  did  not  fail  him,  but  when  he  bade  farewell  to  his  family 
and  to  his  friends  as  he  met  them  on  that  memorable  23rd  day  of  June, 
on  his  way  to  Carthage,  he  exclaimed,  and  it  was  an  exclamation  that 
came  from  a  full  heart :  "I  am  going  like  a  lamb  to  the  slaughter,  yet 
I  have  a  conscience  void  of  offense  towards  God  and  man."  We  are 
the  recipients  of  blessings  through  the  evidence  and  call  given  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  We  are  in  receipt  today  of  all  the  great 
prospects  that  he  predicted,  and  realizing  that  in  the  near  future 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG 


69 


there  are  many  more  blessings  for  the  Latter-day  Saints,  that  we  still 
have  a  controversy  with  the  world,  and  that  we  must  maintain  our  posi- 
tion as  a  religious  body,  led  by  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  through  his 
prophets.  All  these  considerations  should  not  be  taken  from  our  minds 
and  memories,  but  we  should  be  in  deep  consideration  how  each  indi- 
vidual can  lift  himself  out  of  any  slough  of  unbelief,  of  carelessness  or 
neglect  of  duty,  and  how,  at  the  same  time,  we  can  uplift  our  fellow 
men.  The  gospel  has  to  be  preached  to  the  ends  of  the  earth,  to  every 
nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people,  that  all  may  hear  the  glorious 
sound  that  shall  bring  to  them  redemption  from  sin,  redemption  from 
darkness,  redemption  from  ignorance,  and  place  in  their  hearts  and  in 
their  minds  a  knowledge  of  God,  a  knowledge  of  his  gospel,  and  a  realiz- 
ing sense  of  the  weight  of  truth  that  shall  bring  them  not  only  salva- 
tion here  in  time,  but  salvation  and  exaltation  in  all  eternity. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  today  to  stand  before  you  and 
bear  my  testimony.  Joseph  Smith  was  indeed  a  prophet  of  God ;  and 
since  his  day  there  have  stood  in  his  place  prophets  led  and  inspired 
by  the  spirit  and  power  that  characterized  his  leadership  in  the  four- 
teen short  years  of  his  ministry  as  a  prophet  of  God.  I  say  fourteen 
short  years,  because  he  accomplished  so  much  during  that  little  time 
that  it  would  have  needed  in  some  persons  more  than  double  the  time 
to  accomplish  what  he  accomplished,  excepting  they  were  like  him,  in- 
spired by  the  Spirit  and  power  of  God.  After  his  call  came,  he  devoted 
his  life,  his  time,  and  his  energy  to  the  organization  of  the  Priesthood 
and  the  quorums  of  the  Priesthood,  and  when  he  saw  a  time  approach 
that  there  was  a  necessity  for  organizing  again  other  quorums,  after  the 
Church  was  organized  some  five  years,  the  quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apos- 
tles and  the  quorum  of  the  Seventies  were  chosen  and  ordained  under  the 
supervision  and  under  the  hands  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  look 
over  the  quorums  of  the  priesthood  and  study  them  somewhat,  and  I 
am  satisfied  that  he  performed  a  perfect  work  in  his  ministry  in 
organizing  these  quorums,  and  others  of  the  priesthood,  as  has  been 
remarked  here  today.  The  Saints  are  governed  and  directed  and  held 
together  by  these  organized  quorums,  and  by  the  power  of  God  which 
attends  their  administration. 

I  testify  to  you  today  of  the  clean  life  and  elegant  conduct  of  my 
brethren  who  preside  over  the  Church.  I  have  known  them  all  since 
they  were  boys,  and  I  testify  that  no  better  men  can  ever  live  upon  the 
face  of  the  earth,  no  better  Church  organization  has  ever  existed  in 
the  Church,  than  exists  today. 

May  the  Lord  continue  to  bless  his  people  and  give  them  a  desire 
to  be  more  perfect  and  more  willing  and  constant  in  their  service  to 
him  and  to  the  world  at  large,  and  I  pray  that  the  blessing  of  life  and 
the  blessing  of  health  and  peace  may  be  upon  all,  and  upon  your  loved 
ones  at  home,  those  who  have  come  from  distances ;  and  when  the 
conference  is  closed,  I  pray  the  Lord  to  see  you  safely  home  without 
accident  or  hurt,  and  the  blessing  of  peace  to  rest  upon  us  all,  and  the 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Spirit  of  God  to  move  upon  us  in  directing  our  labors.  I  ask  and  pray 
through  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.  Amen. 

ELDER  JONATHAN  G.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

In  the  words  of  an  old  prophet:  "I  will  say  of  Jehovah,  he  is 
my  refuge  and  my  fortress,  my  God  in  whom  I  trust."  I  have  that 
feeling,  that  conviction  burning  within  me.  I  have  faith  in  God  the 
eternal  Father,  and  in  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ.  I  have  been  taught  these 
things  all  my  life,  from  my  earliest  childhood ;  and  for  forty  years 
nearly,  including  my  foreign  service,  I  have  been  teaching  that  God 
is  our  Father,  that  we  are  the  offspring  of  the  living  God;  and  I 
believe  it. 

I  met  a  Gentile  friend — I  suppose  he  is  my  friend,  he  has  always 
been  friendly — a  business  man,  the  other  day.  He  said  very  pleasantly 
to  me:  "Kimball,  I  do  not  believe  you  have  got  any  religion.  I  do 
not  think  you  believe  what  you  preach."  And  I  laughed.  I  learned 
afterwards  that  he  was  a  "Catholic,  and  I  guess  he  judged  me  by 
himself,  because  I  do  not  think  he  is  a  good  Catholic,  so  he  hasn't  got 
any  the  best  of  me.  How  could  he  tell  from  the  outside  of  a  man 
whether  he  has  religion,  or,  call  it  faith  in  God  and  in  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ?  That  can  only  be  discovered  by  the  life  we  lead  and 
by  the  spirit  that  is  within  us. 

If  there  is  anything  in  the  world  that  I  appreciate,  it  is  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  have  no  desire  to 
live  with  any  other  people.  I  occasionally  go  away  with  the  consent 
of  the  brethren,  but  I  am  always  anxious  to  come  back.  In  March 
of  this  year  I  was  in  San  Francisco,  and  I  became  lonesome  and 
homesick.  I  think  it  was  on  the  6th  of  March  that  I  preached  to  the 
people  of  the  Latter-day  Saint  branch  in  San  Francisco.  When  I 
finished,  the  presiding  officer  said :  "Brother  Kimball,  if  you  preach 
another  sermon  like  that  about  Utah,  all  the  people  will  leave."  That 
makes  clear  how  much  I  think  of  Utah  and  her  people.  "I  am  not 
given  to  flattery,  when  I  do  not  mean  it,  and  I  do  not  simulate  an 
affection  that  I  do  not  honestly  feel." 

As  far  as  the  brethren  of  the  authorities  are  concerned,  there  has 
been  no  president  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
that  I  have  known  so  thoroughly  and  well  as  President  Heber  J. 
Grant.  I  have  traveled  with  him  through  the  Southern  States,  all 
through  the  south  to  Mexico.  It  took  us  two  months  before  we 
returned.  I  have  slept  with  him.  We  were  on  very  friendly  terms 
in  those  days.  There  were  not  so  many  stakes,  and  we  became  very 
well  acquainted.  I  have  known  President  Grant  and  heard  about 
him  from  his  earliest  childhood,  for  my  mother  was  a  very  dear 


ELDER  JONATHAN  G.  KIMBALL 


71 


friend  of  his  mother's,  and  I  have  been  in  their  home  when  I  was  a 
child.  My  own  father,  Heber  C.  Kimball,  took  him  as  a  child,  and 
stood  him  on  a  table  and  said :  "He  will  be  an  apostle,"  and  it  came 
true.  Yes,  I  sustain  President  Grant  with  all  my  heart,  for  I  realize, 
in  part  at  least,  what  a  great  responsibility  rests  upon  him. 

I  met  a  horny-handed  son  of  toil  the  other  day  near  the  Church 
Office  Building.  He  was  a  Scotchman,  and  said :  "Brother  Kimball, 
will  you  shake  hands  with  me?"  I  said:  "Yes,  and  be  tickled  to 
do  it." 

"Would  you  like  to  hear  how  I  came  to  join  the  Church?" 

"Yes,  I  would  like  to  hear  it,  for  I  was  born  in  the  Church.  I 
never  knew  anything  else." 

Then  he  told  me  his  story.  Little  did  that  man  know  how  he 
stimulated  my  faith  just  through  that  little  friendship  and  testimony. 
As  we  stood  there  one  of  the  brethren  passed,  in  fact  it  was  President 
Grant.  My  back  was  to  him  and  I  did  not  see  him  until  after  he 
got  by.  This  Scotchman  said :  "Brother  Kimball,  as  unbelievable  as 
it  is,  I  pray  for  that  man  twice  every  day  of  my  life,  and  he  did  not 
speak  to  me." 

"Well,"  I  said,  "he  did  not  see  you.  President  Grant  cannot 
stop  to  shake  hands  with  every  man  in  all  Israel  and  do  anything  else. 
You  keep  on  praying,  for  he  has  a  great  responsibility  resting  upon 
him,  for  when  he  speaks  in  the  name  of  God  it  is  not  his  own  word; 
it  is  the  word  of  God.  God  is  his  dictator,  and  he  must  be  guided 
and  influenced  and  blessed  with  the  Holy  Spirit  in  order  to  direct 
this  great  people."  We  ought  to  pray  for  the  brethren  ot  the 
authorities,  as  we  sustain  them  as  prophets,  seers  and  revelators. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  a  conviction  burning  within  me,  some- 
times, like  a  living  fire.  There  are  a  lot  of  things  I  do  not  know, 
but  I  know  some  things.  I  have  paid  the  price.  I  have  eaten  the 
bread  of  adversity.  I  have  drunk  the  water  of  affliction,  and  I  have 
found  God.  I  have  told  you  that  before.  I  have  found  God,  and  he  has 
answered  my  prayers.  I  have  heard  that  still  small  Voice — we  call 
it  a  Voice — spoken  to  me  not  infrequently,  and  whenever  I  have  fol- 
lowed it  I  was  right.  So  that  I  can  say  with  you  that  I  am  blessed  in 
all  my  ways,  because  the  Father  gives  to  me  of  his  Holy  Spirit  to 
guide  and  direct  me  in  every  situation,  if  I  am  humble  and  contrite 
in  spirit  and  in  truth. 

Brethren,  when  I  think  of  this  gathering,  we  do  not  call  this  a 
Round-Up.  I  attended  a  Round-Up  on  the  Fair  Grounds  and  almost 
lost  my  life  when  that  grand-stand  with  three  or  four  thousand  people 
on  it  burned  down,  in  ten  minutes.  My  brother  Elias  and  I  happened 
to  be  on  the  topmost  seat,  because  it  was  the  cheapest.  We  were  about 
the  last  to  get  out.  I  said :  "Elias,  the  Lord  is  with  us  again.  Praised  be 
the  name  of  the  Lord."  I  tried  not  to  be  frightened,  but  you  ought  to 
have  seen  inside  of  me  before  I  got  off  that  stand.    The  Lord  is 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


with  us  in  this  gathering  of  the  Saints.  If  you  will  stop  to  think  for 
a  moment  of  this  building,  it  is  faith-promoting.  I  helped  to  haul 
sand  here,  with  other  Kimball  boys,  every  Saturday,  to  lay  up  these 
rock  pillars.  I  was  but  a  boy.  I  followed  my  father  around  the 
temple  many  times  when  I  was  a  young  boy.  These  buildings  and 
grounds  are  faith-promoting,  and  it  is  wonderful  to  me  the  things  that 
have  been  accomplished  by  this  people,  as  recounted  by  President  Grant. 
I  enter  the  temple  twice  a  week,  and  as  I  walk  around  it  I  have  often 
wondered  if  President  Young  and  Heber  C.  Kimball,  and  others  of 
the  pioneers,  can  picture  what  has  been  accomplished.  I  have  been  in 
Central  Park,  New  York,  years  and  years  ago.  I  saw  in  this  park 
million  dollar  bridges.  I  have  been  in  Golden  Gate  Park  time  and  time 
again,  in  San  Francisco.  I  was  in  Denver  a  short  time  ago.  They  have 
twenty-four  parks  in  that  one  city.  But  I  want  to  tell  you  that  to 
me,  there  is  not  a  place  on  God's  green  earth  like  this  place  right  here. 
I  thank  God  that  the  brethren  take  good  care  of  it.  No  cleaner, 
sweeter  place  is  to  be  found  anywhere  in  the  world  than  right  here. 
It  is  part  of  the  vision  that  Brigham  Young  saw.  Think  of  the 
temple!  When  Brigham  Young  struck  his  cane  in  the  ground  and 
said :  "Right  here  we  will  build  a  temple  to  our  God ;"  it  was  in  the 
time  of  their  poverty  when  they  were  so  poor  that  father  came  along 
when  the  men  working  on  the  temple  were  soaking  their  bread  in 
the  stream-  of  water.  Father  said :  "To  you  it  will  be  the  sweetest 
bread  in  all  your  life."  It  took  forty  years  to  build  that  temple.  I  will 
never  forget  when  it  was  dedicated.  I  was  in  the  Southern  States 
where  they  were  driving  us  like  wild  animals,  and  we  took  our  lives 
in  our  hands.  I  heard  that  prophet  say  when  the  temple  was  dedicated, 
as  I  was  here  on  a  visit :  "From  this  time  forth  the  hearts  of  the  children 
of  men  will  be  softened  towards  us."  I  stand  before  you  as  a  witness 
of  the  softening  of  the  hearts  of  the  people  in  the  south.  See  what 
has  been  accomplished.  At  one  time  Elder  Elias  Kimball  had 
five  hundred  and  fifty  elders  in  the  south,  and  during  his  presidency 
he  handled  seventeen  hundred  and  fifty  elders,  and  only  two  died  out 
of  that  great  number  of  elders,  exposed  as  they  were.  You  cannot 
tell  me  that  God  does  not  answer  their  prayers.  You  cannot  tell  me 
that  he  does  not  protect  us  when  we  trust  in  him.  I  tell  you,  brethren, 
there  never  has  been  a  time — I  can  say  this  as  truthfully  as  I  have 
ever  spoken  in  my  life — when  I  have  had  a  doubt  in  my  heart  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet.  That  thought  has  never  crept  into  me. 
I  believe  in  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  To  me  he  is  a  prophet.  His 
prophecies  have  been  fulfilled.  Pie  was  a  great  architect,  and  God 
directed  him,  and  Brigham  Young  came  here  as  a  great  builder,  and 
through  the  efforts  and  unity  of  the  people,  the  great  mission  of  this 
Church  has  been  partly  fulfilled. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  you  and  be 
with  you.   You  are  a  blessed  people  to  rally  around  and  come  together 


ELDER  JONATHAN  G.  KIMBALL  73 


as  you  do  to  these  great  conferences,  and  your  stake  conferences;  be- 
cause I  know,  even  if  you  forget  all  that  is  said,  it  stimulates  faith, 
and  God  knows  we  need  it.  I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  the  authorities 
and  everything  pertaining  to  Zion.  For  the  past  year  I  have  been 
working  like  a  Trojan  to  love  my  enemies.  I  am  making  slow  progress, 
but  if  I  can  live  a  little  longer  I  will  make  it  yet.  The  Lord  bless  you, 
which  I  pray  for  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

President  of  the  Central  States  Mission 

I  am  very  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  able  to  attend  this 
conference  and  to  partake  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  that  has  been 
manifested  in  each  session.  I  earnestly  pray  that  the  Lord  may  direct 
me  to  say  that  which  is  best  at  this  time. 

There  is  no  doubt  in  my  mind  concerning  the  divine  mission  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  the  restoration  of  the  gospel.  I  know 
that  its  principles  harmonize  with  holy  writ.  The  great  migration  to 
the  West,  led  by  Brigham  Young  under  the  direction  of  the  Lord,  and 
the  establishment  of  the  people  of  the  Lord,  in  this  part  of  the  earth, 
is  pointed  to  as  a  great  achievement  by  hundreds  of  thousands  of  peo- 
ple who  visit  our  country ;  many  often  remark  to  me  that  they  have 
never  seen  anything  like  it.  It  is  truly  a  great  achievement ;  it  is  some- 
thing that  could  not  be  done  by  man  alone ;  the  Lord  was  at  the  helm, 
as  he  is  today.  But  the  great  thing  that  appeals  to  me  is  the  principles 
involved  in  this  great  latter-day  work.  While  sitting  in  my  seat  during 
this  conference  I  have  been  led  to  think  of  the  many  times  that  I  have 
heard  the  principles  of  the  gospel  discussed  from  this  stand,  and  of  the 
many  sermons  I  have  read  concerning  the  doctrines  taught  from  the 
days  of  Joseph  Smith  by  elders  of  Israel  everywhere.  Not  only  have 
they  been  preached,  but  they  have  been  printed  and  circulated  in  all 
parts  of  the  earth.  Surely  people  who  desire  to  know  the  truth  must 
pay  some  attention  to  a  clear  exposition  of  principles  of  truth. 

Before  the  time  of  the  revelations  to  the  Prophet  Joseph,  there 
was  not  taught,  so  far  as  I  know,  anything  concerning  the  ante-mortal 
state  of  man.  In  fact  it  was  repudiated  and  is  today.  Very  few  people 
believe  it,  yet  it  is  in  harmony  with  holy  writ.  It  was  one  of  the 
principles  of  the  gospel,  in  the  days  o-f  Adam.  It  was  one  of  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  gospel,  in  the  days  of  Noah,  and  in  the  days  of  Abra- 
ham, and  in  the  days  of  Christ.  It  has  never  been  changed,  it  cannot 
be  changed.  How  can  men  then  successfully  assail  the  Church  which 
preaches  scripture  as  it  is  taught  in  holy  writ  dating  back  even  to  Adam 
our  Father.  What  are  men  going  to  do  with  the  scripture  that  the 
Lord  spoke  to  Jeremiah  when  he  said : 

"Before  I  formed  thee  I  knew  thee ;  and  before  thou  earnest  forth 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  sanctified  thee,  and  I  ordained  thee  a  prophet  unto  the  nations." 

How  can  men  say  there  is  no  truth  in  the  gospel  as  we  teach  it, 
if  prophets  of  old  have  taught  it?  How  are  they  going  to  answer  the 
gospel  that  was  taught  by  the  apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ?  What 
is  the  answer  to  the  principle  taught  by  Paul,  to  the  Corinthians,  when 
he  asked  those  Jews  who  were  in  a  controversy  concerning  the  resur- 
rection of  the  dead — the  Sadducees  and  the  Pharisees  who  had  become 
converted  to  the  doctrines  of  Christ,  but  who  evidently  were  discussing 
the  resurrection,  and  even  doubting  it :  "Else  what  shall  they  do 
which  are  baptized  for  the  dead,  if  the  dead  rise  not  at  all?  Why  are 
they  then  baptized  for  the  dead?" 

This  doctrine  also,  and  all  the  principles  which  the  Lord  revealed 
to  Joseph,  have  stood  the  test  for  nearly  a  century  of  time,  and  there 
has  never  yet  been  a  set  of  men,  with  all  the  learning  that  the  institu- 
tions of  the  world  have  been  able  to  give  them,  who  have  successfully 
assailed  the  principles  of  truth  as  they  have  been  taught.  Can  you 
find  anything  like  it  in  all  the  history  of  the  world?  Investigate  the 
organizations  of  men  called  churches  and  learn  if  they  have  closely 
followed  the  scriptures.  They  are  changing  their  doctrines  constantly, 
because  they  have  no  real  fountain  head  to  deliver  unto  them  the  truth. 
But  the  monument  of  truth  that  this  Church  has  erected  as  an  instru- 
ment in  the  hands  of  God  must  certainly  stand  for  or  against  the 
human  family,  or  that  part  of  them  who  come  in  contact  with  it. 

If  I  were  going  to  investigate  any  organization,  business  or  other- 
wise, I  most  certainly  would  look  at  the  foundation  principles,  the  by- 
laws of  the  institution ;  I  would  investigate  the  strength  of  the  institu- 
tion. And  the  great  majority  of  men  look  at  material  things  in  that 
way,  but  they  appear  to  be  blinded,  so  far  as  the  investigation  of  the 
gospel  is  concerned.  It  is  easy  enough,  evidently,  to  go  to  church  and 
listen  to  the  teachings  of  men,  and  take  it  for  granted  that  they  are 
true.  They  have  not  thought  of  having  an  individual  testimony.  They 
take  it  for  granted  that  they  are  saved ;  they  have  not  learned  the 
principles  which  are  involved  in  the  great  thing  called  life  through 
which  salvation  is  obtained. 

But  when  men  and  women  come  in  contact  with  the  history  of 
this  great  Church,  not  only  its  organization  and  its  establishment,  but 
the  eternal  part  of  the  Church,  they  must  give  unto  the  Lord  their 
allegiance  sooner  or  later,  for  after  all  a  Church  that  has  shown  a  steady 
growth  every  year,  a  Church  which  has  taught  the  same  principles 
and  believed  them  from  the  very  beginning,  must  surely  draw  the 
sober-minded  men  and  women  of  the  earth,  the  honest  in  heart,  toward 
it.  That  is  the  great  mission  of  the  Church  in  the  earth,  as  the  Lord 
established  it  through  his  servants  in  these  the  last  days.  There  can 
be  no  question  as  to  the  validity  of  the  doctrines  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

Why  is  not  the  doctrine  of  baptism  for  the  dead  being  taught  in 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 


75 


the  great  churches  of  the  day?  Why  is  it  that  men  and  women  do 
not  know  anything  about  the  pre-existent  state  of  spirits?  Because 
they  are  not  guided  by  divine  leadership,  they  are  not  able  truly  to 
interpret  the  principles  of  the  gospel.  Happy  is  the  man  or  woman 
who  becomes  acquainted  with  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  here  in 
mortality  and  is  able  to  assume  the  position  of  a  child  of  God,  enjoy- 
ing free  agency,  with  a  knowledge  that  this  is  God's  work,  and  that 
we  can  only  return  to  him  in  the  way  in  which  he  has  ordained. 

I  am  not  at  all  fearful  as  to  the  success  of  God's  work  in  the  earth. 
If  there  is  any  man  or  set  of  men  or  individuals  who  question  it,  they 
need  only  to  investigate  without  prejudice  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
as  recorded  in  the  holy  scripture.  And  the  very  thing  which  brings 
them  into  communication  with  these  principles  will  lead  the  honest  in 
heart  into  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  .  There  can  be  no  other  way. 

I  am  not  fearful  at  all  of  the  success  of  this  Church ;  it  will  go 
on  until  it  has  finished  its  mission,  until  the  honest  in  heart  in  all 
the  world  shall  have  heard  the  gospel  of  our  Redeemer.  I  do  not  know 
how  many  will  accept  it  in  this  life,  I  do  not  know  how  many  will 
accept  it  in  the  spirit  world,  but  I  do  earnestly  believe  that  those  who 
stood  for  the  great  Jehovah,  and  who  worked  faithfully  with  him  in 
that  great  conflict  with  Lucifer,  those  who  held  his  power  and  who 
labored  under  his  presidency  and  direction,  who  were  faithful  unto 
the  trust,  and  who  were  counted  as  of  the  chosen  blood  as  they 
are  counted  here,  will,  in  time,  be  gathered  out,  and  those  who  did  not 
and  do  not  shall  not  have  the  privilege  of  knowing  the  Lord ;  it  is 
very  doubtful  if  they  will  ever  have  the  privilege  of  returning  unto 
him  unless  it  may  be  through  repentance  as  the  gospel  has  provided. 

I  am  not  ashamed,  as  Paul  has  said,  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
It  is  the  power  of  God'  unto  salvation.  It  is  the  power  by  which 
miracles  are  wrought.  It  is  the  power  by  which  God  can  and  does 
communicate  to  man.  It  is  the  power  by  which  men  may  know  the 
Lord  and  hear  him  and  feel  his  presence,  just  as  surely,  and  with  as 
much  certainty  as  they  did  in  the  day  of  their  primeval  childhood,  when 
they  walked  by  sight  and  not  by  faith.  The  work  of  God  will  prevail, 
truth  will  prevail.  There  is  no  reason  why  any  man  with  sober  mind 
should  doubt  the  principles  of  the  gospel  taught  by  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  There  can  be  no  failure  to  it,  I  care 
not  what  the  world  may  think,  or  what  men  may  think.  Individuals 
may  fail,  but  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  is  founded  upon  facts,  it  is 
founded  upon  revelation,  and  upon  true  principles  that  have  been  in 
the  earth  since  the  earth  was  peopled,  under  the  direction  of  Adam, 
our  Father  in  the  flesh.  And  in  this  dispensation  it  is  the  word  of 
God,  and  the  Church  is  the  organization  of  God.  It  will  stand  when 
others  fail.  It  will  be  in  the  earth  to  meet  the  Redeemer  when  he  comes 
to  claim  his  people.  I  know  that  his  Priesthood  is  in  the  earth,  and 
that  holy  men  are  in  this  Church  presiding  over  it.  I  know  the  Church 
has  a  prophet  in  this  day,  just  as  surely  as  it  ever  had  in  any  dispensa- 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


tion  of  the  gospel,  and  it  will  not,  nor  can  it  go.  astray.  At  times  it 
may  be  hindered  in  its  growth,  but  it  will  eventually  triumph,  and  the 
principles  involved  in  it  will  become  the  common  knowledge  of  the 
honest  in  heart  in  all  the  world. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  us.  Israel  will  prosper,  and  the  Church, 
through  its  ministry,  will  grow.  The  results  of  our  work  as  elders 
in  the  earth  are  being  felt  daily.  Thousands  and  thousands  of  people 
are  being  led  into  the  waters  of  baptism.  They  are  found  in  every 
part  of  the  country,  and  the  country  is  filled  with  honorable  people 
who,  in  their  hearts,  desire  to  know  the  truth.  It  is  hard  to  be  weeded 
out  from  the  convictions  that  have  surrounded  them,  planted  there  by 
father  and  mother  and  a  long  line  of  progenitors,  but  when  they  hear 
the  truth  and  study  it,  they  accept  it.  I  believe  that  the  Lord  provides 
for  the  restoration  of  his  family  according  to  their  faith  and  as  they 
prepare  themselves  and  are  qualified  as  a  result  of  their  faith  to  come 
into  this  Church,  they  come  into  it  and  become  members  of  it,  and 
begin  to  work  for  it.  That  is  the  history  of  it,  and  it  shall  not  change 
till  the  end  shall  come. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  us,  in  the  name  of  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  A.  WILLIAM  LUND 

Assistant  Church  Historian 

I  hope,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  may  have  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  to  be  with  me  in  the  few  remarks  that  I  may  make  this  after- 
noon. This  is  the  first  time  that  I  have  been  called  upon  to  speak 
at  a  general  conference,  and  I  certainly  feel  the  need  of  the  aid  of 
your  faith  and  prayers,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  of  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord. 

I  rejoice  that  I  am  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  am  proud  of  my  parentage — of  my  father  and 
of  my  mother.  I  am  proud  of  the  teachings  that  they  gave  to  me  in 
my  youth,  and  I  only  hope  and  pray  that  I  may  always  be  faithful 
to  the  teachings  of  my  beloved  parents.  I  have  a  testimony  that  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  true,  that  this  is  the  work  of  God,  that  the 
men  who  stand  at  the  head  of  this  Church  are  men  of  God,  that  they 
have  the  Priesthood,  that  they  are  called  and  chosen  in  this  day  to 
lead  God's  Church,  and  I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  them  always 
with  health  and  with  strength,  that  they  may  carry  on  this  great  work, 
the  leadership  of  which  has  been  given  to  them  in  this  dispensation. 

As  a  young  man  I  have  often  wondered  if  the  youth  of  Zion 
really  and  truthfully  appreciate  the  wonderful  privilege  they  have 
of  working  in  the  Church  of  God,  if  they  really  have  faith  in  the 
doctrines  and  principles  that  are  set  forth  by  this  wonderful  Church 
of  ours.  I  consider  it  a  great  privilege  to  work  in  the  Church  of  God, 
and  I  desire  always  to  work  in  it. 


ELDER  A.  WILLIAM  LUND 


77 


I  have  often  wondered  if  we  have  the  faith  in  the  truth  that  is 
necessary  for  us  to  have,  in  order  to  stand  when  trials  and  tribulations 
come  upon  us.  I  wonder  if  I  could  stand  if  the  same  trials  and 
tribulations  should  come  upon  me  that  have  come  upon  those  who  have 
passed  to  the  great  beyond.  When  trials  and  persecutions  were 
heaped  upon  the  prophet  and  upon  the  leaders  of  this  Church,  it  took 
faith,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  stand  in  those  perilous  times.  In  the 
times  of  Kirtland,  in  those  dark  days  when  apostles,  some  of  them, 
were  leaving  the  Church,  apostatizing,  because  the  evil  one  had  gained 
power  over  them.  Then  such  men  as  John  Taylor,  wonderfully  brave 
and  courageous,  stood  forth  and  testified  to  the  people  that  it  was 
through  Joseph,  the  Prophet  of  God,  that  they  had  been  taught  the 
truth;  it  was  through  him  that  they  had  received  the  power  of  God 
to  perform  the  ordinances  of  life  and  salvation,  that  he  had  shown 
them  the  way  of  eternal  life,  and  he  asked  them  why  they  were  going 
back  upon  these  wonderful  truths.  Even  the  man  who  converted 
John  Taylor  in  Canada  was  being  affected  by  the  many  things  that 
had  been  said.  John  Taylor  met  him  and  said  to  him  that  the  gospel 
was  the  same  now  as  when  he  had  preached  it  in  Canada  and  that  it 
did  not  make  any  difference  what  man  might  do,  yet  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  was  true.  Thus  Brother  Taylor  testified  to  him,  and  that 
man,  be  it  to  his  honor,  returned  again.  He  had  not  left  the  Church, 
but  he  returned  again  to  his  full  fellowship  and  died  a  faithful  member 
of  this  Church.  That  same  man,  President  John  Taylor,  died  away 
from  home,  away  from  the  love  of  his  dear  ones.  In  a  letter  written  to 
his  children  and  to  his  friends  gathered  in  the  Gardo  House  on  the 
first  day  of  November,  1886,  he  pleaded  with  his  children  and  with 
his  wives  to  live  true  to  the  principles  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  He 
thanked  the  brethren  for  being  present  upon  his  birthday  and  celebrat- 
ing that  day  in  his  honor.  He  gave  up  his  life  for  the  testimony  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  which  he  knew  to  be  true. 

When  the  Prophet  Joseph  was  in  Carthage  jail,  Willard  Richards 
and  other  men  were  there  with  him.  On  the  day  of  the  martyrdom,  in 
talking  to  some  of  these  men,  the  Prophet  Joseph  wanted  them  to  leave 
Carthage  jail.  He  knew  what  would  be  his  end.  It  may  be  true,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  in  the  heat  of  battle  we  are  willing  to  give  up 
our  lives  for  a  thing  that  we  hold  dear,  but  this  man,  Joseph  Smith, 
knew  for  some  years  previous  to  the  time  that  he  was  martyred  that 
he  should  give  his  life  for  the  testimony  that  he  had  received.  In  a 
letter  written  to  John  C.  Bennett  in  1840,  Joseph  Smith,  in  describing 
Nauvoo,  said  to  him  that  if  their  enemies  would  leave  them  there  long 
enough  Nauvoo  would  become  one  of  the  most  beautiful  cities  upon  the 
banks  of  the  Mississippi.  In  a  meeting  held  in  April,  1842,  in  talking 
to  the  Relief  Society,  Joseph  Smith  said  that  he  would  not  be  with 
them  very  long.  He  said  that  the  people  of  the  world  would  hear  his 
voice  only  for  a  short  time.  On  the  6th  'day  of  August,  1842,  when 
he  uttered  that  wonderful  prophecy  concerning  the  people  coming  into 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


these  Rocky  Mountains,  he  did  not  say  "I  will  go  with  you,"  but  he 
said :  "You  will  go  into  the  valleys  of  the  Rocky  Mountains."  When 
incarcerated  in  Carthage  jail  he  realized  that  the  end  was  near,  and 
he  desired  that  his  brethren  should  not  remain  with  him  there.  He 
tried  to  get  Hyrum  to  leave  him,  but  that  faithful  brother  would  not 
go.  He  asked  Willard  Richards  to  go  but  Willard  turned  to  him  and 
said :  "Brother  Joseph,  you  did  not  ask  me  to  cross  the  river  with 
you.  You  did  not  ask  me  to  come  to  Carthage — you  did  not  ask  me 
to  come  to  jail  with  you,  and  do  you  think  I  would  forsake  you  now  :" 
But  I  will  tell  you  what  I  will  do,  if  you  are  condemned  to  be  hung 
for  treason,  I  will  die  for  you."  That  was  the  faith  of  that  man — 
willing  to  sacrifice  his  life  for  the  Prophet  of  the  living  God. 

We  are  not  called  upon,  brethren  and  sisters,  to  sacrifice  our 
lives  for  this  gospel,  but  are  we  willing  to  sacrifice  a  little  of  our 
time  in  our  block  teaching,  in  our  High  Council  work,  in  Sunday 
schools  and  in  other  opportunities  that  are  given  to  us  to  serve  God? 
Are  we  willing  to  go  into  the  homes  of  the  Saints  and  preach  unto 
them  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ?  Are  we  willing  to  lay  our  all  upon 
the  altar  of  God,  if  necessary,  and  if  called  upon  to  do  so?  I  firmly 
believe,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  if  Joseph  Smith  at  the  last 
moment  even,  had  said  to  the  people  that  he  alone  was  responsible  for 
this  Church,  that  he  alone  was  responsible  for  the  coming  forth  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  that  they  would  have  ceased  their  persecutions 
against  him  and  would  have  heralded  him  as  one  of  the  greatest  men 
that  had  ever  lived.  They  would  have  considered  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon as  the  greatest  piece  of  literature  that  had  ever  been  given  in  the 
English  language.  I  firmly  believe  that,  my  brethren  and  sisters. 
But  because  he  was  true  and  faithful  to  the  testimony  that  God  had 
given  unto  him,  that  he  had  seen  God,  that  he  had  seen  Jesus  Christ, 
that  angels  of  the  living  God  had  come  to  him  and  had  given  unto 
him  the  keys  of  the  dispensations  that  they  held,  making  him  the 
prophet  of  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times,  they  ridiculed  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  they  made  fun  of  him,  and  finally  took  his  life. 
But  what  an  example  of  courage  and  bravery  he  has  given  to  the 
world,  dying  for  the  testimony  that  he  knew  that  the  work  he  had 
founded  was  the  work  of  God  and  not  of  man. 

I  am  thoroughly  converted,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  work,  work 
in  the  Church  of  God,  to  do  the  things  that  are  required  of  us ;  and  I 
believe  then  that  the  Lord  will  bless  us  with  health  and  with  strength 
to  carry  on  his  great  purposes.  Men  in  these  days  in  which  we  live 
have  also  shown  themselves  to  be  courageous  to  the  faith  that  comes 
to  them  as  children.  My  own  father,  when  he  was  a  boy  not  more 
than  fourteen  years  of  age,  was  an  elder  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ, 
preaching  the  gospel  to  the  people  in  his  native  land,  Denmark.  On 
one  occasion  he  went  into  the  home  of  a  certain  rich  man.  This  man 
thought  a  great  deal  of  him  and  offered  him  the  greatestest  temptation 


ELDER  A.  WILLIAM  LUND 


79 


that  could  be  placed  in  the  path  of  my  beloved  father — that  of  an 
education.  He  offered  to  put  him  in  school,  to  educate  him  and  to 
make  him  the  heir  of  all  he  owned  if  he  would  renounce  "Mor- 
monism."  But  that  boy,  having  the  faith  and  testimony  of  Jesus 
Christ,  refused  to  give  up  the  pearl  of  great  price.  He  had  found 
the  truth,  and  he  lived  faithful  always  to  that  testimony  that  was 
given  to  him  as  a  boy.  On  his  death  bed,  the  last  words  that  he  gave 
unto  his  children  were  that  they  should  remain  true  to  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  I  only  hope  we  all  may  be  true  to  this  wonderful 
gospel.  I  know  that  the  Priesthood  of  God  is  here  upon  the  earth, 
that  the  keys  of  this  Priesthood  are  vested  in  the  President  of  this 
Church,  Heber  J.  Grant.  I  know  him  to  be  a  prophet  of  the  living  God. 
When  I  came  to  England  as  a  missionary,  President  Grant  was  the 
President  of  the  European  mission.  I  was  appointed  to  labor  in  the 
Newcastle  conference.  There  was  a  certain  woman  living  in  one  of 
the  towns  in  that  conference  who  was  afflicted  with  deafness,  and  she 
desired  that  President  Grant  should  administer  unto  her.  He  did 
not  have  time,  because  of  other  conference  appointments,  to  go  to 
the  town  where  she  resided,  but  he  promised  the  elders  that  if  they 
would  administer  to  that  woman  that  she  would  be  healed ;  and  I  bear 
you  my  testimony  that  his  words  were  fulfilled,  that  the  elders  did 
lay  their  hands  upon  the  head  of  that  woman  and  she  received  her 
hearing.  These  things,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  are  faith-promoting 
to  me.  They  testify  to  me  that  the  Spirit  of  God  is  with  the  men  who 
are.  at  the  head  of  our  Church.  The  Priesthood  of  God  is  the  greatest 
thing  that  has  been  given  to  us.  In  it  is  the  greatest  and  most  glorious 
opportunity  given  to  young  men  to  exercise  authority  in  the  saving  of 
souls.  And  no  matter  what  may  be  said,  I  bear  you  my  humble 
witness  that  these  men  do  hold  this  Priesthood  and  are  the  leaders  of 
the  Church  and  Kingdom,  of  God.  May  God  bless  you,  I  humbly 
pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  DON  C.  RUSHTON 

Former  President  of  the  Australian  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  the  greatest  event  of  my  life  to  be 
called  upon  to  stand  here  before  you  and  bear  my  testimony  to  the  work 
of  the  Lord,  as  I  have  taken  part  in  it  in  the  different  parts  of  the 
world  where  I  have  been  called  to  labor.  I  feel  very  timid  and  humble 
today,  in  facing  this  great  audience,  for  I  have  not  been  accustomed 
to  meeting  with  so  many  people  at  one  time,  but  I  do  feel  very  grateful 
to  the  Lord  for  the  splendid  opportunity  we  have  had  of  meeting  in 
this  conference  and  of  listening  to  the  testimonies  of  those  who  have 
been  chosen  to  lead  this  people. 

I  have  been  out  in  the  land  of  Australia  for  about  four  years  at 
this  time,  and  three  years  some  time  back,  laboring  with  an  excellent 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


people,  a  people  who  have  many  of  the  virtues  and  good  qualities  that 
are  found  among  the  races  in  the  different  parts  of  the  world.  They 
are  principally  from  the  British  Isles,  having  gone  over  to  Australia, 
a  very  fruitful  land,  a  land  capable  of  supporting  many  millions  of 
the  world's  inhabitants ;  but  it  has  not  been  consecrated,  seemingly,  by 
the  Lord.  I  was  listening  to  the  testimonies  of  Brother  Roberts  and 
Brother  McMurrin  today,  in  explanation  of  the  work  which  is  being 
done  on  this  continent,  and  of  the  testimony  that  had  been  given  of  the 
consecration  of  this  land  in  the  early  days  by  the  prophets,  inspired  of 
the  Lord,  and  of  how  these  prophecies  have  come  to  pass  and  been 
fulfilled,  and  I  thought  of  the  land  of  Australia.  It  seems  that  that 
land  has  no  great  destiny  for  the  children  of  men. 

There  are  no  traditions  about  its  early  inhabitants.  When  Captain 
Cook  discovered  the  land  he  found  there  a  dark-skinned  race  of  people. 
They  were  estranged  to  all  other  races,  it  seems,  resembling,  to  some 
extent,  the  African,  but  yet  not  like  them.  They  were  different  from 
any  of  the  other  races  that  he  found  upon  the  South  Pacific  islands, 
and  he  considered  the  land  at  that  time  was  not  inhabitable  for  the 
white  man.  It  lay  in  that  condition  for  many  years,  until  England 
took  charge  of  it,  and  that  country  began  to  send  over  their  offenders 
to  that  part  of  the  world,  political  transgressors.  Men  and  women 
who  were  not  in  favor,  altogether,  of  the  royalty  of  the  English 
government  were  sent  over,  and  left  in  the  country  of  Australia.  It 
is  a  great  continent  and  is  as  large  as  the  United  States.  Our  work 
there  is  greatly  divided.  The  nearest  conference  we  have  to  Sidney, 
the  headquarters,  is  six  hundred  miles,  and  the  farthest  one  away  is 
three  thousand  miles,  so  that  we  have  to  travel  six  thousand  miles  to 
visit  the  conference  in  West  Australia.  We  have  about  eleven  hun- 
dred members  of  the  Church  in  that  land  divided  into  six  conferences, 
including  the  Island  of  Tasmania. 

This  great  country  has  only  a  population  of  about  seven  million 
people.  It  is  capable  of  supporting  twice  that  many,  but  for  some 
reason  the  people  are  not  going  there.  The  government  of  Australia 
is  doing  everything  it  can  to  induce  men  to  come  there,  but  they 
will  not  come  in  sufficient  numbers ;  while  this  country  of  America 
is  doing  everything  it  can  to  stop  them  from  coming  here.  So  we 
observe  the  great  difference.  Australia  is  a  fruitful  land,  and  one 
where  conditions  are  better  than  they  are  in  nearly  any  other  part 
of  the  world,  but  the  country  cannot  get  population  sufficient  to  supply 
the  demands,  while  America,  crowded  with  people  to  some  extent,  can- 
not keep  them  out. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  the  words  and  the  blessings  of  the  prophets 
are  sure  to  come  to  pass.  I  was  thinking  of  the  blessings  which  pre- 
vailed at  the  time  when  Isaac  blessed  Jacob  and  Esau.  You  remember 
how  Jacob  bought  Esau's  birthright,  and  in  order  that  he  might  attain 
to  the  blessings,  he  had  to  deceive  his  father,  Isaac,  but  he  deceived 


ELDER  DON  C.  RUSHTON 


81 


him  and  obtained  the  blessing,  and  that  blessing  came  to  pass.  Again, 
when  Jacob  was  blessing  Ephraim  and  Manasseh,  he  crossed  his  hands 
when  blessing  those  two  sons,  and  while  Joseph  tried  to  remove  his 
father's  right  hand  and  place  it  on  the  head  of  Manasseh,  Jacob  said, 
"No."  All  of  these  blessings  came  to  pass,  and  while  some  of  us 
think  that  it  was  not  altogether  fair  that  Jacob  should  obtain  the 
blessing,  yet  it  was  pronounced  upon  his  head  by  the  prophet,  a  man 
authorized  of  God,  and  sent  of  God,  and  it  came  to  pass.  And  so  it 
was  with  Jacob  when  he  blessed  the  sons  of  Joseph.  He  blessed  them 
that  they  should  inhabit  this  great  land  that  we  are  in,  and  the  Lord 
has  sanctified  it  by  his  prophets;  and  so  we  find  it  today  the  best  land, 
a  land  where  everyone  wishes  to  come,  a  land  where  everyone  desires 
to  remain,  a  land  where  those  who  have  lived  here  and  go  away  always 
wish  to  return  again — in  fulfilment  of  the  prophecies  which  have 
been  made  and  the  blessings  which  have  been  given  by  God. 

We  find  that  the  land  of  Australia  has  no  great  destiny,  and  be- 
cause of  that,  perhaps,  the  people  of  the  world  are  not  going  there. 
But  there  is  a  great  people  living  there,  a  people  who  are  susceptible 
to  the  gospel,  a  people,  however,  whose  minds  have  been  poisoned 
against  the  truth  by  the  stories  which  are  circulated,  and  by  the  false- 
hoods which  have  been  told ;  but  whenever  we  have  opportunity  to 
remove  these  falsehoods,  to  show  the  light  that  God  has  given  to  the 
world  and  the  gospel  plan,  and  to  get  men  to  investigate  our  message,  we 
have  found  friends.  They  do  not  always  receive  the  gospel.  You 
know  it  requires  quite  an  effort  to  receive  this  gospel,  because  one  has 
'to  give  up  a  few  things  of  the  world ;  but  we  have  a  great  many 
friends  in  Australia,  and  the  government  is  friendly  towards  us. 

We  undertook  to  erect  a  Church  there  a  little  over  a  year  and  a- 
half  ago.  When  we  began  building,  the  ministers  of  the  neighbor- 
hood in  which  we  were  going  to  locate  the  Church  were  very  much 
alarmed,  and  they  got  up  a  huge  petition  among  the  people  of  the 
neighborhood  and  the  ministers  all  over  the  city  of  Melbourne,  a  city 
of  a  million  inhabitants,  against  the  "Mormon"  people  erecting  a 
Church  in  Melbourne ;  and  so  an  investigation  was  entered  into  by  the 
government.  They  called  upon  us  to  furnish  the  evidence  of  what  we 
intended  to  do  when  we  had  that  temple  as  they  called  it,  erected,  for 
they  think  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  do  not  build  anything  but  temples. 
Of  course,  we  had  to  produce  the  evidence  of  what  we  believed  in, 
and  what  would  take  place  at  this  building  after  we  had  succeeded  in 
erecting  it,  and  as  a  result  we  presented  the  gospel  before  the  govern- 
ment of  Australia,  and  we  preached  the  gospel  to  them.  They  read 
our  gospel  publications,  they  read  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  and  the  Articles  of  Faith,  and  some  scientific  works 
by  some  of  our  leaders,  and  those  who  have  written  the  message  of 
truth  to  the  world  in  this  day ;  and  as  a  result  they  told  us  to  go  ahead 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  build  our  Church,  they  did  not  see  any  objections  whatever.  I 
also  had  the  pleasure  of  explaining  to  them  the  fruits  of  our  gospel 
wherever  our  people  go.  I  asked  them  to  investigate  what  had  taken 
place  in  Canada  where  our  people  had  gone  and  colonized.  I  asked  them 
to  investigate  the  conditions  which  prevailed  at  one  time  when  the 
"Mormon"  people  lived  in  Mexico.  I  asked  them,  the  question  if  it 
should  not  be  right  and  proper  that  we  might  be  able  to  found  such 
colonies  and  a  people  who  loved  liberty  and  who  lived  the  laws  of 
good  government,  and  who  upheld  industry,  and  who  lived  a  temper- 
ate, moral  life.  I  asked  them  if  Australia  could  be  injured  by  a  class 
of  people  of  that  kind,  and  they  said :  "We  want  that  class  of  people." 
I  said :  "You  will  find  them  among  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  if 
you  desire  further  information,  come  and  learn  what  our  purposes 
are  and  what  our  people  are  wanting  to  do  for  the  world."  So  it  was 
not  difficult  for  them  to  see  our  position.  I  also  told  them  that  we 
had  been  there  for  forty  years  or  more  preaching  the  gospel,  and  that 
we  had  brought  into  their  country  thousands  of  pounds  of  money 
from  our  own  country,  for  we  all  pay  our  own  expenses,  and  we  have 
never  asked  Australia  for  one  cent  of  money.  I  asked  them  if  there 
was  any  other  set  of  ministers  in  all  their  land  who  taught  the  gospel 
and  paid  their  own  way  and  brought  their  money  into  that  country? 
They  said :  "Why,  from  a  business  standpoint  you  are  the  most  useful 
men  and  the  best  m'en  we  have  in  the  country."  And  so  they  told 
us  to  go  ahead  and  erect  our  Church,  and  we  did,  and  we  have  erected 
two  others  since  then,  and  the  Lord  is  opening  the  way  and  removing 
the  prejudice.  We  have  had  a  hard  fight  with  the  picture  films.  They 
sent  pictures  all  through  that  country  maligning  this  people,  and  we 
had  to  meet  them,  and  did  meet  them  and  succeeded  in  removing  a 
great  deal  of  the  prejudice. 

Time  will  not  permit  me  to  go  on  further  telling  you  any  more 
at  this  time,  but  I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  pour  out  his  Spirit  upon 
this  people.  I  know  that  he  will  if  we  will  live  the  gospel.  I  know 
that  the  prayers  of  these  men  who  have  been  called  to  lead  Israel  are 
answered.  I  have  seen  it  demonstrated  many  times.  The  elders  that 
come  into  the  field,  upon  whose  heads  the  authorities  of  the  Church 
have  laid  their  hands,  have  those  blessings  fulfilled  to  the  very  letter, 
and  the  Lord  is  with  them ;  The  Lord  is  inspiring  and  leading  and 
directing  this  great  work. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  may  the  Lord  continue  to  bless  us, 
and  bless  the  world  that  they  may  hear  the  gospel,  that  the  predictions 
that  this  gospel  of  the  kingdom  shall  be  preached  in  all  the  world  may 
soon  come  to  pass ;  for  the  time  of  the  end  is  drawing  near.  May  the 
youth  of  Zion  arise,  and  may  they  hold  forth  and  hold  up  to  the 
high  standard  of  their  noble  sires.  May  we  still  hold  up  that  great 
example  of  righteousness  and  industry  and  honesty  and  fidelity  which 
they  demonstrated  and  which  has  made  this  people  what  they  are  today, 


ELDER  DON  C.  RUSHTON 


83 


and  made  possible  this  great  gathering  of  this  conference,  I  pray,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  doubt  very  much  whether  President  Penrose  will  be  with  us 
tomorrow.  I  feel  in  my  heart  that  it  will  be  wisdom  for  him  not  to  make 
the  attempt.  We  all  know  his  marvelous  and  wonderful  will  power 
and  his  determination  to  be  with  us,  but  in  view  of  his  weakened  condi- 
tion I  almost  feel  that  it  would  be  tempting  Providence  for  him  to  be 
here  tomorrow.  He  sent  word  that  he  expects  to  be  hereybut  I  am 
in  hopes  he  will  change  his  mind.  We  have  him  in  mind  as  we  sing 
this  magnificent  hymn.  Few  men  in  all  the  world  have  written  any- 
thing finer  in  our  day  or  in  any  other  day  than  the  many  splendid  hymns 
that  Charles  W.  Penrose  has  written : 

t 

i 

The  congregation  sang,  "O  ye  mountains  high." 
Elder  William  D.  Hanks,  President  of  the  Union  stake  of  Zion, 
pronounced  the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  Sunday  morning. 


THIRD  DAY 


MORNING  SESSION 

On  Sunday  morning  at  10  o'clock,  October  5,  1924,  all  seats  in 
the  Tabernacle  were  occupied  and  every  available  standing  space  was 
filled.  Many  were  unable  to  gain  admittance.  All  the  aisles  in  the 
gal'eries  and  on  the  main  floor  of  the  building  were  occupied.  Barratt 
Hall  was  provided  with  a  radio,  and  in  the  Assembly  Hall  there  was  an 
overflow  meeting  at  which  Elder  John  M.  Knight,  president  of  the 
Western  states  mission,  presided. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Praise  to  the  man  who  com- 
muned with  Jehovah." 

The  conference  was  opened  by  prayer  by  Elder  Joseph  R.  Shepherd, 
president  of  the  Logan  Temple. 

The  hymn,  "An  angel  from  on  high,"  was  sung  by  Mrs.  Mary 
Ellsworth  and  Mary  Lindsay  and  the  choir. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Parley  P.  Pratt  has  written  more  inspirational  hymns  for  the 
Latter-day  Saints  to  sing  than  any  of  the  other  of  our  poets ;  and 
there  are  few,  if  any,  of  his  hymns  that  touch  my  heart  more  than 
this  wonderful  hymn  to  which  we  have  just  listened,  so  beautifully 
rendered  by  our  sisters  and  the  choir.  It  was  written  by  inspiration, 
and,  to  my  mind,  if  we  omit  the  last  verse,  the  wonderful  prayer,  con- 
tained in  this  hymn,  is  marred  and  lost.  There  has  never  been  any 
doubt  in  the  minds  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  Jerusalem  will  be 
rebuilt  and  re-established,  and  the  prediction  contained  in  this  last  verse 
is  in  prospect  of  being  fulfilled.  From  the  day  that  the  British  army 
rode  into  Jerusalem  a  change  has  come.  We  believe  absolutely  in 
the  inspiration  of  this  hymn,  and  that  every  word  of  this  last  verse  will 
be  fulfilled: 

"Lo,  Israel,  filled  with  joy,  shall  now  be  gathered  home, 
Their  wealth  and  means  employ  to  build  Jerusalem; 
While  Zion  shall  arise  and  shine, 
And  fill  the  earth  with  truth  divine." 

PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

THE  OI.D  PATHS  AND  THE  GOOD  WAY 

"Thus  saith  the  Lord,  Stand  ye  in  the  ways,  and  see,  and  ask  for  the  old 
paths,  where  is  the  good  way,  and  walk  therein,  and  ye  shall  find  rest  for  your 
souls.    Eut  they  said,  We  will  not  walk  therein. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS  85 


"Also  I  set  watchmen  over  you,  saying,  Hearken  to  the  sound  of  the 
trumpet.    But  they  said,  We  will  not  hearken. 

"Therefore  hear,  ye  nations,  and  know,  O  congregation,  what  is  among  them. 

"Hear,  O  earth :  behold,  I  will  bring  evil  upon  this  people,  even  the  fruit 
of  their  thoughts,  because  they  have  not  hearkened  unto  my  words,  nor  to  my 
law,  but  rejected  it." — Jer.  6:16-19. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  stand  before  you  this  morning  as  Elder 
Stephen  L.  Richards  said  that  he  did,  yesterday,  awed  in  the  presence 
of  this  great  congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  in  the  presence 
of  God,  our  Father  who,  I  know  is  here  by  his  Spirit.  I  feel  de- 
pendent upon  him,  dependent  upon  you,  and  the  exercise  of  your  faith 
in  my  behalf,  to  help  me  during  the  few  moments  of  time  which  I 
expect  to  occupy. 

THE  PATHS  OF  THE  LORD 

The  way,  or  path,  to  which  the  scripture  which  I  have  read  refers, 
is  the  path,  or  road,  in  which  the  Lord  desires,  and  has  always  desired, 
that  his  people  shall  walk. 

THE  TRAILS  AND  PATHS  OF  MEN 

Roads  made  by  men  thread  the  world.  They  have  many  begin- 
nings, and  some  of  them  intricate  and  devious  windings  before  the 
end  is  reached.  Some  of  them  are  broad  and  easy  to  follow,  and  - 
converge  into  other  like  roads,  along  which,  multitudes  constantly  travel, 
multitudes  who  appear  to  be  striving  for  the  same  objective,  a  destina- 
tion which  the  history  of  the  past  shows  but  few  reach.  In  the  begin- 
ning these  roads  were  mere  trails.  Men  knew  the  direction  in  which 
they  wished  to  travel,  the  destination  which  they  desired  to  reach, 
but  no  one  had  traveled  the  road  before  them,  no  trail  had  been 
blazed,  there  were  no  markers  to  follow,  and  they  went  blindly  on, 
often  to  disaster,  and  sometimes  to  death. 

In  their  effort  to  reach  the  Pacific  coast,  less  than  one  hun- 
dred years  ago,  people  perished  from  thirst,  when  there  was  water 
in  abundance  near.  No  one  had  been  over  the  road  before  them,  and 
they  perished  in  the  deserts  of  sand,  because  there  was  no  track  to 
follow. 

Today  no  man  would  attempt  to  reach  Utah  from  Santa  Fe 
by  the  route  traveled  by  Cardenas  more  than  three  hundred  years  ago, 
we  have  learned  that  the  Grand  Canyon  of  the  Colorado  interposes 
an  insurmountable  barrier,  a  barrier  which  cannot  be  crossed,  but 
know  that  there  are  other  trails  which  make  the  passage  of  the  great 
canyon  and  river  possible.  No  party  of  travelers  would  attempt  to 
reach  the  Pacific  Coast  by  the  route  followed  by  the  company  of 
emigrants  who  perished  in  Death  Valley,  in  1849. 

The  impassable  barriers,  and  relentless  death  traps  have  become 
known,  the  roads  and  trails  have  been  charted,  and  the  wayfarer, 
knowing  his  danger,  avoids  them. 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  roads  built  by  man  are  constructed  to  satisfy  the  demands 
of  his  environment.  Over  them  he  carries  his  commerce,  they  bring 
into  close  relationship  remote  communities  and  add  greatly  to  his 
pleasure,  convenience  and  comfort.  They  have  become  so  well  de- 
fined that  they  may  be  traveled  with  perfect  safety  and  confidence, 
for  from  the  starting  point  to  our  destination  the  way  is  plainly  marked, 
though  it  take  us  to  the  other  side  of  the  world. 

ONE  ROAD  WHICH  MEN  HAVE  NOT  DESIRED  TO  FOLLOW 

There  is  one  road  which  the  great  majority  of  mankind  have 
never,  as  yet,  cared  to  follow,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  the  destina- 
tion to  which  it  leads  is  more  desirable  than  any  other.  Since  the 
earliest  period  of  the  existence  of  man,  so  far  as  we  have  record  of  his 
existence,  the  way  has  been  plainly  marked,  and  the  destination  to 
which  the  road  leads  well  understood,  but  men  have  said,  we  will 
not  walk  therein. 

Since  the  beginning  of  time,  as  we  count  it,  men  have  shown 
by  their  works,  that  from  the  influences  and  teachings  of  the  remote 
past,  the  conviction  has  prevailed  that  birth  into  this  life  is  not  the 
beginning  of  the  existence  of  man,  nor  is  death  the  end  of  it.  The 
people  of  the  world,  whether  civilized  or  savage,  so  far  as  my  per- 
sonal observation  and  study  enable  me  to  judge,  have  always  found 
some  outward  means  of  expression,  by  which  their  faith  in  the  in- 
visible is  shown.  It  may  be  by  worship  of  the  forces  of  nature,  the  sun, 
the  moon  or  stars,  or  they  may  bow  down  to  images  of  wood,  or  stone 
or  gold.  In  whatever  form,  this  worship  is  but  the  expression  of  faith 
in  the  intangible  forces  in  which  man  believes,  and  to  which  he  ac- 
knowledges his  debt  of  allegiance  and  service. 

PERPETUITY  OF  PEOPLES  AND  GOVERNMENT  DEPENDENT 
ON  RELTGIOUS  FAITH 

I  know  of  no  great  nation  of  antiquity  which  did  not  have,  in  con- 
nection with  its  system  of  civil  government,  a  code  of  ethics  which 
embraced  in  its  doctrines,  and  had  for  its  purpose,  the  ends  which 
we  moderns  seek  in  the.  various  forms  of  religion  which  we  believe 
in  and  practice.  The  perpetuity  of  the  various  forms  of  government 
which  prevailed  was  dependent,  as  all  governments  are,  entirely  upon 
the  ethical,  or  religious  faith  and  practice  of  the  people,  for,  if  we  are 
to  judge  by  the  history  of  the  past,  without  the  higher  ideals  of 
ethical  life,  applied  in  the  administration  of  civil  affairs,  no  nation 
can  long  survive. 

The  earth  on  which  we  dwell  was  designed  by  the  Creator  to 
be  the  home  of  man;  and,  for  the  benefit  and  blessing  of  his  children, 
the  Lord  plainly  marked  the  path,  or  way  in  which  they  should  travel. 
He  taught  them  that,  being  the  Former  of  the  universe,  and  Father 
of  the  spirits  of  all  men,  holding  dominion  over  the  earth,  and  all  that 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS 


87 


pertains  to  it,  that  we,  in  appreciation  of  the  blessings  which  we  enjoy, 
should  acknowledge  our  obligation  to  the  Giver,  by  obedience  to  bis 
will  and  reverence  to  his  laws. 

We  know  that  our  sojourn  in  this  life  is  but  transitory,  that  we 
must  pass  from  mortality,  and  the  Lord  has  taught  us  that  by  observance 
of  certain  simple  laws  which  he  has  given,  or  by  traveling  in  the  road 
which  he  has  marked  out  we  may  find  our  way  back  into  his  presence, 
where,  if  our  conduct  in  mortality  justifies,  we  will  be  crowned  with 
glory,  immortality,  and  eternal  life. 

We  have  but  limited  knowledge  of  the  hand-dealing  of  the  Lord 
with  the  ante-diluvian  people,  but  sufficient  is  preserved  to  show  that, 
notwithstanding  the  fact  that  he  sent  prophets  among  them,  who  warned 
them  of  the  judgments  to  come,  because  of  their  transgression,  they 
refused  to  listen,  the  result  being  that  when  the  flood  came  they 
perished  in  their  sins. 

One  would  suppose  that  the  dreadful  experience  through  which 
these  people  passed  would  have  been  sufficient  to  have  impressed  the 
sons  of  Noah,  who  were  among  the  survivors,  that  they  never  would 
have  forgotten,  but  it  was  but  a  short  time  after  they  became  established 
on  the  banks  of  the  Euphrates  and  Tigris  when  they  had  so  far  for- 
gotten their  obligation  to  the  Lord,  their  Father  and  deliverer,  that  in 
his  anger  he  confounded  their  language  and  scattered  them  abroad 
on  the  face  of  the  earth. 

A  GREAT  EVENT,  AND  A   MIGHTY  PURPOSE  FORETOLD 

It  was  at  this  time  that  an  event  occurred  which  was  of  great 
importance  to  us,  we  people  who  are  permitted  to  live  in  this,  the 
greatest  dispensation  of  the  history  of  the  world,  in  this  land  which 
is  choice  above  all  other  lands.  Foreseeing  that  the  people  of  Babylon 
and  Nineveh  would  not  repent  of  their  wickedness,  and  return  to  his 
service,  the  Lord  took  a  small  company  from  the  great  tower  which 
was  in  course  of  construction,  and  under  the  leadership  of  inspired 
men  brought  them  to  this  land  which  we  now  occupy. 

That  knowledge  of  the  redemption  which  was  to  come  to  the  human 
family  through  the  infinite  atonement  which  would  be  made  by  Jesus 
Christ  was  possessed  from  the  beginning  by  the  people  of  the  world  is 
plainly  shown  by  the  scripture,  and  is  particularly  emphasized  in  the 
revelations  which  have  come  to  the  Church  in  our  day.  In  order  that 
this  great  truth  might  not  be  lost  sight  of,  the  Lord  has,  at  various 
times,  and  in  divers  places,  manifested  to  his  servants,  either  by 
dream  or  vision,  or  by  personal  appearance  the  importance  and  in- 
dispensable necessity  of  faith  in  it.  It  naturally  followed  that  with 
the  renewal  of  the  old  covenant,  with  the  small  body  of  people,  whom 
he  designed  to  bring  to  a  new  world,  he  should  again  make  clear  to 
them  this  great  truth,  by  which  their  lives  were  to  be  governed,  either 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


for  their  blessing  or  condemnation,  and  this  he  did  to  the  brother  of 
Jared,  under  the  following  circumstances: 

THE  GREAT  TRUTH  MADE  CLEAR  BY  REVELATION 

While  engaged  in  prayer  the  voice  of  the  Lord  came  to  him,  as 
follows : 

"Believest  thou  the  words  which  I  shall  speak? 

"And  he  answered;  Yea,  Lord,  I  know  that  thou  speakest  the  truth,  for 
thou  art  a  God  of  truth,  and  canst  not  lie. 

"And  when  he  had  spoken  these  words,  behold  the  Lord  showed  himself 
to  him,  and  said :  Because  thou  knowest  these  things  thou  art  redeemed  from 
the  fall ;  therefore  ye  are  brought  back  into  my  presence ;  therefore  I  show 
myself  unto  you.  Behold  I  am  he  who  was  prepared  from  the  foundation  of 
the  world  to  redeem  my  people.  Behold,  I  am  Jesus  Christ.  In  me  shall  all 
mankind  have  light,  and  that  eternally,  even  they  who  shall  believe  on  my 
name;  and  they  shall  become  my  sons  and  daughters. 

"And  never  have  I  showed  myself  unto  man  whom  I  have  created,  for 
never  has  man  believed  in  me  as  thou  hast.  Seest  thou  that  ye  are  created 
after  mine  own  image?  Yea,  even  all  men  were  created  in  the  beginning  after 
mine  own  image. 

"Behold,  this  body,  which  you  now  behold,  is  the  body  of  my  spirit;  and 
man  have  I  created  after  the  body  of  my  spirit;  and  even  as  I  appear  to 
thee  to  be  in  the  spirit  will  I  appear  unto  my  people  in  the  flesh." 

RESULTS  OF  AN  ANCIENT  WARNING  UNHEEDED 

By  this  we  see,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  more  than  two 
thousand  years  before  he  manifested  himself  in  the  flesh  Christ  showed 
himself  to  this  man,  that  a  witness  might  be  had  among  the  people 
of  his  existence  and  future  ministry  among  men.  Before  this  people 
reached  the  American  continent  the  Lord  warned  them  of  the  conse- 
quence of  disobedience,  and  made  known  the  conditions  upon  which 
they  were  dependent,  either  for  success  or  failure,  after  their  arrival 
here.    Let  me  read: 

"And  the  Lord  would  not  suffer  that  they  should  stop  beyond  the  sea 
in  the  wilderness,  but  he  would  that  they  should  come  forth,  even  unto 
the  land  of  promise,  which  was  choice  above  all  other  lands,  which  the 
Lord  God  had  preserved  for  a  righteous  people. 

"And  he  had  sworn  in  his  wrath  unto  the  brother  of  Jared,  that  whoso 
should  possess  this  land  of  promise,  from  that  time  henceforth  and  forever, 
should  serve  him,  the  true  and  only  God,  or  they  should  be  swept  off  when 
the  fulness  of  his  wrath  should  come  upon  them. 

"And  now,  we  can  behold  the  decrees  of  God  concerning  this  land  that 
it  is  a  land  of  promise;  and  whatsoever  nation  shall  possess  it  shall  serve 
God,  or  they  shall  be  swept  off  when  the  fulness  of  his  wrath  shall  come 
upon  them.-  And  the  fulness  of  his  wrath  cometh  upon  them  when  they  are 
ripened  in  iniquity. 

"For  behold,  this  is  a  land  which  is  choice  above  all  other  lands;  where- 
fore he  that  does  possess  it  shall  serve  God  or  shall  be  swept  off;  for  it  is 
the  everlasting  decree  of  God.  And  it  is  not  until  the  fulness  of  iniquity 
among  the  children  of  the  land,  that  they  are  swept  off. 

"And  this  cometh  to  you,  O  ye  Gentiles,  that  ye  may  know  the  decrees 
of  God,  that  ye  may  repent,  and  not  continue  in  your  iniquities  until  the 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W .  WINS 


89 


fulness  come,  that  ye  may  not  bring  down  the  fulness  of  the  wrath  of  God 
upon  you  as  the  inhabitants  of  the  land  have  hitherto  done. 

"Behold,  this  is  a  choice  land,  and  whatsoever  nation  shall  possess  it 
shall  be  free  from  bondage,  and  from  captivity,  and  from  all  other  nations 
under  heaven,  if  they  will  but  serve  the  God  of  the  land,  who  is  Jesus  Christ." 

It  is  sufficient  at  this  time  to  state  that,  notwithstanding  this 
admonition,  and  the  many  manifestations  of  the  power  and  mercy  of  the 
Lord,  which  were  had  .among  them,  the  Jaredites  refused  to  walk  in 
the  way  that  the  Lord  had  marked  out,  went  into  transgression,  and 
finally,  through  war  and  contention,  ceased  to  exist  as  a  nation. 

More  than  one  thousand  years  after  the  Jaredites  were  led  away 
from,  the  tower  of  Babel,  the  Lord  again  brought  a  small  colony  of 
people  from  the  old  world,  this  time  from  Jerusalem,  and  established 
them  in  America,  a  people  known,  and  referred  to  in  the  records  which 
they  kept,  as  the  Nephites. 

To  them  the  Lord  repeated  the  promise  which  he  had  made  to  the 
Jaredites :  He  would  lead  them  to  a  choice  land,  which  should  be 
their  inheritance,  and  great  prosperity  would  attend  them  on  one  con- 
dition, namely,  that  they  should  be  devoted  to  the  God  of  the  land, 
who  is  Jesus  Christ.  The  doctrine  of  the  atonement  was  revealed  to 
them,  and  after  his  resurrection  the  Redeemer  appeared,  and  organized 
his  Church  among  them.  For  two  hundred  years  after  the  organization 
of  the  Church  the  Nephite  people  enjoyed  a  great  degree  of  peace, 
prosperity  and  happiness,  but  like  the  Jaredites  before  them,  they  re- 
fused to  walk  in  the  old  paths,  and  when  the  prophets  whom  the  Lord 
raised  up  warned  them  that  the  road  in  which  they  were  traveling 
would  lead  to'  disaster,  and  that  the  way  of  the  Lord  was  so  plainly 
marked  that  a  wayfarer,  though  a  fool,  need  not  err,  they  said,  We 
will  not  walk  therein.  When  the  watchmen  said,  Hear  the  sound  of 
the  trumpet,  which  calls  you  back  to  the  old  way,  they  said,  We  will 
not  listen.  Disobedience  resulted,  as  it  always  has,  in  loss  of  the  birth- 
right which  the  Lord  had  given  them,  and  the  destruction  of  another 
nation  which  might,  if  obedient,  have  continued  until  the  present. 

MODERN  DISCOVERY  OF  AMERICA 

This  brings  us  to  another  epoch,  or  dispensation,  of  greater  im- 
portance to  us,  to  the  world  at  large,  than  any  which  has  preceded 
it.  Another  period  of  one  thousand  years  had  elapsed.  When  the 
Lord  inspired  Columbus  to  sail  away  from1  Spain,  and  directed  him 
to  the  shores  of  the  New  World,  the  first  step  had  been  taken  in 
the  opening  of  the  greatest  gospel  dispensation  which  the  world  has 
ever  known,  a  dispensation  looked  forward  to  by  the  prophets  of  old, 
in  which  the  Lord  said  that  he  would  consummate  his  work,  and 
prune  his  vineyard  for  the  last  time,  when  the  wheat  was  to  be  garnered, 
and  the  tares  bound  in  bundles,  and  burned. 

By  natural  means,  as  the  Lord  always  operates  for  the  accomplish- 
ment of  his  purposes,  means  so  simple  that  the  thoughtless  and  un- 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


believing  do  not  see  the  manifestation  of  his  power,  he  brought  the 
Puritans  from  the  old  world  to  New  England,  the  Dutch  to  New  York, 
the  English  Cavaliers  to  Virginia  and  the  French  to  New  Orleans, 
a  combination  of  races  which,  paradoxical  as  it  may  appear,  was  just 
calculated  to  give  us  the  composite  America  who  made  the  United 
States  of  America  what  it  is,  the  greatest  nation  of  the  world  today. 

Inspired  men  have  been  raised  up,  who  have  given  us  our  form 
of  government,  and  the  code  of  laws  by  which  we  are  controlled,  the 
best  ever  evolved  by  man,  so  far  as  we  are  able  to  judge.  The  Lord 
has  strengthened  the  arms  of  the  patriots  who  have  defended  us  against 
the  assults  of  all  those  who  have  come  up  against  us,  and  delivered 
us  until  today,  from  those  who  would  have  torn  us  asunder.  Against 
all  opposition,  I  sometimes  think  almost  against  ourselves,  the  Lord 
has  brought  us  to  our  present  condition,  until  this  nation,  like  a  city 
set  on  a  hill,  has  become  the  light  of  the  world. 

ARE  WE  TO  PROFIT  BY  PAST  EXPERIENCES? 

I  have  gone  hastily  over  the  history  of  the  past,  which  brings  us 
to  the  present,  to  us  the  most  important  period  of  the  world's  history, 
because  it  is  our  day,  the  day  in  which  the  conduct  of  world  affairs, 
with  which  we  are  directly  associated  has  been  entrusted  to  us,  when 
we  are  to  prove  whether  or  not  we  are  to  benefit  by  the  experiences  of 
the  past,  avoiding  the  pitfalls  into  which  our  predecessors  have  fallen, 
and  profiting  by  the  markers  which  they  have  placed  along  the  road 
which  leads  to  happiness  and  success,  while  we  avoid  those  which  the 
experience  of  the  past  teach  us  inevitably  lead  to  disappointment  and 
failure. 

ALL  INSTITUTIONS  AND  INTERESTS  DEPENDENT  ON  THE  STABILITY 
OF  GOVERNMENT 

The  welfare  of  the  Church,  and  every  other  interest  and  institution 
of  our  country  is  dependent  upon  the  stability  of  our  civil  government, 
by  which  our  every  interest  is  controled.  There  is  nothing  which  we 
call  our  own,  not  even  our  lives,  which  is  not  subject  to  its  demands. 
However  much  we  may  resist  or  say  we  will  not,  it  compels  sub- 
mission. 

Our  government  can  be  no  better  than  its  citizenship,  since  the 
men  who  frame  and  execute  the  laws  are  chosen  from  among  the  body 
of  the  people,  and  consequetnly  reflect  the  character  of  the  majority 
of  the  electorate. 

IT  IS  TIME  WE  TAKE  NOTE  OF  THE  SIGNBOARDS  OF  HISTORY 

Has  the  time  come  when  it  is  worth  while  that  we  pause  and 
carefully  examine  ourselves,  when  we  should  take  note  of  the  sign 
boards  which  history  has  placed  along  the  road  which  we  are  traveling? 
Is  it  worth  while  to  inquire  whither  this  road  leads?    To  listen  to  the 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


91 


pleadings  of  those  who  have  gone  over  it  before,  and  know  the  death 
traps  which  are  scattered  all  along  the  way,  or  shall  we  go  blindly 
on  ignoring  the  experiences  of  the  past,  until  chaos  shall  come  to  us 
as  it  has  come  to  those  who  have  occupied  this  choice  land  before  ? 

I  have  gone  back  over  the  road  which  leads  to  Babylon  and 
Nineveh,  to  Thebes  and  Memphis,  to  Tyre  and  Sidon,  to  Greece  and 
Rome,  and  all  along  the  way  have  seen  these  words  of  warning  blazed 
in  the  tree-trunks,  and  cut  into  the  face  of  the  rocks — Beware  of  lack 
of  faith  in  a  living  God.  Beware  of  selfishness,  of  personal  ambition, 
of  pride,  of  love  of  power  and  dominion,  of  disregard  for  the  honor 
of  men,  and  the  virtue  of  women,  for  the  end  of  this  road  is  dis- 
appointment and  death. 

I  believe  that  every  soul  present  desires  the  perpetuity  of  our 
government.  It  would  be  a  source  of  sorrow  to  know  that  there  is 
a  person  here  who  is  not  willing  to  give  his  all  that  this  desired  end 
may  be  achieved.  If  this  is  to  be  accomplished  we  must  avoid  the 
road  which  those  who  have  gone  before  have  followed.  I  fear,  as  I 
contemplate  our  present  condition,  that  some  of  the  paths  in  which  we 
are  walking,  if  we  continue  to  follow  them,  will  lead  us  into  the  broad 
road  from  which  few  turn  back,  once  they  have  entered  into  it. 

OUR  NEGLECTS  AND  SERIOUS  TRANSGRESSIONS 

Our  reverence  toward  our  Father  and  God  is  not  manifested  in  our 
lives  as  it  should  be.  Instead  of  honoring  his  holy  name,  as  we  should, 
we  openly  and  unblushingly  profane  it,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that 
he  has  told  us  that  we  should  not  take  his  name  in  vain,  and  that  he 
who  does  so  will  not  be  found  guiltless. 

We  are  told  that  only  the  simple  minded  and  uninformed  believe 
in  or  practice  the  doctrine  of  prayer,  and  this  world-old  command 
of  the  Lord,  this  principle  which  opens  the  gates  of  heaven,  and  brings 
us  into  communion  with  the  Father,  through  his  Only  Begotten  Son, 
has  been  almost  entirely  eliminated  from  the  American  home,  and  is 
no  longer  regarded  as  a  necessary,  or  even  proper  part  of  our  public 
school  system. 

We  loudly  acclaim  our  devotion  to,  and  love  for  American  ideals, 
and  pose  as  patriotic,  law-abiding  citizens,  while  the  very  men  who 
enact  our  laws,  and  are  appointed  to  enforce  them,  too  often  violate 
the  law,  and  the  trust  reposed  in  them,  as  if  they  were  exempt 
from  that  which  they  require  others  to  obey.  Our  trusted  agents  who 
have  the  management  of  our  public  affairs,  too  often  prove  themselves 
to  be  rouges  and  swindlers  by  uniting  with  the  men  whom  they  profess 
to  detect  and  prosecute,  to  rob  us  of  that  which,  they  are  employed  to 
protect. 

Men,  profound  in  their  knowledge  of  the  law,  too  often  use  their 
great  learning,  not  to  uphold  and  magnify  the  law,  but  to  pervert  it, 
and  find  means  by  which  we  may  avoid  its  just  requirements.  Self 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


confessed  criminals,  guilty  of  the  most  heinous  crimes,  premediated  in 
their  execution,  are  turned  loose  upon  defenseless,  law-abiding  com- 
munities, to  continue  their  criminal  practices  upon  those  whom  the 
law  is  designed  to  protect. 

IN  THESE  TRANSGRESSIONS  WE  ARE  TRAVELING  THE  BLAZED 
TRAILS  TO  DEATH 

We  are  rapidly  converting  the  Sabbath  day,  which  should  be 
observed  as  a  day  of  rest  and  devotion,  into  one  of  pleasure,  rather 
than  worship.  Are  we  becoming  lovers  of  pleasure,  rather  than  lovers 
of  God?  If  so,  we  are  traveling  in  one  of  those  blazed  trails  which 
lead  to  death,  rather  than  life. 

GOD  HAS  REVEALED  HIS  WAY;  WILL  WE  WALK  THEREIN? 

I  bear  this  witness :  That  in  the  age  in  which  we  live  the  Lord  has 
again  revealed  himself  to  man.  He  has  again  marked  the  road  in 
which  we  should  walk.  It  is  the  old  way,  and  the  voice  of  the  pro- 
phets of  the  Lord  has  been  heard  calling  upon  the  people  to  walk  in 
it  for  nearly  one  hundred  years.  The  sound  of  the  trumpet  has  been 
heard,  but  men  have  said,  We  will  not  walk  in  the  road  marked  out, 
neither  will  we  listen  to  the  sound  of  the  trumpet  which  calls  us  back 
from  the  broad  road  which  we  are  following. 

GOD'S  PATH,  DECREE  AND  WILL  REVEALED.     WILL  THE  PEOPLE  HEARKEN  ? 

The  decree  of  the  Almighty  regarding  this  land  is  in  force  today, 
as  it  was  in  the  days  of  the  Jaredites,  and  the  Nephites.  It  is  an  ever- 
lasting decree,  and  we,  as  other  peoples  who  have  occupied  this  choice 
land,  must  be  governed  by  it  or  suffer  the  consequence.  Let  me  con- 
clude my  remarks  by  reading  briefly  from  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
This  is  the  scripture  of  the  American  continent,  the  destiny  of  this 
land  is  outlined  in  it  as  in  no  other  book.  The  road,  or  way,  is  plainly 
marked,  no  one  need  err  who  will  follow  the  blazed  trail.  It  is  a 
straight  and  narrow  way,  but  easy  to  follow,  notwithstanding  the 
many  cross  roads  which  intercept  it.  All  of  the  danger  points  have 
been  charted,  and  the  way  of  safety  plainly  shown. 

The  man  who  sealed  up  this  record,  and  through  whom  it  came 
to  us,  said : 

"And  now  I  speak  unto  all  the  ends  of  the  earth — that  if  the  day  cometh 
that  the  power  and  gifts  of  God  shall  be  done  away  among  you,  it  shall  be 
because  of  unbelief. 

"And  wo  be  unto  the  children  of  men  if  this  be  the  case.  *  *  * 
1  exhort  you  to  remember  these  things;  for  the  time  speedily  cometh  that 
ye  shall  know  that  I  lie  not,  for  ye  shall  see  me  at  the  bar  of  God;  And 
the  Lord  God  will  say  unto  you:  Did  I  not  declare  my  words  unto  you, 
which  were  written  by  this  man,  like  as  one  crying  from  the  dead,  yea,  even 
as  one  speaking  out  of  the  dust?  *  *  *  And  God  shall  show  unto  you,  that 
that  which  I  have  written  is  true. 

"And  again  I  would  exhort  you  that  you  would  come  unto  Christ,  and 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


93 


lay  held  upon  every  good  gift,  and  touch  not  the  evil  gift,  nor  the  unclean 
thing.    *    *  * 

"And  now  I  bid  you  all  farewell.  I  soon  go  to  rest  in  the  paradise  of 
God,  until  my  spirit  and  body  shall  again  reunite,  and  I  am  brought  forth 
triumphant  through  the  air,  to  meet  you  before  the  pleasing  bar  of  the  great 
Jehovah,  the  Eternal  Judge  of  both  quick  and  dead.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  suppose  one  could  never  grow  old 
enough,  at  least  I  never  expect  to,  to  get  entirely  over  stage  fright. 
This  is  the  third  day  that  I  have  been  sitting  before  this  congregation, 
not  knowing  at  what  hour  I  might  be  called  upon;  and  when  one  has 
gone  through  that  experience  for  two  or  three  days  the  stage  fright 
becomes  accentuated. 

It  is  recorded  of  Thomas  Carlyle,  who  could  not  do  his  thinking 
if  there  were  any  great  noise  about,  that  he  had  a  neighbor,  a  lady, 
who  kept  some  chickens ;  and  the  crowing  of  the  roosters  was  a 
source  of  annoyance  to  him.  He  sent  a  kind  letter  to  his  neighbor  and 
offered  to  buy  the  chickens  so  that  he  might  kill  them.  She  refused  to 
let  him  have  them,  and  said :  "Besides  I  don't  see  why  they  bother  you. 
The  roosters  crow  only  at  stated  intervals."  He  replied :  "Yes,  madam, 
that  is  true;  but  you  don't  know  what  I  suffer  waiting  for  them  to 
crow." 

I  am  indeed  awed  in  the  presence  of  this  great  multitude.  My 
soul  is  subdued  before  this  wonderful  gathering,  this  splendid  con- 
gregation, composed  of  men  and  women  who  are  among  the  choicest 
of  the  earth.  To  stand  before  you  and  try  to  counsel,  advise,  or 
instruct  is  a  responsibility  which  makes  one  feel  his  own  insignificance. 
Except  I  have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  assist  me,  I  can  be  of  little 
service  in  this  position.  I  pray,  therefore,  for  your  sympathy  and 
faith,  and  for  the  assistance  of  that  same  Spirit  which  has  been  given 
to  the  speakers  of  this  conference  up  to  the  present. 

I  listened  with  deep  interest  to  President  Grant's  report  of  the 
various  activities  and  work  of  the  Church — its  growth  and  all  its  splendid 
affairs  of  which  we  heard  in  the  opening  of  our  conference.  The 
building  of  temples  and  their  maintenance  and  operation  take  a  sub- 
stantial part  of  the  means  of  the  Church.  Here  we  maintain  the  Temple 
and  these  beautiful  grounds.  I  hope  you  will  not  fail  to  walk  around 
this  block  and  see  if  you  can  get  out  of  it  a  thrill  such  as  has  come 
to  me  during  the  last  week,  as  I  have  looked  upon  its  beauty  and  have 
thought  of  the  pleasure  that  it  must  afford  to  the  visitors  within  our 
gates.  All  this  is  kept  up  at  the  expense  of  the  Church,  and  it  costs 
a  good  deal  of  money.  The  free  organ  recitals,  given  every  day 
to  the  strangers — and  to  those  of  our  home  people,  as  well,  who  choose 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  go — are  paid  for  by  the  Church;  as  also  is  the  care  of  the  organ, 
the  upkeep  of  this  building  and  these  grounds,  and  it  all  costs  quite  a 
sum  of  money. 

Then,  there  are  further  expenditures  for  the  building  and  meeting- 
houses, as  the  President  called  to  our  attention,  and  as  Brother  Rushton 
from  Australia  told  us  yesterday.  They  are  spending  considerable 
means  for  this  purpose  down  in  Australia;  and  we  were  also  told 
by  President  Grant  of  large  sums  of  money  being  spent  for  the  building 
of  places  of  worship  in  Sweden,  in  Norway,  in  Rotterdam,  and  in  the 
cities  of  the  eastern  part  of  the  United  States.  President  Roberts 
told  us  of  the  chapels  that  have  been  built  in  Baltimore,  and  at  other 
places  in  his  mission;  and,  indeed,  over  all  the  face  of  the  earth — 
in  practically  all  of  the  civilized  world,  we  may  say — these  activities 
of  the  Church  are  being  conducted,  and  it  takes  a  large,  a  very  large, 
amount  to  carry  them  on. 

Where  does  all  this  money  come  from?  It  is  the  tithes  you  pay, 
and  I  pay,  that  the  people  of  this  Church  contribute  year  by  year.  I 
am  in  a  position  to  announce  to  you,  and  I  feel  it  my  duty  to  do  so, 
that  the  means  you  pay,  the  money  you  contribute  as  tithing,  all  that 
comes  into  the  hands  of  the  Trustee-in-Trust,  is  expended  in  a  judicious, 
wise,  and  righteous  way;  and  only  in  the  interests,  the  best  interests, 
of  the  building  up  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
I  am  in  a  position  to  know  this,  and  I  testify  of  it  to  you  this  morning. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  the  question  I  want  to  put  to  you,  and 
to  myself  also,  is  this :  Have  you  and  I  done  our  share  in  this  respect? 
Are  we  doing  our  full  duty  in  assisting  in  the  building  up  of  this  work? 
Are  we  helping  to  keep  missionaries  in  the  field?  Is  it  our  means  that 
help  to  extend  this  work  in  the  wonderful  way  that  it  is  being  ex- 
tended ?  If  not,  then  this  spiritual  power,  this  force,  has  not  yet  gripped 
you  and  me  sufficiently  to  make  us  know  that  our  duty  is  to  pay  our 
tithes— the  full  amount  the  Lord  requires — and  to  do  it  when  the  means 
come  into  our  hands ;  not  to  wait  until  the  end  of  the  year,  because  then 
we  may  not  have  it.  It  is  true  that  we  are  instructed  to  make  settle- 
ment annually,  paying  one-tenth  of  our  interest,  and  we  should  see 
that  it  is  paid  annually,  and  make  our  settlement  annually ;  but  the 
time  for  us  to  pay  our  tithes  and  to  contribute  to  this  work,  to  help 
it  grow  and  to  be  partakers  in  it,  not  only  in  words,  but  in  deeds  as 
well,  is  when  we  have  the  money  in  our  hands,  when  it  comes  to  us. 
I  know  that  I  was  brought  up  strictly  in  respect  to  this  matter,  for 
my  good  old  mother  did  not  wait  until  she  made  ten  pounds  of  butter 
before  one  pound  of  it  was  paid  to  the  bishop.  We  had  no  money  in 
those  early  days,  but  we  gave  butter,  eggs,  potatoes,  wheat  and  hay — 
all  that  the  earth  produced.  She  did  not  wait  until  she  got  ten  pounds 
before  she  paid  one.  No,  she  paid  it  from  among  the  first,  to  get 
the  tithing  debt  off  her  hands.  If  there  were  a  dozen  eggs,  or  two 
dozen,  or  five  dozen,  the  tithing,  and  a  little  more  than  the  tithing, 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 


95 


went  to  the  bishop  at  once.  So  I  say,  that  this  is  a  good  example  for 
me,  and  a  good  example  for  you.  When  the  means  come  into  our 
hands,  let  us  pay  our  tithing  then  and  not  wait,  perhaps  until  the 
means  have  been  dissipated. 

This  Church,  with  its  varied  activities,  tends  to  build  up  the  com- 
munities in  this  country.  Our  Chamber  of  Commerce,  in  Salt  Lake 
City,  is  asking  for  seventy-five  thousand  dollars  in  donations — what 
for?  To  advertise  Utah.  And  what  is  the  purpose  of  advertising 
Utah?  To  bring  settlers  here  to  make  homes  and  to  build  up  the 
communities.  Well,  that  is  a  good  thing.  I  contribute  to  that,  as  do 
many  of  you  who  live  here.  But  this  Church  has  two  thousand  mis- 
sionaries, or  about  that  number,  in  the  field  all  the  time,  who  are 
preaching  this  gospel,  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  who  are  winning 
souls  to  it.  While  they  do  not  encourage  those  people  to  come  im- 
mediately to  Utah,  or  to  this  country,  yet,  as  soon  as  these  converts  hear 
about  the  Temple  of  the  Lord,  as  soon  as  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  ihe 
spirit  of  this  work  get  into  their  hearts,  the  spirit  of  gathering  is  there, 
and  you  cannot  hold  them  back,  whether  they  are  in  Germany,  or 
Switzerland,  or  Norway,  or  in  the  United  States,  or  wherever  they  are. 
They  want  to  come  to  Zion,  and  our  difficulty  is  to  keep  them  from 
coming  too  quickly.  Now,  if  it  is  a  good  thing  for  the  country  and  for 
the  city  that  we  spend  money  to  bring  people  here,  isn't  this  Church 
one  of  the  best  institutions  for  the  merchant,  for  the  business  man, 
and  for  other  interests?  For  the  people  that  we  bring  here  are  of  a 
class  who  want  to  build  and  own  their  own  homes,  and  who  do  that 
very  thing.  In  a  little  while  they  are  established  on  the  land,  and  they 
make  the  best  of  citizens. 

It  is  safe  to  say  that  the  means  we  spend  every  year  in  beautifying 
this  block  contribute  more  to  the  renown  and  glory  of  Salt  Lake  City 
than  almost  all  the  money  that  is  spent  elsewhere;  and  this  money  is 
contributed  by  you  Latter-day  Saints ;  it  comes  from  your  tithes ;  and 
it  is  good  advertising;  it  is  good  work.  We  should  not  be  ridiculed 
for  it ;  we  should  rather  be  commended  for  it  and  blessed  for  it.  This 
conference  gathering  every  six  months  brings  thousands  of  people  here.  ' 
I  wonder  whether  that  is  not  a  good  thing  for  the  merchants  and  the 
business  interests  of  this  city.  I  wonder  how  these  merchants  would 
like  to  have  our  conferences  suspended  for  a  time.  You  would  hear 
something  other  than  criticism  if  this  were  clone.  You  would  hear  a 
plaint  and  a  wail  go  up ;  so  I  point  out  to  you,  and  to  the  people  of  this 
State,  and  to  our  friends  who  are  not  of  our  faith,  that  the  activities 
in  which  we  are  engaged  make  for  the  building  up  of  the  communities, 
and  are  a  good  business  proposition  in  the  line  of  material  advancement 
and  the  betterment  of  communities,  apart  from  the  spiritual  benefits 
which  we  know  we  receive.  All  this  wealth  of  means  which  you  con- 
tribute to  the  Church  is  expended,  as  I  have  said,  in  the  building  up  of 
the  community.    This  is  truly  American. 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  rejoice  this  morning  with  all  my  heart  that  I  am  a  member  of 
the  Church — this  American  Church  that  owes  no  allegiance  to  any 
foreign  power  or  potentate,  the  only  real  American  Church  worthy  of 
the  name.  It  is  American  through  and  through.  It  was  established  by 
true-blooded  Americans  of  Pilgrim  stock,  the  best  Americans  from 
Vermont,  New  Hampshire,  Massachusetts,  and  the  surrounding  New 
England  states.  Such  men  were  the  founders  of  our  Church.  It  is 
American  in  ideals,  American  in  thought,  American  in  every  activity 
connected  with  it,  American  in  its  desire  to  bless  and  benefit  the  people. 
There  is  not  any  other  church  that  can  claim  anything  like  that.  This 
is  verified  by  the  men  who  sit  here  on  this  stand,  President  Grant, 
-  George  Albert  Smith  and  others,  and  by  those  who  came  before  them — 
President  Ivins,  Elder  Smoot  and  the  Clawsons  and  Whitneys, 
Richards  and  Lymans — all  sons  of  the  American  Revolution  and  leaders 
of  this  people.  They  are  of  the  truest  blooded  American  stock  that  can 
be  found  in  this  nation.  I  would  like  to  have  these  things  pointed  out, 
and  to  let  the  world  know  that  we  are  doing  some  good,  that  we  are 
building  up  the  country,  and  that  the  money  which  comes  in  as  tithes 
is  being  righteously  and  properly  expended  for  the  advancement  of 
the  Kingdom  of  God. 

Again  I  say,  have  I  done  my  share?  Have  you  done  your  share? 
You  alone  can  answer  your  part  of  that  question.  Some  of  us  have 
not.  I  doubt  if  I  have.  We  can  do  a  little  better;  we  can  do  a  little 
more.  We  haven't  done  quite  enough,  for  this  is  a  great  and  good  work. 
Check  up  on  yourselves  and  see  where  you  stand.  This  work  cannot 
be  conducted  merely  by  preaching.  It  takes  means  to  do  all  these 
things  that  the  President  has  pointed  out  and  that  I  am  trying  to  re- 
hearse to  you,  and  there  are  so  many,  many  more,  and  it  takes  means 
to  do  them  all.  The  thought  I  want  to  leave  with  you  is  this:  Have 
we  done  our  full  share?  If  not,  why  can't  we  try  to  do  it?  for  the 
work  is  just  beginning.  In  all  truth,  I  can  say  that  in  its  growth  and 
development  it  has  scarcely  started  yet.  Let  me  read  from  the  Book 
of  Mormon.  In  chapter  14  of  I  Nephi,  which  I  shall  not  take  time 
to  read  through,  there  is  a  reference  to  the  very  hymn  we  sang,  written 
by  Parley  P.  Pratt.  When  you  go  home  read  this  14th  chapter  of 
I  Nephi.  Among  other  things  that  the  angel  of  Lord  showed  unto 
Nephi  was  this : 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I,  Nephi,  beheld  the  power  of  the  Lamb 
of  God,  that  it  descended  upon  the  saints  of  the  Church  of  the  Lamb, 
and  upon  the  covenant  people  of  the  Lord,  who  were  scattered  upon 
all  the  face  of  the  earth;  and  they  were  armed  with  righteousness  and 
with  power  of  God  in  great  glory." 

Scattered  everywhere  is  this  people,  building  churches,  as  has 
been  pointed  out,  in  the  East,  in  the  West,  and  on  the  Islands  of  the 
Sea.  It  means  permanency  for  the  Saints.  There  will  be  branches 
of  the  Church  throughout  the  world.    In  1906  I  had  the  pleasure  of 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 


97 


visiting  the  Old  Country,  in  company  with  our  late  beloved  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith.  In  the  city  of  Bern,  in  Switzerland,  we  held  a 
Priesthood  meeting  one  night,  at  which  the  power  of  God  was  richly 
and  truly  manifest.  President  Serge  F.  Ballif  was  there  and  is  a 
witness  to  what  I  say.  Joseph  F.  Smith  said :  "Not  only  will  we  have 
churches  here,  but  in  this  land  of  Europe  we  will  have  temples  of  the 
Lord  built  here  and  there,  all  over  the  land."  That  was  his  prediction. 
I  believe  it.  I  believe  in  this  vision  of  Nephi ;  that  he  saw  our  people 
scattered  in  small  communities  all  over  the  face  of  the  earth.  The 
Church  of  God  is  permanent.  We  must  build  these  churches.  I  have, 
said  all  along  that  this  Church  can  spend  its  money  to  no  better  ad- 
vantage than  in  building  meeting-houses  in  which  the  people  may  gather 
together  and  worship,  for  this  establishes  the  Church  and  lends  per- 
manency to  its  operations. 

I  see  that  my  time  has  expired.  The  Lord  bless  you,  brethren 
and  sisters,  bless  this  work,  bless  his  servants,  and  may  we  open  our 
hearts  and  say  in  our  heart  of  hearts,  in  our  very  soul:  "Yes,  I  will 
do  my  share,  my  full  share.  I  must  not  miss  the  opportunity.  This 
work  is  too  good,  it  is  too  great.  The  Lord  has  made  me  a  partaker 
of  it,  and  now  shall  I  be  miserly  and  withhold  my  assistance?" 

I  think  it  is  Brother  Golden  Kimball  who  tells  the  story  of  his 
father's  owning  a  beautiful  horse.  Tithing  was  paid  with  horses, 
cattle,  sheep,  and  everything  obtainable  in  those  days.  The  hcrse 
Brother  Kimball  had  was  a  very  fine  one,  and  he  said  to  the  boys : 
"I  believe  I  will  turn  that  horse  in  for  tithing ;  pay  it  to  Bishop  Hunter." 
The  next  morning  one  of  the  boys  paraded  the  beautiful  animal  around 
and  wanted  to  keep  it,  but  President  Kimball  said:  "See  here,  ycu 
take  that  horse  right  down  and  pay  it  in  for  tithing,  before  my  heart 
puckers  up." 

Now  let  us  do  our  share  willingly  and  loyally,  before  our  hearts 
pucker  up.    God  bless  you.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

President  Charles  W.  Penrose  is  hearing  everything  that  is  going 
on  here  this  morning,  a  radio  having  been  installed  in  his  room,  and 
he  is  thoroughly  enjoying  the  morning  service. 

Brother  David  O.  McKay,  in  Europe,  is  well  and  happy  but 
slightly  disappointed  that  he  is  soon  to  return  home.  He  is  thor- 
oughly enjoying  his  missionary  work,  and  I  am  sure  that  he  would 
really  like  to  remain  there  until  Spring. 

You  have  probably  heard  of  the  great  Columbia  Basin  Irrigation 
Project,  the  largest  contemplated  by  the  United  States,  up  to  date. 
Brother  Richard  R.  Lyman  has  been  requested,  by  the  government 
officials,  to  be  present  there  as  one  of  the  consulting  engineers,  hence 
his  absence  from  this  conference.   He  wrote  that  he  would  get  excused, 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


if  possible,  but  we  wired  him  that  we  did  not  care  to  disappoint  his 
associates,  and  that  he  was  at  liberty  to  remain.  He  is  with  us  today 
in  spirit,  and  it  is  a  source  of  sincere  regret  to  him  that  he  is  not 
present. 

One  of  the  most  remarkable  and  splendid  hymns  that  we  have  is 

this : 

"School  thy  feelings,  O  my  brother, 
Train  thy  warm  impulsive  soul." 

This  hymn  was  written  by  President  Charles  W.  Penrose,  at  a 
time  when  he  was  falsely  accused  by  his  brethren,  after  laboring  in  the 
British  mission  for  ten  long-  years  without  purse  or  scrip.  Upon 
completing  his  mision,  as  I  understand  it,  and  when  he  was  about  to 
go  home,  these  false  reports  or  accusations  were  made  against  him,  and, 
as  he  has  told  me,  the  Lord  gave  to  him  that  night,  for  his  own 
consolation,  the  thoughts  of  this  very  wonderful  poem.  I  shall  not 
take  time  to  read,  or  for  us  to  sing,  the  entire  hymn,  but  I  will  ask 
the  choir  and  congregation  to  arise  and  sing  the  first  verse ;  and  when 
you  go  home  be  sure  and  read  it  all.  lie  sure  and  get  it  into  your 
hearts.  Be  sure  and  make  it  a  part  of  your  lives,  and  this  conference 
will  not  have  been  in  vain,  even  if  you  have  heard  nothing'  else  or 
received  no  other  lesson  here.  It  was  the  favorite  hymn  of  President 
Francis  M.  Lyman,  and  he  lived  his  life  in  perfect  accord  with  the 
teachings  of  his  favorite  hymn : 

School  thy  feelings,  O  my  brother, 

Train  thy  warm,  impulsive  soul; 
Do  not  its  emotions  smother, 

But  let  wisdom's  voice  control. 

School  thy  feelings;  there  is  power 

In  the  cool,  collected  mind; 
Passion  shatters  reason's  tower, 

Makes  the  clearest  vision  blind. 

School  thy  feelings ;  condemnation 

Never  pass  on  friend  or  foe, 
Though  the  tide  of  accusation 

Like  a  flood  of  truth  may  flow. 

Hear  defense  before  deciding, 

And  a  ray  of  light  may  gleam, 
Showing  thee  what  filth  is  hiding 

Underneath  the  shallow  stream. 

Should  affliction's  acrid  vial 

Burst  o'er  thy  unsheltered  head, 
School  thy  feelings  to  the  trial, 

Half  its  bitterness  hath  fled. 

Art  thou  falsely,  basely  slandered? 

Does  the  world  hegin  to  frown? 
Gauge  thy  wrath  by  wisdom's  standard, 

Keep  thy  rising  anger  down. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


99 


Rest  thyself  on  this  assurance: 

Time's  a  friend  to  innocence. 
And  that  patient,  calm  endurance 

Wins  respect  and  aids  defense. 

Noblest  minds  have  finest  feelings 

Quiv'ring  strings  a  breath  can  move, 
And  the  Gospel's  sweet  revealings 

Tune  them  with  the  key  of  love. 

Hearts  so  sensitively  moulded, 

Strongly  fortified  should  be, 
Trained  to  firmness,  and  enfolded 

In  a  calm  tranquility. 

Wound  not  wilfully  another; 

Conquer  haste  with  reason's  might; 
School  thy  feelings,  sister,  brother, 

Train  them  in  the  path  cf  right. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "School  thy  feelings,  O  my 
brother." 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

"For  he  taught  them  as  one  having  authority  and  not  as  the 
scribes." 

THE  WORDS  OF  THE  BRETHREN 1  RING  TRUE 

I  have  listened  with  great  interest  to  the  remarks  that  have  been 
made  by  my  brethren  at  the  various  sessions  of  this  conference.  I 
know  that  their  words  have  rung  true,  that  they  have  been  accom- 
panied with  power,  with  authority,  that  they  have  penetrated  the  hearts 
of  the  people,  and  that  we  have  gone  from  this  building  at  the  close 
of  each  service  rejoicing,  and  bearing  witness,  one  to  another,  that 
the  truth  has  been  declared;  and,  I  believe,  with  the  determination  of 
making  it  more  thoroughly  a  part  of  our  lives  when  we  depart  from 
this  conference.  Truly  we  have  heard  the  word  of  the  Lord,  and  it 
has  been  spoken  in  power.  The  counsel,  the  advice,  the  instruction 
have  been  given  unto  us  in  authority.  There  has  been  no  discordant 
note,  no  uncertain  sound,  but  everything  that  has  been  said  has  been 
said  with  the  conviction  of  the  truth,  and  we  rejoice. 

THE  TRUTH  GROWS  BRIGHTER  WITH  USE 

Yet  nothing  has  been  said  that  is  new.  There  has  been  no  new 
revelation,  no  presentation  of  something  that  we  did  not  understand, 
nothing  that  we  have  not  previously  been  taught,  and  which  had 
previously  found  a  place  in  our  hearts,  for  the  truth  endures  forever. 
It  is  always  new,  it  grows  brighter  with  use.  We  love  it  the  more 
we  come  in  contact  with  it,  which  is  not  the  case  with  falsehood. 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


In  one  of  the  revelations  given  in  the  early  days  of  the  Church, 
the  Lord  said,  speaking  of  one  of  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel ;  that 
he  revealed  "a  new  and  an  everlasting  covenant,  even  that  which  was 
from  the  beginning."  Those  words  are  very  significant.  It  is  new 
because  truth  does  not  grow  old,  and  yet  was  from  the  beginning,  and 
hence  must  endure  through  all  time,  and  through  eternity;  for  that 
which  is  true  must  remain. 

COMMOTION  AND  UNREST  IN  THE  WORLD 

Throughout  the  world  today,  as  we  have  already  been  informed  by 
a  number  of  the  speakers,  there  is  commotion  and  a  spirit  of  unrest  ; 
and  the  people,  many  of  them,  feel  that  it  is  something  to  their  credit 
to  hold  radical  views,  to  consider  themselves  to  be  progressive,  and 
to  make  attack  upon  things  that  have  stood  land  have  endured  through- 
out the  ages.  This  tendency  is  not  alone  found  in  the  political  world. 
It  is  found  in  the  world  of  education,  of  religion,  of  government,  of 
business  and  everywhere.  Men  are  departing  from  the  well-worn  paths, 
no  matter  how  good  they  are,  and  feel  that  conservatism,  is  a  reproach ; 
that  it  is  the  duty  of  man  to  do  away  with  that  which  is  old,  or  which 
has  been  established,  and  find  something  that  is  new.  We  stand  prac- 
tically alone  in  the  world,  yes,  absolutely  alone  in  the  world,  represent- 
ing the  truth  of  the  living  God,  declaring  to  all  men  the  principles  of 
eternal  truth  which  do  not  change.  The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  not 
new  in  the  sense  in  which  the  world  looks  upon  things  as  being  new, 
for  it  has  endured  through  the  ages,  not  merely  since  the  days  of  the 
advent  of  the  Son  of  God,  but  from  the  beginning  of  the  world,  for 
the  plan  of  salvation  was  prepared  for  the  benefit  of  man,  and  declared 
unto  him  in  the  beginning.  These  principles  do  not  change,  they  can- 
not change,  they  must  endure  immutably  through  all  time. 

The  Christian  world  may  be  divided  into  two  camps,  one  bitterly 
opposing  the  other ;  one  calling  itself  the  progressive  or  modernist 
division,  the  other  calling  itself  the  fundamentalist  division.  They 
may  think  they  are  founded  upon  the  truth  of  the  gospel  as  it  has  been 
established.  But  we  stand  for  the  revelations  of  God  as  they  have  been 
revealed  in  this  dispensation,  known  as  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness 
of  times,  unchangeable,  immutable,  enduring  forever,  because  they 
are  eternal. 

AN  ABIDING  KNOWLEDGE  OF  CHRIST  BRINGS  PEACE 

If  there  is  any  one  thing  that  brings  joy  and  peace  and  satisfac- 
tion to  the  heart  of  man,  beyond  anything  else  that  I  know  of,  it  is 
the  abiding  testimony  which  I  have,  and  which  you  have,  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  Son  of  God.  That  is  a  truth  that  cannot  be  changed. 
Men  may  attack  it ;  they  may  ridicule  it ;  they  may  declare  that  he  is 
not  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  that  his  mission  was  not  true,  or  that 
its  purpose,  through  the  shedding  of  his  blood,  was  not  to  grant  unto 
all  men  the  remission  of  sins  on  condition  of  their  repentance.  They 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


101 


may  refuse  to  be'.ieve  in  the  resurrection  from  the  dead,  or  even  that 
Christ  himself  came  forth,  as  the  Scriptures  declare,  after  he  had 
been  put  to  death  by  his  enemies ;  nevertheless  the  truth  remains.  He 
did  die  for  the  sins  of  the  world,  he  did  bring  to  pass  redemption  from 
death,  he  did  grant  unto  men  the  opportunity  of  repentance,  and  re- 
mission of  sins  through  their  belief  and  acceptance  of  the  principles 
of  the  gospel,  and  of  his  mission.  These  truths  are  fundamental,  they 
shall  endure ;  they  cannot  be  destroyed  no  matter  what  men  may  say 
or  think.  Furthermore,  the  mission  of  Jesus  Christ  teaches  us  that 
there  was  a  time  when  man  departed  from  the  truth,  when  transgression 
came  into  the  world,  and  man,  through  his  agency  sinned,  or  violated 
a  law,  which  brought  death  upon  the  world.  For  Christ  came  to  atone 
for  sin,  to  bring  again  the  restitution  of  life,  of  peace,  of  happiness, 
through  the  things  which  he  suffered.  Now  anything  which  is  con- 
trary to  that  is  not  true. 

THE  ATONEMENT  OF  CHRIST  FUNDAMENTAL 

I  bear  witness  to  that  which  was  said  by  President  Grant  at  the 
opening  session  of  this  conference,  that  there  is  no  place  in  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  for  the  man  who  does  not  accept, 
without  reservation,  the  atonement  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  who  does 
not  believe  that  his  mission  in  this  world  was  to  redeem,  to  restore,  to 
grant  again  unto  man  the  privilege,  through  his  faith,  through  his 
repentance,  and  his  worthiness,  the  opportunity  of  coming  back  again 
into  the  presence  of  God  the  Father  and  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ.  If 
there  are  within  the  Church  those  who  have  these  so-called  modernist 
tendencies,  who  deny  the  miracles  of  Christ,  the  miracles  of  the  scrip- 
tures, the  doctrines  known  as  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  who  cannot 
accept  him  as  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  then  they  should  repent  of 
their  sins,  for  it  is  within  the  power,  and  it  is  the  privilege  of  each 
individual  member  of  this  Church  to  know  the  truth  for  himself, 
through  the  gift  and  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  There  need  be 
no  doubt,  no  uncertainty,  in  regard  to  this  matter.  The  Lord  has 
taught  us  these  principles  in  modern  revelation.  He  declared  them 
while  in  his  ministry  upon  the  earth. 

JESUS  DECLARED  HIMSELF  TO  BE  THE  SONT  OF  GOD 

I  know  that  there  are  those  who  make  the  statement  that  Christ 
did  not  declare  himself  to  be  the  Son  of  God  during  his  ministry. 
To  the  contrary,  that  was  the  claim  he  made  from  the  beginning 
of  his  ministry,  and  which  has  been  repeated  in  the  revelations  that 
have  come  unto  us  in  this  dispensation,  one  of  which  I  shall  read : 

"Hearken  and  listen  to  the  voice  of  him  who  is  from  all  eternity  to  all 
eternity,  the  Great  I  Am,  even  Jesus  Christ — 

"The  light  and  the  life  of  the  world ;  a  light  which  shineth  in  darkness  and 
the  darkness  comprehendeth  it  not; 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"The  same  which  came  in  the  meridian  of  time  unto  mine  own,  and  mine 
own  received  me  not; 

"But  to  as  many  as  received  me,  gave  I  power  to  become  my  sons;  and  even 
so  will  I  give  unto  as  many  as  will  receive  me,  power  to  become  my  sons. 

"And  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  he  that  receiveth  my  gospel  receiveth 
me ;  and  he  that  receiveth  not  my  gospel  receiveth  not  me. 

"And  this  is  my  gospel — repentance  and  baptism  by  water,  and  then  cometb 
the  baptism  of  fire  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  even  the  Comforter,  which  showetli 
all  things,  and  teacheth  the  peaceable  things  of  the  kingdom." 

TESTIMONY  THAT  JESUS  IS  THE  CHRIST,  THE  SON  OF  GOD 

Those  words  are  true,  absolutely  true.  I  bear  witness  of  this  fact 
because  I  know  it ;  you  know  it ;  and  so  we  stand  firmly  planted  on 
the  rock  of  truth,  bearing  witness  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of 
the  living  God,  and  that  through  him  comes  redemption  from  death, 
which  passes  upon  all  men  irrespective  of  their  belief  or  their  unbelief, 
their  acceptance  or  their  rejection  of  his  mission,  and  also  through 
him  comes  redemption  to  man  from  sin  on  condition  of  his  repentance, 
and  endurance  to  the  end. 

May  we  be  faithful  and  true  in  the  discharge  of  every  duty  and  to 
the  truth  which  God  has  revealed  unto  us,  and  endure  in  righteousness 
to  the  end,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  failed  to  mention  in  my  opening  address  that  the  following 
presidents  of  stakes  have  been  appointed  during  the  past  six  months: 
James  A.  Christensen,  North  Sevier  stake. 
Harry  L.  Payne,  St.  Joseph  stake. 
Albert  H.  Belliston,  Juab  stake. 

I  also  forgot  to  mention  the  fact  that  we  have  established,  since 
our  last  conference,  a  French  mission  with  Russell  H.  Blood  as  the 
president.  I  take  it  for  granted  that  he  is  a  son  of  ITenry  TT.  Blood-  - 
I  do  not  know  it,  but  his  signature  resembles  Henry's  writing. 

I  also  failed  to  mention  that  we  now  have  a  total  of  ward  ;,  stakes, 
missions,  conferences  and  branches,  of  1,959,  or  41  lacking  of  2,000. 

Announcements  were  made  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant  that 
the  Sunday  School  Union  would  hold  their  semi-annual  conference 
in  the  Tabernacle  this  evening  at  7  o'clock ;  also  that  a  special  Priest- 
hood meeting  would  be  held  on  .Monday  morning  at  10  o'clock  in  the 
Assembly  Hall. 

An  anthem,  "The  Almighty,"  was  sung  by  Jessie  Williams  and 
the  choir. 

Elder  George  A.  Little,  president  of  the  Oquirrh  stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer,  and  the  conference  adjourned  until  2  p.  m. 


FIRST  OVERFLOW  MEETING 


An  overflow  meeting  of  the  conference  was  held  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall  at  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  Sunday,  October  5,  1924. 

Elder  John  M.  Knight,  president  of  the  Western  States  mission, 
presided. 

Music  and  singing  were  furnished  by  the  Seventeenth  ward  choir, 
of  the  Salt  Lake  stake  of  Zion,  Hyrum  J.  Christensen,  chorister  ;  Tracy 
Y.  Cannon,  organist. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  David  R.  Lyon,  bishop  of  the  Ensign 
ward,  Ensign  stake. 

The  choir  sang,  "He  died,  the  great  Redeemer  died." 

ELDER  JOHN  Q.  ADAMS 

Former  President  of  the  Samoan  Mission 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  if  I  display  just  a  little  unusual 
nervousness  this  morning,  it  is  due  to  a  combination  of  circumstances 
over  which  I  possibly  have  no  control.  I  have  yet  to  meet  with  the 
individual  who  f  eels  as  much  at  home  here  in  this  position  as  he  does 
in  his  own  home.  Also  in  eight  and  a-half  years  of  missionary  expe- 
rience in  the  Islands,  I  had  three  opportunities  of  addressing  an  audi- 
ence in  my  own  language.  Then,  coming  to  this  meeting,  we  had  the 
sad  duty  of  bearing  a  half-dead  lady  to  St.  Mark's  hospital,  and  left 
one  gentleman  with  the  spark  of  life  just  flickering  between  this  world 
and  the  next,  the  result  of  an  accident  when  a  large  car  went  into  the 
ditch.  Imagine  the  condition  of  a  person  in  this  frame  of  mind,  who 
has  these  conflicting  emotions. 

I  have  one  thought  and  hope  and  desire  in  my  mind,  and  that  is 
that  I  may  still  retain  a  sufficient  portion  of  the  Spirit  of  God  that 
what  few  moments  I  shall  occupy,  and  what  few  words  I  express, 
I  may  leave  you  a  testimony  that  I  know  that  above  all  things  and 
beyond  all  things  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  its  accompanying 
spirit  supersedes  everything  in  the  world.  In  order  that  I  should  feel 
entirely  at  home  now,  I  should  desire  that  this  house  should  be  trans- 
ferred into  a  Samoan  house — for  that  is  where  I  spent  the  eight  best 
years  of  my  life — with  you  sitting  on  the  floor;  that  before  each  one 
of  you  should  be  a  Bible,  a  Book  of  Mormon,  and  Songs  of  Zion,  in 
the  native  tongue,  after  the  order  of  a  mounted  piece  of  artillery.  If 
I  should  refer  to  a  passage  of  Scripture,  you  would  not  give  me  time 
to  find  that  in  my  own  Bible,  but  the  first  person  to  find  it  would 
read  it  for  me.  The  people  always  have  the  Word  of  God  at  their 
fingers'  tips.    In  the  fractional  part  of  a  second  the  audience  can  find 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


any  passage  of  scripture  in  the  Bible.  It  is  not  often  that  we  can  find 
cobwebs  upon  the  books  that  we  have  down  there,  for  people  are 
using  them  all  the  time. 

I  do  not  know  that  I  should  refer  to  any  statistics  this  morning, 
or  give  you  any  report  that  bears  very  much  on  figures ;  those  things  we 
get  enough  of  in  the  daily  walks  of  life.  But  the  mission  is  pro- 
gressing under  the  able  direction  of  President  Butler.  If  I  could  bring 
to  you  the  spirit  of  the  mission  field,  so  that  you  can  feel  the  spirit  that 
your  sons  and  daughters  possess  who  have  gone  out  from  your  roofs 
to  take  the  gospel  out,  I  shoidd  feel  satisfied  with  my  effort.  They 
are  probably  gathered  together  at  this  hour  in  conference.  I  am  won- 
dering if  you  know  the  conditions  of  those  people  attending  their  con- 
ference session  today.  The  way  you  came  here,  there  were  hardly 
any  of  you  who  did  not  come  thirty  miles  an  hour  in  an  automobile 
or  on  the  interurban,  overflowing  with  convenience  and  comfort ;  but 
possibly  half  the  congregation  there  will  have  walked  between  75  and 
100  miles  to  attend  conference,  on  the  largest  island  of  the  group. 
They  take  a  couple  of  baskets  woven  from  the  leaf  of  the  cocoanut 
tree ;  in  those  baskets  are  their  clothes  for  conference,  possibly  a  little 
food — because  some  of  those  lava  stretches  are  30  or  40  miles  in  extent, 
with  no  houses  or  drinking  water.  In  tramping  over  those  rough  lava 
trails  for  three  or  four  days,  carrying  their  clothing,  books,  etc.,  they 
reach  conference,  and  when  they  reach  conference  they  feel  in  their 
hearts  that  they  have  come  for  something,  and  after  they  have  left 
conference,  they  feel  they  have  attained  that  objective,  and  back  they 
go  over  those  rough  trails  to  their  homes,  carrying  the  spirit  of  the 
gospel;  partaking  of  the  influence  of  the  gospel,  having  been  fed  the 
bread  of  life,  and  all  keyed  up  and  prepared  to  run  another  six  months. 

You  and  I,  with  all  of  these  modern  conveniences  and  luxuries, 
possibly  get  a  little  careless,  and  do  not  realize  and  appreciate  what 
God  has  given  us.  I  think  we  hardly  appreciate  the  gospel  as  our 
own  people  out  in  the  world  do.  It  is  not  a  difficult  matter  there  for 
us  to  get  90%,  of  our  3,000  membership  in  the  Samoan  mission,  to 
attend  to  their  duties.  If  we  do  not  have  well  up  toward  90%  in 
attendance  at  Priesthood  or  Relief  Society  meetings,  or  other  auxiliary 
organizations,  and  Sabbath  meetings  and  Sunday  schools,  we  feel  that 
we  are  slipping;  we  begin  to  look  at  what  is  wrong — if  it  is  with  us  or 
with  them.  Here  we  do  not  find  the  percentage  nearly  so  large.  I 
want  to  bear  you  my  testimony  that  the  more  we  do  in  this  Church, 
and  the  greater  the  inconveniences  that  God  puts  us  to,  the  more  we 
appreciate  it  in  the  end.  It  is  not  the  young  man  who  is  left  a  legacy 
of  a  million  dollars  who  appreciates  the  meaning  of  that;  it  is  his  father, 
who  accumulated  that  fortune  by  the  sweat  of  his  brow.  And  just  so 
it  is  in  a  spiritual  way.  You  and  I  will  have  to  get  in  and  work,  before 
we  get  a  full  appreciation  of  what  the  gospel  means. 

The  thought  strikes  me  that  I  should  read  a  little  clipping  this 
morning,  that  I  think  is  almost  prophetic.    When  we  left  for  the 


ELDER  JOHN  Q.  ADAMS  105 

mission  field  five  years  ago,  this  had  just  been  published  in  one  of 
the  newspapers.  One  of  the  most  noted  correspondents,  William  T. 
Ellis,  received  an  assignment  from  some  big  newspaper  syndicate  to 
go  to  the  Near  East  and  ascertain  the  conditions  that  obtained  there 
at  the  completion  of  the  War.  He  met  with  all  the  notables  in  a  military 
and  governmental  way,  and  these  few  paragraphs  are  what  he  has  writ- 
ten with  reference  to  that : 

"It  was  but  a  few  clays  ago  that  the  sultan  of  Turkey,  himself  the  accepted 
spiritual  head  of  200,000,000  Moslems  throughout  the  world,  told  me  of  his 
yearning  for  a  prophet  to  come  from  God  to  lead  aright  the  stumbling  feet  of 
the  world.  In  this  he  was  but  one  of  a  dozen  with  whom  I  have  conversed 
since  leaving  New  York  harbor — a  much  decorated  British  general  in  a  high 
administrative  post  confessing  himself  baffled  unless  there  shall  arise  a  great 
spiritual  leader  for  the  race ;  Venizelos,  the  one  man  who  is  Greece's  greatest 
asset,  speaking  wistfully  of  a  spiritual  rebirth;  another,  a  romantic  figure  from 
the  desert,  a  hero  and  a  champion,  talking  not  of  battles,  but  of  whence  and  how 
we  may  expect  a  new  interpreter  of  the  Eternal ;  another  a  powerful  and  wealthy 
business  man  with  whom  I  dined  in  Paris,  freely  declaring  that  the  social  tangle 
of  the  times  cannot  be  unraveled  unless  there  shall  come  a  clear  Voice  calling  to 
the  spirits  of  men,  'This  is  the  way,  walk  ye  in  it;'  others,  American  officers  in 
France,  ripened  by  their  own  great  deeds  musing  upon  the  possibility  of  a 
Personality  who  may  merge  the  distracted  and  divergent  minds  of  men  into 
one  common  purpose  of  good  will ;  still  another  himself  a  soldier  saint,  troubled 
in  soul,  because  in  his  America  there  had  arisen  no  great  spiritual  leader  to  call 
in  prophet  tones  the  nation  back  to  God." 

Never  heard  of  Joseph  Smith,  I  presume ;  had  never  heard  that 
there  are  prophets  in  this  day  and  age,  as  once  on  a  time ! 

"It  would  be  less  than  honest  journalism,  did  I  fail  to  report  that  amid 
the  welter  and  turbulence  and  discordance  of  world  politics  which  is  my  pres- 
ent assignment,  I  find  among  thoughtful  men  of  every  creed  and  country  a 
decided  note  of  spiritual  wistfulness  and  expectancy.  We  are  too  serious  now 
for  the  mercenary  and  mechanical  methods  of  a  noisy  evangelist,  uttering 
only  safe  and  remunerative  sensationalism ;  we  want  a  man  from  some  P'atmos 
who  can  say,  'Thus  saith  the  Lord.' " 

W onderful !  Nothing  more  prophetic  within  the  lids  of  the  P>ible 
than  what  was  uttered  by  that  man,  in  ascertaining  the  ideas,  hopes, 
and  aims,  and  ideals  of  the  grelat  thinking  men  of  the  world  at  the 
present  time ;  conversed  with  the  Sultan  of  Turkey ;  conversed  with 
men  high  in  government  circles  in  different  nations  of  Europe,  and 
high  in  different  walks  of  life  in  other  avenues,  and  came  to  this  con- 
clusion: that  unless  a  man  comes  who  can  say,  "Thus  saith  the  Lord," 
we  will  still  be  groping  in  the  darkness ! 

We  Have  such  a  man,  we  have  such  an  office,  such  power,  and 
such  authority.  We  have  one  who  is  able  to  say,  "Thus  saith  the  Lord." 
The  proposition  before  the  small,  limited  force  of  missionaries  in  this 
age  is  to  get  that  message  before  the  people.  In  doing  so,  various  expe- 
riences come  to  them.  It  is  a  difficult  task.  You  recollect  that  the 
Savior — Deity  himself — dwelling  upon  the  earth  here  in  the  flesh, 
ministering  for  something  like  three  years  among  the  children  of  men, 
only  succeeded  in  bringing  to  the  light  a  few  in  number.    The  vast, 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


untold  millions  did  not  hearken  to  his  message.  And  so  it  is  in  this 
dispensation. 

But  those  whom  the  gospel  reaches  are  transformed,  in  some 
fashion,  so  that  the  world  recognizes  there  is  a  difference.  They  can 
tell  a  "Mormon"  boy  and  girl  in  the  Samoan  Islands  las  far  as  they  can 
see  them,  we  are  told.  One  fine  evening,  seventeen  years  ago,  a  group 
of  "Mormon"  boys  and  girls  from  our  school  village,  at  Mapu  Saga, 
with  President  William  A.  Moody  leading,  went  into  the  harbor  of 
Pago  Pago  in  a  row  boat.  Tied  to  the  wharf  of  the  American  Naval 
Station,  there  lay  a  United  States  gunboat.  President  Moody  was 
struck  with  the  spirit  of  inspiration  and  said  to  the  boys  and  girls, 
"When  we  get  under  the  stern  of  this  vessel,  begin  singing  the  song, 
'One  day  nearer  home,'  and  we  will  see  what  effect  it  has."  As  these 
boys'  and  girls'  voices  rang  out  over  the  placid  wlaters  of  the  harbor, 
officers  and  men  came  to  the  rail  of  their  vessel  and  peered  down. 
They  ascertained  that  it  was  the  "Mormon"  boys  and  girls  coming 
down  from  our  school  village  up  the  coast.  We  had  scarcely  reached 
our  conference  headqularters  at  the  head  of  the  harbor  when  a  man 
from  the  ship,  sent  by  its  captain,  who  is  usually  a  man  high  in  Amer- 
ican naval  circles,  came  and  said,  "Will  you  see  that  these  boys  and 
girls  come  on  our  ship  and  sing  tomorrow?"  We  had  seventy-five 
boys  and  girls  who  were  walking  down  the  coast,  in  addition  to  the 
rest,  and  we  seized  that  opportunity,  and  President  Moody  and  others 
of  us  were  taken  into  the  officers'  quarters  and  dined  with  them  as 
the  boys  and  girls  gave  a  program  in  English.  Without  exception  they 
were  clean  and  pure,  externally  and  internally,  and  the  effect  upon  those 
men  was  almost  electrical.  And  numbers  of  those  men,  who  remain 
three  and  four  years,  time  and  again  bore  testimony  in  this  fashion, 
"We  don't  know  your  boys'  and  girls'  names,  but  as  far  as  we  can  see 
the  faces  of  those  boys  and  girls  we  know  that  they  are  'Mormons.' 
Their  faces  fairly  shine  with  a  different  sort  of  intellectual  expression." 

What  effect  does  this  gospel  have  upon  people,  when  we  purify 
ourselves,  when  we  strive  like  the  Saints  out  in  the  world?  There 
is  a  wonderful  transformation  comes  over  them.  We  have  in  the 
Hawaiian  Islands,  where  Brother  E.  Wesley  Smith  labored,  a  colony  of 
Samoan  Saints,  numbering  more  than  sixty.  By  the  way.  Brother 
Smith  and  I,  although  I  feel  that  we  have  always  known  each  other, 
never  met  until  a  short  time  ago ;  nor  Brother  Knight  and  I.  We 
were  laboring  out  in  the  mission  field  and  became  acquainted  through 
correspondence.  In  the  Hawaiian  mission  field  now,  there  is  a  man 
from  Samoa,  with  his  wife  and  seven  children.  Upon  the  completion 
of  the  temple  at  Laie,  our  people  seemed  to  be  seized  with  an  intense 
desire  to  accumulate  enough  of  this  world's  goods  to  go  to  the  temple, 
and  we  called  some  of  our  men  and  women  there.  We  said  to  this 
man,  Aulelio,  "It  is  2,500  miles,  which  is  a  long  ways  off,  but  if  you 
can  secure  enough  to  go  there,  go  and  take  your  wife,  and  go  as  soon 
as  you  desire.    This  man  had  labored  as  a  missionary  for  twenty 


ELDER  JOHN  Q.  ADAMS 


107 


years,  without  pay,  something  that  people  of  the  world  cannot  realize 
or  appreciate.  Of  course,  he  could  not  accumulate  much,  but  through 
the  blessings  of  God,  he  was  able  to  sell  his  home  and  sell  his  rolls  of 
matting  that  he  used  for  chairs  and  bedding,  and  everything  in  the 
world  they  owned,  four  or  five  head  of  cattle,  and  ducks  and  chickens, 
and  managed  to  scrape  together  $600  or  $700,  took  the  entire  amount 
to  buy  their  passage,  and  they  are  now  in  Laie,  working  for  the  salva- 
tion of  the  vast  numbers  of  Samoans  who  have  preceded  them  to  the 
other  side  of  the  veil.  Would  you  and  1  do  that?  Until  the  time 
comes  that  we  would,  we  will  never  be  in  the  position  of  the  Saints  of 
the  world.  It  is  a  difficult  thing  for  me,  twelve  miles  north,  to  come 
here  and  do  work  in  the  temple.  But  if  we  had  to  travel  2,500  miles, 
and  sell  all  that  we  have  in  the  world,  so  that  when  we  returned  home 
we  would  have  no  roof  over  our  heads,  no  worldly  possessions  what- 
ever, as  if  we  were  just  born  into  the  world,  but  our  faith  so  ripened 
and  we  should  know  God  so  thoroughly — if  we  were  in  possession  of 
that  spirit,  then  we  should  be  in  the  position  that  these  people  are.  Do 
not  wonder  why  90%  attend  their  duties  ;  do  not  wonder  why,  when 
the  elders  return  from  the  mission  field,  they  have  a  little  different 
spirit  than  before  they  went,  or  after  they  have  been  home  a  few 
months. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  in  conclusion  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  one  true  system  through  which  you  and  I  shall  or  may 
attain  to  perfection,  or  at  least  as  near  to  it  as  our  heavenly  Father 
demands  of  us,  because  he  has  said  that  we  should  be  perfect  as  he  is 
perfect.  It  is  the  only  medium  through  which  we  can  attain  to  ever- 
lasting happiness. 

I  shall  refer  you,  last,  to  a  gentleman  who  went  out  to  the  South 
Sea  Islands  on  board  a  pleasure  yacht  two  years  ago,  just  to  show  you 
what  the  conception  of  the  world  is  of  "Mormonism."  This  gentle- 
man is  a  man  who  has  made  millions  in  the  steel  industry,  who  at  the 
conclusion  of  his  life,  in  that  avenue,  has  gone  down  to  California  and 
spends  the  winters  cruising  out  on  his  own  yacht  in  the  south  Pacific. 
He  came  to  our  mission  headquarters  one  morning.  We  were  aston- 
ished at  first.  We  had  in  our  keeping  a  Samoan  lady  of  royal  birth. 
She  had  once  been  a  favorite  in  the  family  of  the  renowned  Scotch 
author,  Robert  Louis  Stevenson,  who  searched  the  world  over  to  spend 
his  last  days  in  a  place  of  absolute  quiet  and  peace,  where  he  might 
write  as  he  desired.  He  passed  away  in  the  early  nineties  just  back  of 
Apia,  and  his  body  now  rests  on  the  top  of  Vaea  Mountain,  on  his  own 
beloved  estate.  This  lady,  Laulii,  was  one  of  the  reigning  belles  of  the 
islands  then.  In  her  later  years  she  and  her  husband  went  to  Frisco 
and  were  there  for  twenty-one  years.  She  was  received  in  exclusive 
society  circles  there,  and  was  the  author  of  a  book  dealing  with  her 
island  people.  Upon  returning  to  Samoa  her  husband  died,  and  half 
a  dozen  years  ago  she  joined  the  "Mormon"  Church.  Sometime  later 
she  was  stricken  with  an  insidious  complication  of  diseases,  one  of  the 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


afflictions  being  cancer,  and  we  took  her  into  "Mormon"  Mission 
Headquarters,  and  my  wife  was  ministering  to  her  in  our  little  humble 
home  for  several  months,  as  she  hovered  between  life  and  death.  This 
gentleman  in  question  was  hunting  her.  He  had  letters  of  introduction 
to  her  from  Mrs.  Field  of  New  York,  a  daughter  of  Robert  Louis 
Stevenson,  and  herself  had  lived  in  the  island  with  her  noted  father. 
He  was  told  at  the  wharf  that  Laulii  was  up  at  "Mormon"  head- 
quarters. To  make  a  long  story  short,  as  he  left  our  little  porch  he 
drew  a  cigarette  case  from  his  pocket  and  said,  "Mr.  Adams,  there  is 
no  need  of  offering  you  this,  because  I  know  you  people  don't  partake 
of  this."  I  said,  "You  haven't  had  much  to  do  with  us — "  to  which  he  re- 
plied, "Three  or  four  weeks  ago  we  were  in  Tahiti,  and  we  came  across 
two  or  three  of  your  elders  there,  and  we  were  in  port  in  one  of  the  dim- 
inutive island  lagoons.  While  we  were  there  a  vessel  came  in  and  after 
being  in  port  a  few  days,  there  were  something  like  $7,000  that  they  had 
squeezed  out  of  these  natives  in  this  one  small  village,  and  away  the 
vessel  went  to  another  island,  and  so  it  goes  from  one  island  to  another 
upon  which  that  church  in  question  is  established.  You  'Mormon' 
people,  instead  of  taking  money  away  from  these  islanders,  as  this 
other  organization  has  done,  sustain  yourselves,  do  not  draw  any  salary 
from  your  Church ;  and  upon  offering  those  elders  in  Tahiti  tobacco, 
they  refused  it;  and  wherever  I  meet  a  'Mormon'  elder  I  shall  not 
insult  him  by  offering  him  tobacco."  And  he  further  said,  "Mr.  Adams, 
will  you  please  tell  me  something  concerning  your  work,  what  there 
is  about  your  Church  that  seems  to  distinguish  it  from  all  others? 
I  shall  always  advocate  it,  and  wherever  I  go  in  the  future,  and  'Mor- 
monism'  is  the  topic,  and  the  people  are  pelting  you  with  epithets,  I 
will  say  that  in  'Mormonism'  I  have  discovered  the  true  Spirit  of 
Christ,  more  nearly  than  in  any  other  church  organization  on  earth." 

This  man  had  turned  in  disgust  from  all  the  churches,  knowing 
that  they  did  not  exhibit  the  Spirit  of  Christ.  He  left  us  and  went 
down  to  the  Tongan  Islands,  and  thence  on  to  Fiji.  We  received  a 
very  fine  letter  from  him,  when  he  got  to  California,  and  the  result 
is  that  they  are  going  to  erect  a  monument  to  this  good  woman.  She 
had  later  passed  away  in  our  home.  Think  of  it !  He  said  that  he  had 
discovered  in  the  "Mormon"  Church  more  nearly  the  Spirit  of  Christ 
than  in  any  other  church  of  his  experience.  Well,  we  know  that.  My 
testimony  is  to  that  effect,  and  I  leave  it  with  you  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ISAAC  P.  THUNELL 

Former  President  of  the  Swedish  Mission,  and  Bishop  of  the 
Wasatch  ward,  Granite  stake1 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  hope  and  pray  that  I  may  have  an  • 
interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers,  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  will 
direct  my  remarks  as  it  has  done  the  remarks  of  Elder  Adams. 


ELDER  ISAAC  P.  THUNELL 


109 


We  will  transfer  our  thoughts  from  the  extreme  tropical  climate 
to  a  northern  climate,  in  which  I  have  been  laboring.  It  was  very 
difficult  to  get  into  Sweden  on  my  recent  last  mission,  owing  to  the 
fact  that  there  were  technicalities  regarding  the  signing  of  passports. 
After  being  refused  passport  visas  at  Chicago,  New  York,  and  Wash- 
ington, we  decided  to  go  on  to  England  and  try  there.  President 
McKay  took  us  down  to  the  office  of  the  Swedish  Consul,  at  which 
place,  after  no  difficulty  whatever,  we  received  our  passports  and 
continued  our  journey  to  Sweden.  After  arriving  in  Sweden  we  felt 
that  everything  was  all  right  and  we  would  be  permitted  to  fill  our 
missions  without  further  hindrance ;  but,  to  our  surprize,  after  having 
been  there  only  a  few  days  we  were  politely  informed  that  our  pass- 
port visas  had  been  cancelled  and  that  not  only  we  but  all  the  elders 
in  Sweden  were  to  leave  at  once.  How  sad  and  heavy-hearted  we 
felt  at  this  news.  But  we  had  faith  in  our  heavenly  Father,  and  we 
believed  that  he  would  assist  and  help  us  in  every  way;  so  we  used 
every  means  possible  to  obtain  the  proper  signatures  to  our  passports. 
It  was  of  no  avail.  I  personally  petitioned  three  times  to  the  King  of 
Sweden  in  order  to  get  a  pass  endorsed  but  the  third  time  my  pass 
was  returned,  and  I  was  told  by  the  chief  of  police,  or  rather  his  repre- 
sentative, that  our  presence  was  not  wanted  longer.  Still  we  did  not 
feel  that  we  could  give  up,  and  we  used  every  means  possible  to  remain 
in  that  country.  We  employed  the  services  of  an  attorney,  and  when 
we  explained  what  we  had  done,  he  said,  "Gentlemen,  there  is  nothing 
else  to  do  but  for  you  to  leave  this  country  and  go  back  to  your 
homes."  We  were  glad  that  we  had  used  every  means  that  even  he 
could  employ,  though  we  still  thought  there  was  one  more  way,  and  that 
was  to  rely  on  the  Lord.  We  called  a  fast.  By  this  time  two  or  three 
weeks  had  passed,  and  the  word  had  gone  to  England  and  America 
that  we  were  finding  it  difficult  to  remain  in  the  Old  country.  I  am 
sure  that  the  prayers  to  the  Lord  from  you  people  were  answered  in 
blessings  to  us.  We  felt  your  prayers  and  your  faith.  I  bear  testimony 
to  you  today  that  it  was  through  the  faith  and  prayers  of  our  brethren 
and  sisters,  both  at  home  and  abroad,  and  through  the  blessings  of 
our  heavenly  Father  that  the  hearts  of  the  officials  of  that  government 
were  softened  to  some  extent,  so  that  we  were  permitted  to  remain 
and  complete  our  missions. 

This  was  in  fulfilment  of  a  prophecy  and  blessing  pronounced 
upon  our  heads  when  we  left  for  our  mission  field.  President  George 
F.  Richards  gave  me  a  blessing  in  which  it  was  promised  that  I  should 
go  to  Sweden,  perform  an  honorable  mission,  and  after  having  com- 
pleted that  mission,  return  to  my  home.  I  never  stressed  the  prom- 
ise so  much,  until  I  had  been  in  the  mission  field  nearly  two  years. 
Then  I  thought  of  my  blessing,  and  that  part  in  particular  which  per- 
tained to  my  staying  there  until  my  mission  was  completed  and  ful- 
filled. Truly  I  thanked  God  for  a  prophet  and  for  prophets,  whom 
we  have  in  the  Church  to  lead,  guide,  and  direct  us. 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  Swedish  mission  is  in  a  flourishing  condition,  considering 
the  shortage  of  missionaries.  We  had  but  nineteen  missionaries  in  a 
country  that  has  about  six  millions  of  people.  The  elders  were  united, 
they  were  good  men  of  various  occupations  in  life  ;  men  who  had  come 
into  the  field,  leaving  their  homes,  families,  and  their  all  to  preach  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  They  found  joy  and  pleasure  in  their  labors. 
We  found  many  friends  in  that  good  country ;  so  many  that  we 
could  not  fill  the  appointments  with  the  few  elders  at  hand.  We  went 
into  the  Arctic  Circle,  the  country  of  the  midnight  sun,  where  we  were 
met  with  open  arms  by  both  Saints  and  non-members.  Many  opened 
their  doors  and  asked  us  to  be  guests  in  their  home.  We  were  pleased 
to  bear  our  testimonies  to  them  and  tell  them  of  the  revealed  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  ' 

I  am  impressed  to  tell  you  of  a  letter  I  received.  It  contained,  in 
brief,  the  following  account.  A  certain  man,  who  lived  near  the  Arctic 
Circle,  had  been  reading  in  Revelations,  the  14th  chapter,  6th  and  7th 
verses,  where  it  speaks  of  an  angel  that  should  come  to  the  earth  with 
the  everlasting  gospel.  He  had  taken  this  to  heart  and  was  ready  to 
receive  the  message  of  that  angel.  But  where  to  find  him  or  anything 
regarding  the  visitation  of  angels  to  the  earth,  he  did  not  know.  So 
he  went  to  a  neighboring  town  and  visited  every  book  store,  asked 
the  clerks  of  the  book  stores  for  any  book  that  would  tell  him  of  the 
visitation  of  angels  to  the  earth.  Of  course  they  could  not,  but  he 
persisted :  "I  must  find  something  that  will  give  me  light  on  this 
subject."  In  an  old  second-hand  store  he  asked  concerning  the  min- 
istration of  angels  coming  to  earth  in  these  days.  Me  was  told  that 
those  days  are  past.  But  just  as  he  was  leaving  the  clerk  said,  "Just 
a  moment ;  I  believe  I  can  give  you  some  information  regarding  this. 
T  have  seen  a  book  with  the  picture  of  an  angel  printed  on  its  front 
page,"  referring  to  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  in  which  a  representation  of  the  Angel  Moroni  is  found 
in  the  Swedish  editions.  After  making  some  inquiries  they  finally 
obtained  our  headquarter's  address  at  Stockholm.  The  letter  of  in- 
quiry, in  part,  told  this  story  :  "Please  send  one  of  your  representatives, 
a  missionary,  to  my  home  as  soon  as  possible,  because  I  want  to  hear 
of  this  angel,  I  want  to  hear  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  because  I  am 
sick  both  in  body  and  mind  but  more  concerned  about  my  spiritual 
welfare  than  that  of  my  body."  You  can  imagine  the  thrill  that  came 
to  us  when  we  read  this  letter,  and  how  we  longed  to  get  there  and 
preach  the  gospel  to  this  man.  I  sent  President  Mathias  Erickson, 
who  was  on  his  third  mission  in  Sweden,  a  noble  man  and  a  wonder- 
ful defender  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  to  visit  this  man.  When 
he  arrived  he  was  received  by  the  man  and  bis  wife  with  open  arms. 
Pie  remained  with  them  some  days,  and  had  the  privilege  of  baptizing 
the  man  into  the  Church  and  confirming  him  a  member.  And  today  he 
is  a  happy  man. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  the  people  are  strong,  stalwart,  kind  and 


ELDER  ISAAC  P.  THUNELL 


111 


good-hearted.  Every  one  of  us  missionaries  are  more  than  grateful 
for  the  kindnesses  shown  to  us.  Among  them  are  many  of  the  blood 
of  Israel,  and  I  am  proud  to  have  been  born  in  that  country,  and  thank- 
ful to  God  that  the  elders  visited  my  parents  and  that  they  received 
the  gospel.  The  gospel  is  being  extensively  preached  everywhere  in 
that  country.  I  had  the  privilege  of  filling  a  mission  there  in  1907-8-9, 
and  the  interest  is  greater  now  than  then.  A  wave  of  spirituality  has 
come  over  the  people,  and  they  are  longing  to  hear  more  of  religion. 
New  sects  are  arising  and  new  churches  are  springing  up.  But  we 
need  not  go  astray,  for  we  have  a  prophet  to  lead  and  guide  us  aright. 

While  in  Sweden  I  read  a  pamphlet  published  by  a  certain  asso- 
ciation, telling  of  a  meeting  held  in  Gothenburg,  at  which  about  300 
Lutheran  priests  attended,  and  the  substance  of  this  pamphlet  was 
that  one  of  the  Lutheran  priests  got  up  and  said,  "Ladies  and  gentle- 
men (for  there  were  a  few  ladies  present  also,  as  guests  of  these  men), 
we  are  assembled  to  discuss  the  vital  things  of  our  religion,  but  I 
want  to  tell  you  that  we  are  each  and  every  one  of  us  hypocrites.  We 
cannot  follow  Christ  if  we  follow  the  rituals  of  our  Church."  And 
then  he  went  on  to  enumerate  what  they  had  to  teach,  what  they  had 
to  pray  for,  whether  they  wished  to  do  so  or  not.  He  said,  "No  matter 
how  obnoxious  we  may  seem  to  the  public  and  the  people,  no  matter 
how  much  they  hate  our  doctrine  or  what  we  teach,  we  cannot  change 
it,  nor  can  we  change  our  positions  as  did  the  Savior  of  mankind.  If 
the  people  did  not  treat  him  kindly  in  one  place,  he  would  move  to 
another  and  teach  the  people  there.  But  we  are  planted  down  in  one 
parish  and  cannot  move,  even  if  we  want  to.  The  religion  that  we 
are  teaching  is  inadequate." 

One  of  the  leading  ministers  of  that  country  stood  openly  in  a 
meeting  and  said  that  he  did  not  believe  in  God.  "There  is  no  living 
God,"  he  said.  And  his  ideas  conform  to  the  modern  ideas  of  today 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  not  the  Son  of  God  but  the  son  of  Joseph.  That 
was  his  thought,  and  he  expressed  it  openly,  and  yet  on  Sunday  he 
preached  the  doctrines  and  creed  of  the  Church. 

I  attended  a  meeting  where  an  atheist  spoke.  "Can  religion  save 
the  world?  Religion  has  not  made  any  progress  in  the  last  two 
thousand  years;  it  has  not  made  people  better."  A  discussion  was 
held  after,  and  I  had  the  privilege  of  saying  a  few  words.  I  said, 
"Yes,  religion  can  save  the  world,  if  it  is  a  religion  revealed  from  God 
our  heavenly  Father,  founded  upon  truth,  founded  upon  revelation. 
It  can  save  the  world  both  spiritually  and  materially.  I  related  the 
message  of  the  restored  gospel  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  I  was 
proud  to  bear  my  testimony  that  this  message  had  brought  people  from 
all  over  the  world  in  unity  together;  and  that  though  from  different 
nations,  and  different  tongues,  they  were  welded  together  in  one 
Church,  where  unity  existed.  A  majority  of  these  people  own  their 
own  homes,  and  spiritually,  financially  and  materially  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  is  saving  them.    We  are  blessed  with  all  of  these  things. 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


We  know  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  will  persist.  I  fully  agree 
with  President  Grant  in  what  he  said  in  his  opening  speech,  that  a 
marvelous  work  and  a  wonder  has  been  brought  to  the  world.  It  is 
a  saving  gospel — the  true  Church  of  Christ. 

I  have  often  thought  and  wondered,  brethren  and  sisters,  how 
Job  felt  when  the  Lord  spoke  to  him  from  the  whirlwind ;  and  John 
the  Revelator,  on  the  Isle  of  Patmos,  when  he  heard  the  voice  of  the 
Savior.  It  pierced  him,  through  body  and  soul,  you  might  say.  I 
had  a  thrilling  experience  yesterday,  standing  in  the  store  in  which 
I  am  employed,  listening  to  the  conference  sermons  through  the  radio. 
All  at  once  I  heard  a  prophet's  voice,  one  that  we  all  know,  President 
Heber  J.  Grant  call  out  my  name,  saying  that  if  Elder  Isaac  P. 
Thunnell  and  Elder  A.  ,  William  Lund  are  in  the  audience,  they  will 
please  come  to  the  stand.  There  was  a  thrill  went  through  me,  and 
it  made  me  think,  and  I  have  thought  a  great  deal  about  that  ever 
since.  We  have  been  told,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  a  still  small  voice 
will  dictate  to  us  what  we  should  do  and  what  we  should  not  do ;  we 
have  been  told  that  if  we  live  perfectly,  this  voice  will  not  fail  us. 
Sometimes  we  do  not  live  as  perfectly  as  we  should  do,  and  therefore 
we  lose  the  spirit  and  communication  with  this  voice.  We  must  place 
ourselves  in  harmony  with  the  Lord,  because  he  can  and  will  give  us 
inspiration  if  we  seek  for  it. 

This  is  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder  that  the  Lord  has  begun 
upon  the  earth,  and  I  am  willing  with  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  to 
work  with  all  my  might  for  the  furtherance  of  this  great  work  in  the 
earth.  I  have  often  thought  about  the  vision  of  Isaiah,  who  saw  in 
vision  the  tops  of  the  mountains,  the  everlasting  hills,  where  the 
Llouse  of  the  Lord  should  be  established.  I  have  said  to  myself,  how 
wonderful  it  must  have  been  for  him  to  look  into  the  future! 
I  have  come  to  the  conclusion  that  the  Lord  kept  this  spot  of  earth 
for  the  Latter-day  Saints,  that  they  might  here  in  peace  and  plenty 
rejoice  together  with  one  another  over  the  blessings  that  he  had  pre- 
pared for  them.  For  centuries  the  Lord  has  caused  the  rains  and 
snows  to  fall  in  the  mountains  so  that  the  most  precious  soil  from  the 
hills  would  be  washed  down  into  the  valleys.  Our  cities  are  built 
in  the  shadow  of  the  hills,  whence  the  rich  soil  has  been  washed  down 
for  centuries.  The  Lord  knew  where  to  send  us.  He  prepared  this 
land  for  centuries  before  we  came  here.  Let  us  appreciate  our  bless- 
ings to  the  full. 

I  bear  my  testimony  that  I  know  the  restored  gospel  is  true. 
I  have  had  many  testimonies  through  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  of  its 
divinity.  I  am  willing  with  you  to  go  forward  from  this  day  on  to 
help  to  further  the  work  of  the  Lord  in  the  world.  I  ask  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord  upon  each  and  every  one  of  us,  that  we  may  live 
by  the  inspiration  of  his  Spirit  and  enjoy  its  blessings  at  home  even  as 
we  did  in  the  mission  field,  and  we  shall,  if  we  live  for  it,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  E.  WESLEY  SMITH 


113 


A  soprano  solo  was  sung  by  Thelma  Fife,  "Open  the  Gates  of 
the  Temple." 

ELDER  E.  WESLEY  SMITH 

Former  President  of  the  Hawaiian  Mission 

Thus  far,  during  conference,  I  have  been  thrilled,  and  I  would 
that  the  preceding  speakers  had  continued  on  in  their  splendid  endeavor 
to  give  us  those  thoughts  that  are  faith-promoting.  I  feel  rather  weak 
in  standing  here.  It  is  my  desire,  however,  to  be  blessed  with  the 
Spirit  of  God,  that  I  may  be  able  to  speak  forth  words  pleasing  and 
beneficial  to  all  present.  We  have  listened  attentively  to  the  previous 
speakers  concerning  the  good  people  of  far-of  f  Samoa,  and  the  splendid 
Saints  in  the  land  of  Sweden,  now  may  I  bring  you  back  again  to  the 
land  of  the  Pacific,  to  Hawaii,  the  land  of  my  birth.  I  naturally  feel 
a  love  for  the  good  people  in  the  "Paradise  of  the  Pacific."  It  has 
been  my  good  fortune  to  spend  practically  a  third  of  my  life  in  the 
mission  field,  the  happiest  time  and  the  most  blessed  in  my  life. 

I  desire  to  give  just  a  brief  report  of  four  years'  work  there  while 
I  presided  over  that  mission,  that  you  may  know  your  sons  and 
daughters  called  to  the  mission  field  under  the  inspiration  of  God  are 
bringing  forth  good  fruit  into  the  fold  of  Christ,  that  his  work  is 
growing  and  being  magnified  among  the  people.  In  harmony  with 
President  Adam's  statement,  "Mormonism"  is  printing  itself  upon  the 
good  people  throughout  the  world.  "By  your  fruits  you  shall  be 
known."  We  can  preach  with  far  greater  power  through  example — the 
way  we  live  and  act — than  we  can  by  word  of  mouth. 

Dr.  Sullivan,  an  anthropologist  of  renown  in  the  United  States 
Government  service,  having  spent  many  years  in  America,  and  in 
Mexico  among  the  Indians,  visited  in  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  studying 
the  people,  under  the  direction  of  the  Pauahi  Museum,  trying  to  learn 
where  the  Polynesian  peoples  came  from,  spending  $50,000  a  year  in 
research  work  along  this  line.  I  had  the  privilege  of  going  with  Dr. 
Sullivan  around  the  islands.  He  paid  our  people  a  splendid  compli- 
ment. Starting  out  on  his  journey,  he  wrote  to  me  saying,  "I  am 
unable  to  get  the  information  from  the  natives  that  I  desire ;  they  seem 
to  be  timid  about  giving  it."  Other  ministers  had  served  with  him, 
but  they  did  not  understand  the  natives,  not  knowing  their  language, 
and  thus  I  went  with  him  and  some  of  the  elders.  They  were  not 
timid  in  the  least;  knowing  that  it  was  the  desire  of  the  elders  of  the 
Church  that  they  give  this  information,  they  were  free  and  open,  did 
not  hesitate,  and  he  marveled  about  the  influence  the  "Mormon"  elders 
had  over  the  natives.  He  said,  "The  moment  I  go  into  a  home  here, 
I  can  tell  whether  they  belong  to  your  Church  or  not."  "How  can 
you  tell?"  I  asked.  He  said,  "Because  they  seem  to  be  superior;  their 
home  life  is  better,  there  is  a  sweeter  atmosphere  there.  You  people 
have  been  very  wise,  going  among  this  glorious  race,  selecting  the 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


choicest  of  the  people;  for  I  find  that  the  choicest  people  in  the  land 
of  Hawaii  belong  to  your  Church." 

"Mormonism"  made  them  thus ;  it  was  not  the  work  of  the  elders, 
but  the  inspiration  of  God  that  filled  their  souls.  The  principles  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  what  has  magnified  the 
people,  both  there  and  in  Samoa  and  the  rest  of  the  world. 

Oftimes  I  have  read  of  how  the  gospel  should  be  preached,  how 
it  should  be  declared,  from  the  housetops.  I  could  not  understand  it. 
In  my  mind  I  pictured  standing  upon  some  building  and  crying  out  to 
the  people.  But  who  could  hear !  until  the  invention  of  the  wireless  ? 
Soon  after  my  return  from  the  Hawaiian  mission,  I  labored  here  upon 
the  temple  block,  meeting  with  the  tourists,  a  delightful  work,  I  assure 
you.  I  had  the  privilege  of  attending  a  service  in  the  Tabernacle  that 
was  radioed  out  at  the  time  of  President  Harding's  visit  here,  and  in 
relating  this  to  the  tourists'  to  show  how,  if  we  were  in  tune  we  may 
hear,  one  woman  spoke  up  and  said.  "I  heard  that  message  away  off 
in  Louisiana ;"  another  heard  it  in  California',  another  in  Mexico.  A 
third  party  said.  "We  were  out  motoring  that  night,  and  returned  too 
late  to  get  that  message,  though  we  had  a  radio  instrument  in  our 
home,"  consequently  they  missed  it.  A  young  man,  several  days  later — 
a  marine  passing  through  from  California  made  this  statement — "We 
heard  the  choir  sing,  we  heard  the  organ,  and  the  remarks  of  President 
Harding,  down  in  the  waters  of  Japan."  Pie  said,  "I  had  the  privilege 
of  being  stationed  with  the  Pacific  Squadron,  and  on  board  our  vessel 
we  heard  that  message  clearly,  and  how  happy  I  am  this  day  to  stand 
in  this  building  near  this  great  organ  and  testify  to  you  that  I  heard 
that  clearly  away  down  in  the  waters  of  Japan  !"  The  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  as  a  boy,  being  in  tune,  like  unto  the  delicate  instrument  of  the 
radio,  and  thus  under  that  influence,  went  out  into  the  woods  to  pray, 
and  communed  with  God ;  the  heavens  were  opened  and  he  conversed 
with  Deity.  If  man  is  able  to  communicate  through  the  radio  crying 
out  from  the  house  tops  and  having  his  voice  go  round  the  world  sev- 
eral times  in  a  second,  then  it  is  not  impossible,  truly,  for  God  to 
speak  to  his  children  when  he  deems  it  wise  and  necessary. 

In  the  Book  of  Mormon  the  parable  of  the  fig  tree  conveys  a 
beautiful  thought.  I  love  to  read  it,  for  it  is  full  of  the  inspiration  of 
Nephi.  Inspired  through  the  revelation  or  vision  given  to  his  father, 
Lehi.  he  desired  to  understand  the  things  that  his  father  had  seen,  believ- 
ing that  the  Lord  was  able  to  make  them  known  unto  him — he  sat  ponder- 
ing in  his  heart  and  was  caught  away  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  into 
an  exceeding  high  mountain,  and-  there  was  revealed  unto  him  the 
workings  of  God,  the  coming  forth  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  again 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  In  that  vision  he  saw  the  people  gathered 
in  the  tops  of  the  mountains ;  he  saw  the  missionaries  going  out  in  the 
isles  of  the  Pacific  to  gather  in  again  the  fruits  of  those  tender 
branches  that  had  been  taken  away  from  the  mother  tree,  from  the 
colony  of  Nephi,  and  planted  out  in  the  land  where  they  could  not  be 


ELDER  E.   WESLEY  SMITH 


115 


molested,  where  they  could  not  have  intercourse  with  other  people, 
where  the  true  blood  of  Israel  could  be  preserved.  And  thus  we  find, 
out  in  the  Pacific  islands,  the  Polynesian  people,  the  true  blood  of 
Israel  coursing  through  their  veins. 

The  civilization  of  the  Hawaiians  before  the  advent  of  the  whites 
had  reached  a  high  degree1,  considering  the  limited  opportunities ;  and 
when  the  mssionaries  came,  the  people  as  a  whole  threw  off  idolatry 
and  accepted  Christianity.  Today,  in  education,  in  virtue,  in  cleanli- 
ness, the  Hawaiians  compare  favorably  with  many  peoples  of  both  the 
old  and  new  world,  while  in  hospitality  no  people  are  their  superiors. 
They  recognized  the  voice  of  the  shepherds.  Today  it  is  impossible  to 
find  a  Hawaiian  who  is  not  a  staunch  Christian,  though  they  do>  not 
all  belong  to  our  Church,  to  our  faith.  The  missionaries  laboring  in 
the  islands  during  the  four  years,  I  was  there  accomplished  a  most 
splendid  work — and  I  am  delighted  to  say  the  elders  now  are  doing 
even  a  better  work.  There  are  approximately  13,000  Saints  in  the 
mission,  twelve  organized  conferences,  over  fifty  Sunday  schools  fully 
organized;  also  Mutual  Improvement  organizations,  Relief  Societies, 
and  Primaries.  This  will  give  you  an  idea  of  how  favorably  the 
Hawaiian  mission  compares  with  some  of  the  largest  stakes  in  the 
Church.  During  the  four  years  we  baptized  1,438,  blessed  1,387  chil- 
dren, and  ordained  457  to  the  Priesthood.  The  last  year  I  was  there 
we  had  2,426  tithe  payers. 

The  traditions  of  the  islands  are  beautiful  and  in  harmony  with 
the  scripture.  We  find  the  Hawaiian  people  today  educated;  I  doubt  if 
you  can  find  any  that  cannot  read  or  write,  and  they  love  the  scriptures. 
Like  unto  the  Samoans,  they  are  very  apt  in  finding  scriptural  passages 
and  in  memorizing  the  word  of  the  Lord.  Time  will  not  permit  me  to 
go  into  detail  much,  but  I  would  like  to  read  just  a  little  extract  taken 
from  the  history  written  by  King  Kalakaua,  showing  forth  some  of 
the  beliefs  in  the  creation,  the  flood,  and  Abraham,  showing  how  they 
have  in  that  tradition  carried  on,  from  father  to  son,  and  so  on  down 
for  generations,  the  history  of  their  forefathers,  proving  in  one  way 
the  origin  of  this  glorious  people.    In  this  book  King  Kalakaua  states: 

"A  trinity  of  gods  exists,  named  Kane,  Ku,  and  Lono.  These  created  the 
heavens  and  the  earth,  the  sun,  moon,  and  stars.  From  their  spittle  they 
created  a  host  of  ministering  angels.  In  creating  man,  Kane  formed  his  body 
■cut  of  red  clay  mixed  with  spittle  while  Lono  formed  his  head  out  of  whitish 
clay  brought  from  the  four  quarters  of  the  earth.  Then  the  breath  of  life 
was  breathed  into  his  nostrils  and  he  became  a  living  soul,  and  was  called 
Kumuhonua  (meaning  the  foundation  of  the  earth).  Afterwards  from  his  ribs 
a  woman  was  created  called  Keola-Kuhonua.  The  pair  was  placed  in  a  beauti- 
ful paradise  called  Paliuli.  Among  the  angels  was  one,  Kanaloa,  the  Lucifer, 
who,  when  man  was  created  demanded  adoration  from  him.  This  was  refused 
by  Kane,  whereupon  Kanaloa  resolved  to  create  a  man  himself,  who  would 
worship  him.  He  formed  a  being  in  the  exact  image  of  Kunuhonua,  but  was 
unable  to  breathe  life  into  him.    Repeated  attempts  bringing  failure,  he  re- 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


belled,  and  resolved  to  destroy  the  man  created  by  Kane.  In  the  form  of  a  Moo, 
or  lizzard,  he  crept  into  the  garden  of  Paliuli  and  there  caused  Kumuhonua  and 
his  wife  to  do  something  which  angered  the  gods,  and  they  were  driven  out. 
The  story  of  Cain  and  Abel  is  also  found  among  the  Hawaiians  in  the  three 
sons  of  Kumuhonua,  one  of  whom,  Laka,  slew  his  younger  brother." 

The  Hawaiians,  in  their  tradition  of  the  flood  said  that, 

"Nuu  at  the  command  of  the  Gods  built  a  boat  and  with  his  wife  and 
three  sons  entered  therein,  taking  with  them  a  male  and  female  of  every  living 
creature.  When  the  waters  subsided  the  gods  came  and  released  Nuu  and 
his  family,  who  on  leaving  the  boat  found  that  they  had  rested  on  a  mountain 
overlooking  a  beautiful  valley.  Nuu  offered  sacrifice  to  the  moon  mistaking  it 
for  Kane.  Kane  became  angry  because  of  this  and  descended  upon  a  rainbow 
and  there  reprimanded  Nuu,  and  Nuu  repented  of  this,  and  in  token  to  show 
that  his  repentant  spirit  had  been  accepted  and  he  had  been  forgiven,  Kane 
placed  the  rainbow  in  the  skies  as  a  token." 

A  man  by  the  name  of  Ktt  Pule,  representing  Abraham,  is  also 
related  by  this  king: 

"He  was  ten  generations  removed  from  Nuu.  He  went  to  the  South  with 
his  wife  and  slave  woman.  Ahu.  Here  he  established  the  practice  of  circum- 
cision, and  was  the  grandfather  of  Kuni-lau-a-mano,  whose  twelve  children 
became  the  heads  of  twelve  tribes,  from  one  of  which  the  Menehune,  or 
Hawaiians  sprang." 

Now  we  know  through  the  tradition,  and  through  history  given 
to  us  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  that  the  generations  of  Lehi  came  forth 
from  the  loins  of  Joseph  through  Manasseh  and  Ephraim.  The  tra- 
dition speaks  of  how  they  traveled  to  the  promised  land  under  the  influ- 
ence of  God,  how  they  peopled  this  land,  grew  to'  be  a  marvelous  race, 
and  then,  as  is  recorded  in  the  63d  chapter  of  Alma,  some  of  the 
people  entered  one  of  the  boats  built  by  Hagoth,  traversed  out  and 
were  lost  in  the  mighty  deep — according  to  the  historians'  record  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  but  not  so  in  harmony  with  the  traditions  of  the 
Hawaiian  people,  which  are  that  God  in  his  mercy  planted  that  tender 
branch  out  in  the  Pacific  Islands.  And  now  he  is  bringing  them  back 
again,  and  they  are  producing  fruit  that  is  gladdening  his  soul. 

I  know  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  true.  My  whole  being 
is  thrilled  with  this  testimony,  and  how  happy  I  am  that  I  have  been 
blessed  with  goodly  parents,  and  that  thus  far  in  my  life  I  have  been 
able  to  walk  in  that  straight  and  narrow  path.  I  sincerely  trust  and 
hope  that  the  influence  of  heaven  may  be  upon  me,  that  I  may  con- 
tinue in  God's  service,  that  I  may  be  magnified  in  his  good  works,  that 
I  may  keep  the  faith  as  long  as  I  am  permitted  to  live  upon  the  earth. 
I  know  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  was  called  of  God  through  inspiration, 
that  he  was  in  tune  with  the  Spirit  of  God,  and  I  know  that  all  who 
have  been  chosen  to  lead  his  great  work  have  been  inspired  by  that 
same  spirit.  May  God's  choicest  blessings  be  upon  President  Heber 
J.  Grant,  his  counselors,  and  all  associated  with  them,  is  my  prayer  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 


117 


ELDER   JOHN   H.  TAYLOR 

President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission 

You  will  remember  that  when  Joseph  Smith,  the  prophet  of  God. 
went  unto  his  heavenly  Father  to  inquire  as  to  which  church  was  right, 
that  the  Son  of  God,  speaking  to  him,  told  him  that  none  of  the  churches 
were  right,  and  that  all  the  creeds  were  an  abomination  in  the  sight  of 
God.  I  was  talking  to  a  man  the  other  day,  and  he  said,  "Why,  on 
the  face  of  the  thing,  your  church  is  wrong,  because  God  is  not  speak- 
ing to  his  people,  his  sons  and  daughters  upon  the  earth,  and  condemn- 
ing them  and  placing  them  in  a  position  where  they  are  declared  all 
wrong  in  the  sight  of  God." 

I  am  wondering  how  many  of  us,  the  Latter-day  Saints,  are  trying 
to  minimize  the  importance  of  that  message.  It  is  rather  a  hard  saying, 
I  will  admit;  but  it  is  the  word  of  God,  the  eternal  Father,  in  these 
latter  clays,  declaring  that  only  the  Church  that  he  organized  is  the 
Church  and  kingdom  of  God.  God  is  merciful  to  his  people,  to  his  sons 
and  to  his  daughters,  and  he  would  give  every  one  an  opportunity  of 
coming  back  into  his  Kingdom ;  and  his  relation  to  his  people  has 
always  been  one  of  kindness,  and  sympathy  toward  his  children.  "Peace 
on  earth,  good  will  to  men,"  is  the  message  of  God,  the  eternal  Father, 
unto  his  children  upon  the  earth.  "Go  ye  out  into  the  world  and  preach 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,"  is  the  message  to  his  servants,  that  all 
mankind  might  see  and  understand  this  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  He 
has  also  told  us  to  go  out  and  contend  against  no  one,  but  preach 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  him  crucified.  That  is  the  kind  of  mes- 
sage, that  God  has  for  his  sons  and  his  daughters ;  but  when  it  comes 
to  the  churches  of  the  world,  God  has  placed  his  mark,  and  told  us  that 
only  the  Church  of  God  is  right,  and  all  of  the  others  wrong.  In  all 
sympathy,  in  all  kindness,  and  recognizing  the  sincerity  of  the  people 
of  the  world,  the  fact  stands  out,  that  there  is  only  one  Lord,  one  faith, 
and  one  baptism. 

A  member  of  the  Church  rather  wanted  to  minimize  that  great 
message  of  God  to  Joseph  Smith;  he  said,  if  God  had  only  said  it  in  a 
little  more  gentle  way ;  if  he  had  only  made  some  kind  of  an  explanation, 
so  that  it  might  have  included  all  the  world,  it  would  not  have  made 
us  so  unpopular  in  this  world  today.  Do  you  want  popularity  ?  Do 
you  want  to  stand  out  and  be  loved  and  pushed  along  by  men  who  feel 
that  you,  with  all  the  rest,  are  right  and  can  get  back  into  the  Kingdom 
of  God,  following  only  the  way  that  they  may  desire  to  follow?  We 
enjoy  being  loved;  we  want  to  be  popular  because  of  our  honesty,  our 
good  will,  our  fellowship  for  the  good  things  that  are  done  by  the 
people  of  the  Church,  but  when  it  comes  to  being  popular,  as  far  as 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  concerned,  I  hope  and  trust  that  the  men 
and  women,  the  boys  and  girls,  will  stand  out  for  the  faith  of  their 
fathers  and  feel  in  their  hearts  that  God,  in  his  mercy,  in  order  that 
his  children  may  be  saved,  has  given  us  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ ;  and 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  it  is  by  it,  and  by  it  only,  that  men  shall  enter  into  the  Kingdom  of 
God  the  eternal  Father,  whether  they  belong  to  this  Church  or  any 
other  church,  but  all  must  come  into  this  Church,  embrace  this  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ ;  and  all  the  men  and  women  who  belong  to  it  must 
live  lives  of  usefulness  and  of  righteousness,  and  serve  God  through 
all  the  days  of  their  lives,  if  the)'  would  enter  into  the  celestial  king- 
dom of  God. 

Why  minimize  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ?  Why  try  to  put  away 
some  of  the  things  that  are  so  essential  to  the  salvation  of  mankind? 
Why,  a  man,  a  brother  of  the  Church,  told  us  a  while  ago  that  in  some 
churches  they  have  the  gift  of  healing,  and,  said  he,  "Surely  God  is 
placing  the  stamp  of  approval  upon  that  church,  because  people  are 
being  healed ;  and  God  through  their  faith  is  healing  them."  No 
church  that  is  founded  only  on  the  gift  of  healing,  is  Christ's  church, 
and  God  will  not  recognize  any  church  except  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The  same  man  said,  "Other  churches 
have  the  gift  of  tongues,  and  surely  God  puts  his  mark  of  approval 
upon  these  churches,  because  of  the  speaking  in  tongues."  No  church 
can  stand  with  only  the  gift  of  tongues  as  a  foundation.  God  will  not 
give  any  church  as  a  church  the  gift  of  tongues,  or  faith,  or  healing, 
and  stamp  or  mark  it  with  his  approval,  as  being  his  Church,  or  a  part 
of  his  Church  in  these  latter  days.  O,  there  are  good  people,  men  and 
women  of  faith,  who,  because  of  their  faith,  receive  blessings  at  the 
hands  of  God,  for  some  special  purpose,  for  some  reason,  but  as  a 
church,  never  so  long  as  the  Church  of  God  stands;  for  if  he  does, 
then  we  who  represent  God's  Church  are  on  the  wrong  road  and  cannot 
enter  into  the  Kingdom  of  God,  in  the  way  we  are  going,  but  will  have 
to  find  some  other  way.  I  admire  men  and  women  who  stand  out  and 
believe  in  the  truthfulness  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  to  the  ex- 
clusion of  all  others,  at  the  same  time  recognizing  the  good  lives  and 
the  good  works  of  all  the  children  of  our  eternal  Father. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  guide  us  and  help  us  to  understand 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  to  play  fair  with  it.  Let  us  not  excuse 
it,  let  us  not  minimize  what  we  have.  We  have  nothing  to  be  ashamed 
of,  but,  all  in  all  we  have  something  to  be  grateful  for  and  thankful 
for.  that  God  in  his  mercy,  through  his  Spirit,  has  enabled  us  to  see 
and  understand  the  gospel  which  has  been  given  unto  us  in  these  the 
latter  days.  And  may  the  Lord  bless  us,  help  us,  and  be  with  us,  in  this 
our  life  upon  the  earth,  that  it  may  be  lived  worthily,  that  eventually 
we  may  find  a  welcome  in  God's  kingdom,  I  humbly  ask.  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 

President  of  the  W estern  States  Mission 

I  have  been  very  much  impressed,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  with 
the  reports  and  testimonies  borne  in  our  hearing  this  day.    You  have 


ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 


119 


listened  to  men  who  have  labored  . in  the  South  Seas  and  to  one  who 
labored  in  the  land  of  eternal  snow.  Their  testimony  is  to  this  effect, 
that  the  gospel  message  has  found  lodgment  in  the  hearts  of  the  peo- 
ple and  that  there  is  no  controversy  among  them  with  respect  to  the 
fundamentals  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Reference  lias  been  made  to  the  wonderful  progress  that  is  going 
on  in  the  world  ;  our  transportation  facilities,  our  development  in  the 
arts  and  sciences,  and  our  modern  means  of  communication ;  the  radio 
being  especially  mentioned. 

It  was  my  good  fortune  during  the  summer  months  to  speak  twice 
over  the  radio  broadcasting  station  of  the  W  O  A  W,  at  Omaha, 
Upon  the  first  day  of  June  I  had  the  pleasure  of  speaking,  and  as  a 
result  of  that  service,  received  letters  from  eight  different  states  from 
people  who  had  "listened  in."  I  wish  the  time  would  permit  me  to 
tell  you  of  some  of  the  messages  that  were  sent  to  us.  One  man  in 
Wisconsin,  after  greetings  of  a  personal  nature,  had  this  to  say :  "I 
listened  to  your  discourse.  It  was  a  regular  old  fundamental  sermon." 
Then  he  made  the  remarkable  statement,  to  which  I  call  your  attention. 
Said  he,  "I  am  a  student  of  science.  I  believe  in  evolution.  There 
is  no  such  thing  as  supernaturalism.  There  is  no  such  a  thing  as  the 
beginning  of  nature.  There  is  no  such  a  place  as  heaven,  no  such  a 
place  as  hell.  God  is  not  a  personal  being.  Jesus  Christ  is  not  a  real 
character.  Christian  theology  is  not  true.  Education  is,  the  only 
salvation  for  this  world.    Yet  I  respect  every  man  who  does  right." 

I  was  not  surprised  in  receiving  such  a  message,  because  almost 
daily  we  come  in  contact  with  men  and  women  who  entertain  such 
views — that  Christian  theology  is  not  true,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  not  a  real 
character.  My  observation  has  convinced  me  that  many  of  our  mod- 
ern preachers  are  responsible  for  this  condition.  As  Elder  Taylor  has 
pointed  out,  they  are  not  teaching  the  wo>rd  of  God.  They  have  a  form 
of  godliness,  but  deny  the  power  thereof.  The  Eord  declared,  as  he 
has  stated,  that  their  creeds  were  an  abomination  in  his  sight.  I  do 
not  wonder  that  thinking  men  are  withdrawing  themselves  from  these 
creeds  and  long  established  notions  and  are  seeking  inspiration  from 
another  source. 

I  have  in  my  hand  a  clipping  taken  from  the  Denver  Post.  It 
purports  to  be  an  account  or  a  report  of  an  article  written  by  Mr. 
Rupert  Hughes,  who  is  a  magazine  writer  of  some  note  in  this  country. 
He  gives  his  reasons  why  he  has  left  the  Church.  Says  he,  "I  quit 
going  to  church  because  I  came  to  believe  that  that  which  is  preached  in 
the  churches  is  mainly  untrue,  or  unimportant,  or  tiresome,  or  hostile 
to  genuine  progress  and  in  general  not  worth  while.  Staying  away 
from  the  church  puts  me  with  such  an  enormous  majority  that  it 
carries  no  distinction.  Nowhere  does  the  increase1  of  Christianity  keep 
pace  with  the  population.  Recently  in  New  York  a  pastor  read  the 
Apostles'  Creed  to  a  large  congregation,  and  asked  everybody  who  be- 
lieved it  to  stand  up.    Not  one  present  arose."    How  different  with 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  Latter-day  Saints!  Were  I  to  read  the  articles  of  our  faith  and 
ask  all  who  believed  them  to  stand  up,  this  vast  audience  would  arise 
to  a  man. 

One  thing  that  impresses  me  is  this  thought,  the  Latter-day  Saints 
must  be  forever  the  champions  of  the  divinity  of  Christ's  mission,  and 
ever  be  his  chief  defender  in  the  world.  I  have  little  patience  with 
agnostic  Christians,  who  accept  a  salary  for  preaching  to  please  their 
congregations,  and  who  do  not  believe  in  the  divinity  of  Jesus  Christ's 
mission,  and  who  are  doing  all  in  their  power  to  eradicate  belief  in 
him  from  the  minds  and  hearts  of  the  people  who  look  to  them  for 
guidance.  You  go  among  them  and  propound  the  same  question  that 
Jesus  of  Nazareth  asked  of  the  Jews  in  his  day,  "What  think  ye  of 
Christ?  Whose  Son  is  he?"  and  I  am  sure  that  you  will  be  astounded 
at  the  number  and  the  uncertainty  of  the  answers  that  you  will  receive 
from  them.  One  will  say  to  you,  "He  is  a  prophet  sent  of  God." 
Another  will  say,  "He  is  the  ideally  perfect  character."  Another  will 
tell  you  that  he  is  the  greatest  of  all  moral  teachers.  But  you  press 
them  for  something  more  definite;  ask  them,  "Is  he  divine?  Was  he 
God  ?  Is  he  God  ?"  and  they  will  tell  you,  some  of  them:,  "We  do  not. 
know,"  "We  cannot  tell,"  "We  cannot  concern  ourselves  with  difficult 
theological  questions."  Some  of  them  more  honest  than  the  rest  will 
tell  you  outright,  "No  he  is  not  God  ;  he  is  not  the  Son  of  God,  and 
he  never  claimed  to  be,  in  any  of  his  well  attested  sayings."  They 
will  tell  you  that  he  was  a  man  in  every  sense  of  the  word,  with 
not  only  a  human  body  but  with  human  intellect  and  will,  and  that  he 
bore  the  same  relationship  to  the  human  family  that  you  and  I  bear  to 
that  family. 

They  tell  you  that  Christ  never  claimed  to  be  the  Son  of  the  liv- 
ing God.  Did  he?  It  would  take  a  long  time  to  point  out  the  many 
evidences  that  are  contained  in  the  synoptic  gospels  of  Matthew,  Mark, 
and  Luke.  Some  one  will  tell  you  if  you  quote  the  gospel  of  St.  John 
that  that  is  not  well  authenticated ;  that  it  cannot  be  considered  as 
historically  true.    Let  me  read  to  you  a  definite  message  of  the  Savior : 

"And  the  high  priest  arose  and  said  unto  him,  Answerest  thou  nothing;" 
What  is  it  which  these  witness  against  thee?  But  Jesus  held  his  peace,  and 
answered  nothing.  And  the  high  priest  answered  and  said  unto  him,  *  *  * 
*  Tell  us  whether  thou  be  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  God?  Jesus  said  unto  him, 
Thou  hast  said:  *  *  *  *  Hereafter  shall  ye  see  the  Son  of  man  sitting 
on  the  right  hand  of  power,  and  coming  in  the  clouds,  of  heaven,  Then 
the  high  priest  rent  his  clothes,  saying,  He  hath  spoken  blasphemy;  what 
further  need  have  we  of  witnesses?  *  *  *  *  Ye  have  heard  his  blas- 
phemy; what  think  ye?    They  answered  and  said,  He  is  guilty  of  death." 

Blasphemy  was  the  final  indictment  against  the  Christ.  He  was 
either  a  blasphemer  or  the  Son  of  God ;  take  your  choice.  It  matters 
not  what  we  think,  nor  what  we  believe  about  him. 

I  believe  it  to  be  a  matter  of  measureless  importance  that  we  know 
who  Jesus  Christ  is.    He  declared  in  that  wonderful  prayer,  recorded 


ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 


121 


in  the  17th  chapter  of  John,  "This  is  life  eternal,  that  they  might  know 
thee,  the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ,  whom  thou  hast  sent."  It 
is  life  eternal  to  know  him,  and  he  was  particular  to  impress  that  mes- 
sage upon  his  immediate  followers. 

As  he  walked  in  the  streets  of  Csesarea  Philippi,  he  abruptly 
turned  to  his  disciples  and  said  to  them,  "Who  do  men  say  that  I,  the 
Son  of  man,  am?  And  they  said,  Some  say  that  thou  art  John  the 
Baptist:  some,  Elias ;  and  others,  Jeremias ;  or  one  of  the  prophets." 
Then  he  turned  to  his  disciples  and  said,  "But  whom  say  ye  that  I 
am?  And  Simon  Peter  answered  and  said,  Thou  art  the  Christ,  the 
Son  of  the  living  God.  And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  him, 
Blessed  art  thou,  Simon  Barjona;  for  flesh  and  blood  hath  not 
revealed  it  unto  thee,  but  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven."  He  had 
told  them  before  that  no  man  knoweth  the  Son,  but  the  Father ;  neither 
knoweth  any  man  the  Father,  save  the  Son,  and  he  to  whomsoever  the 
Son  will  reveal  him. 

I  see  the  time  has  expired.  Just  one  of  the  thoughts  that  comes 
to  me  I  would  like  to  express,  and  that  is  this :  The  Lord  told  the 
Prophet  Joseph  that  the  creeds  of  men  were  an  abomination  in  his 
sight,  that  they  taught  for  doctrine  the  commandments  of  men,  that 
they  had  a  form  of  godliness  but  denied  the  power  thereof,  and  I  want 
to  bear  my  testimony  to  you  that  that  is  the  reason  the  world  is  in  its 
present  condition ;  they  do  not  know  the  Christ,  because  they  have 
denied  the  only  power  by  which  they  might  know  him.  Revelation, 
so  far  as  they  are  concerned,  ceased  generations  ago,  and  the  light  of 
truth  has  not  come  into  their  lives ;  else  they  would  know,  as  they 
know  they  live,  that  Jesus  of  Nazareth  is  the  Redeemer  of  the  world. 
You  will  remember  the  words  of  the  Apostle  Paul,  writing  to  the 
Corinthian  Saints,  "I  give  you  to  understand,  that  no  man  speaking 
by  the  Spirit  of  God  calleth  Jesus  accursed :  and  that  no  man  can 
say  that  Jesus  is  the  Lord,  but  by  the  Holy  Ghost."  The  Latter-day 
Saints  are  entitled  to  that  blessing ;  it  has  been  conferred  upon  them 
by  the  laying  on  of  hands.  The  light  of  truth  has  come  into  their  lives, 
and  they  are  enabled  to  bear  witness  in  sincerity  and  in  truth  that 
God  lives,  and  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God. 

Now,  in  conclusion,  let  me  say  that  men  may  temporize,  they  may 
equivocate,  they  may  argue,  they  may  explain  away  the  divinity  of 
Christ's  mission,  but  so  long  as  time  endures,  the  Church  established  by 
the  Master,  in  the  day  and  age  in  which  we  live,  and  which  bears  the 
name  of  the  Son  of  God,  will  champion  his  cause  and  will  be  the 
defender  of  his  name,  and  his  mission  in  the  earth. 

God  grant  unto  us  power  to  appreciate  the  blessings  of  the  gospel 
that  have  come  into  our  lives.  He  has  spoken  from  the  heavens  and 
revealed  anew  the  plan  of  salvation,  and  blessed  is  that  man  and  thrice 
blessed  that  woman  into  whose  life  there  has  come  faith  in  these 
glorious  principles,  for  it  brings  peace  to  the  soul  that  surpasseth  under- 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


standing,  it  removes  doubt,  fear,  and  anxiety,  and  brings  a  satisfaction 
that  cannot  be  measured  in  words. 

May  God  add  his  blessings,  may  he  sanctify  unto  us  this  ser- 
vice; and  give  us  power  to  keep  his  commandments,  which  the  old 
prophet  declared  was  the  whole  duty  of  man,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang,  "The  Song  of  the  Redeemed,"  Jean  Robinson, 
Naoma  Thomas,  E.  Jenkinson  and  Harold  W.  Langton  in  the  quartette 
parts.    Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Lafayette  T.  Holbrook. 

SECOND  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

A  second  overflow  meeting  was  held  in  the  Assembly  Hall  at  2 
o'clock  p.  m.,  Sunday,  October  5,  1924. 

Elder  Charles  A.  Callis,  president  of  the  Southern  States  mission, 
presided. 

The  Seventeenth  ward  choir,  of  the  Salt  Lake  stake  of  Zion,  again 
furnished  the  singing. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "We  thank  .thee,  O  God,  for  a 
prophet." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Frank  Croft. 

A  soprano  solo  by  Barbara  Evans  Atwood  was  sung,  entitled,  "I 
Know  That  my  Redeemer  Liveth." 

ELDER  HILTON  A.  ROBERTSON 

Former  President  of  the  Japanese  Mission 

My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  it  is  with  a  great  deal  of  pleasure 
and  gratitude  in  my  heart  that  I  am  able  to  be  present  at  this  con- 
ference today,  this  being  the  first  time  that  I  have  had  the  opportunity 
of  attending  a  general  conference  in  Salt  Lake  City  for  three  years 
and  a-half.  While  I  am  happy  to  be  here  today  and  have  the  op- 
portunity (which  I  know  it  is)  of  speaking  to  you,  it  came  as  rather 
a  surprise  to  me. 

I  have  had  the  privilege,  together  with  my  wife,  of  spending  three 
years  and  a  half  in  the  land  of  the  rising  sun,  Japan.  In  that  time 
I  have  spent  some  of  the  most  happy  days  of  my  life.  I  have  gained 
a  stronger  testimony  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  than  I  ever  had 
before.  It  is  worth  more  to  me  than  all  in  this  world,  and  I  am 
happy  to  make  any  sacrifice  which  is  necessary  for  the  furtherance  of 
such  a  cause  throughout  the  world,  be  it  in  Japan  or  any  place  in  the 
world. 

I  thought  it  might  be  well,  inasmuch  as  the  Japanese  mission  has 
closed,  to  give  a  report  of  the  work  which  has  been  done  there  during 
the  past  three  years  and  a-half  and  to  tell  of  some  of  my  experiences, 


ELDER  HILTON  A.  ROBERTSON 


123 


through  the  earthquake,  which  happened  a  little  over  a  year  ago.  I 
have  only  fifteen  minutes,  so  I  will  rush  through  hurriedly  and  explain 
some  of  the  conditions  which  are  there. 

The  Japan  mission,  as  you  know,  was  opened  about  twenty-three 
years  ago,  in  1901.  In  that  length  of  time  there  have  been  eighty- 
eight  missionaries  spend  from  two  to  eleven  years.  Brother  Stimpson, 
formerly  president  of  the  Japan  mission,  as  I  understand,  has  spent 
eleven  years  in  that  land — at  that  time  about  one-third  of  the  years 
of  his  life.  Brother  Alma  O.  Taylor,  who,  together  with  the  first 
missionaries  to  that  land — President  Grant,  Brother  Horace  Ensign, 
Brother  Louis  Kelch,  spent,  if  I  remember  right,  something  like  nine 
years  in  that  land,  and  translated  the  Book  of  Mormon  into  the 
Japanese  language.  We  have  had  137  baptisms  in  that  length  of  time. 
Some  of  these  members  have  apostatized  from  the  Church,  some  of 
them  have  been  cut  off,  and  many  of  them  have  been  indifferent  to  the 
message  which  the  missionaries  have  revealed  to  them.  The  mission- 
aries were  united  in  feeling  that  the  Japanese  had  had  a  fair  chance 
of  hearing  the  gospel,  under  the  limited  number  of  elders  which  we  had 
present.  The  First  Presidency  felt  that  inasmuch  as  the  people  were 
anxious,  in  other  parts  of  the  world,  that  it  might  be  more  feasible  to 
withdraw  the  missionaries  from  that  land  and  take  them  to  other 
parts,  where  the  people  were  better  prepared  to  receive  the  message 
of  truth. 

Not  all  of  those  people  who  accepted  the  gospel  have  gone  back 
on  it ;  we  have  at  least  a  dozen  Saints  who  could  be  called  such.  Those 
people  are  very  desirous  of  continuing  with  the  work.  Their  hearts 
are  in  it,  just  as  yours  and  mine  are.  They  want  to  see  the  work 
progress.  They  want  to  do  all  they  possibly  can.  But  you  can  realize, 
as  did  the  missionaries  in  that  land,  that  the  thousands  of  dollars  which 
were  being  expended  could  be  better  utilized  in  other  lands,  and  the 
missionaries  must  be  withdrawn  until  that  people  is  better  prepared  to 
receive  the  gospel.  I  hope  that  some  time  in  the  future  the  people  of 
that  land  will  prepare  themselves  to  accept  the  gospel,  the  road,  the  only 
path  to  life  and  salvation. 

We  are  told  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  that  after  the  testi- 
mony of  the  servants  of  God,  earthquakes,  pestilence,  and  disease, 
etc.,  will  follow,  and  I  bear  testimony  to  you  folks,  to  the  brethren 
and  sisters  assembled  here  today,  that  those  things  have  taken  place 
in  that  land ;  I  have  seen  them.  On  the  first  day  of  September,  at 
two  minutes  to  12  o'clock  noon,  it  seemed  that  the  gates  of  hell  had 
swung  open  on  the  central  part  of  the  Island  of  Japan.  Within  ten 
minutes  after  the  elements  had  shaken  that  land,  fifty-four  fires  broke 
out.  Within  twenty  minutes,  seventy-six  fires  were  burning,  and  within 
forty-one,  eighty-eight  fires  were  burning.  Some  of  those  fires  con- 
tinued for  nearly  a  week. 

The  people,  in  fleeing  from  the  flames,  came  to  the  steel  bridges 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


(spanning  the  rivers  and  canals,  which  cut  through  the  heart  of  the  city  of 
Tokyo.  These  -bridges  were  destroyed  by  the  intense  flames.  People  tried 
to  make  their  escape  in  every  direction,  but  the  flames  came ;  the  heat, 
which  was  driven  by  a  terrific  wind,  made  them  frantic,  and  thousands 
of  them  jumped  into  the  rivers ;  they  rained  into  the  rivers  and  were 
swallowed  up.  There  was  one  spot  which  was  held  for  army  purposes, 
about  fifteen  acres.  This  was  vacant,  and  the  policemen  on  duty  di- 
rected those  people  to  go  in  there  for  protection.  They  took  with 
them  many  of  their  belongings  which  they  considered  precious.  These 
caught  fire.  After  the  flames  had  gone  down,  the  actual  count  was 
32,843  bodies ;  so  crowded  were  they  in  that  position  that  many  of 
them  were  still  standing. 

The  City  of  Yokahama,  which  has  a  population  of  about  600,000, 
was  entirely  destroyed.    Buildings  by  the  thousands  were  wiped  out. 

I  was  not  in  Tokyo  at  the  time  of  the  earthquake.  I  was  in  the 
southern  cities.  We  had  just  held  conference  in  a  city  in  the  northern 
part.  Our  elders  were  returning  home  from  that  conference  to  their 
assigned  fields  of  labor.  When  we  reached  Tokyo  from  the  north,  going 
to  the  south,  on  the  29th  day  of  August,  we  left  on  the  30th  day  ot 
August  for  the  southern  city.  On  the  first  day  of  September  the 
earthquake  came.  Had  we  been  one  day  slower  in  getting  to  our 
destination,  no  doubt  we  would  have  been  in  the.  earthquake.  Our 
missionaries  were  protected.  In  all  this  disaster,  which  covered  thou- 
sands of  square  miles,  not  one  of  our  Saints,  not  one  of  our  investi- 
gators, not  one  of  our  missionaries  was  injured.  Our  Church  building 
in  the  city  of  Tokyo  was  still  intact.  Plaster  and  some  of  the  tile 
from  the  roof  had  been  shaken  off,  but  other  than  this  our  mission 
property  was  safe  and  we  were  supplied  with  food.  This  to  me  was 
a  great  testimony.    God  will  protect  those  who  keep  holy  his  law. 

While  some  of  those  people  have  not  done  as  they  should,  in 
keeping  wholly  the  laws  of  God,  I  realize  that  he  is  thoughtful  of 
them,  and  knows  what  their  hearts  are.  It  is  hard  to  live  the  gospel 
in  a  foreign  land  such  as  the  Japanese  are  living  in.  Those  people  are 
not  bad  at  heart;  we  have  friends  there  whom  we  hold  just  as  dear  as 
any  we  have  in  this  land,  educated  people,  men  who  are  holding  high 
positions,  who  care  nothing  for  our  gospel,  yet  were  kind  to  us.  In 
all  our  missionary  work  we  were  not  mistreated.  If  you  went  to  the 
door  of  a  Japanese  home,  if  they  did  not  want  your  tract  they  would 
politely  tell  you  so.  We  received  no  persecution.  We  were  allowed 
the  privilege  of  standing  on  the  street  to  explain  the  gospel — on  street 
corners,  where  as  high  as  one  or  two  hundred  people  would  gather  to 
hear  the  message,  but  we  were  not  molested  in  the  least.  If  any  one 
undertook  to  disturb  the  meeting,  he  was  hissed  out.  And  so  the 
missionaries  who  are  returning  from  that  land,  although  the  gospel  is 
not  being  preached  there  now,  hold  many  of  the  Saints  and  friends  in 
high  esteem,  and  we  hope  that  the  time  will  speedily  come  when  those 


ELDER  HILTON  A.  ROBERTSON 


125 


people  will  wake  up  and  realize  the  condition  which  they  are  in.  They 
are  prospering  financially,  and  that  is  where  their  hearts  are  turned. 
We  hope  and  pray  that  those  people  will  realize  the  position  they  are 
in  before  it  is  too  late,  that  they  will  turn  to  the  gospel  message. 

I  am  happy  and  pleased  to  be  affiliated  with  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ.  To  put  it  as  our  late  President  Woodrow  Wilson  said,  "I  would 
sooner  be  engaged  in  a  cause  that  I  know  will  some  day  triumph,  than 
be  engaged  in  a  cause  which  will  some  day  fail."  And  this,  I  feel, 
is  our  position,  that  although  our  numbers  are  few  today,  we  shall  see 
the  time  when  truth  will  triumph  throughout  the  world,  and  that 
we  must  stand,  as  Bishop  .Nibley  said  this  morning,  as  guides  along 
the  highways  to  protect  those  tourists  who  are  seeking  for  truth,  who 
will  be  apt  to  accept  our  message.  I  hope  that  we  will  not  only  go 
as  guides,  but  also  be  tourists  and  be  willing  to  take  guidance  from 
those  who  understand  the  road  better  than  we,  who  have  seen  or  are 
able  to  see  into  the  future  farther  than  we,  who  have  studied  the  future 
and  know  what  disregard  for  the  laws  of  God  will  do  for  our  people. 

I  trust  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  may  realize  the  strength  of  their 
position  and  ever  be  found  willing  and  ready  and  doing  his  will,  and 
this  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY  Jr. 

President  of  the  Canadian  Mission 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters:  I  humbly  pray  that  during  the 
short  time  1  shall  be  upon  my  feet  I  may  be  in  possession  of  a  portion 
of  the  Spirit  of  our  heavenly  Father  and  at  the  same  time  have  your 
sustaining  faith  and  prayers.  I  appreciate  fully  the  great  responsibility 
that  rests  upon  one  who  is  called  upon  to  occupy  a  place  of  this  kind. 
This  responsibilty  is  being  felt  by  me  more  deeply  as  I  proclaim  the 
message  of  truth  to  the  nations  of  the  earth.  My  testimony  is  becoming 
stronger  as  I  meet  people  and  have  the  opportunity  of  explaining  to 
them,  to  the  best  of  my  ability,  what  this  great  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
means.  Indeed,  it  means  the  development  of  the  finest  and  best  there 
is  in  the  human  soul.  It  means,  when  properly  understood,  to  know 
God,  which  is  eternal  life,  and  eternal  life  is  the  greatest  of  all  gifts 
of  God  to  man.  I  am  glad  to  say  that  in  the  Canadian  mission  we  have 
a  corps  of  young  men  and  women  who  are  equipping  themselves  well 
in  defending,  proclaiming,  and  teaching  the  glorious  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Fathers  and  mothers  who  may  be  present  here  today  will  be 
pleased  to  know  that  there  is  not  a  single  one,  either  elder  or  sister 
missionary,  but  what  is  measuring  up  to  the  great  responsibility  that 
has  been  vouchsafed  to  them  in  carrying  this  message  of  truth  to  those 
who  are  honest  in  heart.  Their  attitude  is  splendid  and  their  testimony 
convincing,  and  in  many  instances,  penetrating. 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Our  mission  extends  from  Newfoundland,  on  the  east,  to  the 
province  of  Saskatchewan  on  the  west,  a  distance  of  about  thirty-four 
hundred  miles,  and  when  one  travels  over  that  distance  four  times  a 
year  it  requires  practically  ail  of  his  time;  however,  my  joy  has  come  in 
witnessing  the  development  and  growth  of  our  young  people,  knowing, 
as  they  do,  that  they  are  dealing  with  the  greatest  and  most  powerful 
thing  in  the  world,  for  this  gospel  of  the  Christ  deals  with  the  souls 
of  men.  I  believe  that  there  is  no  thought  that  is  so  sacred  and  great 
as  a  thought  of  God,  and  when  we  concentrate  upon  this  thought  there 
must  of  necessity  radiate  from  us  the  spirit  of  inspiration,  of  truth 
and  love,  all  of  which  gives  us  a  bigger  realization  of  the  great  power 
which  belongs  to  this  organization. 

The  outstanding  feature,  1  may  say,  of  our  mission,  this  year, 
was  the  visit  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  Elders  George  Albert  Smith, 
James  E.  Talmage  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  Bishop  David  A. 
Smith,  Levi  Edgar  Young,  of  the  Eirst  Council  of  Seventy,  and  Sis- 
ters Robinson  and  Taylor,  of  the  Relief  Society  organization.  We 
have  been  blessed  beyond  measure  in  having  President  Grant  and  these 
leaders  with  us.  They  left  their  impress  upon  the  people  of  that  land. 
I  particularly  call  to  mind  the  impressions  that  were  made  upon  the 
people  who  had  gathered  together  to  hear  President  Grant  and  his  part}'. 
They  are  still  talking  of  it.  President  Grant  took  for  one  of  his  sub- 
jects the  three  witnesses  to  the  Book  of  Mormon.  After  his  discourse 
we  were  unable  to  supply  the  number  who  wanted  to  receive  this 
sacred  volume.  I  believe  that  had  we  had  twice  the  number  of  Books  of 
Mormon  at  the  meeting  we  could  have  easily  disposed  of  them.  The 
visit  of  these  leaders  of  the  Church  was  an  epoch  in  the  history  of  the 
Canadian  mission. 

We  are  meeting  with  some  success  among  the  people  of  that 
country.  They  are  a  law-abiding  people.  If  you  were  there  today 
you  would  see  the  absence  of  moving  picture  shows,  the  absence  of 
moving  trains  (except  those  that  cross  the  continent)  on  Sunday — 
they  observe  the  Sabbath  day,  they  recognize  law  and  the  execution 
of  it,  they  are  a  fine  race  of  people,  and  I  am-  glad  that  I  have  the 
opportunity  of  laboring  among  them,  bearing  witness  of  the  divinity 
of  this  work  as  it  hais  come  to  us  through  the  instrumentality  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  never  tire  of  hearing  this  testimony  because 
I  believe  that  to  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God  is  the 
basis  upon  which  we  can  build  a  firm  and  a  substantial  testimony  that 
will  bring  us  in  close  touch  with  God  through  his  Holy  Spirit,  that  it 
may  continue  to  grow  and  develop  within  us.  To  have  a  testimony  of 
the  truth  of  Joseph  Smith's  vision  is  to  know  that  God  lives,  and  when 
that  testimony  is  born  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  there 
ovill  be  a  power  and  a  conviction  connected  with  it  that  will  bring 
souls  to  Christ,  and  bringing  souls  to  Christ  is  our  most  wonderful 
privilege. 

In  reading  the  statement  made  by  Josiah  Quincy  concerning  the 


ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY,  JR. 


127 


Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  I  am  impressed  with  the  wonderful  spirit  in 
which  it  is  written.    It  is  outstanding  and  full  of  power: 

"It  is  by  no  means  improbable  that  some  future  text  book  for  the  use  of 
generations  yet  unborn  will  contain  a  question  something  like  this,  What 
historical  American  has  exerted  the  most  powerful  influence  over  the 
destinies  of  his  countrymen?  And  it  is  by  no  means  impossible  that  the 
answer  to  that  interrogatory  may  be  thus  written,  Joseph  Smith  the  "Mor- 
mon' prophet.  And  the  reply,  absurd  as  it  doubtless  seems  to  most  men 
now  living,  may  be  an  obvious  commonplace  to  their  descendants.  History 
deals  in  surprises  and  paradoxes  quite  as  startling  as  this.  The  man  who 
established  a  religion  in  this  period  of  free  debate,  who  was  and  is  today 
accepted  by  hundreds  of  thousands  as  a  direct  emmisary  from  the  Most 
High,  such  a  rare  human  being  is  not  to  be  disposed  of  by  pelting  his 
memory  with  unsavory  epithets.  *  *  *  The  most  vital  questions  Ameri- 
cans are  asking  each  other  today  have  to  do  with  this  man  and  what  he 
has  left  us." 

I  have  wondered  as  I  have  studied  this  statement  why  it  was 
that  Mr.  Quincy  was  so  impressed  to  write  this  "pen  portrait"  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  along  with  those  of  other  great  Americans.  I 
have  wondered  why  it  was  that  he  was  so  impressed  with  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  and  why  it  was  that  lie  could  not  be  disposed  of  by 
pelting  his  memory  with  unsavory  epithets.  One  must  be  in  sympathy 
with  the  same  feelings  that  Mr.  Quincy  had  in  order  to  appreciate  fully 
the  statements  that  he  was  inspired  to  make  concerning  this  prophet  of 
God.  I  believe  that  you  will  with  me  conclude  that  this  was  an  un- 
usual statement  for  him  to  make,  but  let  us  not  forget  he  had  been 
in  company  with  a  prophet  of  God — one  who  had  seen  and  talked  with 
God  and  the  Christ  and.  subsequently,  other  heavenly  beings.  No 
doubt  when  the  prophet  unfolded  to  Mr.  Quincy  these  powerful  truths 
he  left  him  with  an  extraordinary  feeling  that  he  had  been  in  the 
presence  of  an  unusual  being,  and  his  judgment  was,  that  in  future 
years  this  prophet  would  in  all  probability  be  ai  greater  influence  on 
his  countrymen  than  any  other  American. 

This  is  a  significant  thing,  a  wonderful  statement  when  we  think 
of  it.  But  when  we  know  that  the  origin  of  this  great  latter-day  work 
had  its  beginning  with  this  great  manifestation,  to  say  nothing  of  the 
many  truths  that  Joseph  Smith  subsequently  introduced  into  the  world, 
we  indeed  have  something  that  is  worth  while — something  we  can  con- 
template seriously  as  Mr.  Quincy  contemplated  seriously  years  after 
the  martyrdom  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

Men  who  have  communed  with  God  in  the  ages  of  the  world,  or 
at  leaist  in  different  periods  of  the  world's  history,  stand  today,  and 
we  reverence  them,  as  prophets  and  are  actuated  in  our  lives  by  their 
teachings,  and  so  I  believe  that,  as  the  time  comes  and  goes,  the  name 
of  this  man  Joseph  Smith,  together  with  the  great  work  that  he 
accomplished  under  God  will  influence  men  throughout  the  civilizations 
of  the  world,  and  mankind  everywhere  will  be  able  to'  see  and  feel 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


this  work  as  it  is  unfolded  to  them,  because  it  is  the  pure  gospel  plan 
of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

There  was  another  statement  made,  concerning  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith,  by  Governor  Ford.  It  will  be  remembered  that  when 
Governor  Ford  wrote  the  history  of  Illinois  he  devoted  considerable 
space  to  the  history  of  the  "Mormon"  people.  There  is  a  great  con- 
trast in  spirit  at  least  between  the  statement  made  by  Josiah  Quincy 
and  that  of  Governor  Ford,  respecting  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  In- 
deed, they  are  not  comparable.  Mr.  Quincy  wrote  his  statement  because 
he  was  actuated  by  the  spirit  of  admiration,  a  spirit  that  caused  him 
to  see  in  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  an  instrument  establishing  a  won- 
derful truth  that  had  been  revealed  to  him,  indeed,  he  seemed  to  be 
overawed.  Upon  the  other  hand,  Governor  Ford  wrote  his  history, 
that  part  of  it,  at  least,  connected  with  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  with 
a  spirit  of  fear,  contemplating,  as  he  did,  what  might  happen  in  future 
generations.    Here  is  Governor  Ford's  statement: 

"It  is  to  be  feared  that  in  the  course  of  a  century,  some  gifted  man 
like  Paul,  some  splendid  orator,  who  will  be  able  by  his  eloquence  to  attract 
crowds  of  the  thousands  who  are  ever  ready  to  hear  and  be  carried  away 
by  the  'sounding  brass  and  the  tinkling  cymbal'  of  sparkling  oratory,  may 
command  a  hearing,  may  succeed  in  bringing  a  new  light  into  this  modern 
Mohamedanism,  and  make  the  name  of  the  martyred  Joseph  ring  as  loud 
and  stir  the  souls  of  men  as  much  as  the  mighty  name  of  Christ,  itself." 

I  siay  that  the  statements  of  these  two  men  are  not  comparable. 
It  will  be  observed  that  there  seemed  to  have  been  a  spirit  of  remorse 
come  over  Governor  Ford  in  writing  this  remarkable  .statement.  He, 
too,  knew  that  he  had  been  in  the  presence  of  an  unusual  being  or  he 
would  not  have  written  this  seemingly  prophetic  statement. 

It  must,  inevitably  be  that  this  prophet  of  God  will  arise  out  of 
the  mists  triumphantly  and  will  be  recognized  as  the  great  instrument 
through  which  God  operated  in  establishing  the  restored  gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  in  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  time. 

I  know,  as  I  proclaim  this  gospel  message  to  the  nations  of  the 
earth  with  the  spirit  of  humility,  that  I  can  feel  the  divinity  of  it.  It 
sinks  into  the  hearts  of  men  and  women,  and  as  a  result,  a  few  of  them 
at  least,  are  accepting  this  great  and  mighty  work  that  has  come  into 
the  world  in  this  dispensation  for  the  salvation  of  the  human  race. 

I  remember  most  distinctly  hearing  one  of  our  stalwart  converts 
say,  "When  I  heard  the  message  of  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet  it  was 
the  most  beautiful  thing  that  I  had  ever  heard  in  all  of  my  life.  It 
appealed  to  me,  and  as  I  investigated,  day  after  day  for  a  number  of 
years,  and  as  this  gospel  was  unfolded  to  me.  I  could  see  that  it  was 
necessary  for  such  a  personage  as  Joseph  Smith  to  be  chosen  of  God  in 
this  day  and  time  in  carrying  out  God's  divine  purposes.  I  felt  that 
the  time  had  come  for  the  fulfilment  of  that  prophecy  made  by  John 
the  Revelator,  "And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the  midst  of  heaven, 
having  the  everlasting  gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell  upon  the 


ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY,  JR. 


129 


earth,  and  to  every  nation,  and  kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people,  saying 
with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God,  and  give  glory  to  him ;  for  the  hour  of  his 
judgment  is  come:  and  worship  him  that  made  heaven,  and  earth,  and 
the  sea,  and  the  fountains  of  waters."  I  really  felt  that  there  should 
be  a  man  to  which  this  message  should  be  delivered,  one  who  would  be 
authorized  to  establish  God's  great  purposes  upon  the  earth.  Truth 
is  mighty.  No  truth  can  pass  away.  No  truth  can  perish;  though 
generations,  disappear,  it  finds  its  way  to  the  pedestal  where  it  belongs, 
and  sheds  its  rays  throughout  all  of  the  world. 

I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  beyond  my  power  to  say,  that 
I  have  been  counted  .worthy  to  proclaim  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
to  the  nations  of  the  earth.  I  rejoice  that  I  have  a  testimony  of  this 
work  burning  within  my  soul,  that  I  know  that  God  lives  and  that 
Jesus  Christ  is  his  Only  Begotten  Son,  the  author  of  our  salvation, 
the  institutor  of  the  plan  whereby  you  and  I  can  come  back,  by  yield- 
ing obedience  to  the  principles  that  are  in  that  plan,  into  the  presence 
of  God,  our  eternal  Father,  to  enjoy  immortality  and  eternal  life. 

I  do  humbly  pray  with  all  of  my  soul  that  God  will  strengthen  us 
in  this  land,  that  he  will  unite  his  people  in  the  bonds  of  love  and 
affection  that  we  may  have  our  lives  preserved  in  order  to  perpetuate, 
to  the  best  of  our  ability,  this  great  and  beautiful  work.  God  grant  that 
he  will  lead  and  direct  us  by  the  light  and  power  of  his  Spirit,  which 
Spirit  is  truth  and  love  and  which  is  the  thing  that  brings  into  our  souls 
eternal  joy.  May  we  stand  firm  and  true  to  the  covenants  we  have 
made,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Cast  thy  burdens  upon  the  Lord." 

ELDER   BRIGHAM   S.  YOUNG 

President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission 

While  I  shall  stand  before  you,  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends, 
I  hope  I  may  be  rid  of  the  man-fearing  spirit,  and  that  I  may  be 
guided  in  what  I  shall  say  by  the  spirit  of  the  brethren  who  have 
preceded  me  in  this  meeting,  and  the  great  spirit  of  this  conference. 
The  mightiest  thing  in  all  the  world,  brethren  and  sisters,  is  a  testi- 
mony of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  We,  your  brethren,  in 
our  weakness  have  been  appointed  to  take  charge  of  the  work  in  the 
various  missions  of  the  world,  and  you  have  sent  to  us  from  your 
households  the  dearest  possessions  of  your  hearts,  your  sons  and 
your  daughters.  And  we,  the  presidents  of  missions,  are  endeavoring 
to  implant  in  the  hearts  of  those  boys  and  girls  that  most  precious 
thing  in  all  the  world,  a  testimony  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  and  your  sons  and  daughters  are  receptive  to  that  testimony. 
They  come  to  us  sometimes  almost  ignorant,  in  their  knowledge  of 
the  things  of  the  gospel,  and  I  say  it  to  the  shame  of  the  households 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


from  which  they  come;  sometimes  they  come  to  us  from  households 
where  the  Word  of  Wisdom  is  not  observed;  they  come  to  us  from 
households  where  family  prayers  are  not  engaged  in;  they  come  to 
us  from  households  of  men  and  women  who  know  the  gospel  is  true, 
but  fail  in  their  duty  and  attendance  upon  it,  and  when  your  boys 
and  girls  come  home  to  you  they  will  be  a  reproach  to  you  if  you  have 
failed  in  observing  the  duties  that  have  given  them  that  testimony 
which  burns  in  their  hearts  like  a  living  flame,  if  you  have  failed  in  the 
things  they  have  been  taught  in  the  mission  fields.  We  may  think,  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  it  is  a  light  thing  to  have  a  testimony  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  but  it  is  not  so.  You  have  been  given  a  responsibility ;  this  people, 
bears  upon  its  shoulders  the  burden  of  proclaiming  the  message  of  salva- 
tion to  all  the  world.  Is  that  a  light  thing?  Let  us  look  into  our  own  souls, 
let  us  study  the  thing  that  has  been  given  to  us,  let  us  remember  we  must 
account  for  these  talents — and  a  testimony  is  one  of  the  most  precious  of 
them;  God  has  given  you  the  talent  of  a  testimony  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  you  must  render  account  for  your  possession  of  it.  Are 
you  bearing  it  in  the  earth?  If  you  are  not,  woe  to  you  when  you 
shall  be  arraigned  before  the  bar  of  God,  for  he  will  not  hold  you 
guiltless  for  the  great  heritage  that  has  descended  to  you  from  your 
fathers  and  that  God  has  given  you  that  you  may  keep  it  bright, 
that  you  may  increase  it,  that  you  may  render  to  him  ten-fold,  and  if 
this  responsibility  shall  be  neglected,  brethren  and  sisters,  woe  be  unto 
us. 

Your  boys  and  girls  are  laboring  faithfully  in  the  mission  field. 
They  have  the  spirit  of  their  mission.  They  are  endeavoring  to  search 
out  the  honest.  They  go  from  door  to  door.  They  are  met  with  re- 
buffs and  insults;  sometimes  they  are  turned  away  with  violence,  but 
that  makes  no  difference,  they  continue  with  a  smile  upon  their  lips, 
and  light  in  their  hearts,  and  a  prayer  to  God  that  he  will  help  them 
to  be  successful  where  hitherto  they  have  failed.  When  they  come 
to  us  in  the  missions,  they  find  themselves  confronted  with  this  great 
question,  "Is  or  is  this  not  what  it  purports  to  be?  Is  this  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  or  is  it  a  myth  that  has  been  woven  from  the  vain 
imaginations  of  men?"  And  they  learn,  because  they  have  had  the 
seed  planted  in  their  hearts  and  it  springs  into  being  in  the  soil  in 
which  it  has  been  planted,  and  by  the  watering,  the  rains  and  the 
suns,  the  clouds,  and  the  storms ;  that  seed  germinates  and  bears  fruit 
in  the  work  those  boys  and  girls  are  performing,  and  they  are  a  re- 
buke in  some  instances  to  the  households  from  which  they  came. 
They  learn  that  the  authority  to  administer  the  ordinances  of  this 
gospel  is  in  the  Church.  They  learn  that  God  has  delegated  again 
to  men  the  authority  to  speak  in  his  name.  They  learn  that  these  men 
"who  occupy  positions  of  prominence  and  leadership  in  this  Church  are 
veritably  the  leaders  of  the  Church  of  the  living  God,  that  these  are 
his  prophets,  that  these  are  his  inspired  servants,  and  you  will  hear 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  S.  YOUNG 


131 


them  plead  in  the  most  beautiful  of  prayers  that  God  will  strengthen, 
keep  in  health,  and  bless  always  the  prophet  of  God,  Heber  J.  Grant. 
My  heart  is  softened,  it  is  melted  beyond  description  to  hear  the  wonder- 
ful,- the  beautiful,  the  touching,  illuminating,  melting  testimonies  of 
these  boys  and  girls.  They  learn,  that  as  compared  with  the  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  these  other  institutions  called  churches  are 
merely  houses  of  cards,  that  to  touch  is  to  see  them  crumble.  They 
learn  just  as  the  scriptures  teach  us,  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
always  has,  always  will  have  in  it  the  authority  to  administer  in  the 
ordinances  of  God.  They  read  in  the  scripture  that  on  a  certain 
occasion  the  Lord  said  to  his  disciples,  "Who  do  men  say  that  I  am?" 
and  some  said,  "O,  they  say  you  are  one  of  the  prophets ;  some  say 
you  are  John  the  Baptist,  risen  from  the  dead."  "Peter,  who  sayest 
thou  that  I  am?"  "I  say  thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living 
God."  Blessed  art  thou,  Peter,  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  revealed 
that  unto  thee  but  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven;  and  I  will  give 
unto  you,  Peter,  the  keys  of  the  kingdom,  that  whatsoever  thou  bindest 
on  earth  shall  be  bound  in  heaven  and  whatsoever  thou  loosest  on 
earth  shall  be  loosed  in  heaven.  If  these  churches  which  profess  to 
be  the  churches  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  are  the  Church  of  Christ, 
where  is  this  authority  that  one  time  existed  in  the  Church  of  Christ? 
These  boys  and  girls  call  their  attention  to  this  significant  and  over- 
powering fact :  If  you  have,  and  are  the  Church  of  Jesus  Chirst, 
where  is  its  authority?  The  Lord  said  to  Peter,  Whatsoever  thou 
bindest  on  earth  shall  be  bound  in  heaven,  and  whatsoever  thou  loosest 
on  earth  shall  be  loosed  in  heaven ;  your  priests,  your  ministers,  your 
pastors  who  officiate  in  your  pulpits  and  churches,  when  they  marry 
a  couple,  say,  I  pronounce  you  man  and  wife  until  death  do  you  part, 
and  under  that  contract,  that  association  ceases  when  the  grave  opens 
it,s  portals  to  either  the  husband  or  the  wife,  but  if  they  had  the  power 
that  Peter  possessed,  why  should  death  separate  men  and  women,  hus- 
bands and  wives,  fathers  and  mothers,  parents  and  children?  If  they 
have  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  they  have  the  right  to  bind  on  the 
earth  and  it  will  be  bound  in  heaven.  Why  don't  you  exercise  your 
authority,  if  you  have  it?  You  say  you  are  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ; 
where  is  this  authority  that  Christ  gave  Peter?  Why  do  you  say  that 
death  separates  and  forever  terminates  ?  So  far  as  we  know,  according 
to  the  scriptures  at  least,  these  obligations  that  are  formed  by  men  and 
women  in  the  marriage  contract — the  most  important  contract  in  all  the 
earth !  That  is  what  your  boys  and  girls  are  learning.  They  are 
learning  that  the  authority  to  administer  in  the  ordinances  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  for  his  Church  is  here  in  the  earth.  They  testify  of  it. 
It  is  borne  in  upon  their  souls,  and  they  know  that  God  has  again 
spoken  to  the  world. 

We  do  not  depend  alone  upon  the  testimony  of  these  boys  and 
girls  to  convince  us  that  this  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  The 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


world  itself  is  bearing  testimony  to  this  fact.  I  met  a  man  the  other 
day  in  Portland,  a  learned  doctor,  a  man  who  had  been  educated 
in  the  universities  of  Germany.  He  said  to  me,  after  learning  that 
I  was  a  "Mormon,"  "Mr.  Young,  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  is  one  of  the  greatest  churches  in  the  world; 
in  the  East  we  have  Mohammedanism,  and  Buddhism.  I,  myself," 
said  he,  "am  a  Theosophist.  In  the  West  we  have  the  great  Roman 
Catholic  church  and  the  'Mormon'  Church.  These  are  the  great 
churches  of  the  world,  and  sometime  the  'Mormon'  Church  is  going 
to  occupy  a  place  in  the  world  that  the  world  has  not  yet  accorded  it." 
That  comes  from  a  man  who  is  a  student  of  religion,  although  not  a 
member  of  our  Church,  not  a  believer  in  the  truth  as  we  teach  it  or 
as  it  has  been  revealed,  but  an  observer  who  sees  things,  a  man  of  vision, 
a  thinker,  a  philosopher,  a  deep  student  of  the  affairs  of  men. 

A  short  time  ago  I  attended  a  lecture  in  Portland  of  a  great 
judge,  who  came  from  the  East,  the  chief  criminal  judge  of  Chicago. 
He  was  lecturing  on  crime  and  its  effect  on  American  society.  He 
deprecated  the  fact  that  we  are  having  in  America  so  few  families.  He 
referred  with  great  pride  to  one  of  the  kings  of  his  former  country 
(for  he  was  a  Norwegian)  who  had  a  family  of  twenty-five  sons, 
another  one  had  a  family  of  eighteen  sons ;  another  had  a  family  of 
fifteen  sons.  "We  have  no  such  families,"  he  said,  "in  this  day;  we 
have  no  such  domestic  conditions  as  existed  in  those  days;  husbands 
and  wives  today  are  not  what  they  were  then,  when  men  and  women 
understood  not  only  the  necessity  but  the  great  joy  of  having  families." 
That  was  among  the  themes  that  he  developed  in  the  subject  which 
he  treated.  At  the  close  of  his  address,  and  he  had  been  introduced 
very  eloquently  and  exhaustively  by  one  of  Portland's  chief  attorneys, 
I  made  my  way  to  the  rostrum,  and  as  soon  as  I  could  get  his  attention 
with  one  hand  I  presented  my  card,  with  the  the  other  the  opportunity 
for  him  to  shake  hands  with  me.  He  grasped  my  hand  with  his  right 
hand,  and  took  my  card  with  his  left  hand,  and  holding  it  up,  he  read, 
"Brigham  S.  Young."  O,  and  he  read  it  aloud.  And  you  could  see 
the  bobbed  hair  and  the  skull  caps  just  raise,  for  their  ears  pricked  up 
as  high  as  they  would  go.    "Brigham  Young?" 

"Yes,  sir." 

"Any  relation  to  the  great  Brigham  Young  of  Utah?" 

"Yes,  sir;  I  have  the  honor  to  be  one  of  his  grandsons." 

"Do  you  know,"  said  he,  "Mr.  Young,  that  science  is  proving 
that  the  product  of  the  'Mormon'  families  in  Utah  are  among  the 
soundest  people  we  have  in  America?" 

I  said,  "Thank  you,  judge." 

I  am  glad  and  thankful  and  meekly  grateful  that  I  have  had 
the  opportunity  of  going  into  the  world  with  your  boys  and  girls. 
Blessed  be  the  parents  that  have  borne  such  boys  and  girls!  And  the 
opportunity  to  labor  with  those  young  men  and  women  has  been  the 


ELDER  B  RICH  AM  S.  YOUNG 


133 


most  glorious  thing  in  all  my  life,  and  I  am  grateful  to  God  for  the 
opportunity  that  he  has  given  me  to  proclaim  his  word  in  the  world 
in  the  company  of  such  blessed  souls  as  you  have  sent  us.  Live  up 
to  the  standards  of  these  missionaries,  brethren  and  sisters,  for  it  is 
a  high  standard,  an  exalted  standard,  and  if  you  measure  up  to  their 
excellence  you  will  be  discharging  the  duties  of  Latter-day  Saints 
and  you  will  not  have  buried  the  talent  that  God  has  given  you,  but 
you  will  present  it  to  him  glorious  and  beautiful  when  you  shall  stand 
before  the  bar  of  God. 

And  that  we  may  be  faithful,  that  we  may  sense  these  responsi- 
bilities, that  we  may  measure  up  to  these  boys  and  girls  of  ours,  I 
humbly  ask  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

A  duet,  "An  angel  from  on  high,"  was  sung  by  Jean  Robinson  and 
Hyrum  J.  Christensen  and  the  choir. 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission 

I  desire,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  enjoy  a  portion  of  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  while  I  speak  to  you.  In  the  Book  of  Mormon  the  great 
truth  is  declared  that  when  a  man  speaketh  by  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  by  that  power  are  his  words  carried  into  the  hearts  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men,  and  without  that  power  the  preacher  is  as  sounding  brass 
and  a  tinkling  cymbal. 

When  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  some  few  years  ago,  was  in  a 
great  southern  city,  a  minister  invited  him  to  speak  to  his  congregation 
in  his  church.  The  President  accepted  the  invitation,  and  at  the  close 
of  his  remarks  the  minister  said,  "Mr.  Grant,  I  wish  that  I  had  your 
earnestness,  your  faith,  and  your  testimony."  It  seemed  to  me  that  that 
minister  voiced  the  yearning  that  is  in  the  souls  of  millions  of  world- 
weary  people — the  yearning  to  know  for  themselves  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  the  son  of  the  living  God.    This  testimony : 

"Doth  not  spring  from  earthly  soil, 

Nor  from  its  wisdom  grow; 
"lis  not  evoked  by  students'  toil 

Though  years  hath  crowned  with  snow." 

This  living,  personal  testimony  of  the  Holy  Ghost  comes  through 
obedience,  through  faith,  repentance,  and  baptism  by  immersion  for 
the  remission  of  sins.  Then  upon  the  converted  soul  is  bestowed  the 
Holy  Ghost,  which  gives  that  soul  a  personal  testimony  that  this  is  the 
work  of  God,  and  against  which  testimony  the  Savior  said  the  gates 
of  hell  shall  never  prevail.  This  people  are  not  priestridden ;  they  are 
not  led  around  by  priests  who  aspire  simply  to  be  leaders.  This  peo- 
ple have  the  testimony  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  as  the  sheep  know  the 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


voice  of  the  shepherd,  so  we  know  that  these  God-given  leaders  are 
led  by  divine  revelation,  and  when  they  speak,  the  spirit  within  us 
answers  to  the  spirit  within  them,  and  we  rejoice  in  having  the  counsel 
and  instructions  of  our  spiritual  overseers. 

The  poet,  Parley  P.  Pratt,  said  in  one  of  his  hymns: 

"The  morning  breaks,  the  shadows  flee; 
Lo!  Zion's  standard  is  unfurled. 

The  dawning  of  a  brighter  day- 
Majestic  rises  on  the  world. 

The  clouds  of  error  disappear 
Before  the  rays  of  truth  divine." 

The  prophet  Isaiah  predicted  the  dawning  of  a  brighter  da}'.  Pie 
declared  that  the  time  would  come  when  people  "shall  beat  their  swords 
into  plowshares,  and  their  spears  into'  pruning  hooks ;  nation  shall  not 
lift  up  sword  against  nation,  neither  shall  they  learn  war  any  more." 
I  know  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  was  sent  into  the  world  to  pre- 
pare the  way  for  the  glorious  second  coming  of  the  Son  of  God.  I 
know  it  is  the  mission  of  this  Church  to  preach  the  gospel  to  prepare 
the  way  of  the  Reedemer  of  Israel  to  come  and  reign  as  King  of 
kings  and  Lord  of  lords.  And  I  bear  my  humble  testimony  to  you  that 
this  gospel  is  spreading  abroad,  that  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men 
are  being  prepared  for  the  millennial  dawn,  and  the  glorious  advent  of 
the  Son  of  God  will  come  in  the  due  time  of  the  Father,  for  the  signs  to 
precede  his  coming  are  in  the  earth. 

A  few  months  ago  I  was  in  Norfolk,  Virginia.  I  went  through 
the  navy  yards  accompanied  by  an  officer  who  had  joined  the  Church. 
I  saw  a  mighty  battleship  that  had  never  been  completed,  and  yet 
workmen  were  taking  it  to  pieces.  That  battleship  had  cost  several 
millions  of  dollars,  but  when  President  Harding  called  the  disarmament 
conference  and  a  limitation  of  armament  was  agreed  upon,  this  majestic 
man  of  war  was  doomed  to  destruction.  Huge  pieces  of  steel  were 
lifted  out  of  the  battleship,  and  that  steel  was  bought  by  a  company 
to  be  used  in  the  manufacture  of  agricultural  implements  and  tools 
of  husbandry.  Really,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  could  not  help  but  feel 
that  that  was  a  beginning  of  the  fulfilment  of  the  prophecy  that  swords 
should  be  beaten  into  plowshares  and  spears  into  pruning  hooks.  The 
poet  Tennyson,  in  one  of  his  poems  said : 

"For  I  dipped  into  the  future, 

Far  as  human  eye  could  see, 
Saw  the  vision  of  the  world, 

And  all  the  wonder  that  would  be; 

Saw  the  heavens  fill  with  commerce, 

Argosies  of  magic  sails, 
Pilots  of  the  purple  twilight, 

Dropping  down  with  costly  bales; 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


13b 


*    *    *    And  there  rain'd  a  ghastly  dew 
From  the  nations'  airy  navies 
Grappling  in  the  central  blue." 

A  few  weeks  ago  near  Athens,  Georgia,  ten  thousand  people  as- 
sembled to  witness  a  remarkable  demonstration.  The  United  States 
senators  from  Georgia,  the  governor  of  the  state,  and  other  state  of- 
ficials were  there.  And  what  was  this  demonstration?  It  was  a 
demonstration  that  "Peace  hath  her  victories  no  less  renowned  than 
W  ar."  Over  the  cotton  fields,  acres  and  acres  of  cotton  fields,  there 
flew  airplanes,  machines  that  had  been  built  for  the  purposes  of  des- 
truction, and  these  airplanes  did  rain  a  "ghastly  dew"  over  the  cotton 
fields ;  they  dusted  calcium  arsenate,  a  deadly  poison,  to  destroy  the 
boll  weevil  which  has  cost  the  farmers  so  much,  by  destroying  and 
bringing  about  a  shortage  of  the  cotton  crop.  And  so  the  Lord  is  in- 
clining the  hearts  of  his  sons  to  invent  machines  to  assist  in  the  noble 
art  of  agriculture. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  raised  up  by 
the  Lord  as  the  herald  of  Christ's  second  coming,  to  preach  the  ever- 
lasting gospel.   In  one  of  our  hymns  we  read  these  lines; 

"We  through  the  Holy  Ghost 
Can  witness  better  things." 

What  better  things  do  the  Latter-day  Saints  witness?  First  of 
all,  we  witness  the  restoration  of  the  glorious  gospel  for  the  salvation 
of  the  children  of  men.  We,  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  know  that  that 
restoration  hath  taken  place.  By  the  same  power  we  know  that  Joseph 
Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God,  that  upon  him  was  bestowed  the  holy 
Melchizedek  Priesthood,  and  because  of  this  we  witness  the  salvation 
of  the  dead  in  the  sacred  temples  which  dot  this  intermountain  coun- 
try. By  the  same  power  we  know  the  glories  of  the  resurrection, 
that  when  Jesus  comes  in  his  glory  the  righteous  dead  are  going  to 
be  resurrected  and  the  glorious  millennium  will  be  inaugurated.  These 
are  some  of  the  better  things  we  witness  through  the  Holy  Ghost.  But 
far  above  all  these  things — because  these  things  are  dependent  on  the 
Savior — we  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  Let  the  world  say  what 
they  will — that  Jesus  is  not  divine,  that  his  blood  did  not  atone  for 
the  sins  of  mankind,  that  he  did  not  bring  about  the  resurrection ;  we 
know,  we  witness,  we  testify  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  the  Redeemer  of  man- 
kind, and  the  author  of  our  eternal  salvation.  Who  would  not  be  a 
Latter-day  Saint?  "To  whom  shall  we  go?"  said  Peter,  "thou  hast 
the  words  of  eternal  life."  The  words  of  eternal  life  are  in  the  glorious 
gospel  and  the  power  to  officiate  for  the  living  and  for  the  dead,  thank 
God,  is  held  by  the  men  who  lead  and  guide  this  people. 

A  few  months  ago  I  was  in  a  town  in  Kentucky,  attending  a  con- 
ference.  One  of  our  brethren  held  a  position  at  the  waterworks  of  that 


136 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


city.    I  said  to  him,  "I  would  like  to  go  through  the  plant  and  see 
how  you  purify  this  water." 
"Come  along,"  he  said. 

I  saw  the  great  settling  vats,  into  which  the  muddy  water  of 
the  Ohio  river  was  poured,  and  I  saw  a  vat  containing  muddy  water 
and  another  vat  containing  clear  water. 

"Now,"  I  said,  "Brother,  I  can  see  that  this  water  is  clear,  but 
a  hundred  Ohio  cities  empty  their  filth  into  this  river;  though  the 
water  be  clear,  there  may  be  germs  in  it.    How  do  you  kill  the  germs?" 

"Come  and  see,"  he  replied,  and  so  I  went  into  a  great  under- 
ground chamber  and  saw  the  huge  pipes  which  conveyed  the  water  to 
the  city  mains,  and  at  distances  of  about  four  or  five  feet  I  beheld 
doors  which  opened  into  cavities  in  these  great  pipes.  He  opened  one 
of  the  doors,  and  a  flood  of  light  came  out.  He  said,  "This  light 
is  the  ultra-violet  ray,  a  powerful,  penetrating  light.  When  the  water 
passes  over  this  light,  the  germs  are  killed  and  the  water  is  rendered 
fit  and  pure  to  drink."  What  a  lesson!  When  men  and  women  are 
baptized,  they  receive  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  this  sanctifying  baptism  cf 
the  Holy  Ghost,  that  baptism  likened  unto  fire,  does  cleanse  the  soul ; 
it  kills  the  germs  of  sin,  it  makes  people  who  love  God  and  keep  his 
commandments  fit  subjects  to  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven ;  for 
I  testify  and  declare  unto  you  that  this  gospel  is  pure,  that  it  purifies 
those  who  live  it,  and  without  the  gospel  no  man  can  ever  be  pure 
and  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God.  "But  if  we  walk  in  the  light,  as  he  is 
in  the  light,  we  have  fellowship  one  with  another,  and  the  blood  of 
Jesus  Christ  his  Son  cleanseth  us  from  all  sin."  So,  through  faith, 
repentance,  baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  the 
laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  blood  of  Jesus 
Christ  sanctifies  us  and  saves  us,  makes  us  fellow-citizens  in  the  house- 
hold of  God.   The  Lord  be  praised. 

Centuries  ago  Elisha  said  to  the  Lord,  "I  pray  thee  let  a  double 
portion  of  thy  Spirit  to  be  upon  me."  This  is  the  Spirit  that  gives  vision, 
the  Spirit  that  shows  the  things  of  God  unto  man.  And  so,  Latter- 
day  Saints,  with  you,  I  fervently  and  humbly  pray,  "Lord,  give  us  a 
double  portion  of  thy  Spirit,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,"  Amen. 

The  authorities  were  presented  as  in  the  Tabernacle  and  unani- 
mously sustained. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "The  Restored  Gospel." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  W.  H.  Branch,  of  the  Sum- 
mit stake  of  Zion. 


CLOSING  SESSION 


The  closing  session  of  the  conference  was  held  in  the  Tahernacle 
on  Sunday  afternoon,  October  5,  1924,  at  2  o'clock. 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  choir  sang  Evan  Stephen's  anthem  entitled,  "Hosannah,"  which 
was  first  sung  at  the  dedication  of  the  Salt  Lake  temple.  The  con- 
gregation joined  in  singing  the  verses  of  the  hymn,  "The  Spirit  of  God 
like  a  fire  is  burning,"  included  in  the  anthem. 

President  Grant  announced  that  the  Barratt  Hall  had  been  con- 
nected by  radio  and  would  accomodate  a  large  number  of  people. 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder  Thomas  E.  McKay,  president 
of  the  Ogden  stake  of  Zion. 

A  male  quartette  sang,  "The  Lord's  Prayer."  The  members  of  the 
quartette  were :  August  and  Henry  Glissmeyer,  Cannon  Lund  and 
Hyrum  Christianson. 

PRESIDENT   HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  have  a  message  from  the  radio  operator  in  President  Penrose's 
room.  President  Penrose  heard  all  of  the  proceedings  this  morning, 
most  of  it  as  perfectly  as  if  he  were  here  on  the  stand.  He  was  very 
grateful  in  listening  to  one  verse  of  his  own  remarkable  and  wonderful 
song,  "School  thy  feelings,"  and  tears  of  gratitude  filled  his  eyes, 
while  listening  to  this,  that  he  could  enjoy  the  spirit  and  inspiration  of 
our  meeting  almost  as  perfectly  as  if  he  had  been  here  upon  the  stand. 
Certainly,  one  of  the  most  marvelous,  if  not  the  most  marvelous,  in- 
ventions to  date  is  radio. 

President  Penrose  wishes  the  Saints  to  know  that  his  testimony  is 
as  profound  and  strong  as  it  was  when  he  first  embraced  the  gospel, 
in  1850. 

Brother  George  Albert  Smith  has  visited  President .  Penrose,  dur- 
ing the  intermission,  and  brings  this  message  from  him.  He  wishes  to 
bear  his  testimony  to  this  audience  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Re- 
deemer and  Savior  of  the  world  of  mankind,  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a 
prophet  of  God,  that  his  successors  are  servants  of  the  Lord,  and  that 
his  Church  is  divine  and  led  by  inspiration.  He  is  grateful  for  mem- 
bership therein.    He  sends  love  and  greetings  to  all  Israel. 

ELDER  JAMES   E.  TALMAGE 

PROGRESS  AND  SPIRIT  OF  MISSIONARY  WORK 

In  the  front  row  of  chairs  facing  this  great  stand,  with  its  series 
of  pulpits,  I  see  a  body  of  men  each  of  whom  has  been  called  to  a  very 
responsible  position  in  the  Church.    They  are  the  presidents  of  mis- 


138 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


sions.  We  have  been  privileged  to  hear  from  a  few  of  them,  as  also 
from  two  others,  they  being  members  of  the  First  Council  of  the 
Seventy,  as  well  as  mission  presidents  for  the  time  being.  These  men 
are  the  directing  officers  in  the  army  of  missionaries  laboring  in  the 
world.  The  report  you  have  heard  from  them,  and  such  as  you  hear 
from  conference  to  conference,  and  the  many  individual  reports  you 
receive  from  your  sons,  your  daughters,  your  husbands,  who  are  mem- 
bers of  this  army,  bear  witness  to  you  that  the  missionary  work  is 
progressing  as  well  as  it  ever  has  been  progressing  and  possibly  better 
than  in  any  earlier  time. 

The  vicissitudes  of  the  recent  years  of  warfare  have  brought 
many  people  to  a  state  of  reflection.  Many  who  have  been  careless 
and  indifferent  have  been  led  to  consider  what  this  life  means  in  relation 
to  the  life  that  lies  beyond.  Many  whose  ears  have  been  dull  are  now 
listening  intently  for  the  radio  message  that  shall  satisfy  them ;  and 
it  comes  sometimes  in  a  very  unexpected  way,  and  by  unlooked  for 
means.  This,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  would 
not,  could  not  be  what  it  is  were  it  not  for  our  missionary  system. 
Nearly,  or  quite  two  thousand  missionaries  are  now  in  the  field,  as 
you  were  told  this  morning,  and  many  are  going  and  some  few  re- 
turning. I  may  s'ay  continuously.  Scarcely  a  week  passes  unmarked 
by  the  setting  apart  of  a  new  company  of  missionaries,  who  go  out 
commissioned  to  preach  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  the  nations  of 
the  earth. 

I  am  well  aware  of  the  fact  that  some  people  take  a  little  umbrage 
at  what  they  think  is  presumption  on  our  part  in  sending  missionaries 
amongst  them.  They  think  that  we  should  labor  as  some  of  the 
churches  of  the  day  labor,  amongst  the  semi-civilized  people  of  heathen 
nations,  who  have  not  come  yet  to  recognize  a  knowledge  of  the  Lord 
and  Savior  of  men.  We  send  our  missionaries  not  only  to  such,  but 
also  to  those  who  count  themselves  enlightened  Christians.  Our  mis- 
sionaries go  with  a  message,  not  with  a  command.  They  go  in  the 
spirit  of  persuasion,  asking  only  a  hearing,  a  respectful  hearing;  for 
they  have  something  of  worth  to  present.  Our  missionary  system 
would  scarcely  be  justified  had  we  nothing  definite  to  present,  nothing 
mlore  than  minor  differences  in  ritual  or  creed  such  as  distinguishes 
some  of  the  great  denominations  of  the  day.  I  would  not  blame  people 
becoming  impatient  over  such  relative  trifles ;  but  we  have  something 
that  can  be  found  amongst  no  other  people  upon  the  face  of  the  earth. 
This  is  no  instance  of  group  egotism,  it  is  a  solemn  fact. 

We  proclaim  not  only  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  foreordained  and 
actual  Savior  of  the  race;  not  only  that,  but  we  proclaim  that  no 
ordinance  of  salvation  can  be  authoritatively  administered  except  un- 
der his  commission,  and  that  that  commission  is  definite  and  personal. 
Hence  these  men,  young,  middle  aged,  sometimes  aged,  and  in  smaller 
number  these  women,  go  out  to  the  world  with  a  proclamation  that  in 
this  day  and  age,  strictly  in  accordance  with  the  predictions  of  ancient 


'   ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


139 


prophets  and  with  the  word  of  the  Lord  Christ  himself,  while  he  was 
in  the  flesh,  he  has  again  spoken,  and  is  speaking  from  the  heavens, 
directing  the  affairs  of  the  Church  that  bears  his  name,  the  name 
given  by  him.,  not  taken  by  any  human  assumption,  but  conferred  and 
bestowed  authoritatively.  We  do  not  send  missionaries  out  to  assail 
or  attack  members  of  other  churches,  or  the  sects  and  denominations 
as  organized  bodies.  We  send  them  out  to  preach  the  positive  doc- 
trine of  the  restored  gospel,  which  is  the  doctrine  of  the  ancient  gos- 
pel, speaking  thus  of  the  gospel  according  to  the  period  of  its  preach- 
ing upon  the  earth.  We  are  remarkable  as  a  people  for  this  missionary 
work. 

TWO  CHARACTERISTIC  FEATURES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

There  comes  to  my  mind  at  the  moment  a  conversation  between 
a  bishop  of  one  of  the  big  churches  of  the  day  and  myself,  dating  a  few 
years  back.  He  had  given  some  study  to  the  plan  of  organization  and 
operation  of  this  Church,  and  said  to  me:  "There  are  two  features 
characterizing  your  Church  that  I  would  very  much  like  to  see  in- 
troduced into  ours."  I  said  to  him:  "Bishop,  I  know  what  they  are, 
but  I  should  like  to  have  the  pleasure  of  hearing  you  specify  them." 
In  the  same  spirit  of  good  will  and  fellowship  he  retorted :  "Well 
now,  honor  bright,  I  will  tell  you  whether  you  are  right  or  wrong  if 
you  will  tell  me  which  two  I  have  in  mind."  I  said :  "They  are  our 
missionary  system  and  our  tithing  system."  "You  are  right."  "Well 
now  bishop,  why  don't  you  introduce  them  into  your  church  if  you 
are  so  desirous  of  having  them  as  features  of  your  organization?" 
"Well,"  he  said,  "frankly  speaking,  I  don't  know.  I  can  see  some 
difficulties,  but  they  are  small,  I  think  they  could  be  removed.  Yet 
beyond  these  there  appears  to  me  to  be  some  great  obstacle."  "Surely," 
said  I,  "there  is.  May  I  express  my  opinion  as  to  the  reason  why 
your  great  church  has  not  introduced  these  features? 

THE  TITHING  SYSTEM 

"You  cannot  introduce  and  operate  the  tithing  system  successfully, 
for  the  tithe  is  holy,  and  none  but  men  who  bear  the.  holy  Priesthood 
in  fact  and  not  by  name  only  can  touch  it.  The  handling  of  the  tithe 
has  been  provided  for  in  the  law  revealed  from  the  heavens.  It  was 
so  in  the  days  of  ancient  Israel.  It  is  so  today,  and,  Bishop,  from 
what  you  have  already  admitted  in  our  conversation — which  to'  me  has 
been  very  interesting — you  know  that  you  haven't  a  single  priest  or 
even  a  Levite  in  your  church  who  can  touch  the  tithe  with  authority." 
Well,  we  passed  on  to  the  other  feature: 

THE  WONDERFUL  MISSIONARY   SYSTEM   OF  THE  CHURCH 

"Why  can't  we  have  your  missionary  system?" 
"Because,  bishop,  if  you  tried  to  introduce  it  the  first  thing  you 
would  do  would  be  to  make  up  a  salary  schedule,  so  much  for  the  pre- 


140 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


siding  officers  and  so  much  for  the  traveling  ministers;  and  in  the 
second  place  the  men  and  women  of  your  church  would  not  respond 
if  you  called  them.    You  know  that." 

I  went  on  and  addressed  him  as  I  am  speaking  now  to  you :  Do 
you  think  for  a  moment  that  the  thousands  and  thousands  of  young 
missionaries,  who  have  gone  out  and  come  home  filled  with  the  spirit 
of  their  work,  would  ever  have  put  their  energy  into  that  labor  if  they 
were  working  for  wage,  such  wage  as  men  count  in  the  terms  that 
bankers  use?  Do  you  think  it  for  a  moment?  We  take  our  young 
men  and  young  women  from  comfortable  up-to-date  homes,  provided 
with  the  conveniences  of  modern  life,  and  send  them  out,  perhaps  into 
the  woods  of  the  south  where  they  have  to  put  up  with  what  would 
be  called  rather  rough  fare,  and  rather  inadequate  accommodations. 
They  smile  at  it  all  and  rejoice  in  the  experience  and  work  all  the 
harder.  I  know  it,  I  have  been  amongst  them.  I  have  been  with 
every  one  of  these  worthy  men  to  whom  I  have  referred,  in  their 
respective  fields,  I  have  traveled  with  many  of  them  throughout  the 
length  'and  breadth  of  their  missions.  I  have  met  the  elders  in  little 
branches  and  conferences,  and  on  their  individual  circuits ;  have  met 
them  in  the  woods,  have  met  them  in  the  mountains,  have  met  them 
in  the  towns  and  on  the  highways  and  the  byways.  I  have  felt  of 
their  spirit,  and  I  find  there  a  spirit  that  no  man  can  ever  develop  from 
the  incentive  of  money  wage. 

Our  missionary  system  is  operated  as  the  Lord  has  directed.  These 
men  and  women  go  out  trusting  in  the  Lord,  and  beside  those  who  go 
out,  I  pray  you  forget  not  those  who  remain  at  home,  those  worthy 
fathers,  those  honorable,  God-loving  mothers  and  brothers  and  sisters 
too,  who  are  working,  working  hard,  that  they  may  make  up  the 
deficiency  in  means  required  by  their  sons  and  daughters  or  other 
relatives  in  the  mission  field.  For,  be  it  remembered,  our  mission- 
aries accept  anything  that  is  offered  them  as  they  may  need — a  meal, 
a  coat,  a  pair  of  shoes,  lodging — any  one  who  offers  such  in  time 
of  need  finds  his  offering  accepted,  and  a  blessing  left  with  him. 
But  not  all  are  willing  so  to  help;  and  there  is  a  deficit  in  every 
case,  and  that  is  made  up  by  the  sending  of  means  from  home.  Do 
you  know,  that,  reckoning  the  earning  capacity  of  our  missionaries 
at  a  very  low  figure,  and  considering  what  that  means  for  one  to 
three  years  in  the  field,  and  considering  also  the  means  they  spend  in 
traveling  to  their  fields  of  labor  and  in  traveling  within  their  fields, 
that  the  sum  will  total  up  above  the  million  dollar  mark  every  year? 
They  do  this  because  they  have  the  spirit  of  their  calling  resting  upon 
them.  They  go  out  with  this  definite  message  to  the  people,  and  you 
can  give  a  missionary  no  greater  joy  than  to  listen  to  him  attentively 
while  he  states  his  message,  and  then  discuss  it  with  him  in  a  friendly 
spirit.  You  will  find  that  he  does  not  try  to  force  it  upon  you.  But 
why  am  I  talking  to  you,  in  the  second  person,  you  Latter-day  Saints  ? 
You  know  the  missionary  does  not  try  to  force  the  gospel  upon  those 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


141 


people  out  in  the  world;  he  tries  to  present  it  to  them  for  their  con- 
sideration ever  praying  that  the  Lord  will  bear  witness  in  the  heart  of 
his  hearer  or  hearers  as  to  whether  he  is  telling  the  truth  or  not. 

These  missionaries  come  home  after  having  been  brought  in  contact 
with  members  of  practically  all  the  great  religious  denominations  of 
the  world,  firmer,  if  possible,  in  the  truth  and  in  their  conviction  of 
testimony  than  they  were  when  they  set  out.  They  have  had  every 
opportunity  for  comparison,  every  facility  for  discriminating  judgment; 
and  they  come  home  rejoicing  in  the  sure  knowledge  that  has  been 
with  them,  as  a  companion  by  clay  and  by  night,  all  the  time  they 
have  been  in  the  field.  Is  it  not  a  wonderful  work?  And  it  will  not 
cease  as  long  as  there  are  souls  willing  to  accept  the  message.  We 
are  using  the  press,  and  the  press  is  a  mighty  missionary,  but  this 
individual  labor  will  continue.  I  have  heard  the  remark  made  by  a 
few — it  is  so  insignificant  that  perhaps  I  should  not  stop  to  refer  to  it — 
by  the  few  who  are  a  little  out  of  harmony  with  the  system,  that  we 
have  outgrown  our  missionary  work,  and  will  have  to  bring  about  a 
revolution  and  supplant  it  by  something  better  and  more  up-to-date. 
What  is  better,  what  is  more  up-to-date  than  the  method  of  a  man 
approaching  another  with  the  truth,  and  bearing  witness  to  it  in  all 
solemnity?  And  yet  with  all  humility,  earnest  in  his  testimony,  merely 
asking  the  other  man  to  listen,  the  humble  missionary  continues  his 
labor,  for  our  missionaries  have  a  little  of  the  spirit  of  the  fabled 
ancient  mariner,  they  are  not  at  peace  unless  they  can  get  somebody 
to  listen  to  that  which  they  have  to  tell  them,  because  they  know  the 
value  of  their  message.  Do  you  not  remember  when  Andrew  recog- 
nized the  Christ  at  the  beginning  of  our  Lord's  ministry  in  the  flesh, 
how  the  man  tore  himself  away  from  that  blessed  presence  and  rushed 
off  to  find  his  brother  Peter  to  tell  him  of  what  he  had  heard?  it  was 
so  joyous,  something  so  nearly  unbelievable.  We  have  found  the 
Messiah;  come  and  see  for  yourself,  come  and  listen.  Then  the  gentle 
Philip  heard  and  he  went  off  to  find  Nathanael.  You  know  him,  do 
you  not — that  Israelite  without  guile  ?  He  was  impressed  with  Philip's 
words,  and  the  Lord  addressed  him  by  name.  Philip  and  Nathanael 
wondered  about  it.  Then  read  again  about  that  woman  at  Jacob's  well 
in  Samaria.  The  testimony  the  Christ  bore  to  her,  that  he  was  the 
Messiah  sank  into  her  heart,  and  she  hastened  back  to  the  village  and 
told  the  people;  and  they  came  out,  a  great  flock  of  them  to  see  and  to 
hear.  What  of  Lehi  and  his  vision,  in  which  he  found  himself  pluck- 
ing fruit  from  a  beautiful  tree  by  a  stream.  He  found  the  fruit 
to  be .  delicious,  and  more  than  merely  good  in  taste ;  and  his  first 
thought  was  for  his  wife  and  children.  Tn  the  vision  he  saw  them  at 
a  distance,  and  he  beckoned  to  them,  he  shouted  out  to  them  to  come 
and  partake.  So  are  the  missionaries  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  crying  to  the  nations :  Oh,  come  and  partake !  This 
is  the  bread  of  eternal  life. 

The  Lord  has  declared  that  in  this  day  and  age  his  servants  are 


142 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


sent  out  by  him,  and  that  he  will  hold  the  world  accountable  for  the 
message  which  they  deliver.  In  the  very  first  section  of  this  volume 
of  modern  revelation,  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  we  read : 
"And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be  unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths  of 
my  disciples  whom  I  have  chosen  in  these  last  days."  That  means  our 
missionaries,  and  those  who  preside  over  them  to  direct  them  in  their 
labors ;  and  the  Lord  continues  :  "And  they  shall  go  forth  and  none 
shall  stay  them;  for  I  the  Lord  have  commanded  them."  None  have 
been  'able  yet  to  permanently  stay  the  voice  of  the  missionary  who  has 
gone  forth  with  the  word  of  God.  True,  mobs  have  quieted  them  for 
a  moment,  but  they  have  been  able  to  raise  their  voices  again.  Dis- 
turbances have  been  only  local. 

"Behold,"  saith  the  Lord,  "this  is  mine  authority  and  the  author- 
ity of  my  servants,"  and  so  on  in  that  first  section.  Read  for  your- 
selves. 

May  the  Lord  continue  to  set  his  seal  of  blessing  and  approval 
upon  the  labor  of  the  missionaries  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 

President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 

I  sense  very  keenly,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  my  weakness  in 
standing  before  you  this  afternoon,  and  I  sincerely  pray  that  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  will  guide  and  assist  me  in  the  few  remarks  I  shall 
make  to  you  upon  this  occasion.  Truly,  this  is  a  wonderful  occasion, 
and  this  is  a  wonderful  sight  to  look  upon  the  thousands  of  faces  of 
Latter-day  Saints  who  are  gathered,  who  have  come  for  the  one  pur- 
pose of  being  built  up  in  their  faith,  testimonies,  and  knowledge  of 
the  gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ. 

I  come  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  as  one  of  those  whom 
Elder  Talmage  hais  been  speaking  about,  who  are  engaged  in  mission- 
ary work  among  our  Father's  children  in  the  world  who  are  yet  in 
darkness  and  who  have  not  yet  a  knowledge  of  the  saving  principles  of 
the  gospel  restored  in  this  day  and  age  in  which  we  live.  I  thank  the 
Lord,  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart,  that  I  have  been  deemed  worthy 
of  this  call,  and  the  greatest  desire  of  my  life  is  to  continue  to  labor 
zealously  in  the  Lord's  work,  in  the  service  of  his  children,  with  a 
desire  to  bring  a  knowledge  of  him,  to  as  many  as  may  be,  of  those 
children  who  are  now  in  the  world  hungering  and  thirsting  for  the 
word  of  the  Lord;  for  truly  that  prophetic  utterance  of  Amos  the 
Prophet  is  in  this  day  being  fulfilled.  Men  are  going  to  and  fro  upon 
the  earth  seeking  for  the  word  of  the  Lord,  and,  in  many  instances, 
have  not  been  able  to  find  it. 

I  bring  to  you  a  message  from  the  mission  in  Mexico,  and  I  re- 
joice to  say  that  since  the  day  that  temporarily  we  had  to  withdraw 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


143 


our  mission  and  the  missionary  labor  from  the  interior  of  Mexico,  I 
found  upon  a  recent  visit  there  that  the  mission  is  now  in  better 
condition  than  it  has  been  since  that  withdrawal.  Our  missionaries 
are  free  to  go  and  to  come  in  every  part  of  that  country  to  which  we 
have  been  able  to  extend  our  mission  work,  and  we  are  not  persecuted, 
we  are  not  harrassed  in  our  labors,  but  freely  we  are  permitted  to  go 
forth  among  the  people  and  teach  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  and 
many  are  being  brought  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth.  We  have 
listened  to  reports  of  the  missionary  work  that  is  being  done  in  the 
East  and  in  the  West,  and  in  the  North,  and  now  I  report  to  you  the 
work  that  is  being  done  in  the  Southern  part  of  our  country,  and  also 
in  the  great  republic  that  lies  to  the  south  of  us,  among  the  people  who 
are  descendants  of  father  Lehi,  known  as  Lamanites;  and  I  rejoice, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  day  has  come  when  the  gospel  has 
been  brought  to  them.  I  rejoice  more,  each  day  of  my  life,  in  the  fact 
that  the  Lord  has  brought  forth  their  record  and  that  we  know  who  they 
are,  and  that  we  are  not  in  darkness  as  to  their  origin,  and  that  he 
has  given  a  mighty  promise  of  redemption  unto  those  people  who  are 
of  his  covenant,  whom  he  loves ;  and  that  through  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  which  has  been  restored  to  us. 

Not  many  days  ago,  in  the  city  of  Mexico,  one  of  our  elders  came 
to  me  and  said  of  a  certain  man  who  was  at  one  time  an  educator  in 
Salt  Lake  City,  and  who  is  now  excavating  in  the  ruins  that  are  being 
unearthed  under  the  great  lava  flow  that  has  come  down  from  the 
volcano  of  Ajusco,  and  who  is  delving  into  the  antiquities  of  Mexico; 
that  in  conversation  with  our  elder  he  said :  "Young  man,  I  have  not 
proved  yet  that  the  Mexican  people  or  the  Indians  of  America  have 
not  come  to  this  country  from  Jerusalem.  I  have  not  proved  that 
they  are  not  Israelites." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  since  the  day  the  Book  of  Mormon  came 
forth,  men  inspired  from  no  good  source  have  sought  to  overthrow  the 
Lord's  work,  they  have  sought  to  bring  to  naught  his  purposes ;  they 
have  sought  to  make  out  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  fallen  prophet ;  they 
have  ridiculed  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  its  contents,  and  that  is  going 
on  even  yet  today.  And  this  man  insinuated  to  our  young  missionary 
that  although  he  had  not  yet  proved  that  the  Lamanites  were  not  of 
Israel,  he  hoped  some  day  that  he  would  be  able  to'  do  so.  If  you  will 
read  First  Nephi  IS,  you  will  read  there  that  the  Lord  revealed  to 
his  prophets  and  to  us,  through  this  book,  that  the  Lamanites  are  of 
Israel,  and  if  you  will  read  in  Second  Nephi  30,  you  will  find  that 
the  Lord  revealed  that  this  book  should  be  restored  unto  the  Gentile 
people,  and  that  many  should  believe  the  words  of  the  book  that 
should  be  written,  and  that  it  should  be  taken  back  to  the  descendants 
of  those  who  wrote  it,  and  by  that  means  they  should  come  to  a 
knowledge  of  the  fact  that  they  were  of  Israel,  that  they  are  of  the 
covenant  people  of  the  Lord.  And  I  tell  you  that  nothing  in  all  this 
wide  world  will  ever  disprove  that  fact,  and  everything  that  has  been 


144 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


uncovered  in  the  great  excavations  that  have  been  made  in  that  land 
to  the  South  of  us  tends  rather  to  confirm  the  fact,  than  to  bring  any- 
thing to  bear  that  would  deny  the  fact,  that  this  is  the  truth.  And 
so  it  is,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  with  everything  that  has  been  brought 
forth  in  this  day  and  age  in  which  we  live  concerning  the  gospel  of 
our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  true ;  ridicule,  denial,  and 
persecution  will  not  disprove  the  truthfulness  of  the  gospel  that  has 
been  restored  to  us.  I  feel  it  more  keenly  today  than  ever  in  my  life. 
I  rejoice  in  the  fact  that  the  elders  who  come  into  the  field,  and  the 
lady  missionaries,  the  few  that  come  into  our  field,  are  imbued  with 
this  spirit.  They  come  with  faith,  they  come  with  a  desire  to  serve, 
and  they  come  with  a  strong  testimony  that  the  restored  gospel  is 
true,  and  although  men  ridicule  them  and  ridicule  their  teachings,  they 
become  stronger  in  their  faith  and  stronger  in  their  testimony,  and 
the  spirit  of  the  gospel  permeates  their  teachings,  and  many  are  be- 
ing gathered  out  from  among  the  people  of  the  world,  by  believing 
these  wonderful  testimonies  and  messages  that  are  being  preached  in 
the  world. 

I  rejoice  to  be  able  to  report  to  you  that  the  health  of  the  mission- 
aries in  our  field  is  good,  and  that  we  enjoy  our  labors  in  every  sense 
of  the  word.  It  has  been  said  to  us,  in  this  conference,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  we,  among  the  Gentile  nations,  who  have  been  gathered 
out  by  the  gospel,  are  of  Israel,  that  we  are  descendants  of  Joseph, 
through  Ephraim  his  son:  this  is  true.  I  rejoice  in  this  fact,  that  we 
have  in  the  country  where  we  labor,  and  in  Central  America,  farther 
south,  and  in  South  America,  in  all  those  great  countries,  blood  rela- 
tives of  ours ;  for  all  of  those  people,  I  bear  you  my  testimony,  are 
likewise  of  Joseph  of  the  House  of  Israel.  They  are  of  Manasseh, 
likewise  of  Ephraim,  for  there  is  a  sprinkling  of  that  blood  also  in 
the  Lamanite  race  that  inhabits  America  to  the  south  of  us.  We  have 
heard  that  the  lands  of  North  and  South  America  are  the  lands  of 
Zion.  Therefore,  I  contend  that  whatever  we  do,  whether  it  be  here, 
among  those  of  us  who  are  gathered  out,  one  of  a  city  and  two  of  a 
family,  or  whether  it  be  there,  where  there  are  nations  of  the  blood 
of  Israel — wherever  we  labor  for  their  redemption,  we  are  laboring 
for  the  establishment  and  redemption  of  Zion. 

I  pray  that  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  may  go  with  us,  as  I  pray 
that  they  may  go  with  the  missionaries  who  go  to  all  the  nations  of 
the  earth;  and  I  beg  of  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  compassion  and 
sympathy  for  the  down-trodden  children  of  our  Father  in  heaven  who 
are  in  those  lands.  They  are  laboring  under  a  curse  pronounced  upon 
their  fathers  because  of  their  iniquity;  but  I  rejoice  not  in  that  phase 
of  it,  but  in  the  fact  that  the  Lord  has  promised  that  through  the 
establishment  of  the  gospel  in  these  latter  days,  the  curse  should  be 
removed  and  they  should  be  redeemed  and  become  again  his  delight- 
some people.  I  look  forward  to  that  time  with  great  anticipation,  and 
if  the  Lord  should  require  it  at  my  hands,  I  am  willing  to  continue 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


145 


my  humble  labors  the  rest  of  my  life  in  striving  to  redeem  and  build 
up  and  bring  joy  and  happiness  that  only  a  knowledge  of  the  gospel 
can  bring  to  the  people  of  that  land. 

The  Lord  bless  you,  and  bless  all  in  his  service,  is  my  prayer,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT   HEBER   J.  GRANT 

All  over  the  Church  today,  at  this  hour,  from  Canada  on  the 
North  to  Mexico  on  the  South,  with  the  exception  of  the  immediate 
vicinity  of  Salt  Lake  City,  fast  meetings  are  being  held  in  all  the  wards 
and  branches,  and  men  and  women  are  testifying  as  to  their  knowl- 
edge, individually,  regarding  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are 
engaged.  These  testimonies,  as  a  rule,  occupy  only  a  minute  or  two  or 
three,  very  seldom  more  than  five  minutes,  and  a  great  many  people 
in  each  of  these  meetings  pour  out  their  hearts  in  gratitude  and  thanks- 
giving to  God  for  the  knowledge  they  have,  individually,  of  the  divinity 
of  this  work.  I  shall  call  a  half  dozen  men  to  fhe  stand  and  ask  them 
to  bear  their  testimonies  regarding  the  divinity  of  this  work,  speaking 
not  to  exceed  five  minutes,  each  one. 

We  will  start  with  Canada  on  the  North,  Brother  Hugh  B.  Brown; 
and  Brother  Joseph  C.  Bentley  on  the  South,  from  Mexico ;  Brother 
Winslow  Farr  Smith,  of  this  city ;  Brother  Edward  C.  Rich  of  Idaho, 
and  Brother  Robert  I.  Burton  of  Ogden. 

ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

President  of  the  Lethbridge  Stake  of  Zion 

It  is  quite  fitting  that  I  should  speak  immediately  after  Presi- 
dent Pratt,  he  having  represented  the  Mexican  mission,  I  representing 
the  stake  of  Zion  farthest  North.  The  Lethbridge  stake  comprises 
that  section  of  this  great  country,  from  a  few  miles  north  of  the  inter- 
national boundary  line,  including  the  North  Pole. 

I  appreciate  the  privilege  of  bearing  my  testimony  to  the  truth  of 
this  great  work.  During  the  great  World  War  I  had  the  opportunity 
of  comparing  service  in  other  organizations  with  service  in  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Tt  fell  to  my  lot  to  be  the  instrument  of  bringing 
to  some  of  our  boys  certain  favors  by  way  of  transfer,  or  temporary 
relief,  or  leave  of  absence,  by  virtue  of  authority  vested  in  me  as 
an  officer  in  the  Canadian  army.  Upon  one  occasion  I  was  called 
upon,  as  I  thought,  to  bring  some  relief  to  one  boy,  I  was  asked  when 
in  the  city  of  London  to  visit  a  boy  whose  name  I  did  not  know.  I 
supposed  that  he  would  ask  for  a  temporary  release  that  he  might  return 
home,  as  I  thought  to  recuperate;  and,  feeling  the  thrill  of  the  power 
vested  in  me  by  virtue  of  the  uniform  I  wore,  I  went  down  to  that 
hospital  with  the  intention  of  interceding  for  that  boy,  with  the  powers 


146 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


higher  up.  When  I  went  into  the  little  room  which  he  occupied  he 
extended  his  hand  to  me,  and  instead  of  addressing  me  as  an  officer 
in  the  army,  he  said  to  me:  "Brother  Brown,  I  sent  for  you  to  ask 
that  you  intercede  with  God  in  my  behalf,  that  I  may  not  die  in  this 
hospital,  but  that  I  may  be  allowed  to  return  home  to  my  widowed 
mother.  Will  you  administer  to  me?"  When  this  boy  made  that  re- 
quest at  my  hands,  I  could  not  help  making  the  comparison,  great 
though  it  may  be  to  wear  the  uniform  of  the  king,  I  never  felt  more 
pride  in  my  life  in  any  position  than  I  felt  as  I  knelt  by  the  side  of  that 
boy,  placed  my  hands  on  his  head,  and  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ 
asked  that  his  life  might  be  spared.  I  compared  then  the  authority 
which  I  held  in  the  Church  of  Christ  with  the  authority  held  by  men 
in  other  organizations,  and  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart  I  felt  to  say : 
"Thank  God  for  this  work,  and  for  the  Priesthood  which  we  have." 
I  went  into  that  hospital  a  proud  British  officer.  I  came  out  a  humble 
"Mormon"  elder;  and  I  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I 
prefer  membership  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  to  presidency  or 
command  in  any  other  organization  in  the  world,  civil  or  military. 
I  bear  testimony  that  I  know  this  is  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  and  that  it  is  the  truth,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  C.  BENTLEY 

President  of  the  Juarez  Stake  of  Zion 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  grateful  for  the  opportunity  this 
afternoon,  of  bearing  my  testimony  to  this  great  work  of  our  Father  in 
which  we  are  engaged.  This  seems  to  be  a  time  of  encircling  the  earth. 
While  we  have  just  listened  to  the  testimony  of  Elder  Brown,  from  a 
Northern  stake  of  Zion,  which  includes  the  North  Pole,  and  the  testi- 
mony of  others  from  the  United  States,  I  represent  the 'Juarez  stake  of 
Zion,  which  extends  from  the  southern  boundaries  of  the  United 
States  to  the  South  Pole. 

I  want  to  bear  my  testimony,  especially  to  my  young  brethren  and 
sisters,  of  this  Church  and  kingdom  of  our  Father,  that  I  know  that 
Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God,  that  he  was  the  instrument  in  the 
hands  of  our  Father  of  restoring  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
and  that  today,  as  has  ever  been  the  case  since  the  establishment  of  this 
work,  our  Father  has  his  protecting  care  over  his  people.  I  remember 
distinctly  during  the  revolution  in  Mexico  when  General  Villa  had  made 
his  attack  on  the  town  of  Columbus  and  was  making  his  way  toward  the 
"Mormon"  colonies,  there  was  considerable  excitement,  for  he  was 
killing  every  American  that  came  in  his  way,  and  every  Mexican  who 
had  shown  favor  to  the  American  people.  It  was  thought  that  when  he 
reached  the  "Mormon"  colonies  he  would  completely  wipe  them  out 
of  existence.  The  American  consul  in  El  Paso  had  told  us  several 
times  to  leave  Mexico  and  go  back  into  the  United  States.   As  General 


ELDER  JOSEPH  C.  BENTLEY 


147 


Villa  was  marching  toward  the  colonies  the  American  consul  said:  "1 
have  told  those  people  several  times  to  come  out  of  there,  now  we  will 
see  whether  a  'Mormon'  is  made  of  any  different  stuff  than  any  other 
American."  There  was  considerable  excitement  among  the  Mexican 
people,  especially  in  Colonia  Dublan,  for  General  Villa  was  located 
within  a  few  hours  march  from  that  place.  There  was  not  a  single 
Mexican  family  that  felt  safe  in  residing  in  that  colony.  We  were 
notified  by  the  officers  of  the  Mexican  army  that  they  could  give  us 
no  help.  It  was  evident  that  Villa  was  marching  toward  our  colony. 
Our  people,  under  the  instruction  of  those  who  piesided  over  them,  were 
told  to  go  home  and  go  to  bed,  and  trust  in  the  Lord.  That  night 
they  retired,  and  we  were  the  only  people  in  that  section  of  the  country 
who  did  go  to  sleep,  but  we  slept  peacefully.  During  the  night  Gen- 
eral Villa  marched  within  the  borders  of  our  colony  and  immediately 
turned  and  ordered  his  army  to  go  in  another  direction.  A  year  or 
two  later  when  I  happened  to  be  in  his  army,  having  been  detained  on 
one  of  our  trips,  visiting  the  elders,  when  I  was  taken  into  his  presence, 
he  told  me  that  there  had  been  several  occasions  when  he  had  our 
people  completely  in  his  control.  He  said :  "I  could  have  wiped  you 
off  the  earth,  without  any  trouble,  but,"  he  said,  "I  had  no  desire  to 
do  so.  I  like  the  'Mormon'  people,  I  like  the  'Mormon'  doctrines. 
While  this  is  no  place  for  you  people  to  be  doing  missionary  work  at 
the  present  time,  I  hope  to  live  to  see  the  day  when  there  will  be  a 
'Mormon'  missionary  in  every  town  in  Mexico,  for,"  he  said,  "I  like 
you  people.  I  like  your  method  of  living  under  this  government." 
General  Angeles  was  present  with  him,  when  we  bore  our  testimony  to 
him  of  the  divinity  of  this  work,  and  explained  our  mission,  that  we 
were  there  laboring  among  them,  preaching  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ;  and  he  turned  to  General  Villa  and  said:  "This  is  a 
wonderful  work.  They  are  doing  just  what  we  ought  to  be  doing, 
but  they  seem  to  be  doing  it  in  a  much  better  way  and  more  suc- 
cessfully." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  in  this  great  work  of  the  Lord. 
I  am  thankful  to  my  heavenly  Father  that  I  have  been  permitted  to 
bear  a  portion  of  his  holy  Priesthood  and  to  labor  in  this  great  work  in 
which  we  are  engaged.  May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  to  keep 
ourselves  free  and  unspotted  from  the  sins  of  the  world,  that  we  may 
accomplish  his  work,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  Amen. 

ELDER  WINSLOW  FARR  SMITH 

President  of  the  Ensign  Stake  and  former  President  of  the  Northern 

States  Mission 

On  one  occasion  a  humble  missionary  in  the  Northern  states 
rapped  at  the  door  of  a  splendid  apartment ;  a  woman  greeted  him,  and 


148 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


he  proceeded  to  present  his  message.  She  argued  with  him ;  he  pre- 
sented subject  after  subject,  and  she  raised  objection  to  every  point 
that  he  offered ;  but  finally,  in  humility,  with  somewhat  of  a  feeling 
of  defeat,  he  Said  to  her :  "This  thing  I  know,  beyond  all  doubt,  that 
God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  his 
prophet,  raised  up  to  usher  in  this,  the  great  latter-day  work."  She 
,  said :  "That  interests  me,  come  in,  and  let  me  talk  with  you."  He 
went  into  her  home.  All  the  argument  that  he  had  brought  forth  was 
as  naught,  but  that  humble  testimony,  out  of  the  fulness  of  the  heart 
of  a  devoted  missionary,  sank  into  her  heart.  She  was  impressed  by 
it,  and  she  listened  to  the  word  of  the  Lord. 

Christ  said  on  one  occasion :  "He  that  will  do  my  will  shall  know 
of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself." 
This  is  a  law  unto  us,  the  children  of  our  Father.  We  can  know,  as 
we  know  nothing  else,  that  the  gospel  is  true.  We  can  know,  for  it 
will  burn  within  our  being,  and  God  will  make  it  known  to  us  if  we 
will  but  keep  his  commandments.  He  has  given  us  the  law,  he  has 
given  us  the  great  plan  of  life.  It  is  a  wonderful  system,  a  marvelous 
philosophy.  It  embraces  all  truth,  and  it  is  so  organized  and  so  arranged 
that  it  matters  not  how  humble  we  are  or  how  mighty  and  great,  it 
fits  our  needs;  and,  by  rendering  obedience,  we  can  know  that  it  is  true. 
Its  every  principle  is  true.  There  is  no  exception  among  the  principles 
and  ordinances  of  the  gospel.  Each  and  every  one:  has  its  place.  The 
keeping  of  every  law  is  necessary  to  exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 
If  we  feel  that  we  are  a  law  in  and  of  ourselves,  and  feel  that  this 
principle  or  that  principle  is  not  for  us,  or  for  our  keeping,  we  deny 
ourselves  one  part  of  the  great  blessing  that  God  has  for  us. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  God  lives, 
that  this  is  his  work,  that  at  the  head  of  his  Church  today  stands  a 
man  who  bears  the  Priesthood  of  Almighty  God,  one  whom  God  sus- 
tains and  whom  we  should  and  must  sustain,  if  we  would  enjoy  his 
Spirit.  This  is  the  work  of  the  Lord.  Its  purpose  is  the  saving  of 
the  children  of  men.  At  its  head  stands  the  great  King,  the  Lord  God, 
the  eternal  Father.    It  will  go  on  ;  it  will  fill  the  whole  earth. 

All  men  will  hear  its  message,  and  the  honest  in  heart  will  be 
gathered  into  its  fold.  Nothing  can  stay  its  progress,  it  is  the  work 
of  God,  and  it  will  go  on,  for  God  has  spoken  it.  This  is  my  testi- 
mony, in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  EDWARD  C.  RICH 

President  of  the  Montpelicr  Stake  of  Zion 

I  rejoice  in  the  opportunity  of  having  the  privilege  of  bearing 
my  testimony  here  in  this  great  tabernacle.  I  have:  done  so  many  a 
time  in  cottage  meetings,  in  the  Old  World,  upon  the  street  corners, 
and  in  the  halls,  and  I  am  not  ashamed  to  do  it  here. 

About  thirty  years  ago,  I  was  called  to  go  on  a  mission.    I  had 


ELDER  EDWARD  C.  RICH 


149 


heard  returned  missionaries,  time  and  time  again,  say  that  they  knew 
that  "Mormonism"  is  true.  As  a  child  I  was  taught  that  it  is  the  truth, 
and  I  believed  it.  When  I  received  that  call  the  impression  came  to 
me  that  if  I  would  go  into  the  world,  I  would  know  for  myself  whether 
"Mormonism"  is  true  or  not.  I  have  thought  since,  that  likely  this 
was  the  deciding  factor  that  caused  me  to  accept  that  call  to  go  into 
Great  Britain  to  preach  this  gospel.  I  returned  in  a  little  over  two 
years,  convinced  in  my  mind  that  it  is  the  truth.  I  have  received  many 
testimonies  to  the  divinity  of  this  work.  One  of  them  came  to  me 
while  laboring  as  a  missionary  in  the  city  of  Bristol.  I  might  say  that 
I  had  never  had  any  experience,  or  very  little  experience,  in  this 
Church.  I  neglected  the  opportunities  that  came  to  me,  as  a  child  and 
as  a  young  man,  to  take  active  part  and  to  participate  in  it.  I  have 
rued  the  time  of  that  neglect,  and  I  have  been  humiliated,  time  and 
time  again  since  then,  but  there  was  no  one  to  blame  but  myself.  I 
had  every  opportunity  to  understand  the  truth,  to  study  it,  and  to 
explain  it.    I  neglected  that  opportunity. 

While  laboring  as  a  missionary,  with  three  other  elders,  we  held  a 
meeting  every  Sunday  evening  in  Bristol,  and  during  the  week  a  cot- 
tage meeting.  At  this  particular  time  the  other  three  missionaries 
were  out  visiting  their  friends.  The  time  came  to  hold  that  meeting. 
No  one  was  present  but  myself.  I  had  never  presided  at  a  meeting  in. 
my  life.  The  time  came  to  start  the  meeting,  but  none  of  the  elders 
arrived.  I  selected  a  long  chapter  in  the  New  Testament.  I  did  not 
know  what  it  contained.  I  read  that  chapter  thinking  that  by  the  time 
I  would  finish  it  some  of  my  companions  would  be  there  and  they 
could  preach  the  gospel  to  the  people  who  had  assembled.  But  none 
of  them  came.  I  read  the  chapter,  commented  on  it  for  about  ten  min- 
utes, and  dismissed  the  people.  After  they  had  left,  the  landlady  said 
to  me :  "Elder  Rich,  that  is  the  shortest  meeting  I  ever  attended."  I 
said:  "It  might  have  been  short  to  you,  but  it  was  long-  enough  for 
me !" 

Years  after  that  I  attended  a  reunion  of  the  Sheffield  conference, 
held  in  the  Seventeenth  ward  in  this  city.  A  girl  came  to  me  and  told 
me  that  her  father,  prior  to  attending  that  meeting  had  said :  "I  have 
been  to  hear  'Mormon'  missionaries  ;  I  have  propounded  questions  to 
them,  and  they  have  been  answering  all  of  them  ;  but  I  have  a  ques- 
tion tonight  that  I  can  ask  them  and  they  can't  explain  it."  She  told 
me  that  in  my  remarks  that  evening  the  question  had  been  answered, 
though  her  father  did  not  present  it.  I  knew  nothing  of  it  for  years 
and  years.  I  have  come  to  the  conclusion  that  the  Lord  inspired  me 
to  pick  out  this  chapter,  and  in  the  few  comments  that  I  made  upon 
it  answered  this  man's  question.  I  believe  in  the  inspiration  of  God. 
I  know  that  he  is  leading  and  guiding  this  Church. 

Some  ten  years  after  that  time.  I  met  a  man  on  the  streets  of 
Montpelier,  a  friend  of  mine  who  received  the  gospel  in  Ireland,  and 
he  said :    "Brother  Rich,  I  wish  my  brother-in-law,  who  is  in  the 


154 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


British  Isles,  could  hear  this  message  of  salvation."  I  said :  "Where 
is  your  brother-in-law?"  He  said:  "He  is  in  Sheffield."  I  said: 
"I  have  a  brother  in  Sheffield  now  performing  missionary  work."  I 
sent  the  address  to  my  brother  who  called  upon  this  family,  by  the 
name  of  Fitnar.  They  were  not  interested  in  the  gospel  at  first.  Later 
on  they  received  the  message  of  salvation  and  today  they  are  all  active 
members  of  this  Church,  living  up  to  the  teachings  of  the  gospel  in 
the  stake  where  I  preside,  and  in  the  settlement  where  I  live.  I  am 
as  confident  that  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  came  upon  that  man 
and  impressed  him  to  speak  to  me  in  reference  to  his  brother-in-law, 
as  I  am  confident  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  came  upon  Columbus, 
and  that  he  was  inspired  to  go  out  upon  the  waters.  It  is  remarkable 
that  of  all  the  places  in  the  world  where  my  brother  might  have  been 
performing  missionary  work,  that  he  should  be  in  the  very  city  where 
this  man's  brother-in-law  resided,  and  that  of  all  the  people  in  Mont- 
pelier  this  man  might  have  approached  on  the  subject,  he  should 
speak  to  me  about  it.  I  am  sure  that  it  was  in  answer  to  this  man's 
prayer,  that  his  brother-in-law  might  receive  the  gospel. 

Two  weeks  ago  yesterday  morning  I  attended,  in  company  with 
Brother  Smoot,  who  is  upon  this  very  stand,  a  man  whom  the  doctors 
said  could  not  live  twelve  hours.  He  was  administered  to,  and  today 
is  rapidly  improving  and  on  the  way  to  recovery.  These  are  some 
of  the  things  that  are  testimonies  to  me  as  to  the  divinity  of  this  work, 
that  it  is  the  work  of  God  and  that  those  who  lead  and  direct  its  affairs 
upon  the  earth  are  inspired  of  the  Lord. 

This  missionary  system  of  ours  is  the  greatest  thing  in  the  world, 
for  it  gives  individual  testimonies  to  men  and  women  so  that  they 
know  for  themselves  that  this  is  the  work  of  God,  that  there  is  power 
in  it,  that  the  Lord  is  leading  and  directing  it.  They  go  forth  and 
perform  the  duties  and  obligations  that  are  resting  upon  them,  to  warn 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth.  In  speaking  of  the  signs  which  should 
precede  his  coming,  the  Lord  said  that  there  should  be  wars  and 
rumors  of  wars,  pestilence,  and  plagues,  and  that  this  gospel  of  the 
kingdom  should  be  preached  as  a  witness  unto  all  nations,  and  then 
shall  the  end  come.  May  God  hasten  the  day  when  it  shall  be  done, 
is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  ROBERT  I.  BURTON 

President  of  the  Mount  Ogden  Stake  of  Zion 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  is  a  new  experience  for  me,  being 
the  first  time  I  have  ever  been  called  upon  to  address  a  body  of  the 
Saints  in  this  building.  I  am  filled  with  awe  at  the  thought  of  standing 
in  the  place  where  so  many  notable  men  have  stood  when  addressing 
the  congregations  of  our  people. 


ELDER  ROBERT  I.  BURTON 


151 


The  other  day,  as  I  was  speeding  westward  on  a  train  from 
Chicago,  and  I  crossed  the  Missouri  river  and  again  followed  along  the 
Platte  river,  I  looked  at  those  bodies  of  water,  and  I  thought,  and 
asked  myself  the  question:  "I  wonder  if  this  is  where  the  pioneers 
crossed  this  continent,  I  wonder  if  I  am.  beholding  a  sight  that  Brigham 
Young  beheld,  as  he  led  that  notable  band  of  pioneers  westward?" 
I  then  felt  assured  that  their  hearts  must  have  been  made  of  noble  stuff 
to  have  made  such  a  journey  in  order  to  be  able  to  worship  God 
according  to  the  dictates  of  their  consciences.  Each  time  I  gazed  upon 
the  different  scenes,  I  wondered  if  their  eyes  had  beheld  those  same 
sights.  But  here  I  am  upon  the  stand  and  in  a  building  that  those 
pioneers  helped  to  erect.  I  know  that  they  were  here,  and  I  know  that 
their  presence  has  made  this  building  sacred.  So  I  feel  overwhelmed 
to  stand  before  you  in  a  place  that  has  been  occupied  by  men  of  note, 
men  whom  we  love  and  revere ;  and  we  have  in  our  presence  today  their 
successors,  men  whom!  we  hold  very  dear  to  our  hearts,  men  whom  we 
support  with  our  faith  and  our  prayers,  and  with  all  the  energy  that 
we  possess.  I  thought  also  of  my  mother  and  how  she  walked  across 
the  plains,  at  least  a  great  part  of  the  distance,  in  1848  as  a  girl  nine 
years  of  age,  and  how  she  left  the  blood  stains  of  her  feet  upon  some 
of  those  pathways.  I  thought  of  my  father  coming  here,  in  1854,  after  a 
long  journey  from  England;  how  they  had  run  out  of  water  and  provis- 
ions, almost  entirely,  upon  the  ship,  and  they  had  been  placed  upon 
quarter  rations  ;  how  cholera  had  broken  out  upon  the  ship,  and  many  of 
them  died  and  were  buried  at  sea.  I  remembered  all  these  things,  and 
I  thought:  "Oh,  if  I  cannot  remain  faithful,  and  firm  and  true  to 
the  gospel  as  it  has  been  taught  to  me  by  my  noble  parents  and  by 
those  patriots,  those  noble  men  and  women  who  came  out  here  as  pio- 
neers, then  I  am  not  worthy  of  the  blood  that  runs  in  my  veins !" 

All  honor  to  the  pioneers.  All  honor  to  their  successors,  who  are 
here  in  our  midst.  I  love  them,  I  respect  them,  I  honor  them  with 
all  my  heart,  and  I  pray  God  to  bless  them.  I  know  as  surely  as  I  know 
that  I  stand  before  you,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  living 
God,  I  know  that  God  lives,  and  that  Jesus  Christ  is  his  Son;  and 
when  I  know  that,  all  else  in  this  life  matters  little  to  me.  I  feel,  if  I  can 
be  faithful,  firm  and  true  to  that  knowledge,  to  the  end  of  my  days, 
I  shall  be  a  most  happy  and  grateful  man. 

We  have  heard  today,  in  song  and  story,  the  wonders  of  the 
latter-day  gospel  that  has  been  restored  to  us,  and  my  heart  has  been 
filled,  to  overflowing,  with  gratitude  to  my  heavenly  Father  that  I 
have  been  permitted  to  be  counted  worthy  to  be  one  with  you.  I  love 
you,  brethren  and  sisters,  and  I  pray  God  to  bless  you  and  give  you 
the  spirit  of  the  gospel,  give  you  the  necessities  of  life,  give  you 
wisdom  that  you  may  train  and  rear  your  children  in  the  way  in  which 
they  should  go,  instill  into  their  hearts  the  precious  truths  of  the 
gospel,  and  a  knowledge  of  its  saving  power,  for  this  is  our  mission 


152 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


upon  the  earth.  May  God  bless  us  to  this  end,  I  pray,  in  Jesus  name, 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

In  calling  on  the  five  speakers  who  have  just  borne  their  testimonies 
to  you,  I  did  not  do  so  with  any  preconceived  thought  of  who  they 
were.  It  so  happens  that  Winslow  Farr  Smith  is  the  great  grandson 
of  Patriarch  John  Smith,  and  the  grandson  of  George  A.  Smith  who 
has  thrilled  the  hearts  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  as  his  father,  the  late 
John  Henry  Smith,  has  done  many  and  many  a  time  from  this  stand. 
It  happens  that  Hugh  B.  Brown  is  the  grandson  of  James  S.  Brown, 
one  of  the  great  missionaries  of  this  Church,  a  man  that  I  knew  in 
my  childhood,  and  I  rejoiced  in  hearing  him  preach  the  gospel  here 
at  home.  Edward  C.  Rich  is  the  grandson  of  Apostle  Charles  C.  Rich 
and  also  of  Presiding  Bishop  Edward  Hunter,  the  man  who  came  with 
money,  after  selling  a  fine  farm  in  Pennsylvania  and  buying  some  wild 
land  at  Nauvoo,  and  presented  the  remainder  of  his  means  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  because  he  was  in  financial  distress.  Robert  I.  Burton 
is  the  son  of  William  W.  Burton,  one  of  the  late  stalwarts  of  the  Church. 
Joseph  C.  Bentley  is  the  son  of  one  of  those  early  pioneers  who  went 
to  Dixie — that  country  which  I  heard  belittled  by  one  of  our  wealthy 
men  who  said  he  would  not  give  his  forty  acre  farm  in  Davis  county 
for  the  entire  Dixie  country.  Richard  Bentley  went  there  and  stayed. 
He  lived  there  and  pioneered  that  country,  and  was  one  of  the  loyal, 
true  men  of  the  Church. 

We  will  now  hear  from  one  of  the  brethren  that  the  gospel  found 
in  a  foreign  land — President  Soren  Rasmussen,  of  the  Jordan  stake. 

By  the  way,  the  world  said  that  by  the  time  grandchildren  came 
along  this  work  would  perish  from  the  earth.  We  have  heard  today 
from  one  great-grandson.  That  is  a  pretty  good  specimen  of  its 
perishing. 

ELDER  SOREN  RASMUSSEN 

President  of  the  Jordan  Stake  of  Zion 

My  dear  brethren  and,  sisters,  I  rejoice  exceedingly  in  the  testimonies 
of  my  brethren.  As  President  Grant  has  stated,  I  was  born  in  a 
foreign  land.  My  parents  were  very  kind  to  the  elders,  and  as  a 
consequence  many  of  the  missionaries  had  a  home  there.  I  remember 
very  plainly,  some  years  ago,  while  traveling  on  the  road  as  a  com- 
mercial man,  I  was  in  the  city  of  Elsinore  where  I  stopped  over  Sunday, 
and  the  bishop  asked  me  to  speak  at  the  afternoon  service.  After 
closing  he  asked  me  who  my  father  was.  I  told  him,  and  he  said: 
"I  thought  so,  when  you  spoke.  I  want  to  tell  you  that  I  called 
at  your  father's  home  while  laboring  as  a  missionary  in  the  country 


ELDER  SO  REN  RASMUS  SEN 


153 


where  you  lived.  We  had  been  in  the  habit  of  lodging  in  your  father's 
home.  We  came  there  on  one  occasion  and  the  spare  room  was  taken. 
It  seemed  that  there  would  be  no  opportunity  for  us  to  stop  there,  at  this 
time,  but  your  father  suggested  to  your  mother  that  they  would  sleep 
on  the  floor  and  the  missionaries  might  sleep  in  their  bed. 

I  have  often  thought,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  since  coming  to 
Utah,  and  since  having  received  the  gospel,  how  greatly  I  have  been 
blessed  of  the  Lord,  and  I  feel  to  thank  my  parents,  although  my 
father  never  joined  the  Church.  My  mother,  however,  emigrated  with 
the  Saints  ;  and  I  may  say  this  in  behalf  of  my  father,  he  was  very 
kind  to  the  missionaries,  and  that  he  was  ready  to  be  baptized.  He 
suggested  this  to  my  mother,  but  she  was  not  yet  ready.  A  few  months 
after  this  transpired,  father  passed  away,  and  mother  soon  afterwards 
sold  out  her  business  and  emigrated  to  the  land  of  Zion. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  know  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord. 
I  have  enjoyed  the  spirit  of  this  work,  and  I  feel  that  the  Lord  is  with 
his  servants  under  all  circumstances ;  for  wherever  I  have  labored, 
whether  at  home  or  abroad,  I  have  felt  the  inspiration  of  his  Holy 
Spirit.  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  I  sustain  the  authorities  of  this 
Church  with  all  my  heart.  May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  to  be- 
come, more  and  more,  his  servants  and  his  handmaidens,  I  pray,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  rejoice  that  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  has  found  con- 
verts in  all  parts  of  the  world — from  the  country  of  the  midnight  sun, 
Scandinavia,  to  South  Africa,  from  Canada  on  the  North  to  Mexico 
on  the  South,  in  the  far  off  lands  of  New  Zealand  and  Australia,  in  the 
Hawaiian  Islands  and  in  Japan,  and  that  the  Lord  has  been  so  merciful 
that  no  matter  where  the  message  of  life  and  salvation  has  gone,  men 
have  received  for  themselves,  individually  and  not  for  another  the  knowl- 
edge of  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged.  One  of  the 
truest,  most  loyal  and  magnificent  men  that  has  ever  been  connected 
with  this  Church  of  Christ  was  the  late  Karl  G.  Maeser,  from  Germany. 
He  gave  his  very  life  and  all  the  strength,  the  ability  and  power  that 
he  possessed  for  the  advancement  of  the  work  of  the  Lord,  and  for  the 
uplift,  educationally,  of  the  youth  of  Zion. 

We  will  now  hear  from  Bishop  Kasper  Fetzer. 

ELDER  KASPER  FETZER 

Bishop  of  the  Jefferson  ward,  Granite  Stake 

I  can  indeed  say  it  is  a  great  surprise  to  me  to  stand  before  this 
great  congregation.  I  took  quite  a  pride,  a  year  ago,  in  seeing  my 
son  on  this  stand,  when  he  offered  a  prayer  as  one  of  the  Boy  Scouts. 


154 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  rejoice  in  an  organization  of  that  kind,  because  it  helps  to  take  care 
of  the  boys  who  shall  be  our  future  leaders.  I  rejoice  also  in  bearing 
my  testimony  that  a  servant  of  the  Lord  came  to  our  country  bearing 
witness  of  the  truthfulness  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  was  then 
a  member  of  the  officers  force  of  the  German  army.  I  had  borne  my 
testimony  before  a  military  court,  and  I  was  ridiculed  in  my  position 
that  I  should  join  such  an  undesirable  sect,  and  they  told  me  that  if 
I  attended  another  "Mormon"  meeting  I  should  be  thrown  out  of  my 
office  and  punished  in  jail.  I  was  fined,  again  and  again,  for  attend- 
ing the  meetings ;  and  here  is  President  Thomas  E.  McKay  who  can 
testify  to  the  truth  of  it.  I  have  been  in  the  forests,  joining  with  the 
Latter-day  Saints  and  listening  to  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ;  and  I 
was  fined  at  one  time  a  hundred  dollars  and  another  time  was  told  I 
would  be  thrown  out  of  my  position  and  punished.  But  when  I  was 
called  before  the  court  and  asked  what  I  would  do  in  the  future,  I 
told  them  to  decide  between  themselves  whether  I  should  not  serve  my 
God  more  than  them.  At  that  time  they  testified  unto  me,  as  the 
highest  officer  and  general  in  that  Bavarian  army,  that  if  I  could  learn 
the  truth,  and  the  reason  why  the  ministers  of  the  churches  there  are 
preaching  to  the  people,  it  would  be  discovered  that  it  was  only  for 
the  reason  of  better  policing  the  people  of  Germany.  They  have 
assured  me  that  the  first  minister  of  Germany  has  told  them  that 
there  is  no  truth  in  religion,  but  that  the  Darwinian  doctrine  is 
paramount  and  is  the  truth.  But,  as  I  told  him,  I  can  say  there  is 
no  evidence  that  a  monkey  ever  became  a  man,  as  far  as  history  goes ; 
that  there  is  no  evidence  of  any  progress  in  that  direction  whatever, 
and  I  can't  see  why  I  should  believe  a  doctrine  of  that  kind  which 
teaches  us  to  go  down  to  the  very  bottom  of  animal  being,  whi'e  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  teaches  me  to  go  up  to  heaven.  It  is  so  lofty 
that  it  is  impossible  for  me  to  detach  myself  from  it.  So  I  told  them 
I  would  take  the  consequences,  and  I  am  glad  I  did. 

I  am  thankful  that  I  came  here,  and  I  can  say  to  you  people  that 
your  God  is  my  God,  your  people  are  my  people,  and  I  hope  I  will 
be  worthy,  in  my  weakness,  to  stay  with  you  and  be  useful.  I  have 
tried  to  show  my  faith ;  and  even  during  the  war  I  told  the  German 
people  whom  I  presided  over  that  we  should  be  loyal  first,  as  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants  says,  that  the  time  shall  come  when  freedom  shall 
come  to  every  nation  through  America ;  and  yet  when  the  President  of 
the  German  nation  said :  "If  freedom  shall  come  to  the  German 
nation  through  any  other  nation,  we  shall  accept  it,"  though  it  was 
hard  for  those  who  were  really  Germans.  They  can't  say  anything 
else,  after  the  truth  has  come  out.  than  that  it  was  a  good  thing  for 
the  German  nation  to  become  free  of  their  masters  who  have  made 
them  slaves.  I  know  the  German  people  from  the  ground  up,  as  I 
have  been  mixing  with  them,  and  no  one  can  tell  me  any  different. 
I  tell  you  that  I  know  the  German  people,  and  that  they  will  some  day 
rejoice  that  they  have  been  freed,  and  that  now  they  can  progress 


ELDER  RASPER  FETZER 


155 


more  than  ever.  The  world  will  be  made  to  see  that  there  is  a  good 
foundation ;  not  only  in  science,  but  also  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
as  followers  after  the  great  message  which  has  been  given  in  these 
last  days.  I  have  knelt  down  in  the  forest  of  Bavaria  and  asked  God 
in  heaven  for  this,  the  gospel  jyf  Christ — the  truth  which  he  has  re- 
vealed— and  I  know  that  I  have  heard  a  voice  from  heaven,  though  I 
have  seen  nobody,  and  I  know  this  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I 
could  not  deny  this  testimony,  and  many  other  testimonies  I  have 
received.  I  assure  you  it  is  a  matter  of  satisfaction  to  me,  and  I 
desire  my  superiors  shall  feel  that  my  testimony  rests  upon  the  very 
foundation,  and  that  is  the  Spirit  of  God.  I  ask  God  to  bless  us  that 
we  may  join  one  another  more  closely,  and  that  we  may  help  one 
another,  and  especially  that  the  youth  of  Zion  may  step  in  the  foot- 
steps of  their  fathers  as  we  are  all  called,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


Presented  the  general  authorities  and  the  general  officers  of  the 
Church,  all  of  whom  were  sustained  in  their  positions  and  callings 
by  the  unanimous  vote  of  the  great  assembly  as  follows  : 


Ileber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer,  and  Revelator  and  President  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Charles  W.  Penrose,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Anthony  W.  Ivins,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 


FIRST  PRESIDENCY 


PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  TWELVE  APOSTLES 


Rudger  Clawson 


COUNCIL    OF    TWELVE  APOSTLES 


Rudger  Clawson 
Reed  Smoot 
George  Albert  Smith 
George  F.  Richards 
Orson  F.  Whitney 
David  O.  McKay" 


Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
James  E.  Talmage 
Stephen  L.  Richards 


Richard  R.  Lyman 
Melvin  J.  Ballard 
John  A.  Widtsoe 


PRESIDING  PATRIARCH 

Hyrum  G.  Smith 


156 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  Counselors  of  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles, 
and  the  Presiding  Patriarch  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Reve'ators. 

FIRST  SEVEN  PRESIDENTS  OF  SEVENTY 

Seymour  B.  Young  Rulon  S.  Wells 

Brigham  H.  Roberts  Joseph  W.  McMurrin 

Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Charles  H.  Hart 

Levi  Edgar  Young 


PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 


Charles  W.  Nibley,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 


Heber  J.  Grant,  as  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


CHURCH    HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants :  Andrew 
Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  A.  William  Lund,  and  Junius  F.  Wells. 


CHURCH  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 


Heber  J.  Grant 
Charles  W.  Penrose 
Anthony  W.  Ivins 
Willard  Young 
Rudger  Clawson 
Orson  F.  Whitney 

Arthur  Winter,  Sec,  and  Treas 


Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
David  O.  McKay 
Stephen  L.  Richards 
Richard  R.  Lyman 
John  A.  Widtsoe 


COMMISSION    OF  EDUCATION 

John  A.  Widtsoe 
Stephen  L.  Richards 
Richard  R.  Lyman 

SUPERINTENDENT  OF  CHURCH  SCHOOLS 


Adam  S.  Bennion 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH  157 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Henry  H.  Rolapp 
John  C.  Cutler 
Peter  G.  Johnston 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor 
B.  Cecil  Gates,  Asst.  Conductor 

ORGANISTS 

John  J.  McClellan 
Edward  P.  Kimball 
Tracy  Y.  Cannon 
Alexander  Shreiner 
Frank  W.  Asper 

George  C.  Smith,  Sec,  and  Treas., 
and  all  the  members  of  the  Choir 

CLERK  OF  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Edward  H.  Anderson 


PRESIDENT   HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  desire  to  express  my  sincere  gratitude  and  thanksgiving  unto 
God  for  the  very  rich  outpouring  of  his  Holy  Spirit,  during  all  of  the 
sessions  of  our  conference.  I  feel  that  we  have  in  very  deed  had  a 
spiritual  feast,  that  the  Lord  has  blessed  us  abundantly,  and  I  hope  and 
pray  that  we  may  all  return  to  our  homes  in  safety;  that  those  who 
are  not  located  here,  but  have  come  from  other  sections  of  the  state 
and  from  other  states,  from  Canada  to  Mexico,  and  from  the  various 
missions,  that  we  may  all  go  home  and  carry  with  us  the  inspiration 
that  has  ben  manifest  during  this  conference. 

I  have  nothing  on  my  mind  that  I  desire  to  say  further  than  that 
I  endorse  the  remarks  that  have  been  made,  and  rejoice  in  the  wonder- 
ful testimonies  that  have  been  borne.  Particularly  have  I  enjoyed  the 
remarks  of  the  last  seven  speakers  who  were  called  upon,  who  had  no 
expectation  of  being  called.  All  of  the  other  speakers  were  rather 
inclined  to  worry,  as  the  Bishop  said,  knowing  that  their  turn  would 
come  sooner  or  later. 

Although  I  have  already  borne  my  testimony  I  feel  impressed  that 
I  would  like  to  leave  with  this  body  of  people,  once  more,  my  testimony 
regarding  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged.  I  know, 
as  I  know  I  live,  that  God  lives,  that  he  hears  and  answers  the  prayers 


158 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  those  who  honestly  seek  him.  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world,  the  Savior  of  mankind,  the  Son  of  God.  I  know  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  the  living  God,  and  that  there 
are  thousands  and  tens  of  thousands  of  Latter-day  Saints  who  have 
this  knowledge,  as  perfectly  as  I  have  it;  that  God  has  revealed  it  to 
them,  that  they  are  not  indebted  to  any  man  or  set  of  men  for  this 
light,  knowledge  and  testimony  regarding  God  our  Father  and  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ,  and  regarding  the  divinity  of  the  mission  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  the  instrument  of  our  heavenly  Father  and  of  our 
Savior  in  restoring  again  and  establishing  upon  the  earth  the  gospel 
of  life  and  salvation,  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  which  will 
bring  to  us  salvation,  if  we  are  faithful  in  keeping  his  commandments, 
and  we  shall  thus  enjoy  the  privilege  of  mingling  with  God  and  our 
Redeemer,  and  the  faithful  ones  who  have  gone  before,  throughout  the 
countless  ages  of  eternity. 

The  choir  sang,  "Then  shall  thy  light  shine,"  solo  by  James  Astin. 
The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  "Doxology." 
The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  President  Anthony  W.  Ivins, 
and  the  conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


Professor  Anthony  C.  Lund  conducted  the  singing,  assisted  by 
Professor  B.  Cecil  Gates.  Professor  John  J.  McClellan  played  the 
accompaniments,  interludes,  etc.,  on  the  great  organ,  assisted  by  Edward 
P.  Kimball  and  Tracy  Y.  Cannon. 

Stenographic  reports  of  the  discourses  were  made  in  the  Taber- 
nacle by  Franklin  W.  Otterstrom,  assisted  by  Joseph  Anderson;  and 
in  the  Assembly  Hall  by  Frederick  G.  Barker. 

EDWARD  H.  ANDERSON 

Clerk  of  the  Conference 


Pkinted  in  the  United  States  of  America 


INDEX 


Adams,  Elder  John  Q  103 

Authorities  Present   1 

Authorities  of  the  Church,  General  156 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J   27 


Promises  to  be  Fulfilled  in  Our  Day,  27 — The  People,  Place  and 
Plan  in  the  Accomplishment  of  These  Promises,  28 — The  De- 
scendants of  Joseph  the  Right  People  of  Promise,  28 — God  Has 
Gathered  Them  to  the  Right  Place,  28 — How  to  Secure  Permanency 
in  the  Right  Place,  29 — The  Right  Plan  Revealed  to  Gathered 
Joseph,  30 — However,  We  Must  Adhere  to  Our  Standards,  31 — We 
Have  an  Inspired  Interpreter  for  the  Plan,  31 — Let  Us  Keep  the 
Great  Vision  Before  Us,  31. 


Bennion,  Elder  Samuel   0   73 

Bentley,  Elder  Joseph  C  146 

Brown,  Elder  Hugh  B  145 

Burton,  Elder  Robert  I  ISO 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A  133 

Clawson,   President   Rudger   24 


A  Conundrum,  24 — The  Answer,  24 — We  Were  the  Children  of  God 
in  the  Spirit  World,  24 — The  Purpose  of  the  Creation  of  the  World, 
25 — Man's  Creation,  25 — Redemption  Through  the  Gospel  and  the 
Resurrection,  25 — The  Purpose  of  Man's  Life,  26 — The  Wonderful 
Beauty  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ,  26 — Our  Duty  to  Carry  the  Gospel 


Message  to  the  World,  27. 

Fetzer,  Elder  Kasper   153 

General  Authorities  Present    1 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  1,  156 

General  Officers  of  the  Church  1,  156 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   2 


The  Radio,  2 — Let  Us  Serve  God  With  All  Might,  Mind  and 
Strength,  2 — Outstanding  Events  and  Activities  of  the  Church 
in  the  Past  Six  Months,  3 — The  Divinity  of  Jesus  Christ,  6 — A 
Profoundly  Impressive  Comparison,  7 — How  to  Exercise  the 
Power  of  the  Priesthood,  8 — God's  Blessings  Invoked  Upon  the 
Church  and  Nation,  9 — Closing  Testimony,  10. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   17 

Elder  Orson  P.  Whitney,  17 — Absence  of  President  Charles  W. 
Penrose,  43 — Illness  of  President  Charles  W.  Penrose,  83 — Elder 
Parley  P.  Pratt's,  "An  Angel  From  On  High,"  84 — Conference  Pro- 
ceedings Heard  Through  Radio  by  President  Penrose.  Absence  of 
Elders  David  O.  McKay  and  Richard  R.  Lyman,  97 — "School  Thy 
Feelings,"  Hymn  by  President  Penrose,  98 — New  Stake  Presidents. 
The  French  Mission,  102 — Greetings  from  President  Charles 
W.  Penrose,  137 — Announcing  five  speakers.  Fast-day  Testi- 
monies, 145 — Ancestry  and  Nationality  of  Speakers,  152 — Gospel 
Converts  in  All  Parts  of  the  World,  153 — Presentation  of  the  Gen- 
eral Authorities  and  Officers,  155 — Closing  Speech,  157. 

Hart,  Elder  Charles  H  32 

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W.   84 

The  Old  Paths  and  the  Good  Way,  84 — The  Paths  of  the  Lord, 
85 — The  Trails  and  Paths  of  Men,  85 — One  Road  Which  Men  Have 
Not  Desired  to  Follow,  86 — Perpetuity  of  Peoples  and  Government 
Dependent  on  Religious  Faith,  86 — A  Great  Event,  and  a  Mighty 
Purpose  Foretold,  87 — The  Great  Truth  Made  Clear  by  Revelation, 
88 — Results  of  An  Ancient  Warnng  Unheeded,  88 — Modern  Discov- 
ery of  America,  89 — Are  We  to  Profit  by  Past  Experiences?  90 — 
All  Institutions  and  Interests  Dependent  on  the  Stability  of 
Government,  90 — It  is  Time  We  Take  Note  of  the  Signboards  of 
History,  90 — Our  Neglects  and  Serious  Transgressions,  91 — In 
These  Trangressions  We  Are  Traveling  the  Blazed  Trails  to  Death, 
92 — God  Has  Revealed  His  Way;  Will  We  Walk  Therein?  92— 
God's  Path,  Decree  and  Will  Revealed.    Will  the  People  Hearken? 


16C  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Kimball,  Elder  Jonathan  G.   70 

Knight,  Elder  John  M   118 

Lund,  Elder  A.  William     76 

McMurrin,  Elder  Joseph  W   52 

Nibley,  Elder  Charles  W.   93 

Pratt,  Elder  Rey  L  142 

Quinney,  Elder  Joseph,  Jr  125 

Rasmussen,  Elder  Soren   152 

Rich,  Elder  Edward  C  148 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   37 

The  Gospel  of  Christ  Originated  in  Heaven,  37 — The  Restoration 
of  the  Gospel,  37 — Our  Responsibility  to  Preach  the  Gospel,  38 — ■ 
Many  Lack  Courage  to  Join  the  Church,  38 — Qualifications  for 
Becoming  a  Member  of  the  Church,  39 — The  Speaker's  Testimony, 
39. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L   64 

In  a  Great  Presence,  64 — A  Comparison,  64 — Here  Only  May  be 
Heard  the  Word  of  God,  65 — A  Tremendous  Responsibility,  65 — 
Reverence  for  God  Essential  to  the  Peace  of  Mankind,  65 — Our 
Country  and  Our  Church  Command  Our  Allegiance,  66 — An  Appeal 
for  Undivided   Support,  67. 

Roberts,  Elder  Brigham  H   59 

Robertson,  Elder  Hilton  A  122 

Rushton,  Elder  Don  C   79 

Smith,  Elder  E.  Wesley  113 

Smith,  Elder  David  A   56 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert    44 

Our  Duty  to  Assist  in  Perpetuating  Liberty,  44 — The  Constitutional 
Law  of  the  Land  to  be  Supported,  44 — We  Should  Not  be  Led 
Astray  by  Fallacies,  45 — A  Declaration  of  Belief  Regarding  Gov- 
ernments and  Laws  in  General,  46 — No  One  a  Good  Member  of  the 
Church  Who  Refuses  to  Sustain  the  Law  of  the  Land,  47 — Thank- 
ful for  the  Blessings  of  Liberty,  48. 

Smith,   Elder  Hyrum   G   15 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   99 

The  Words  of  the  Brethren  Ring  True,  89 — The  Truth  Grows 
Brighter  With  Use,  99 — Commotion  and  Unrest  in  the  World,  100 — 
An  Abiding  Knowledge  of  Christ  Brings  Peace,  100 — The  Atone- 
ment of  Christ  Fundamental,  101 — Jesus  Declared  Himself  to  be 
the  Son  of  God,  101 — Testimony  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the 
Son  of  God,  102. 

Smith,  Elder  Winslow  Farr  147 

Smoot,  Elder  Reed    35 

Wonderful   Organization — Integrity    of    the  Constitution. 

Talmage,  Elder  James  E  137 

Progress  and  Sprit  of  Missionary  Work,  137 — Two  Characteristic 
Features  of  the  Church,  139 — The  Tithing  System,  139 — 'The 
Wonderful  Missionary  System  of  the  Church,  139. 

Taylor,  Elder  John  H  117 

Thunell,  Elder  Isaac  P  108 

Wells,  Elder  John    49 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S   40 

Whitney,  Elder  Orson  F   17 

The  Marvelous  Work  and  Wonder,  17 — Fundamental  Facts,  18 — 
Worldly  Wisdom's  Attitude,  18 — Horace  Greeley's  Visit,  19 — A 
Catholic  Comment,  19 — An  Episcopal  View,  20 — An  Absurd  Theory, 
20 — The  Revealing  Spirit,  21 — St.  John  Interpreted,  22 — The  Father 
and  the  Son,  22 — A  "Mormon"  Boy's  Wit,  22 — Moses  Explains. 
22 — The  Spirit  -Sight,  23. 

Widtsoef,  Elder  John  A   10 

A  Testimony  of  Jesus,  10 — A  Remarkable  Age  of  the  World, 
10 — Man  Helpless  Without  God,  11 — A  Great  Intellectual  and  Spirit- 
ual Controversy,  11 — Dangerous  to  Limit  the  Powers  of  God,  12 — 
Something,  However,  to  be  Said  for  the  Modernist,  12 — A  Funda- 
mental Doctrine,  13 — The  Lord  Has  Declared  Himself  in  All  Gen- 
erations, 13 — All  Shall  Bow  Before  the  One  True  God,  14 — We 
Rest  Upon  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  14. 

Young,  Elder  Brigham  S  129 

Young,  Elder  Seymour  B   68 


^uii  i  ■  j  ■caiiiiiiiiiiitcaitiiiiiiiiiiEaiiiiiiiiiiiiKaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiic3iiiiiiii  in  icaiitmiiiiiiEati  ■■■■■■micaiiiiiit^ 

I   SOMETHING   NEW  I 

ttiiiiiiijiiiiiittiiiiriiiiitiiirirriJiiiiiiiiiiiiiiirirriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiciiiiiiiiriiritiiiiiiiEiiiiijiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiitiiiji 

"Science  and  Belief  in  God" 

BY  DR.  FREDERICK  J.  PACK  | 

=  An  interesting  treatment  of  an  interesting  subject.  Every 

S        student  of  religion  or  science  will  want  to  read  it.  = 

D                                         $2.50,  postpaid  D 

Doctrine  and  Covenants  Commentary  1 

=                             Thin  paper — handy  sized  volume  = 

|                         Cloth  $3.50;  Leather  $5.50,  postpaid  § 

If  you  want  to  study  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  you'll 

3        want  this  book.  3 

=                                            Just  Issued  = 

|    The  Life  of  Franklin  Dewey  Richards  j 

S           A  life  replete  with  interesting,  faith  promoting  incidents.  S 

Our  young  people  will  be  greatly  benefited  by  reading  this  « 

=  biography.  = 
=                                         $3.00,  postpaid 

=                                    Revised  and  Reissued  = 

1  Roberts'  Outlines  of  Ecclesiastical  History  j 

Now  on  the  press.    It  will  be  ready  January  1,  1925.  j§ 

2  Order  your  copy  now.  □ 

|                                  A  NEW  EDITION  | 

2  There  is  now  ready  a  new  edition  of 

|                     THE  GOSPEL  | 

=                            BY  ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS  1 

=            This  work  has  been  so  well  known,  and  its  value  so  much  = 

appreciated,  that  a  lengthy  description  is  not  necessary.  = 

=              .         Nicely  bound  in  cloth,  postpaid,  $1.25  = 

"        — ^— ^— — — — — — ^— — — — ■  — —  — _ « 

|         DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY  1 

|  44  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE  SALT  LAKE  CITY  | 
WiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiiEaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiini^ 


^iiiiiiEaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicai  iiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiif  if  icaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiini^ 

|                   THE  TEXT  FOR  j 

1     1925  "Priesthood  Lessons  j 

=                                         IS  THE  | 

I  Articles  of  Faith  j 

|                       BY  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE  1 

|            Beautiful  Blue  Cloth  Binding....$1.00  Postpaid  | 

a            Black  Morocco                            2.50  E 

1            Misssion  Edition — Brown  Cloth..    .50  § 

Order  yours  early  and  get  an  outline  free  with  your  3 
s  book 

EE                   IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIItllllllllllllllltllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllfltllllHIIIIIIIllllllllllllllHtHIIIHIIIIIIIIMlMlllllllllllllllllllinilll  n 

—  u 

n  = 

EE            Our  service  consists  not  only  in  selling  books  and  s 

supplies,  but  it  consists  also  in  helping  you  to  select  § 

=        your  home  library.  E 

|            Tell  us  how  many  in  the  family,  their  ages  and  | 

i        how  much  you  want  to  spend  each  month  for  books,  | 

and  we'll  suggest  a  list  for  you.  | 

—  n 
n  ^ 

u  j= 

|       DESERET  BOOK  I 

I            COMPANY  I 

—  n 

|                                 44  E.  So.  Temple  § 

|                                  Salt  Lake  City  5 

u  — 

^iiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicJiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiiKaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiinmicaiiiiiiis 


