OnsL  llundhsuL  Jwady-JthbuL 
ANNUAL 


OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

dphiL  ty,  5  and,  6, 
1953 

With  Report  of  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Printed  In  the  United  States  of  America 


Education  Lives  As  Long  As  You  Read 

GOOD  BOOKS 


Life  of  a  Great  Leader  $2.50 

Biography  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant 
Bryant  S.  Hinckley 

Presidents  of  the  Church  $4.00 

Preston  Nibley 
New  revised  edition  including  biographical  sketch  of 
President  David  O.  McKay 

Brigham  Young,  the  Man  and  His  Work  $3.00 

Preston  Nibley 

James  H.  Moyle  $3.50 

Gordon  B.  Hinckley 

A  Marvelous  Work  and  a  Wonder  $1.75 

LeGrand  Richards 

Sermons  and  Missionary  Services  of 

Melvin  J.  Ballard  $2.75 

Bryant  S.  Hinckley 

Prophecy  and  Modern  Times  $1.75 

W.  Cleon  Skousen 

Ancient  America  and  The  Book  of  Mormon  $4.00 

Milton  R.  Hunter  and  Thomas  Stewart  Ferguson 

Outlines  of  Ecclesiastical  History  $2.25 

B.  H.  Roberts 


ALL  PRICES  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 

44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


The  One  Hundred  Twenty-third  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Twenty-third  An- 
nual Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in 
the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 
Saturday,  Sunday  and  Monday,  April 
4,  5  and  6,  1953. 

The  general  sessions  of  the  confer- 
ence were  held  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00 
p.m.  Saturday,  Sunday  and  Monday, 
and  the  General  Priesthood  meeting  was 
held  in  the  Tabernacle  Saturday 
evening,  April  4,  at  7:00. 

The  proceedings  of  the  general  ses- 
sions were  broadcast  over  Station  KSL, 
and  by  arrangement  through  KSL  over 
the  following  stations: 

In  Utah:  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KSVC 
at  Richfield,  KJAM  at  Vernal,  KVNU 
at  Logan. 

In  Idaho:  KGEM  at  Boise,  KID  at 
Idaho  Falls,  KJRL  at  Pocatello,  KBIO 
at  Burley,  KEEP  at  Twin  Falls,  KRXK 
at  Rexburg. 

In  Colorado:  KEXO  at  Grand  Junc- 
tion. 

In  Nevada:  KELY  at  Ely  and  KLAS 
at  Las  Vegas  (Sunday  only). 

In  Arizona:  KTYL  at  Mesa  (by  trans- 
scription) . 

In  California:  (Sunday  only),  KCSB 
at  San  Bernardino,  KWTC  at  Barstow, 
KPMO  at  Pomona,  KBLA  at  North 
Hollywood,  KNOB  at  Long  Beach. 

In  Hawaii:  KULA  at  Honolulu  (Sun- 
day only). 

The  proceedings  of  the  general  ses- 
sions were  also  televised  over  KSL  tele- 
vision station,  Channel  5. 

All  general  sessions  of  the  conference 
and  the  General  Priesthood  meeting 
were  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall, 
on  Temple  Square,  and  in  Barratt  Hall 
(60  North  Main  Street),  over  a  loud- 
speaking  system  and  by  television. 
Thousands,  in  addition,  listened  to  the 


services  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds  by 
means  of  amplifying  equipment. 

The  proceedings  of  the  General  Priest- 
hood meeting  were  broadcast  by  special 
wire  to  the  Brigham  Young  University 
Fieldhouse  in  Provo,  Utah,  for  the  ac- 
commodation of  a  large  group  of  breth- 
ren holding  the  priesthood  who  had 
assembled  there  to  listen  to  the  services. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  services  at  each  of 
the  sessions  of  the  Conference,  includ- 
ing the  General  Priesthood  meeting. 

A  full  report  of  Columbia  Broadcast- 
ing Company's  Tabernacle  Choir  and 
Organ  broadcast  is  also  included  in  this 
record. 


General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
Present 

Of  The  First  Presidency:  David  O. 
McKay,  *,  and  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

Of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apos- 
tles: Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  **,  ***, 
Harold  B  Lee,  Spencer  W.  Kimball, 
Ezra  Taft  Benson,  Mark  E.  Petersen, 
Matthew  Cowley,  Henry  D.  Moyle, 
Delbert  L.  Stapley,  Marion  G.  Romney, 
LeGrand  Richards,  and  Adam  S.  Ben- 
nion.**** 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Thomas  E.  McKay,  Clifford  E.  Young, 
Alma  Sonne,  George  Q.  Morris,  Stayner 
Richards,  EIRay  L.  Christiansen,  and 
John  Longden. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy:  Levi 
Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins,  Richard 
L.  Evans,  Oscar  A.  Kirkham,  Seymour 

*Stephen  L  Richards  absent  because  of  illness. 

"John  A.  Widtsoe  passed  away  November  29,  1952. 

•••Albert  E.  Bowen  was  absent  because  of  illness. 

****Adam  S.  Bennion  was  sustained  at  this  Con- 
ference (April  6)  as  a  member  of  the  Quorum  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles,  filling  the  vacancy  caused  by  the 
death  of  Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Dilworth  Young,  Milton  R.  Hunter, 
and  Bruce  R.  McConkie. 

Presiding  Bishopric:  Joseph  L.  Wirth- 
lin,  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  and  Carl  W. 
Buehner. 

General  Officers  and  Other 
Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  A.  William 
Lund,  Assistant. 

Members  of  General  Welfare  Com- 
mittee, Church  Welfare  Program. 

Members  of  General  Board  of  Educa- 
tion, Commissioner  of  Education,  Sem- 
inary Supervisors,  Directors  and  Asso- 
ciate Directors  of  Institutes. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Coun- 
selors, Bishops  of  Wards  and  their 
Counselors,  Presidents  of  Temples, 
Patriarchs,    High    Priests,  Seventies, 


Elders;  General  Stake  and  Ward  officers 
of  Auxiliary  Associations,  etc.,  from  all 
parts  of  the  Church. 

Mission  Presidents:  Richard  L.  Evans, 
Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  City;  Delbert 
G.  Taylor,  Eastern  States;  J.  Howard 
Maughan,  New  England;  Isaac  A.  Smoot, 
Northern  States;  Carl  C.  Burton,  Great 
Lakes;  John  B.  Hawkes,  North  Central 
States;  John  B.  Matheson,  East  Central 
States;  J.  Orval  Ellsworth,  Central 
States;  Peter  J.  Ricks,  Southern  States; 
Bryan  L.  Bunker,  California;  Thomas 
W.  Gardner,  Northern  California; 
Benjamin  L.  Bowring,  Texas-Louisiana; 
Ray  E.  Dillman,  Western  States;  James 
A.  McMurrin,  Northwestern  States;  J. 
Melvin  Toone,  Canada;  Scott  Zimmer- 
man, Western  Canada;  Lucian  M. 
Meacham,  Jr.,  Mexico;  Lorin  F.  Jones, 
Spanish- American;  Golden  R.  Buchan- 
an, Southwest  Indian. 


FIRST 
MORNING 

The  first  session  of  the  Conference 
convened  Saturday  morning,  April  4, 
at  10  o'clock,  with  President  David  O. 
McKay  presiding  and  conducting  the 
services. 

The  Tabernacle  was  filled  to  capacity 
as  the  time  approached  for  the  opening 
of  the  Conference;  great  numbers  oc- 
cupied the  Assembly  Hall  to  the  south 
of  the  Tabernacle  and  Barratt  Hall  (40 
North  Main  Street),  and  in  addition, 
many  people  assembled  on  the  Taber- 
nacle grounds. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  time  has  arrived  for  the  opening 
of  this  the  123rd  annual  conference  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  We  are  convened  in  the 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt 
Lake  City. 

All  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church  are  in  attendance  excepting 
President  Stephen  L  Richards  and  Elder 
Albert  E.  Bowen.  President  Richards 
was  desirous  of  attending  this  session, 
but  we  advised  against  it.  He  is  im- 
proving in  his  health.  He  met  with 
the  Presidency  the  other  morning  in 
preparing  the  details  of  the  conference 
and  is  feeling  well,  but  we  deem  it 
advisable  and  so  does  his  doctor  for 
him  not  to  make  too  much  exertion.  I 
am  very  pleased  to  report  to  you  that 
he  is  improving  and  gaining  in  strength. 

This  morning  when  I  shook  Elder 
Bowen's  hand  he  said  please  give  to  the 
Brethren  and  the  Saints  assembled  my 
greetings  and  love.  He  has  been  con- 
fined to  the  hospital  for  several  months. 
I  think  he  is  gaining.  His  brilliant  mind 
is  active,  his  memory  responsive,  but 
the  stroke  has  left  part  of  his  body 
helpless. 

Since  last  conference  in  October  one 
of  our  faithfuL  associates  has  passed  to 
the  other  side,  as  you  know,  Elder  John 
A.  Widtsoe.    A  man  of  even  tempera- 


DAY 

MEETING 

ment,  pleasant  and  agreeable  under  all 
circumstances,  loyal  to  his  Church,  de- 
voted to  his  family,  to  truth  and  to 
his  God.  One  who  devoted  his  life  to 
the  service  of  his  fellowmen. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  is  clerk  of 
the  conference. 

These  services  and  all  general  ses- 
sions of  the  conference  will  be  broadcast 
in  the  Assembly  Hall,  in  Barratt  Hall, 
60  North  Main,  over  the  loudspeaking 
system  and  by  television.  The  Fire  De- 
partment officials  have  only  this  morn- 
ing requested  that  we  keep  the  aisles 
clear,  and  also  the  exits.  I  replied 
that  it  will  be  difficult  probably  to 
keep  the  exits  free  because  others  who 
will  not  hear  this  announcement  will 
be  crowding  in,  so  we  shall  appreciate 
that  you  respond  to  this  request  of  the 
Fire  Department  and  refrain  from 
crowding  the  aisles  or  the  exits.  That 
is  why  we  say  overflow  meetings  will  be 
held  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in  the 
Barratt  Hall. 

This  service  and  all  general  sessions 
of  the  conference  will  be  broadcast 
over  KSL,  and  by  arrangements  through 
KSL  over  the  following  stations:  In 
Utah,  KSUB,  Cedar  City;  KSBC  at 
Richfield;  KJAM  at  Vernal;  KVNU  at 
Logan;  in  Idaho,  KGEM  at  Boise;  KID 
at  Idaho  Falls;  KJRL  at  Pocatello; 
KBIO  at  Burley;  KEEP  at  Twin  Falls, 
and  KRXK  at  Rexburg.  In  Colorado, 
KEXO  at  Grand  Junction;  in  Nevada, 
KELY  at  Ely,  KLAS  at  Las  Vegas.  That 
will  be  only  on  Sunday.  In  Arizona, 
KTYL  at  Mesa,  by  transcription;  in 
California  KCSV  at  San  Bernardino; 
KWTC  at  Barstow;  KPMO  at  Pamona; 
KBLA  at  North  Hollywood;  KNOB  at 
Long  Beach.  In  Hawaii,  KULA  at 
Honolulu,  by  transcription  on  Sunday; 
and  the  California  stations  will  be  on 
Sunday.  We  will  note  that  later.  You 
will  be  interested  to  know  in  this  respect 
that  according  to  the  figures  of  the 
radio  and  television  manufacturers  as- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

sociation,  in  addition  to  available  in- 
formation from  local  dealers  and  dis- 
tributors of  television  receivers,  a  re- 
liable estimate  would  place  the  num- 
ber of  sets  at  100,000  television  sets  in 
the  area  now  serviced  by  KSL-TV.  We 
believe,  therefore,  that  some  sessions  of 
conference,  especially  the  Sunday  ses- 
sions, could  have  an  average  tune-in 
of  5  viewers  per  each  receiver.  If  60% 
of  the  receivers  were  tuned  into  con- 
ference at  any  given  session  there  would 
be  300,000  viewers  watching  as  well  as 
listening  to  the  proceedings  in  the 
Tabernacle.  We  express  appreciation 
to  the  stations  named  for  their  coopera- 
tion in  broadcasting  the  proceedings  of 
this  conference.  We  thank  them  for 
their  service  which  will  continue 
throughout  the  conference.  In  the  in- 
terest of  time,  however,  we  shall  not 
repeat  this  announcement  at  every  ses- 
sion, excepting  probably  on  Sunday 
when  the  California  stations  are  on 
the  air. 

All  the  general  sessions  will  be  tele- 
vised over  KSL  television  station,  chan- 
nel 5. 

Sunday  morning,  April  5th,  at  8:30, 
Elder  Longden,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve, 
will  be  a  speaker  over  NBC's  Faith  in 
Action  series.  His  address  which  will 
be  heard  in  the  area  over  KDYL  is  en- 
titled, "Christ  the  Lord  is  Risen." 

The  singing  for  this  morning's  session 
will  be  furnished  by  the  combined 
Scandinavian  Choirs,  with  R.  Hulbert 
Keddington  conducting  and  Roy  M. 
Darley  at  the  organ.  We  shall  begin 
this  session  by  the  combined  choirs 
singing,  "O  Morn  of  Beauty,"  conducted 
by  Elder  Keddington. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Franklin  J.  Murdock,  president  of  the 
Highland  Stake. 


First  Day 


Singing  by  the  combined  Scandinavian 
Choirs,  "O  Morn  of  Beauty." 

Elder  Franklin  J.  Murdock,  President 
of  the  Highland  Stake,  offered  the  in- 
vocation. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Scandinavian  Choirs  will  now 
sing,  "The  Messiah  is  Coming,"  con- 
ducted by  Elder  Keddington.  After 
the  singing,  Elder  Joseph  Anderson, 
Clerk  of  the  Conference,  will  read  the 
vital  statistical  data,  changes  in  the 
ward  and  stake  organizations,  the  obitu- 
aries of  the  Church,  and  some  items 
pertaining  to  financial  expenditures. 

The  Scandinavian  Choirs  will  now 
sing. 


The  combined  Scandinavian  Choirs 
sang  "The  Messiah  Is  Coming." 


Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the 
Conference,  read  the  following  reports: 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 

STAKE,  WARD  AND  BRANCH 
ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE  OCTOBER 
CONFERENCE  1952 

MISSION  CHANGES  AND  NEW 
PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

Lee  B.  Valentine  appointed  president 
of  Argentine  Mission  to  succeed  Harold 
Brown. 

Charles  V.  Liljenquist  appointed 
president  of  Australian  Mission  to  suc- 
ceed George  A.  Christensen. 

Hilton  A.  Robertson  released  as  presi- 
dent of  Chinese  Mission. 

Isaac  A.  Smoot  appointed  president 
of  Northern  States  Mission  to  succeed 
Waldo  M.  Andersen. 

Howard  B.  Stone  appointed  president 
of  Samoan  Mission  to  succeed  Earl  S. 
Paul. 

LeRoy  H.  Duncan  appointed  president 
of  South  African  Mission  to  succeed 
Evan  P.  Wright. 

William  F.  Perschon  appointed  presi- 
dent of  Swiss-Austrian  Mission  to  suc- 
ceed Samuel  E.  Bringhurst. 

John  Kenneth  Orton  appointed  presi- 
dent of  Tahitian  Mission  to  succeed 
Othello  P.  Pearce. 


NEW  STAKES 

NEW  STAKES  ORGANIZED 

Cannon  Stake  organized   March  1, 
1953,  by  division  of  Pioneer  Stake. 
Detroit  Stake  organized  November  2, 

1952,  from  Great  Lakes  and  Canadian 
Missions. 

East  Ogden  Stake  organized  Novem- 
ber 23,  1952,  by  division  of  Mt.  Ogden 
and  Ogden  Stakes. 

East  Sharon  Stake  organized  Novem- 
ber 24,  1952,  by  division  of  Sharon 
Stake. 

Klamath  Stake  organized  March  22, 

1953,  from  Northern  California  Mis- 
sion. 

Layton  Stake  organized  Tanuary  25, 
1953,  by  division  of  North  Davis  Stake. 

Lorin  Farr  Stake  organized  November 
16,  1952,  by  division  of  Ben  Lomond 
Stake. 

Mt.  Rubidoux  Stake  organized  October 
26.  1952,  by  division  of  San  Bernardino 
Stake. 

North  Tooele  Stake  organized  March 

29.  1953,  by  division  of  Tooele  Stake. 
Riverdale  Stake  organized  November 

30,  1952,  by  division  of  Weber,  South 
Ogden  and  Lake  View  Stakes. 

San  Tose  Stake  organized  November 
30,  1952,  from  Palo  Alto  Stake  and 
Northern  California  Mission. 

STAKE  PRESIDENTS  CHOSEN 

Leonard  T.  Ralphs,  president  of 
American  Falls  Stake  to  succeed  George 
R.  Woolley. 

Heber  Jay  Heiner,  Jr.,  president  of 
Ren  Lomond  Stake  to  succeed  William 
Arthur  Budge. 

Clarence  Neeley,  president  of  Benson 
Stake  to  succeed  Merle  G.  Hyer. 

Fred  H.  Peck,  Jr.,  president  of  Cannon 
Stake. 

Winslow  B.  Whiteley,  president  of 
Cassia  Stake  to  succeed  Lewis  R.  Critch- 
field. 

Alan  B.  Blood,  president  of  Davis 
Stake  to  succeed  LeRoy  H.  Duncan. 

George  W.  Romney,  president  of 
Detroit  Stake. 

Scott  B.  Price,  president  of  East  Ogden 
Stake. 


ORGANIZED  5 

Henry  D.  Taylor,  president  of  East 
Sharon  Stake. 

Carroll  William  Smith,  president  of 
Klamath  Stake. 

I.  Haven  Barlow,  president  of  Layton 
Stake. 

Francis  M.  Zimmerman,  president  of 
Long  Beach  Stake  to  succeed  Virgil  H. 
Spongberg. 

Elton  W.  Wardle,  president  of  Lorin 
Farr  Stake. 

Albert  Leland  Bott,  president  of  Mt. 
Ogden  Stake  to  succeed  Olin  H.  Ririe. 

Vern  R.  Peel,  president  of  Mt.  Rubi- 
doux Stake. 

George  Smith  Haslam,  president  of 
North  Davis  Stake  to  succeed  George  H. 
Holt. 

Lloyd  P.  Mickelsen,  president  of 
North  Idaho  Falls  Stake  to  succeed 
Henry  Ray  Hatch. 

Orlando  T.  Barrus,  president  of  North 
Tooele  Stake. 

Henry  A.  Smith,  president  of  Pioneer 
Stake  to  succeed  Fred  H.  Peck,  Jr. 

Rudolph  Lincoln  Van  Kampen,  presi- 
dent of  Riverdale  Stake. 

Wilford  Joseph  Reichmann,  president 
of  St.  George  Stake  to  succeed  Wm.  H. 
Bennett. 

Lavern  M.  Hansen,  president  of  San 
Bernardino  Stake  to  succeed  Vern  R. 
Peel. 

Serge  J.  Lauper,  president  of  San 
Francisco  Stake  to  succeed  J.  Bryon 
Barton,  deceased. 

Vernard  Lester  Beckstrand,  president 
of  San  Jose  Stake. 

Philo  T.  Edwards,  president  of  Sharon 
Stake  to  succeed  Henry  D.  Taylor. 

John  Byron  Ravsten,  president  of 
Smithfield  Stake  to  succeed  George  L. 
Rees. 

Myron  L.  Western,  president  of  West 
Pocatello  Stake  to  succeed  Twayne 
Austin,  deceased. 

NEW  WARDS  ORGANIZED 

Bonneville  Park  Second  and  Ogden 
Fortieth  Wards,  Ben  Lomond  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Bonneville  Park 
Branch  and  Ogden  Twenty-Ninth 
Ward. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

Boise  Ninth  Ward,  Boise  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Boise  Fourth 
Ward. 

Bountiful  Eighth  and  Ninth  Wards, 
Bountiful  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
Bountiful  Second  and  Third  Wards. 

West  Suburban  Ward,  Chicago  Stake, 
formerly  West  Suburban  Branch. 

Cottonwood  Third,  South  Cottonwood 
Second  and  Holladay  Fifth  Wards, 
Cottonwood  Stake,  formed  by  division 
of  Cottonwood,  South  Cottonwood  and 
Holladay  Third  Wards. 

Centerville  Third  Ward,  Davis  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Centerville  First 
Ward. 

Denver  Fourth  Ward,  Denver  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Crestmoor  Ward. 

Ann  Arbor,  Dearborn,  Detroit,  Flint, 
Lansing,  Pontiac,  Saginaw-Midland  and 
Toledo  Wards,  Detroit  Stake,  formerly 
branches  in  Great  Lakes  Mission. 

Lethbridge  Third  Ward,  East  Leth- 
bridge  Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Leth- 
bridge Second  Ward. 

Anaheim  and  Costa  Mesa  Wards, 
East  Long  Beach  Stake,  formed  by  divi- 
sion of  Fullerton  Ward  and  all  of 
Huntington  Beach  Branch. 

East  Mill  Creek  Second  Ward,  East 
Mill  Creek  Stake,  formed  by  division 
of  East  Mill  Creek  Ward. 

Clark  Ward,  Grantsville  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Grantsville  First 
and  Second  Wards. 

Idaho  Falls  Fourteenth  Ward,  Idaho 
Falls  Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Idaho 
Falls  Ninth  Ward. 

Redondo  Second  Ward,  Inglewood 
Stake  formed  by  divsion  of  Redondo 
Ward. 

Dublan  Second  Ward,  Juarez  Stake, 
formerly  Mexican  Branch. 

Ashland,  Grants  Pass,  Klamath  Falls, 
Klamath  Falls  Second,  Lakeview  and 
Medford  Wards,  Klamath  Stake,  form- 
erly branches  in  Northern  California 
Mission. 

Lehi  Sixth  and  Seventh  Wards,  Lehi 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Lehi  Wards. 

Bonneville  Park  Ward,  Lorin  Farr 
Stake,  formerly  Bonneville  Park  Branch. 

Henderson    Second    Ward,  Moapa 


First  Day 

Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Henderson 
Ward. 

Clifton-Morenci  Ward,  Mt.  Graham 
Stake,  formerly  Clifton-Morenci  Branch. 

Clearfield  Third  and  Fourth  Wards, 
North  Davis  Stake,  formed  by  division 
of  Clearfield  First  and  Second  Wards. 

Hunter  Second  and  Redwood  Second 
Wards,  North  Jordan  Stake,  formed  by 
division  of  Hunter  and  Redwood  Wards. 

Oakland  Fifth  Ward,  Oakland  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Oakland  and 
Diamond  Wards. 

Menlo  Park  Ward,  Palo  Alto  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Palo  Alto  Ward. 

Los  Altos  Ward,  Palo  Alto  Stake, 
formerly  branch  in  Northern  California 
Mission. 

Covina  Ward,  Pasadena  Stake,  formed 
by  division  of  Monrovia  and  Baldwin 
Park  Wards. 

Pocatello  Seventeenth  Ward,  Poca- 
tello  Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Poca- 
tello 13th  Ward. 

Downey  Second  Ward,  Portneuf 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Downey 
Ward. 

Burton-Independence  Ward,  Rexburg 
Stake,  formed  by  merging  Burton  and 
Independence  Wards. 

Balboa  Second  Ward,  San  Francisco 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Balboa 
Ward. 

Pacific  Grove,  Salinas,  Santa  Cruz  and 
Watsonville  Wards,  San  Jose  Stake, 
formerly  branches  in  Northern  Cali- 
fornia Mission. 

Kirkland  Ward,  Seattle  Stake,  formerly 
branch  in  Northwestern  States  Mission. 

Idaho  Falls  Fifteenth  Ward,  South 
Idaho  Falls  Stake,  formed  by  division 
of  Idaho  Falls  Eighth  Ward. 

Ogden  37th,  Ogden  38th  and  Ogden 
39th  Wards,  South  Ogden  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Ogden  34th, 
Ogden  28th  and  Ogden  14th  Wards. 

Coalville  Second  Ward,  Summit 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Coalville 
Ward  and  includes  membership  from 
Cluff  Ward. 

Washington  Terrace  Third  and 
Fourth  Wards,  Weber  Stake,  formed  by 
division  of  Washington  Terrace  First 
and  Second  Wards. 


REPORT  OF  CHANGES 


WARDS  AND  BRANCHES 
TRANSFERRED 

Mt.  Ogden,  Ogden  30th,  Ogden  33rd, 
Ogden  35th,  Ogden  36th  and  Highland 
Wards,  East  Ogden  Stake,  formerly  of 
Mt.  Ogden  and  Ogden  Stakes. 

Edgemont  First,  Edgemont  Second, 
Pleasant  View,  Oak  Hills  First,  Oak 
Hills  Second  Wards,  East  Sharon  Stake, 
formerly  of  Sharon  Stake. 

Layton  First,  Layton  Second,  Layton 
Third,  Layton  Fourth  Wards  and 
Sahara  Branch,  Layton  Stake,  formerly 
of  North  Davis  Stake. 

Lorin  Farr,  Ogden  Seventh,  Ogden 
Eighth,  Ogden  Twenty-First  Wards, 
Lorin  Farr  Stake,  formerly  of  Ben 
Lomond  Stake. 

Arlington,  Hemet,  Ontario,  Pomona, 
Riverside  Wards,  Corona,  Elsinore,  Mira 
Loma  and  Perris  Branches,  Mt.  Rubi- 
doux  Stake,  formerly  of  San  Bernardino 
Stake. 

Lakeview,  Tooele  Second,  Tooele 
Third,  Tooele  Fifth,  Tooele  Seventh, 
Tooele  Eighth  and  Tooele  Ninth 
Wards,  North  Tooele  Stake,  formerly  of 
Tooele  Stake. 

Ogden  22nd,  Ogden  32nd,  Riverdale, 
Washington  Terrace  First,  Second,  Third 
and  Fourth  Wards,  Riverdale  Stake, 
formerly  of  Weber  and  Lake  View 
Stakes. 

San  Jose  First,  Second  and  Third 
Wards,  San  Jose  Stake,  formerly  of 
Palo  Alto  Stake. 

Ogden  Ninth,  Ogden  Eighteenth, 
Ogden  Twenty-Sixth,  Ogden  Twenty- 
Seventh  Wards,  Weber  Stake,  formerly 
of  South  Ogden  Stake. 

WARD  NAME  CHANGED 

Pleasant  Hill  Ward,  Berkeley  Stake, 
formerly  Pleasant  Hills  Ward. 

Cottonwood  First  Ward,  Cottonwood 
Stake,  formerly  Cottonwood  Ward. 

Cottonwood  Second  Ward,  Cotton- 
wood Stake,  formerly  Big  Cottonwood 
Ward. 

Denver  Third  Ward,  Denver  Stake, 
formerly  Crestmoor  Ward. 
Oakland    Second    Ward,  Oakland 


Stake,  formerly  Elmhurst  Ward. 

Oakland  Third  Ward,  Oakland 
Stake,  formerly  Diamond  Ward. 

Oakland  Fourth  Ward,  Oakland 
Stake,  formerly  Maxwell  Park  Ward. 

San  Jose  First  Ward,  San  Jose  Stake, 
formerly  San  Jose  Ward. 

San  Jose  Second  Ward,  San  Jose 
Stake,  formerly  Willow  Glen  Ward. 

San  Jose  Third  Ward,  San  Jose  Stake, 
formerly  Naglee  Park  Ward. 

INDEPENDENT  BRANCHES 
ORGANIZED 

Granger  Branch,  Lyman  Stake,  formed 
by  division  of  Lyman  Ward. 

Yerington  Branch,  Reno  Stake,  formed 
by  division  of  Hawthorne  Ward. 

La  Sal  Branch,  San  Juan  Stake, 
formerly  dependent  upon  Monticello 
Ward. 

Alderwood  Branch,  Seattle  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Seattle  Fifth 
Ward. 

BRANCHES  TRANSFERRED  TO 
STAKES  FROM  MISSIONS 

Chatham,  Sarnia,  Windsor,  Jackson 
and  Selfridge  Field  Branches,  Detroit 
Stake,  formerly  of  Canadian  and  Great 
Lakes  Missions. 

Alturas,  Etna,  Tulelake  and  Yreka 
Branches,  Klamath  Stake,  formerly  of 
Northern  California  Mission. 

Harmony  Hills  and  Gilroy  Branches, 
San  Jose  Stake,  formerly  of  Northern 
California  Mission. 

Monroe,  Oak  Harbor  and  Sedro- 
Woolley  Branches,  Seattle  Stake,  form- 
erly of  Northwestern  States  Mission. 

WARDS  AND  INDEPENDENT 
BRANCHES  DISCONTINUED 

Bench  Ward,  Bannock  Stake,  ward 
consolidated  with  Williams  Ward. 

Central  Ward,  Bannock  Stake,  ward 
consolidated  with  Grace  Second  Ward. 

Mound  Valley  Ward,  Bannock  Stake, 
membership  transferred  to  Cleveland 
Ward. 

Belfry  Branch,  Big  Horn  Stake,  trans- 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

ferred  to  West  Central  States  Mission. 

Piute  Branch,  Millard  Stake,  member- 
ship transferred  to  Kanosh  Ward. 

Cambridge  Ward,  Portneuf  Stake, 
membership  transferred  to  Downey 
Ward. 

Burton  and  Independence  Wards, 
Rexburg  Stake,  merged  to  make  Burton- 
Independence  Ward. 

Cluff  Ward,  Summit  Stake,  member- 
ship transferred  to  Coalville  Second 
Ward. 

Dove  Creek  Branch,  San  Juan  Stake, 


First  Day 

changed  from  independent  branch  to 
dependent  branch  on  Monticello  Ward. 

THOSE  WHO  HAVE  PASSED  AWAY 

Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve. 

President  Harry  L.  Payne,  President 
of  Arizona  Temple. 

J.  Bryon  Barton,  President  of  San 
Francisco  Stake. 

Twayne  Austin,  President  of  West 
Pocatello  Stake. 


STATISTICAL  AND  FINANCIAL  REPORT 

For  the  Information  of  the  Members  of  the  Church 

The  First  Presidency  issues  the  following  statement  of  items  concerning  the  condition 
and  operation  of  the  Church  for  the  year  1952.  The  statement  will  include  three  sections: 
First,  Statistical  Information;  Second,  Financial  Data;  and  Third,  Miscellaneous  Items. 


7.  STATISTICAL  INFORMATION 


Number  of  Stakes  of  Zion,  at  end  of  year   202 

Number  of  Wards    1,565 

Number  of  Independent  Branches    202 

Total  Wards  and  Independent  Branches,  at  end  of  year    1,767 

Number  of  Missions    42 

Church  Membership: 

Stakes    974,118 

Missions   214,935 

Total  Membership  (at  end  of  year)    1,189,053 

Church  Growth: 

Children  blessed  in  Stakes  and  Missions    43,114 

Children  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions   -   25,896 

Converts  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions    16,813 

Social  Statistics: 

Birth  rate  per  thousand   39.34 

Marriage  rate  per  thousand    8.98 

Death  rate  per  thousand   5.85 

(These  data  on  births,  marriages  and  deaths  are  computed  from  stake 

reports  and  do  not  include  the  missions) 

Missionaries: 

Number  of  missionaries  in  the  missions  of  the  Church  (including  those 

enroute  to  or  from  their  fields  of  labor)   -   2,897 

Number  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  the  stakes    6,138 

Total  missionaries — December  31,  1952    9,035 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  in  the  Missionary  Home  in 

1952   872 


7/.  FINANCIAL  DATA 
This  section  will  be  presented  under  two  headings: 

First,  Expenditures  for  Church  organizations  which  originate  directly  and  indirectly 
from  the  office  of  the  Corporation  of  the  President,  which  expenditures  are  funded  in  the 
main  from  the  tithes  of  the  Church. 


FINANCIAL  REPORT 


9 


Administrative  Expenses 

For  salaries  of  Church  employees  in  the  office  of  the  Presidency  and  the 
office  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  the  Tabernacle  Choir  employees,  and 
special  committees,  there  being  about  one  thousand  persons  on  the  em- 
ployees payroll;  for  the  living  allowances  and  traveling  expenses  of  the 
General  Authorities;  and  for  equipment  and  miscellaneous  items  of 

office  expense   $  1,214,665 

(The  total  Administrative  Expenses  are  covered  by  non-tithing  income.) 

Stakes  and  Wards 

For  expenses  of  202  stakes  and  1,767  wards  and  independent  branches,  in- 
cluding the  maintenance  of  buildings;  expenses  and  mileage  allowances  of 
stake  presidents  and  bishops;  furnishings  for  stake  and  ward  offices;  erec- 
tion, remodeling  and  repairing  of  stake  and  ward  buildings    $  9,516,508 

Missions  and  Missionary  Work 

For  maintenance  and  operation  of  the  established  missions  of  the  Church; 
living  and  traveling  expenses  of  mission  presidents;  return  fares  of  mission- 
aries; for  expenses  of  bureaus  of  information  and  of  the  Missionary  Home 
in  Salt  Lake  City;  for  free  literature,  radio  and  publicity  expense;  for  erec- 
tion, remodeling,  purchase,  maintenance  and  renting  of  meeting  houses 
and  other  buildings    $  4,601,828 

Temples 

For  expenses  of  the  eight  temples  now  in  operation  and  for  construction 
work,  repairs  and  maintenance  of  temple  buildings,  outbuildings,  and 
grounds    $  689,418 

Welfare 

For  the  purchase  of  equipment,  commodities  and  containers;  for  operating 
expenses  of  bishops'  storehouses,  and  for  the  transportation  of  commodities; 
for  the  purchase,  construction  and  remodeling  of  bishops'  storehouses  and 
other  general  welfare  properties;  for  General  Church  Welfare  Committee 
administrative  expenses;  and  for  the  care  of  the  needy — rents,  light,  fuel, 
hospitalization,  burials,  etc   $  1,573,803 

General  Buildings  and  Grounds 

For  maintenance  of  and  repairs  and  improvements  to  general  Church 
buildings  including  the  Church  Administration  building,  Tabernacle, 
and  Assembly  Hall,  and  grounds,  and  of  buildings  situated  immediately 
adjacent  to  the  Temple  Block,  and  $705,482  allowed  to  hospitals  for 
new  construction  and  for  improvements    $  1,109,266 

Schools  and  Educational  Activities 

For  operating  expenses  of  the  Brigham  Young  University,  Ricks  College, 
Juarez  Stake  Schools,  18  institutes,  134  seminaries,  the  McCune  School 
of  Music  and  Art,  the  Deseret  Gymnasium,  and  the  L.D.S.  Business 
College;  and  for  the  erection  and  repair  of  buildings;  and  for  purchase 
of  building  sites    $  3,674,086 

Genealogical  Society 

For  the  maintenance  of  the  genealogical  library,  archives,  temple  index 
bureau,  and  allied  departments;  for  recording,  indexing,  photographing 
and  filing  genealogical  and  temple  ordinance  data,  including  the  names 
of  577,638  persons  forwarded  to  the  temples  for  ordinances;  and  for 
microfilm  copies  of  genealogical  records  from  7  states  and  9  foreign 
countries  equivalent  to  43,057  printed  volumes  of  approximately  350 
pages  per  volume    $  811,581 


10  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  4  First  Day 

Other  Expenses 

For  taxes  and  assessments;  insurance;  contributions  to  civic  and  educa- 
tional institutions;  for  maintenance  and  repair  of  historic  properties 
and  monuments;  for  restoration  of  the  Church  Fire  Insurance  Fund; 

and  for  other  purposes    $  326,980 

Total  (Church  General  Funds  Spent)    $23,518,135 

Second,  Expenditures  which  originate  in  the  stakes,  wards,  missions,  schools  and 
.other  organizations  and  agencies  of  the  Church,  which  are  covered  by  collections  and 
contributions  other  than  tithing. 

For  construction  and  repair  of  meeting  houses  and  other  buildings  and  for 


purchases  of  sites,  buildings  and  furnishings   $  8,041,097 

For  Stake,  Ward  and  Mission  Maintenance  purposes  (including  auxiliaries' 

recreation  expenses)    4,600,088 

For  assistance  to  needy  from  Ward  and  Mission  Fast  Offerings    1,714,202 

For  acquisition  of  Storehouses  and  Budget  Production  Projects  (including 

the  operating  expenditures  of  said  projects)    822,198 

For  assistance  to  Missionaries  from  contributions  received  by  Wards  and 

Stakes    210,661 

For  operation  of  the  Primary  Children's  Hospital,  of  the  auxiliary  gen- 
eral boards,  and  of  the  temples    332,941 

Educational  Institutions — from  tuitions  and  dormitory  and  other  service 

income    3,733,270 

Hospitals — for  care  of  the  sick — in  addition  to  contributions  to  the 
Primary  Children's  Hospital  and  in  addition  to  the  amounts  paid 

from  tithes  included  in  Part  I   32,485 

Auxiliaries — from  publications,  sewing  projects,  and  other  business  income..  1,365,672 

Temples — from  clothing  rentals  and  other  receipts    154,155 

Deseret  Industries,  Deseret  Clothing  Factory,  Deseret  Woolen  Mills  and 

group  canning  projects — from  operating  income   717,660 

Welfare  budget  production  projects — from  operating  income    1,283,615 

Total  expenditures  from  contributions  and  collections  other  than  tithing  ....  $23,008,044 
GRAND  TOTAL — cash  expenditures  of  the  Church,  from  general  funds,  local 

contributions  and  other  income,  for  the  year  1952    $46,526,179 


77/.  MISCELLANEOUS  ITEMS 

Under  miscellaneous  items  will  be  set  forth  information  on  the  operation  and  accom- 
plishments of  some  of  the  Church  agencies. 

The  following  items  of  interest  are  taken  from  the  Church  Welfare  report  for  1952: 

Cash  expended  in  the  Welfare  Program,  all  included  in  the  report  of 


expenditures  given  in  Section  II    $  3,670,208 

In  addition  to  the  foregoing  cash  expenditures  of  Church  general  funds, 
Welfare  contributions  and  fast  offerings,  there  were  distributed  to 

the  needy,  welfare  commodities  to  the  value  of  over   1,073,659 

This  makes  a  grand  total  of  cash  and  commodities  distributed  under  the 

Welfare  Program  in  1952  by  the  various  agencies  involved,  of    $  4,743,867 


Distribtuion  from  Bishops'  Storehouses  of  commodities  amounted  to  6Y2  million  pounds 
of  food  and  360,000  items  of  household  supplies,  clothing  and  miscellaneous.  This 
distribution  is  12%  lower  than  1951. 

In  1952  there  were  37,649  persons  assisted  in  the  United  States  and  Canada.  This 
is  an  increase  from  1951  of  2,521  persons. 

During  the  year  1952  the  Deseret  Industries  have  had  an  average  of  289  persons 
working  in  their  plants,  64%  of  whom  were  handicapped  persons.  The  Deseret  Clothing 
Factory,  another  branch  of  the  Welfare  Plan,  has  provided  continuous  employment  for 
from  30  to  70  individuals,  many  of  whom  were  widows  and  elderly  persons. 


REPORT  OF  AUDITING  COMMITTEE 


11 


During  the  year,  66,011  man  days  of  work  and  the  use  of  equipment  amounting  to 
9,518  unit  days  were  donated  in  the  production  of  the  budget,  12,793  man  days  of  work 
were  donated '  in  operation  of  bishops'  storehouses,  and  4,712  man  days  of  work  were 
donated  in  the  construction  of  buildings  for  the  operation  of  the  Welfare  Plan.  In  addi- 
tion to  these,  156  construction  and  remodeling  projects  were  completed  by  the  brethren,  90 
of  which  were  for  the  benefit  of  less  fortunate  members. 

During  1952,  2,296  persons  were  given  occupational  counseling  resulting  in  the 
solution  of  their  employment  problems,  and  5,336  other  persons  were  placed  in  remunera- 
tive employment.  Reported  unemployment  has  increased  to  nearly  double  the  figure 
of  a  year  ago. 

Emergency  Activity 

In  April  of  last  year,  canyon  streams,  swollen  by  heavy  spring  thaws,  overflowed 
into  the  farms,  streets,  homes  and  business  houses  of  northern  Utah  communities,  causing 
extensive  damage  and  forcing  many  families  from  their  homes..  In  Salt  Lake  City, 
Ogden,  Provo  and  other  communities,  485  families  were  evacuated  from  their  homes 
through  the  efforts  of  Church  Welfare  workers.  Sixty  of  these  families  were  housed  in 
homes  donated  by  Church  members. 

On  a  purely  voluntary  basis,  6,606  individuals  spent  58,301  hours,  and  383  motorized 
equipment  units  were  contributed  for  10,573  hours,  in  flood  control  and  emergency  relief 
activities.  Eighty-one  thousand  sand  bags  were  donated  by  our  people,  and  gathered  by 
the  boys  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  Sixty-three  thousand  of  these  bags  were  filled  with 
sand  and  used  in  flood  control.  For  the  brethren  voluntarily  working  on  flood  relief 
projects,  thousands  of  meals  were  prepared  and  served  by  the  Relief  Society. 

In  an  immunization  program  sponsored  and  conducted  by  the  General  Church  Welfare 
Committee,  6,734  individuals  were  immunized  against  disease,  15,326  injections  being  made 
by  doctors  who  contributed  78  hours  of  service,  nurses  contributed  310  hours  of  service, 
and  others  assisting  them  worked  1,636  hours,  all  without  any  financial  remuneration. 

After  the  flood,  the  rehabilitation  problem  was  met  largely  by  the  injured  families 
themselves,  and  tribute  should  be  paid  to  their  spirit  of  independence  and  ability  to 
re-establish  themselves  after  great  loss.  However,  the  Welfare  Program  was  called  upon 
to  assist  in  the  reclamation  of  74  homes  and  2  places  of  business,  and  in  the  great  task 
of  cleaning  away  the  mud  and  debris  from  homes,  yards  and  streets.  In  this  work,  823 
persons  contributed  9,880  hours  and  58  motorized  equipment  units  were  contributed 
for  1,279  hours.   Five  homes  were  completely  rebuilt. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  has  just  read 
items  pertaining  to  the  statistical  and 
financial  data  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Elder  Orval  Adams,  Chairman  of  the 
Auditing  Committee,  will  now  read  the 
report  of  the  Committee. 

REPORT  OF  CHURCH  AUDITING 
COMMITTEE 

Elder  Orval  W.  Adams  of  the  Church 
Auditing  Committee  read  the  following 
report: 

President  David  O.  McKay  and 

Counselors, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 


Dear  Brethren: 

The  balance  sheet  disclosing  the 
financial  condition  of  the  Corporation 
of  the  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  for  the  year 
ending  December  31,  1952  has  been 
reviewed.  The  records  appear  to  be 
adequate  and  the  accounting  system 
carefully  kept.  Disbursement  of  Church 
funds  is  controlled  through  a  compre- 
hensive budget  system.  Receipts  for 
the  year  were  in  excess  of  expenditures. 
The  Church  is  in  a  strong  financial  con- 
dition and  free  from  debt. 

Respectfully  submitted, 

Orval  W.  Adams 

Albert  E.  Bowen 

George  S.  Spencer 

Harold  H.  Bennett 
Church  Auditing  Committee 


12 

Saturday,  April  4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 
PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


First  Day 


In  behalf  of  the  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church,  I  wish  to  extend  to 
the  ten  thousand  people  or  more  as- 
sembled here  in  the  Tabernacle  and  on 
the  Tabernacle  Block,  and  to  the  tens 
of  thousands,  perhaps  hundreds  of  thou- 
sands, of  listeners  a  cordial  welcome  to 
the  opening  session  of  this,  the  123rd 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church. 

The  General  Authorities  sense  deeply 
the  responsibility  that  rests  upon  them. 
Everyone,  I  am  sure,  feels,  as  I,  the 
weight  of  this  responsibility,  and  each 
one  prays  for  your  prayerful  sympathy 
and  your  co-operation  in  the  carrying 
on  of  this  great  work  of  establishing  the 
kingdom  of  God  on  earth. 

We  are  especially  pleased  this  morn- 
ing to  note  in  the  audience,  His  Excel- 
lency, Honorable  J.  Bracken  Lee,  gover- 
nor of  the  state  of  Utah;  His  Honor, 
Mayor  Earl  J.  Glade,  and  representatives 
of  the  leading  educational  institutions, 
President  A.  Ray  Olpin  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  Utah,  President  Ernest  L.  Wilkin- 
son of  Brigham  Young  University,  Su- 
perintendent M.  Lynn  Bennion  of  the 
City  schools,  and  Superintendent  E. 
Allen  Bateman,  state  superintendent  of 
schools.  I  am  not  sure  whether  Presi- 
dent Louis  L.  Madsen  of  the  Utah  State 
Agricultural  College  is  present  or  not; 
if  he  is,  we  bid  him  welcome  with  the 
others.  We  wish  to  welcome  also  Dr. 
Franklin  L.  West,  Church  commissioner 
of  education,  and  his  associates;  Dr. 
John  L.  Clarke,  president  of  Ricks  Col- 
lege, and  other  leading  educators. 

May  we  have  your  sympathy — I  ap- 
peal to  all  who  are  listening  in  to  give 
us  your  faith  and  prayers,  as  we  present 
to  you  this  morning  the  messages  that 
will  come  from  those  who  will  be  called 
to  occupy  the  pulpit. 

In  addition  to  the  statistical  and  other 
data  just  presented  to  you  by  the  Clerk 
of  the  Conference,  you  will  undoubtedly 
be  interested  in  the  following  items 
which  pertain  more  directly  to  the 
spiritual  interests  of  the  Church.  This 
is  merely  a  summary,  and  I  shall  present 
it  as  quickly  as  possible. 


The  activity  of  the  men  holding 
the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  is  espe- 
cially gratifying.  A  summary  of  the 
past  five  years  discloses  the  fact  that 
there  is  an  increase  in  the  following 
activities:  (1)  in  the  number  of  full 
tithepayers,  (2)  the  number  holding 
family  prayers,  (3)  the  number  attend- 
ing weekly  group  meetings,  (4)  the  at- 
tendance at  sacrament  meetings  shows 
no  increase,  and  (5)  visits  by  quorum 
officers  to  quorum  members  show  a 
decrease  of  two  percent,  but  participa- 
tion in  Church  work,  an  increase  from 
forty-four  percent  to  eight-one  percent. 
These  figures  refer  only  to  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  workers.  Favorable  as  the 
record  is,  we  admonish  them  to  more 
activity  and  urge  them  to  participate 
more  generally  in  Church  activities. 

The  Relief  Society  of  the  Church 
gives  an  equally  pleasing  report,  grow- 
ing in  membership,  accomplishment, 
and  spirituality.  During  1952  there 
were  7900  names  added  to  the  mem- 
bership. The  sisters  fully  co-operate 
with  the  priesthood  and  lend  great 
strength  to  wards  and  stakes,  missions 
and  branch  activities,  such  as  building 
programs  and  welfare  projects. 

The  compassionate  services  are  re- 
ceiving careful  attention.  During  1952 
there  were  209,890  visits  made  to  the  sick 
and  the  homebound,  and  22,500  eight- 
hour  days  bedside  nursing  on  a  volun- 
tary basis.  This  is  particularly  im- 
portant in  view  of  the  pronounced  nurse 
shortage.  The  sisters  have  strong  testi- 
monies of  the  truth  of  the  gospel,  as  is 
attested  by  the  righteousness  of  their 
lives,  and  evidenced  in  the  testimonies 
borne  during  the  testimony  period  held 
in  connection  with  the  monthly  theology 
lessons. 

"It  is  our  personal  opinion,"  say  the 
Presidency,  "that  the  Church  has  never 
had  a  generation  of  Relief  Society 
women  more  spiritual,  more  diligent, 
or  more  devoted  to  the  work  of  the 
Church." 

The  Sunday  School — a  goodly  number 
of    Sunday    Schools    whose  superin- 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


13 


tendents  have  been  left  in  that  position 
long  enough  to  catch  the  spirit  of  ef- 
fective Sunday  School  work — has  made 
strides  in  increasing  the  testimony  and 
spiritual  attunement  of  a  large  propor- 
tion of  members  by  the  following 
means:  first,  ward  teacher  training  classes 
for  prospective  teachers;  second,  increas- 
ing numbers  of  stakes  are  holding 
monthly  union  meetings  which  had  to 
be  abandoned  during  the  war;  third, 
great  numbers  of  Sunday  School  teachers 
report  having  been  helped  immensely 
by  the  inspiration,  the  lesson  enrich- 
ments, and  the  teaching  "know-how" 
contained  in  the  great  magazine  for 
Sunday  School  teachers,  The  Instructor; 
and,  fourth,  by  double  use  of  ward 
chapel  and  classrooms;  for  example,  one 
overcrowded  Sunday  School  has  in- 
creased its  average  attendance  from  a 
crowded  342  in  1950  to  a  comfortable 
424  in  1952.  And  that  is  not  an  increase 
in  the  membership  of  the  ward. 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement 
Association — Increase  of  enrolment  dur- 
ing last  year,  29,000.  Last  year  over 
30,000  young  people  participated  in 
choral  productions;  not  one  of  them 
failed  significantly  to  lift  the  spiritual 
sights  of  the  participants.  Over  25,000 
individual  talks  or  speeches  were  given, 
most  of  them  on  spiritual  topics.  Over 
35,000  young  people  participated  in 
some  way  or  other  in  an  M.I.A.  drama. 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement 
Association — The  great  purpose  of  the 
Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement 
Association  is  to  build  testimonies  in 
the  lives  of  the  young  women  of  the 
Church,  both  members  and  investi- 
gators. This  purpose  is  promoted  in 
three  major  ways:  First,  there  is  the 
girls'  program  which  stresses,  along  with 
full  activity  in  the  Church,  regular 
attendance  at  sacrament,  Sunday  School, 
and  M.I.A.  meetings.  For  the  past  year 
over  25,000  individual  awards  were 
given  to  girls. 

This  means  that  they  attended  at 
least  seventy-five  percent  of  the  Sun- 
day School  and  M.I.A.  meetings,  fifty 
percent  of  the  sacrament  meetings.  Over 


2000  leaders  received  an  award,  which 
in  their  case,  also  indicated  attendance 
at  seventy-five  percent  of  the  leadership 
meetings.  In  December  1952,  all  girls, 
twelve  to  nineteen,  in  the  Church, 
achieved  an  average  of  fifty-seven  per- 
cent attendance  at  sacrament  meeting, 
sixty-six  percent  at  Sunday  School  and 
sixty-seven  percent  at  M.I.A.  This  is 
an  increase  over  the  previous  year  of 
four  percent  at  sacrament  meeting,  and 
three  percent  at  Sunday  School  and 
M.I.A. 

Primary — Four  objectives  have  been 
highlighted  in  the  Primary  Association 
this  year:  first,  stimulate  interest  in  the 
reading  of  the  Book  of  Mormon;  sec- 
ond, promote  greater  reverence  in  our 
chapels — a  most  commendable  objective; 
third,  teach  the  children  to  pray — equal- 
ly important;  fourth,  stress  the  im- 
portance of  the  boys  receiving  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood.  Thirty-two  thou- 
sand officers  and  teachers  have  been 
reading  the  Book  of  Mormon  as  a 
scripture  assignment. 

Primary  teachers  throughout  the 
Church  have  been  urged  and  advised 
to  accept  the  responsibility  and  privilege 
of  teaching  the  children  to  pray  and 
to  help  them  to  trust  in  our  Father  in 
heaven,  believing  that  he  will  hear 
and  answer  their  prayers.  Over  7000 
boys  have  been  graduated  from  Primary 
and  have  been  assisted  in  their  prepara- 
tion to  receive  the  Aaronic  Priesthood. 

I  wish  that  the  ten  thousand  people 
here  assembled  might  have  seen  the 
program  that  was  given  to  the  presi- 
dents of  the  Primary  Associations  in 
the  Hotel  Utah  last  Thursday  evening. 

We  commend  the  priesthood  workers 
and  all  the  auxiliary  workers  of  the 
Church.  God  bless  you  in  your  sin- 
cere and  untiring  efforts  to  teach  the 
young  ones  and  the  older  ones  the  prin- 
ciples of  truth  and  salvation. 

Two  Functions 

And  now,  my  dear  fellow  workers, 
a  few  words  in  general,  regarding  the 
great  mission  that  is  yours  in  preaching 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.   In  anticipa- 


14 

Saturday,  April  4 

tion  of  this  hour,  I  have  been  impressed 
to  emphasize  two  great  functions  of  the 
Church:  first,  the  putting  in  order  of 
our  homes,  and  keeping  them  in  order; 
and  second,  the  proclaiming  of  the  di- 
vinity of  the  mission  of  our  Lord  and 
Savior,  Jesus  Christ.  With  these  two 
objectives  in  mind,  may  I  have  your 
attention,  your  faith  and  prayers. 

"For  what  is  a  man  profited,"  said 
the  Savior,  "if  he  shall  gain  the  whole 
world,  and  lose  his  own  soul?  or  what 
shall  a  man  give  in  exchange  for  his 
soul?"  (Matt.  16:26.) 

The  first  recorded  question  of  the 
Savior  after  his  baptism  in  the  river 
Jordan,  was,  "What  seekest  thou?"  In 
the  text  I  have  just  read,  he  again  refers 
to  the  dominant  incentive  prompting 
man's  actions  in  daily  life.  If  a  man 
seek  wealth,  worldly  honors,  pleasures, 
and  all  that  riches  and  honor  can  be- 
stow but  neglects  and  leaves  unde- 
veloped the  eternal  riches  of  his  soul, 
what  is  he  profited? 

Thus  does  the  Lord  emphasize  in  a 
simple  though  majestic  comparison  of 
material  and  spiritual  possessions. 

On  another  occasion,  in  the  Sermon 
on  the  Mount,  he  admonished  his 
hearers  to  seek  "first  the  kingdom  of 
God,  and  his  righteousness;  and  all 
these  things  shall  be  added  unto  you." 
(Ibid.,  6:33.)  Seeking  to  establish  the 
kingdom  of  God  and  to  foster  his  right- 
eousness should  be  the  paramount  pur- 
pose of  life.  I  think  none  will  gainsay 
that. 

Leading  statesmen,  clear-thinking 
educators,  in  public  addresses  and  in 
magazine  articles,  frequently  refer  to 
what  they  declare  is  an  apparent  spir- 
itual poverty  of  the  present  age,  and 
they  cite  the  need  for  higher  moral  and 
ethical  standards. 

Some  months  ago,  you  will  recall, 
a  British  jet  plane  crossed  and  re- 
crossed  the  Atlantic  Ocean  in  about 
eight  hours.  Shortly  thereafter  a  car- 
toon appeared  in  the  New  York  Times, 
which  pictured  a  jet  plane  traveling 
at  fantastic  speed.  The  plane  was 
labeled,  "man's  scientific  progress."  On 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

the  ground  was  a  huge  turtle  moving 
slowly  and  ponderously.  It  was  la- 
beled, "man's  moral  progress." 

Commenting  upon  this,  Professor 
William  G.  Russell,  instructor  in  the 
Memorial  High  School  at  Pelham,  New 
York,  writes: 

"In  a  vivid  way  this  cartoon  sym- 
bolizes what  could  be  the  tragedy  of 
the  modern  age,  and  what  is  without 
doubt  one  of  the  most  compelling  rea- 
sons for  greater  attention  to  moral  and 
spiritual  values  in  our  homes  and  in 
our  schools." 

And  then  he  adds  as  a  school  man: 
"Courses  required  of  all  students  in  our 
public  schools  should  include  all  the 
important  areas  of  study  that  directly 
or  indirectly  provide  the  student  with 
opportunities  for  spiritual  growth  and 
religious  inspiration. 

"From  such  study,"  he  continues,  "it 
is  reasonable  to  expect  that  our  students 
will  better  understand  how  vital  has 
been  the  role  of  religion  at  critical 
moments  in  history,  how  important 
spiritual  insights  and  religious  faith  can 
be  in  the  lives  of  men  and  women, 
how  closely  related  are  true  human 
greatness  and  such  qualities  as  honesty, 
integrity,  humility,  generosity,  compas- 
sion. We  may  expect  in  our  students 
more  idealism  and  less  of  cynicism,  more 
of  a  wholesome  courage  and  faith  in 
the  future  and  less  of  pessimism  and 
foreboding  and  fear. 

"We  may  hope  for  increased  tolerance 
of  racial  and  religious  differences,  in- 
creased respect  for  those  of  opposite 
political  views  or  of  lower  social  and 
economic  levels,  increased  awareness  of 
the  basic  and  inviolable  dignity  of  the 
individual  man  or  woman.  We  may 
contribute  to  the  development  of  a 
more  sensitive  social  conscience,  a 
greater  sense  of  responsibility  for  the 
less  fortunate  in  our  society.  We  may 
even,  perhaps,  without  knowing  it,  bring 
a  boy  or  girl  closer  to  God."  I  cite  that 
because  of  the  opportunities  which  I 
think  lie  ahead  of  us  in  our  public 
schools. 

In  his  great  inaugural  address,  Presi- 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


15 


dent  Dwight  D.  Eisenhower  referred  to 
this  same  great  need.  "In  the  swift  rush 
of  great  events  we  find  ourselves  grop- 
ing to  know  the  full  sense  and  meaning 
of  these  times  in  which  we  live.  In 
our  quest  of  understanding,  we  beseech 
God's  guidance.  We  summon  all  our 
knowledge  of  the  past,  and  we  scan  all 
signs  of  the  future.  We  bring  all  our 
wit  and  all  our  will  to  meet  the  ques- 
tion: 

"How  far  have  we  come  in  man's 
long  pilgrimage  from  darkness  toward 
the  light?  Are  we  nearing  the  light — 
a  day  of  freedom  and  of  peace  for  all 
mankind?  Or  are  the  shadows  of  an- 
other night  closing  in  upon  us? 

"At  such  a  time  in  history,  we  who 
are  free  must  proclaim  anew  our 
faith. 

"This  faith  is  the  abiding  creed  of 
our  fathers.  It  is  our  faith  in  the  death- 
less dignity  of  man,  governed  by  eternal 
moral  and  natural  laws. 

"This  faith  defines  our  full  view  of 
life.  It  establishes,  beyond  debate,  those 
gifts  of  the  Creator  that  are  man's  in- 
alienable rights,  and  that  make  all  men 
equal  in  his  sight. 

"In  the  light  of  this  equality,  we 
know  that  the  virtues  most  cherished 
by  free  people — love  of  truth,  pride  of 
work,  devotion  to  country — all  are 
treasures  equally  precious  in  the  lives 
of  the  most  humble  and  of  the  most 
exalted. 

"The  men  who  mine  coal  and  fire 
furnaces,  and  balance  ledgers,  and  turn 
lathes,  and  pick  cotton,  and  heal  the 
sick,  and  plant  corn — all  serve  as  proud- 
ly and  as  profitably,  for  America  as  the 
statesmen  who  draft  treaties  and  the 
legislators  who  enact  laws. 

"This  faith  rules  our  whole  way  of 
life.  It  decrees  that  we,  the  people, 
elect  leaders  not  to  rule  but  to  serve. 
It  asserts  that  we  have  the  right  to 
choice  of  our  own  work  and  to  the  re- 
ward of  our  own  toil. 

"It  inspires  the  initiative  that  makes 
our  productivity  the  wonder  of  the 
world.  And  it  warns  that  any  man 
who  seeks  to  deny  equality  among  all 


his  brothers  betrays  the  spirit  of  the 
free  and  invites  the  mockery  of  the 
tyrant. 

"It  is  because  we,  all  of  us,  hold  to 
these  principles  that  the  political 
changes  accomplished  this  day  do  not 
imply  turbulence,  upheaval,  or  disorder. 
Rather,  this  change  expresses  a  purpose 
of  strengthening  our  dedication  and  de- 
votion to  the  precepts  of  our  founding 
documents,  a  conscious  renewal  of  faith 
in  our  country  and  in  the  watchfulness 
of  a  divine  providence. 

"The  enemies  of  this  faith  know  no 
god  but  force,  no  devotion  but  its  use. 
They  tutor  men  in  treason.  They  feed 
upon  the  hunger  of  others.  Whatever 
defies  them,  they  torture,  especially  the 
truth." 

And  so  we  have  the  call  of  men  of 
clear  vision  and  sound  judgment,  for  a 
re-dedication  of  schools  and  homes  to 
moral  and  spiritual  values. 

Our  most  precious  possession  is  the 
youth  of  the  land,  and  to  instruct  them 
to  walk  uprightly  and  to  become  worthy 
citizens  in  the  kingdom  of  God  is  our 
greatest  obligation. 

Religious  freedom  and  the  separation 
of  church  and  state  are  clearly  set  forth 
in  the  first  amendment  to  the  Constitu- 
tion of  the  United  States,  and  no 
governmental  agency  can  have  any 
supervision,  control,  or  jurisdiction  over 
religion.  Though  our  public  schools  may 
emphasize  moral,  ethical,  and  spiritual 
values  as  essential  elements  in  the  pub- 
lic school  program,  they  cannot  favor 
any  particular  religion  or  religious  sys- 
tem. The  teaching  of  religion  is  there- 
fore definitely  a  responsibility  of  the 
home  and  the  Church. 

In  discharging  this  responsibility,  I  say 
again,  members  of  the  Church  should 
ever  keep  in  mind  two  paramount  ob- 
ligations: (1)  to  put  and  to  keep  your 
home  in  order;  and  (2),  to  proclaim 
the  divinity  of  Jesus  Christ  and  the 
essentiality  of  his  teachings  to  the  sal- 
vation of  the  human  family. 

If,  upon  examination,  you  were  to 
find  that  termites  are  undermining  the 
foundation  of  your  house,  you  would 


16 

Saturday,  April  4 

lose  no  time  to  have  experts  make 
thorough  examination  and  have  the 
destructive  insects  exterminated.  You 
would  have  the  weakened  materials 
removed  and  the  foundation  strength- 
ened and,  if  necessary,  rebuilt. 

Well,  more  important  than  the  build- 
ing of  your  house  is  the  rebuilding  and 
purifying  of  your  home. 

"Our  home  joys,"  says  Pestalozzi, 
"are  the  most  delightful  earth  affords, 
and  the  joy  of  parents  in  their  children 
is  the  most  holy  joy  of  humanity.  It 
makes  their  hearts  pure  and  good;  it 
lifts  them  up  to  their  Father  in  heaven." 

Well,  you  know,  and  I  know,  that 
such  joys  are  within  the  reach  of  most 
men  and  women  if  high  ideals  of  mar- 
riage and  home  be  properly  fostered 
and  cherished. 

But  there  are  destructive  termites  of 
homes,  as  well  as  of  houses,  and  some 
of  these  are  backbiting,  evil-speaking, 
faultfinding  on  the  part  either  of  par- 
ents or  Of  children.  Slander  is  poison 
to  the  soul.  "Slanderers  are  like  flies 
that  pass  all  over  a  man's  good  parts  to 
light  only  on  his  sores."  In  the  ideal 
home,  there  is  no  slanderous  gossip 
about  day  schoolteachers,  about  public 
officials,  or  Church  officials.  I  am 
more  grateful  now,  as  years  have  come 
and  gone,  to  my  father,  who  with  hands 
lifted  said,  "Now,  no  faultfinding  about 
your  teacher  or  anybody  else." 

Quarreling  and  swearing  also  are  evils 
that  lower  the  standards  of  the  ideal 
home.  I  cannot  imagine  a  father  or 
mother  swearing  in  the  presence  of 
children  or  even  letting  it  pass  their 
lips. 

George  Washington  set  us  a  good  ex- 
ample in  this  regard.  When  he  learned 
that  some  of  his  officers  were  given  to 
profanity,  he  sent  a  letter  to  them  on 
July  1,  1776,  from  which  I  quote: 

"The  general  is  sorry  to  be  informed 
that  the  foolish  and  wicked  practice  of 
profane  cursing  and  swearing,  a  vice 
heretofore  little  known  in  an  American 
army,  is  growing  into  fashion.  He  hopes 
the  officers  will,  by  example,  as  well 
as  influence,  endeavor  to  cbpcV  it  and 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

that  both  they  and  the  men  will  reflect 
that  we  can  have  little  hope  of  the 
blessing  of  heaven  on  our  arms  if  we 
insult  it  by  our  impiety  and  folly.  Added 
to  this,  it  is  a  vice  so  mean  and  low, 
without  any  temptation,  that  every  man 
of  sense  and  character  detests  and  de- 
spises it." 

Another  deterrent  to  happiness  in  the 
home  is  the  refusal  to  bear  the  full 
responsibility  of  motherhood  and  father- 
hood. Members  of  the  Church  who 
are  healthy  and  normal  should  not  be 
guilty  of  restricting  the  number  of  chil- 
dren in  the  home,  especially  when  such 
action  is  prompted  by  a  desire  for  a 
good  time,  or  for  personal  gain,  or  to 
keep  up  with  the  neighbors,  or  by  a 
false  impression  that  one  or  two  children 
in  a  family  can  be  better  educated. 
These  are  excuses  which  members  of 
the  Church  should  not  harbor,  for  they 
are  unjustified. 

The  question  of  size  of  families,  I 
know,  brings  up  many  problems:  the 
question  of  woman's  career,  the  false 
cry  of  "quality,  not  quantity,"  which 
one  writer  rightly  says  should  read 
"extinction,  not  preservation,"  or  the 
matter-of-fact  question  of  daily  living 
and  getting  on  in  the  world. 

With  the  high  ideal  of  marriage  as 
revealed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
members  of  the  Church  should  have  but 
one  goal,  and  that  is  to  keep  in  mind 
the  fact  that  marriage,  the  foundation 
of  society,  is  "ordained  of  God"  for 
the  building  of  permanent  homes  in 
which  children  may  be  properly  reared 
and  taught  the  principles  of  the  gospel. 

The  following,  I  am  sure,  will  strike 
a  responsive  chord  in  the  hearts  of  the 
majority  of  parents  in  the  Church.  I 
quote: 

"Every  period  of  human  life  is  won- 
derful; the  irresponsible  age  of  child- 
hood, the  thrilling  years  of  adolescence 
and  courtship,  the  productive,  fighting, 
burden-bearing  era  of  parenthood;  but 
the  most  wonderful  time  of  life  comes 
when  the  father  and  mother  become 
chums  of  their  grown-up,  successful 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


17 


sons  and  daughters,  and  can  begin  to 
enjoy  their  children's  children.  .  .  . 

"Youth  is  confined  with  restrictions, 
limitations,  schedules,  and  dominations; 
adolescence  is  full  of  mysteries,  long- 
ings, and  defeats;  early  fatherhood  is 
absorbed  in  struggles  and  in  the  solu- 
tion of  problems;  extreme  old  age  is 
shadowed  by  eternal  mysteries;  but  mid- 
dle age  and  normal  old  age,  if  life  has 
been  rightly  and  fully  lived,  are  filled 
with  the  thrills,  not  merely  of  success, 
but  of  companionship  with  children  and 
grandchildren. 

"Every  normal  individual  should 
complete  the  full  cycle  of  human  life 
with  all  its  joys  and  satisfactions  in 
natural  order:  childhood,  adolescence, 
youth,  parenthood,  middle  age,  and  the 
age  of  grandchildren.  Each  age  has 
satisfactions  which  can  be  known  only 
by  experience.  You  must  be  born  again 
and  again  in  order  to  know  the  full 
course  of  human  happiness.  When  the 
first  baby  is  born,  a  mother  is  born,  a 
father  is  born,  and  grandparents  are 
born;  only  by  birth  can  any  of  these 
come  into  being.  Only  by  the  natural 
cycle  of  life  can  the  great  progressive 
joys  of  mankind  be  reached. 

"Any  social  system  which  prevents 
the  individual  from  pursuing  the  normal 
cycle  of  life,  from  marrying  young,  from 
rearing  a  family  before  the  age  of  fifty 
or  so,  and  from  obtaining  the  deep, 
peculiar  joys  of  middle  life  and  grand- 
parenthood  defeats  the  divine  order  of 
the  universe  and  lays  the  basis  of  all 
sorts  of  social  problems. 

"When  a  young  man  and  woman  of 
the  right  biological  type  marry  in  the 
early  twenties  and  are  prepared  to  earn 
a  living  and  support  and  rear  a  family, 
they  have  started  in  the  normal  cycle 
of  life.  They  are  likely  to  give  society 
far  fewer  problems  of  crime,  immor- 
ality, divorce,  or  poverty  than  are  their 
unmarried  companions.  They  will  have 
children  and  rear  them  while  they 
are  strong,  enjoy  them  when  they  are 
grown  up  and  successful,  depend  upon 
them  in  weakness,  and  profit  by  the 
finest  type  of  old-age  insurance  ever 


invented  by  man  or  God,  an  insurance 
which  pays  its  annuities  in  material 
goods  when  necessary,  but  which  mainly 
pays  in  the  rich  joys  of  love  and  fel- 
lowship. .  .  .  The  crowning  joys  of 
human  experience  will  come  in  middle 
age  and  onward,  through  the  compan- 
ionship, love,  and  honor  of  children 
and  grandchildren."  (R.  J.  Sprague.) 

We  appeal  to  all  members  of  the 
Church  to  set  their  homes  in  order  and 
to  enjoy  the  true  happiness  of  harmo- 
nious family  life. 

As  already  stated,  the  second  para- 
mount obligation  is  to  proclaim  the 
divine  mission  of  Jesus  Christ.  Nineteen 
hundred  years  ago,  a  valiant  defender 
of  that  cause  said:  "This  is  the  stone 
which  was  set  at  nought  of  you  builders, 
which  is  become  the  head  of  the  corner. 

"Neither  is  there  salvation  in  any 
other:  for  there  is  none  other  name 
under  heaven  given  among  men,  where- 
by we  must  be  saved."  (Acts  4:11-12.) 

The  man  who  thus  declared  Jesus 
to  be  the  one  and  only  safe  leader  and 
guide  in  the  world  was  an  ordinary 
fisherman  who  lived  nearly  two  thou- 
sand years  ago.  He  grew  to  manhood, 
experiencing  life  among  common  folk 
such  as  you  and  I.  He  was  not  a 
dreamer.  He  was  thoroughly  a  man  of 
action,  though  somewhat  impetuous.  He 
was  fairly  prosperous,  possessed  quali- 
ties of  leadership,  and,  above  all,  he 
was  honest. 

Circumstances  drew  Peter  into  close 
relationship  with  Jesus  of  Nazareth. 
For  nearly  three  years  this  hardheaded 
fisherman  accompanied  Jesus  almost 
constantly.  He  became  intimately 
acquainted  with  the  Master.  Jesus' 
philosophy  of  life  became  Peter's  phi- 
losophy. Not  suddenly,  but  gradually, 
through  careful,  critical  observation  and 
inward  experience,  Peter  arrived  at  a 
firm  and  sublime  conviction,  expressed 
clearly  and  unhesitatingly  when  he  de- 
clared before  his  accusers,  the  leaders 
of  the  Jewish  Sanhedrin,  "...  there  is 
none  other  name  under  heaven  given 
among  men,  whereby  we  must  be 
saved." 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

Modern  View  of  Salvation 

Saved  is  a  trite  word,  frequently  ap- 
plied by  religious  leaders  to  a  real  or 
imagined  instantaneous  change  of  heart. 
The  sense  in  which  we  use  it  this 
morning  is  expressed  by  Dr.  Charles 
Foster  Kent,  professor  of  biblical  litera- 
ture in  Yale  University,  who,  in  answer 
to  the  question,  "From  what  does  man 
need  to  be  saved?"  writes: 

"This  question  must  be  answered  to- 
day, not  in  the  light  of  metaphysics  or 
abstract  theology,  but  of  physiology,  psy- 
chology, political  science,  economics, 
and  sociology.  In  the  light  of  modern 
psychology,  it  is  apparent  that  while 
a  man  may  experience  instantaneously 
what  is  commonly  called  conversion, 
his  salvation  is  not  attained  in  a  mo- 
ment but  is  a  continuous  educational 
process.  It  is  accomplished  not  by  nega- 
tions, but  by  developing  within  him 
nobler  impulses  and  ideals  and  by 
bringing  him  into  normal  relations 
with  his  environment  and  by  teaching 
him  how  to  function,  that  is,  effectively 
to  accomplish  his  lifework  in  the  en- 
vironment in  which  he  is  placed. 

"This  is  precisely  what  Jesus  did  for 
the  needy  men  and  women  who  gath- 
ered about  him  during  his  work  in 
Galilee.  And  what  he  did  for  them 
then  he  is  able  to  do  for  men  today, 
for  the  needs  and  the  processes  of  sal- 
vation are  eternally  the  same.  He  was 
able  to  perform  his  saving  work  be- 
cause he  himself  had  felt  many  of  the 
same  needs  and  had  found  the  only 
way  of  satisfying  them. 

"No  teacher  of  the  past  was  more 
awake  to  the  weakness  of  human  nature 
than  Jesus;  but  he  also  saw  and  pro- 
claimed clearly  its  divine  possibilities. 
He  saw  that  those  possibilities  could 
be  realized  only  as  each  individual  was 
brought  into  normal  living  touch  with 
the  Heavenly  Father.  A  man's  recog- 
nition of  his  sonship  to  God  opens  his 
eyes  at  once  to  the  fact  that  all  men 
are  his  brothers.  Herein  lies  the  mir- 
acle of  the  religious  life.  It  is  the 
eternal  mystery  of  conversion. 


First  Day 

"When  once  a  man  enters  fully  into 
his  filial  attitude  toward  God  and  fra- 
ternal relations  with  his  fellow  men, 
he  suddenly  finds  himself  saved  from 
the  dominance  of  his  passions,  his 
selfish  impulses,  from  worry  and  fear. 
Even  the  consequences  of  his  past  sins 
no  longer  master  him,  but  a  great  al- 
luring field  of  service  opens  before  him. 
With  this  self-forgetting  service  there 
come  peace  and  the  joy  and  exultation 
that  crown  worthy  achievement." 

Furthermore,  members  of  the  Church 
declare  at  Easter  season,  and  throughout 
the  year,  that  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  stands  with  Peter,  with  Paul, 
with  James,  and  with  all  other  Apos- 
tles who  accepted  the  resurrection  not 
only  as  being  literally  true,  but  as  be- 
ing also  the  consummation  of  Christ's 
divine  mission  upon  the  earth.  Re- 
ligious leaders  since  history  began  have 
taught  virtue,  temperance,  self-control, 
service,  obedience  to  righteousness,  and 
duty;  some  have  taught  a  belief  in  one 
supreme  ruler  and  in  a  hereafter;  but 
only  Christ  broke  the  seal  of  the  grave 
and  revealed  death  as  the  door  to  im- 
mortality and  eternal  life.  To  the  un- 
impeachable evidence  of  the  ancient 
Apostles  to  the  resurrection  of  our  Lord 
we  add  the  sublime  declaration  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith: 

"And  now,  after  the  many  testimo- 
nies which  have  been  given  of  him,  this 
is  the  testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we 
give  of  him:  That  he  lives!"  (D.  &  C. 
76:22.) 

As  Christ  lived  after  death,  so  shall 
the  human  family,  each  one  taking 
that  place  in  the  next  world  which  he 
or  she  merits  through  actions  during 
earthly  life.  Since  love  is  as  eternal 
as  life,  the  message  of  the  resurrection 
is  the  most  comforting,  the  most  glorious 
ever  given  to  man;  for  when  death 
takes  a  loved  one  from  us,  we  can 
look  into  the  open  grave  and  say,  he 
is  not  here;  he  is  alive. 

Happy  homes  give  to  their  inmates 
a  taste  of  heaven  on  earth — acceptance 
of  the  divinity  of  Christ's  mission  and 
compliance  with  the  principles  of  his 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH 

gospel,  give  assurance  of  immortality 
and  eternal  life. 

I  testify  that  a  knowledge  of  his 
existence  and  of  the  truth  of  his  gospel 
is  the  source  of  the  greatest  comfort  and 
happiness  to  man. 

May  the  day  speedily  come  when 
honest,  sincere  men  and  women 
throughout  the  world  may  have  in  their 
souls  this  assurance,  I  earnestly  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH 

President  of  the  Council 


Yesterday,  with  my  Brethren,  I  was 
in  session  with  some  thirty  mission- 
ary presidents.  We  heard  a  report 
from  all  in  relation  to  their  work  and 
the  work  of  the  missionaries  who  labor 
under  them.  At  the  close  of  the  meet- 
ing, and  all  through  the  meeting,  we 
felt  to  rejoice  because  of  the  glowing 
reports  that  they  were  able  to  give  to 
us. 

There  is  one  reason  why  these  mis- 
sionaries go  forth  and  that  is  to  fulfil 
the  premise  that  was  made  by  our 
Redeemer  that  his  gospel  of  the  king- 
dom should  be  preached  in  all  the 
world  as  a  witness  before  the  time  of 
his  second  coming.  In  his  discourse 
as  recorded  in  the  twenty-fourth  chap- 
ter of  Matthew  which  came  in  response 
to  the  request  of  his  disciples  to  know 
concerning  his  second  coming,  and  the 
events  that  would  take  place  before 
his  coming,  he  told  them  of  the  calami- 
ties, the  distress  among  the  nations,  the 
wars,  the  rumors  of  wars,  the  commo- 
tions, men's  hearts  failing  them,  and 
that  they  would  turn  away  from  the 
truth.  Then  speaking  of  the  latter 
days  he  said  to  them: 

"And  again,  because  iniquity  shall 
abound,  the  love  of  many  shall  wax 
cold;  but  he  that  shall  not  be  overcome, 
the  same  shall  be  saved. 

"And  again,  this  Gospel  of  the  King- 


FIELDING  SMITH  19 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Choir  and  congregation  will  now 
sing,  "O  Ye  Mountains  High,"  with 
Richard  P.  Condie  conducting. 

After  the  singing,  Elder  Joseph  Field- 
ing Smith,  President  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve  will  speak  to  us.  ; 


The  congregation  and  the  Choir 
joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "O  Ye 
Mountains  High." 


FIELDING  SMITH 

of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


dom  shall  be  preached  in  all  the  world, 
for  a  witness  unto  all  nations,  and  then 
shall  the  end  come,  or  the  destruction 
of  the  wicked."  (Pearl  of  Great  Price. 
Joseph  Smith.  1:30-31.) 

Fulfilling  that  prediction  that  the 
gospel  would  again  be  preached,  in- 
ferring that  there  would  be  a  time  when 
it  would  not  be  preached  and  it  would 
have  to  be  restored,  these  missionaries 
are  going  forth  and  spending  their  time 
which  is  appointed  among  the  nations 
of  the  earth. 

Unfortunately,  because  of  conditions 
which  cannot  be  controlled  by  the 
Church,  our  missionary  forces  are  re- 
duced. We  need  missionaries.  It  is 
true  today,  as  it  was  one  hundred  years 
ago,  that  the  field  is  wide;  the  harvest 
is  great;  but  the  laborers  are  few.  Like- 
wise the  field  is  white  and  ready  for 
the  harvest.  In  a  revelation  given  to 
the  Church  November  1,  1831,  the  Lord 
said  he  would  send  forth  his  mission- 
aries, or  his  servants. 

"And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be 
unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths  of  my 
disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen  in  these 
last  days. 

"And  they  shall  go  forth  and  none 
shall  stay  them,  for  I  the  Lord  have 
commanded  them. 

"Behold,  this  is  mine  authority,  and 
the  authority  of  my  servants,  and  my 


20 

Saturday,  April  4 

preface  unto  the  book  of  my  command- 
ments, which  I  have  given  them  to 
publish  unto  you,  O  inhabitants  of  the 
earth. 

"Wherefore,  fear  and  tremble,  O  ye 
people,  for  what  I  the  Lord  have  de- 
creed in  them  shall  be  fulfilled."  (D. 
&  C.  1:4-7.) 

Now  the  Lord  has  said  that  his  mis- 
sionaries shall  not  be  stayed  and  that 
they  shall  go  forth  until  he  says  the 
work  is  finished.  In  this  same  revela- 
tion he  also  says  this: 

"For  they  [the  people  of  the  earth] 
have  strayed  from  mine  ordinances, 
and  have  broken  mine  everlasting  cove- 
nant; 

"They  seek  not  the  Lord  to  establish 
his  righteousness,  but  every  man  walketh 
in  his  own  way,  and  after  the  image  of 
his  own  God,  whose  image  is  in  the 
likeness  of  the  world,  and  whose  sub- 
stance is  that  of  an  idol,  which  waxeth 
old  and  shall  perish  in  Babylon,  even 
Babylon  the  great,  which  shall  fall. 

"Wherefore,  I  the  Lord,  knowing  the 
calamity  which  should  come  upon  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth,  called  upon 
my  servant  Joseph  Smith,  Tun.,  and 
spake  unto  him  from  heaven,  and  gave 
him  commandments; 

"And  also  gave  commandments  to 
others,  that  they  should  proclaim  these 
things  unto  the  world;  and  all  this  that 
it  might  be  fulfilled,  which  was  written 
by  the  prophets — 

"The  weak  things  of  the  world  shall 
come  forth  and  break  down  the  mighty 
and  strong  ones,  that  man  should  not 
counsel  his  fellow  man,  neither  trust 
in  the  arm  of  flesh — 

"But  that  every  man  might  speak  in 
the  name  of  God  the  Lord,  even  the 
Savior  of  the  world; 

"That  faith  also  might  increase  in 
the  earth; 

"That  mine  everlasting  covenant 
might  be  established; 

"That  the  fulness  of  my  gospel  might 
be  proclaimed  by  the  weak  and  the 
simple  unto  the  ends  of  the  world,  and 
before  kings  and  rulers."  (Ibid.,  15-23.) 

And  so  in  fulfilment  of  these  prom- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

ises  to  the  world,  our  missionaries  go 
forth.  No  power  has  been  able  to  stay 
their  hands.  It  has  been  tried.  Great 
efforts  were  made  in  the  very  beginning 
when  there  was  only  a  handful  of 
missionaries,  but  the  progress  of  this 
work  could  not  be  stopped.  It  cannot 
be  stopped  now.  It  must  and  will  go 
forth  that  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth 
may  have  the  opportunity  of  repenting 
of  their  sins  and  receive  the  remission 
of  their  sins  and  come  into  the  Church 
and  kingdom  of  God,  before  these  final 
destructions  come  upon  the  wicked,  for 
they  have  been  promised. 

There  is  in  the  world  today  distress, 
turmoil,  trouble,  commotion,  and  con- 
tention among  the  nations.  There  is 
no  peace.  There  will  be  no  peace  until 
the  Prince  of  Peace  comes  to  bring  it. 
And  his  warning  is  to  the  world  to  re- 
pent. This  I  might  have  read,  for  it  is 
the  first  verse  of  this  revelation  I  have 
been  quoting.  The  righteous  have  been 
called  on  to  come  out  of  Babylon,  or  the 
world,  to  receive  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  as  it  has  been  restored,  and  find  a 
place  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

And  these  missionaries,  mostly  young 
men,  untrained  in  the  ways  of  the  world, 
go  forth  with  this  message  of  salvation 
and  confound  the  great  and  the  mighty, 
because  they  have  the  truth.  They  are 
proclaiming  this  gospel;  the  honest  and 
sincere  are  hearing  it  and  are  repenting 
of  their  sins  and  coming  into  the 
Church.  The  ungodly  will  not  repent. 
This  truth  is  also  stated  in  this  revela- 
tion. They  will  not  repent  because  to- 
day, as  in  times  of  old,  men  love  dark- 
ness more  than  light. 

I  wish  to  testify  to  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  and  to  all  the  world,  that 
God  lives,  that  he  has  spoken  again 
from  the  heavens,  and  the  heavens  have 
never  been  closed  against  those  who 
are  honest  and  true,  who  earnestly  seek 
the  guidance  of  the  Lord.  The  Lord 
never  closed  the  heavens.  Men  closed 
the  heavens  and  said  there  should  be 
no  more  revelation,  no  more  command- 
ments, only  those  which  are  in  the 
canon  of  scripture.    It  was  men  who 


ELDER  THO 

said  that,  not  God.  Men  have  said 
that  the  Lord  finished  his  work.  They 
have  said  there  could  be  no  more  com- 
ing of  angels,  no  more  scripture,  and 
that  we  would  have  to  depend  on  the 
dead  letter  of  the  law  as  it  is  recorded 
in  the  books  contained  within  the  lids 
of  the  Bible.  Men  are  saying  that — God 
did  not  say  it. 

And  he  has  restored  to  us  the  ever- 
lasting gospel  and  has  given  us  revela- 
tion and  made  known  to  us  many  of 
the  plain  and  important  things  pertain- 
ing to  his  kingdom — things  revealed  an- 
ciently, and  also  in  the  day  in  which 
we  live,  and  he  will  give  revelation  to 
this  Church  from  time  to  time  accord- 
ing to  the  needs  of  the  people,  for  the 
heavens  are  not  sealed,  only  as  men 
have  sealed  them  against  themselves. 


AS  E.  McKAY  21 

Let  us  seek  to  know  his  will,  hearken 
to  the  counsels  of  the  First  Presidency 
of  this  Church,  and  the  President,  who 
is  the  mouthpiece,  the  servant  of  God, 
with  the  authority  to  receive  revelation 
for  the  guidance  not  only  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  but  also  for  the  people  of 
all  the  world  if  they  will  only  hearken 
to  it.  The  Lord  bless  you,  I  pray,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith, 
President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 
has  just  concluded  speaking.  Elder 
Thomas  E.  McKay,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  will  now  address  us. 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


President  McKay    and  Counselors, 
President  Smith,  other  members  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  brethren 
and  sisters,  and  friends: 

It  is  good  to  be  here,  to  partake  of 
the  wonderful  spirit  of  this  occasion. 

I  am  grateful  to  my  Father  in  heaven 
for  this  privilege.  I  am  grateful  to  my 
brethren.  I  love  my  brethren.  I  love 
you,  brothers  and  sisters,  and  appreciate 
your  support,  your  cooperation.  I  love 
the  Lord  for  what  he  has  done  for  me 
and  my  family,  as  referred  to  by  Presi- 
dent McKay,  the  great  importance  of 
the  family  life,  for  my  missionary  ex- 
periences the  importance  of  which  was 
referred  to  by  President  Smith. 

This  is  a  beautiful  world  in  which 
we  live.  The  Lord  has  given  us  this 
world;  men,  as  has  been  stated,  have 
made  a  mess  of  certain  things,  but  in 
spite  of  that  it  remains  a  beautiful 
world.  I  am  sure  we  appreciate  the 
music  we  have  heard  this  morning,  the 
beautiful  music  furnished  by  the  com- 
bined Scandinavian  choirs,  and  of  the 
weekly  broadcasts  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  organ,  and  "The  Spoken  Word." 


I  recommend  listening  to  them  firsthand 
or  transcribed. 

I  am  reminded  now  of  Richard  L. 
Evans'  "Spoken  Word,"  of  two  weeks 
ago,  on  the  dream  of  John  Ruskin, 
which  Brother  Evans  referred  to — of  the 
children  in  the  garden  and  in  the  home. 
Books,  music,  and  entertainment  were 
supplied,  with  freedom  for  the  children 
to  enjoy  themselves.  They  had  every- 
thing that  a  child's  heart  could  desire, 
and  still  they  were  not  satisfied.  Some 
of  the  leaders  began  pulling  the  nails, 
the  brass,  shiny-headed  nails,  out  of  the 
chairs  and  other  furniture,  and  others 
joined  them,  and  in  a  short  time  they 
were  all  engaged  in  that  useless,  de- 
structive pastime,  to  see  how  many  nails, 
shiny  nails,  they  could  collect.  Some 
of  the  leaders  were  jealous  of  some  of 
the  others,  and  the  stronger  ones  helped 
themselves  to  the  nails,  and  before  they 
knew  it,  they  were  fighting  for  nails, 
shiny  nails.  No  one  was  satisfied;  every- 
body wanted  some  of  somebody  else's. 
They  fought  on  for  the  nails,  though 
they  knew  they  would  not  be  allowed 
to  carry  as  much  as  one  brass  nail 


22 

Saturday,  April  4 

away  with  them.  But  no,  it  was  who 
had  the  most  nails  at  the  moment. 

John  Ruskin  said  he  awoke  from  his 
dream  because  of  the  noise  of  the  chil- 
dren, and  then  he  thought  that  it  could 
not  have  been  children  that  were  fight- 
ing for  such  foolish  things.  "Only  men 
do."  And  so  it  is  with  the  world.  Many 
have  forgotten  God. 

As  one  writer  stated,  we  look  upon 
our  religion,  upon  our  Church,  as  a 
spare  tire  to  be  used  only  in  time  of 
emergency.  An  example  comes  to  my 
mind  of  this  emergency  in  an  instance, 
told  by  President  McKay  (I  hope  he 
will  pardon  me  for  referring  to  it), 
when  he  was  returning  from  his  first 
mission.  It  was  in  the  summer,  August 
1899,  I  think.  The  boat  had  gone  off 
its  path  in  its  desire  to  shorten  the 
distance,  and  ran  into  an  iceberg.  The 
boat  stopped;  the  cargo  was  shifted  a 
little  and  the  boat  listed  and  quivered. 
Everything  was  in  darkness.  There  was 
a  man  on  that  boat  who  had  been  tour- 
ing Europe,  a  member  of  the  Church, 
and  he  was  there,  not  associating  very 
often  with  the  missionaries  and  the 
members,  for  which  some  of  the  mis- 
sionaries were  grateful  because  his  face 
was  flushed  from  visiting  the  bar  too 
often;  but  when  that  iceberg  was  struck, 
this  man  was  the  first  one,  so  President 
McKay  relates,  to  come  and  suggest 
that  we  call  the  missionaries  together 
and  pray.  Afterwards  he  stated,  "All 
I  could  see  was  my  wife  and  seven 
children  before  me."  And  all  during 
his  visit  to  Europe,  and  his  time  on  the 
boat,  he  had  forgotten  his  religion,  for- 
gotten his  wife  and  his  children  at 
home,  but  now,  in  the  case  of  an 
emergency,  he  was  the  first  one  to  think 
of  the  Lord. 

Too  many  of  us  are  like  that.  We 
forget  the  Church,  the  gospel,  and  its 
many  values.  Within  the  Church  are 
enviable  opportunities  for  spiritual  and 
cultural  development.  Our  expanding 
universities  and  our  chapels  furnish  op- 
portunities, whereby  we  can  participate 
and  develop.  Within  these  walls  is  pro- 
duced the  highest  type  of  music. 

We  live  in  a  land  of  unequaled  beauty. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

The  more  we  observe  this,  the  more 
we  will  realize  and  appreciate  these 
blessings.  One  of  our  great  Utah 
artists,  who  has  moved  from  Utah  and 
now  lives  in  New  York,  I  believe,  states 
that  this  Wasatch  Range  east  of  here 
is  the  most  beautiful  range  of  moun- 
tains in  the  world,  and  I  believe  he  is 
right.  When  you  go  up  north  to  the 
beautiful  peaks  north  of  Brigham  City 
and  especially  Willard,  and  down  to 
Ben  Lomond  and  to  Mount  Ogden,  on 
down  to  Timpanogos,  and  the  Twin 
Peaks,  Mount  Nebo  in  the  distance, 
that  can  be  seen  for  miles,  it  is  uplifting. 
Why  should  we  leave  such  beautiful 
things,  to  gather  nails,  brass-headed 
nails? 

It  is  a  great  Church,  and  I  am  grate- 
ful for  my  membership  in  it. 

At  one  of  the  sessions,  I  think  it  is 
generally  on  the  anniversary  of  the 
Church,  which  will  be  Monday,  the 
Authorities  of  the  Church  will  be  pre- 
sented for  our  sustaining  vote.  I  would 
recommend  to  the  tourists  who  are  in 
our  midst  that  they  attend  that  ses- 
sion. It  is  a  revelation.  It  is  a  wonder- 
ful feature  of  our  conferences,  of  all 
our  conferences. 

I  am  tempted  to  refer  to  the  presenta- 
tion at  one  of  our  southern  conferences. 
Some  of  the  brethren  and  sisters  take 
this  feature  of  the  conference  and  think 
it  is  not  very  important.  Brother  J. 
Golden  Kimball,  my  dear  friend,  was 
attending  a  conference  in  one  of  the 
stakes  in  southern  Utah,  so  the  story 
is  told.  He  was  presenting  the  names 
of  the  General  Authorities  and  pre- 
sented the  Presidency  of  the  Church. 
They  voted  upon  them  separately — then 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy — there  were 
fewer  hands  coming  up  each  time,  and 
then  he  slipped  this  in:  "It  has  been 
proposed  that  we  move  Mount  Nebo 
in  the  southern  part  of  the  valley  to 
the  northern.  All  in  favor,  manifest 
it."  And  they  voted  it.  "Any  opposed 
by  the  same  sign."  And  nobody  voted 
against  it.  So  he  presented  the  names 
of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  and  then 
asked  the  president  of  the  stake  to  con- 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 


23 


tinue  with  the  presentation  of  the  stake 
authorities. 

The  sustaining  of  the  officers  is  a  reve- 
lation— it  will  be  to  the  visitors — to  see 
how  many  men  and  women  have  definite 
appointments  in  this  Church.  Work 
is  the  greatest  blessing  that  can  come 
to  us,  and  this  is  not  a  one-man  Church, 
brothers  and  sisters.  In  the  stakes,  also, 
the  same  procedure  will  be  pursued, 
and  I  have  here  the  number  of  stakes, 
and  the  number  of  people  engaged  in 
each  stake  with  definite  appointments, 
also,  206  stakes  and  approximately  three 
hundred  people  given  definite  appoint- 
ments in  each  stake,  fifteen  hundred 
ninety-five  wards,  approximately  two 
hundred  forty-seven  people  given  defi- 
nite appointments  to  work  in  each  ward; 
two  hundred  four  branches,  and  prac- 
tically one  hundred  seventy-five  people 
given  definite  appointments  for  the  peo- 
ple to  work  in  each  branch. 

There  is  no  excuse  for  anybody  in 
this  Church  not  having  work.  Yes,  it 
is  not  a  one-man  Church.  It  is  not 
the  Church  of  Joseph  Smith,  nor  of 
Brigham  Young,  nor  of  any  of  the  men, 
the  leaders  who  have  succeeded  them. 
They  have  all  been  called  of  God  by 
the  proper  authority,  but  it  is  the 
Church,  brothers  and  sisters,  of  Jesus 
Christ.  He  is  our  head,  do  not  forget 
that.  I  testify  to  you,  my  friends,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  know  that 
Jesus  lives,  that  he  is  the  Christ,  that 
he  is  our  head,  the  head  of  this  Church, 
and  I  bear  you  that  testimony  in  his 
name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Thomas  E.  McKay,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  has  just  addressed  us. 

The  combined  Scandinavian  choirs 
will  now  sing,  "Almighty  God  of  Our 
Fathers,"  conducted  by  Elder  R.  Hulbert 
Keddington.  The  closing  prayer  will 
be  offered  by  Elder  Gordon  C.  Young, 
formerly  President  of  the  New  Zealand 
Mission,  after  which  this  Conference 
will  stand  adjourned  until  two  o'clock 


this  afternoon.  The  proceedings  of  that 
session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL  at 
Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement 
through  KSL  over  the  other  stations 
named  at  the  beginning  of  the  session. 

The  Conference  will  also  be  broad- 
cast over  Television  Station  KSL,  chan- 
nel five. 

Once  again  we  wish  to  announce  that 
important  messages  and  calls  that  have 
come  to  us  for  persons  supposed  to  be 
in  attendance  at  the  conference,  and 
for  persons  to  meet  others,  will  be  an- 
nounced at  the  dismissal  of  the  meeting 
over  the  loud  speaking  system  on  the 
grounds.  Similar  messages  coming  in 
will  be  likewise  broadcast  at  the  close 
of  each  general  session  without  further 
notice.  Please  listen  carefully  to  these 
announcements. 

The  music  for  this  session  has  been 
furnished  by  the  combined  Scandinavian 
choirs,  conducted  by  R.  Hulbert  Ked- 
dington; Roy  M.  Darley  has  been  at 
the  organ. 

You  have  all  enjoyed  these  lovely  calla 
lilies,  which  adorn  the  banister  here 
on  the  right  and  left  of  the  rostrum. 
They  have  been  furnished  by  the 
Berkeley  Stake  of  California.  Members 
of  that  stake  have  made  such  a  presenta- 
tion a  traditional  project  for  April 
Conference.  They  are  particularly  ap- 
propriate this  year  at  the  Easter  season. 

We  thank  the  members  of  the  Choir, 
the  combined  choirs  and  Brother  Ked- 
dington, for  the  time  you  have  put  forth 
in  practicing,  and  for  the  beautiful 
singing,  the  inspiring  service,  that  you 
have  rendered  during  this  session. 

We  shall  now  hear  the  Choir  sing, 

"Almighty  God  of  our  Fathers,"  and 
Elder  Young  will  offer  the  benediction. 


Singing  by  the  Scandinavian  Choirs, 
"Almighty  God  of  Our  Fathers." 

Elder  Gordon  C.  Young,  former  presi- 
dent of  the  New  Zealand  Mission,  of- 
fered the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


Conference  reconvened  at  2:00  p.m., 
Saturday,  April  4. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  repeat  that  the  notices  that  come 
to  the  rostrum  will  be  announced  over 
the  loud  speaker  on  the  grounds.  We 
shall  have  to  be  fair  to  all,  if  we  an- 
nounced any  one  of  these  that  are  com- 
ing to  us,  we  should  be  showing  par- 
tiality. All  announcements  for  meeting 
your  friends  or  your  relatives  and  of 
meetings  will  be  announced  over  the 
loud  speaker,  please. 

This  is  the  second  session  of  the 
One  Hundred  Twenty-Third  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square, 
Salt  Lake  City.  These  services  and 
all  general  sessions  of  the  conference, 
will  be  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall, 
in  Barratt  Hall,  60  North  Main,  over 
a  loud  speaking  system  and  by  tele- 
vision. 

Last  Thursday  morning,  this  taber- 
nacle was  filled  with  the  Primary 
workers  of  the  Church.  Friday  night, 
last  evening,  it  was  filled  to  overflowing 
with  the  bishoprics  of  the  Church.  This 
morning  and  this  afternoon  it  is  filled 
to  overflowing  by  members  in  at- 
tendance at  the  conference.  It  is  evident 
that  one  pressing  need  of  our  Church 
is  a  larger  building.  We  need  a 
Coliseum  that  will  seat  fifteen  or  twenty 
thousand  people,  even  to  accommodate 
those  officers  and  teachers  who  come  to 
these  conferences. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will 
be  broadcast  over  station  KSL  of  Salt 


Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement  through 
KSL  over  the  stations  named  in  the  first 
session  of  this  conference.  This  session 
will  be  televised  also  over  KSL  tele- 
vision station,  channel  5. 

The  singing  will  be  furnished  by  the 
combined  Scandinavian  choirs,  with 
Elder  R.  Hulbert  Keddington  conduct- 
ing, and  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the 
organ.  We  shall  begin  this  service  by 
the  Combined  Choirs  singing,  "Send 
Out  the  Light,"  conducted  by  Elder 
Keddington.  The  opening  prayer  will 
be  offered  by  Elder  Edward  H.  Sorensen, 
formerly  President  of  the  Danish  Mis- 
sion. 


The  Scandinavian  Choirs  sang:  "Send 
Out  Thy  Light." 

Elder  Edward  H.  Sorensen,  former 
President  of  the  Danish  Mission,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Edward  H.  Sorensen,  formerly 
President  of  the  Danish  Mission,  has 
just  offered  the  invocation. 

The  combined  Scandinavian  choirs 
will  now  favor  us  with,  "Let  Not  Thy 
Heart  Be  Troubled,"  after  which  Elder 
Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  will  speak  to  us. 

Singing  by  the  Choir,  "Let  Not  Thy 
Heart  Be  Troubled." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve  will  now  address  us.  He 
will  be  followed  by  Elder  Eldred  G. 
Smith,  Patriarch  to  the  Church. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


1am  overwhelmed,  and  my  soul  is 
subdued  by  the  marvelous  spirit  of 
this  great  conference.    I  think  no 
one  needed  more  the  message  of  that 


beautiful  number  just  sung  by  the  choir 
than  I — "Let  not  your  heart  be  troubled, 
neither  let  it  be  afraid."  I  seek  there- 
fore earnestly  for  an  interest  in  your 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


25 


faith  and  prayers  for  these  next  few 
minutes. 

Several  years  ago  in  company  with 
President  S.  Dilworth  Young  and  his 
wife,  we  toured  the  New  England  Mis- 
sion. At  Glace  Bay  on  Cape  Breton 
Island  we  were  introduced  to  a  lovely 
sister  who  had  been  studying  the  gos- 
pel with  our  missionaries  and  had  been 
very  much  attracted  to  them,  but  as  we 
talked  with  her  about  her  understand- 
ing of  what  they  had  taught,  she  said: 

"I  cannot  accept  this  part  of  your 
teachings  about  the  gospel  of  the  sec- 
ond chance." 

As  we  talked  on,  I  discovered  that 
what  she  was  alluding  to  were  the 
teachings  of  the  missionaries  with  refer- 
ence to  the  statement  of  the  Savior  when 
he  said: 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  the  hour 
is  coming,  and  now  is,  when  the  dead  shall 
hear  the  voice  of  the  Son  of  God:  and  they 
that  hear  shall  live. 

For  as  the  Father  hath  life  in  himself:  so 
hath  he  given  to  the  Son  to  have  life  in 
himself.  (John  5:25-26.) 

She  was  referring  to  the  missionaries' 
interpretation  of  the  words  of  Peter  as 
he  wrote  them  to  the  Saints  in  his  day, 

For  Christ  also  hath  once  suffered  for 
sins,  the  just  for  the  unjust,  that  he  might 
bring  us  to  God,  being  put  to  death  in  the 
flesh,  but  quickened  by  the  Spirit: 

By  which  also  he  went  and  preached  unto 
the  spirits  in  prison; 

Which  sometime  were  disobedient,  when 
once  the  longsuffering  of  God  waited  in 
the  days  of  Noah,  while  the  ark  was  a 
preparing,  wherein  few,  that  is,  eight  souls 
were  saved  by  water.  (I  Peter  3:18-20.) 

They  had  taught  her  what  Peter  ex- 
plained from  what  the  Master  must 
have  told  of  his  visit  to  that  spirit  realm, 
when  he  said: 

For  this  cause  was  the  gospel  preached 
also  to  them  that  are  dead,  that  they  might 
be  judged  according  to  men  in  the  flesh, 
but  live  according  to  God  in  the  spirit. 
(Ibid.,  4:6.) 

I  answered  her,  "You  misunderstand 
our  teachings.   We  don't  believe  in  the 


gospel  of  the  second  chance.  We  do  not 
believe  in  the  gospel  of  the  first  chance, 
but  we  believe  in  a  chance  or  full  op- 
portunity for  everyone  to  hear  and  to 
accept  the  gospel." 

Then  I  recalled  to  her  what  the 
Master  had  said, 

And  this  gospel  of  the  kingdom  shall  be 
preached  in  all  the  world  for  a  witness 
unto  all  nations;  and  then  shall  the  end 
come.  (Matt.  24:14.) 

I  quoted  to  her  from  revelation  given 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  which 
the  Lord  said: 

Behold,  I  sent  you  out  to  testify  and  to 
warn  the  people,  and  it  becometh  every 
man  who  hath  been  warned  to  warn  his 
neighbor.  Therefore,  they  are  left  without 
excuse,  in  the  day  of  judgment,  and  the 
sins  be  upon  their  own  heads.  (D.  &  C. 
88:81-82.) 

I  read  to  her  from  the  words  of  the 
Prophet  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  where 
he  declared: 

For  after  this  day  of  life,  which  is  given 
us  to  prepare  for  eternity,  behold,  if  we 
do  not  improve  our  time  while  in  this  life, 
then  cometh  the  night  of  darkness  wherein 
there  can  be  no  labor  performed.  (Alma 
34:33.) 

I  told  her  of  the  vision  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  that  he  had  in  the  Kirtland 
Temple  in  January  1836,  when  he  saw 
in  vision  Adam  and  Abraham,  and  saw 
his  own  father  and  mother.  He  saw  his 
brother  Alvin,  who  had  departed  this 
life  before  he  was  baptized,  saw  them 
in  the  celestial  kingdom,  and  he  mar- 
veled, and  then  the  Lord  spoke  to  him 
and  said: 

All  who  have  died  without  a  knowledge 
of  this  gospel,  who  would  have  received  it 
if  they  had  been  permitted  to  tarry,  shall 
be  heirs  of  the  celestial  kingdom  of  God; 
and  those  who  die  henceforth  without  a 
knowledge  of  it  who  would  have  received  it 
with  all  their  hearts  shall  be  heirs  of  the 
celestial  kingdom,  for  I,  the  Lord,  will  judge 
men  according  to  their  works,  according 
to  the  desires  of  their  hearts.  (Teachings  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  107.) 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

Many  times  I  have  thought  back  over 
that  conversation,  and  I  believe  now  I 
am  beginning  to  understand  what  the 
Master  meant  when  he  said  to  Peter, 
after  Peter  had  declared  his  testimony 
of  the  divinity  of  the  Savior.  The 
Master  had  told  him  that  this  was  a 
revelation  from  God,  and  then  added, 

And  I  say  unto  thee,  that  thou  art  Peter, 
and  upon  this  rock  I  will  build  my  church; 
and  the  gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail 
against  it.    (Matt.  16:18.) 

There  are  those  with  limited  or  little 
understanding  who  believe  that  state- 
ment to  refute  our  teaching  that  there 
has  been  an  apostasy.  They  say,  "If 
there  was1  an  apostasy,  then  the  gates 
of  hell  did  prevail  against  the  Church, 
contrary  to  the  words  of  the  Savior  to 
Peter." 

As  I  have  thought  of  the  true  mean- 
ing of  that  statement,  I  have  said  to 
myself,  "Oh,  how  great  is  the  wisdom 
of  God  as  contrasted  with  the  foolish- 
ness of  men." 

What  was  the  purpose  of  our  Father 
concerning  us  and  his  work?  He  de- 
clared it  to  Moses: 

This  is  my  work  and  my  glory — to  bring 
to  pass  the  immortality  and  the  eternal 
life  of  man.  (Moses  1:39.) 

It  was  John  who  said  that  Jesus  was 
as  a  lamb  "slain  from  the  foundation 
of  the  world"  (Rev.  13:8)  or,  in  other 
words,  Jesus  was  prepared  for  an  atone- 
ment; his  sacrifice  was  to  be  made  as 
a  ransom  for  all  of  those  who  would 
obey  him  and  keep  his  commandments. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  speak- 
ing about  this  matter  said  this: 

The  great  Jehovah  contemplated  the 
whole  of  the  events  connected  with  the 
earth,  pertaining  to  the  plan  of  salvation, 
before  it  rolled  into  existence,  or  ever  "the 
stars  of  morning  sang  together"  for  joy; 
the  past,  the  present,  and  the  future,  were 
and  are  with  Him,  one  eternal  "now".  .  .  . 
He  knows  the  situation  of  both  the  living 
and  the  dead,  and  has  made  ample  pro- 
vision for  their  redemption,  according  to 
their  several  circumstances,  and  the  laws 
of  the  kingdom  of  God,  whether  in  this 
world  or  in  the  world  to  come.  (Smith, 


First  Day 

Joseph  Fielding,  Teachings  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  p.  220.) 

That  plan,  which  had  been  laid  in 
the  heavens  before  the  foundations  of 
the  world  were  laid,  contemplated  a 
testing  in  the  spirit  world.  It  contem- 
plated the  plan  of  salvation  given  in 
various  dispensations  of  the  gospel  here 
upon  the  earth. 

As  President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
told  us  this  morning,  it  was  not  God 
who  sealed  the  heavens  following  a 
dispensation  of  the  gospel.  It  was  man. 
Hence,  we  are  to  believe  that  there 
would  have  been  but  one  dispensation 
beginning  with  Adam  and  reaching 
down  to  now,  except  had  it  been  for 
the  wickedness  of  men. 

That  plan  contemplated  the  preaching 
of  the  gospel  to  those  who  were  in  the 
spirit  world,  who  had  departed  this  life 
without  having  had  ample  opportunity 
of  hearing  the  gospel.  It  contemplated 
the  vicarious  work  to  be  carried  on  in 
behalf  of  those  who  had  died  without 
that  knowledge  in  holy  temples  here 
in  order  that  they  might  be  judged  as 
though  they  had  heard  the  gospel  here 
in  the  flesh. 

The  gates  of  hell  would  have  pre- 
vailed if  Satan  had  been  victorious  in 
the  war  in  heaven,  and  if  his  plan, 
which  would  have  nullified  free  agency, 
had  been  the  order.  The  gates  of  hell 
would  have  prevailed  had  there  ever 
been  a  time  when  the  power  to  ad- 
minister the  saving  ordinances  of  the 
gospel  would  not  have  been  in  each 
dispensation  of  the  gospel  upon  the 
earth. 

The  gates  of  hell  would  have  pre- 
vailed if  the  gospel  had  not  been  taught 
to  the  spirits  in  prison  and  to  those 
who  had  not  had  ample  opportunity 
to  receive  the  gospel  here  in  its  ful- 
ness. It  would  have  prevailed  if  there 
was  not  a  vicarious  work  for  the  dead, 
and  had  it  not  been  instituted  to  pro- 
vide for  those  in  the  spirit  world  who 
desired  to  accept  the  gospel. 

The  gates  of  hell  would  have  pre- 
vailed were  it  not  for  other  vicarious 
work  pertaining  to  the  exaltation  which 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


27 


those  who  accept  the  gospel  might  re- 
ceive, both  ordinances  for  the  living 
and  for  the  dead. 

Now,  as  I  think  of  that  plan,  so  per- 
fect in  its  conception,  it  is  clear  that 
this  plan  could  not  have  existed  except 
it  had  been  by  the  revelations  of  the 
Living  God. 

So  we  begin  to  understand  what  the 
Lord  meant  when  he  said  to  Peter, 

.  .  .  upon  this  rock  I  will  build  my  church; 
and  the  gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail  against 
it.  (Matt.  16:18.) 

He  was  speaking  of  the  revelation  of 
the  Lord  to  his  authorized  servants  and 
all  the  forces  of  hell  combined  could 
not  prevent  it. 

Several  years  ago  while  I  served  as  a 
missionary,  I  came  to  the  door  of  one 
who  belong  to  an  apostate  faction  which 
fell  away  after  the  death  of  the  Proph- 
et Joseph  Smith.  For  a  considerable 
time  we  had  a  rather  spirited  discussion, 
although  not  unfriendly,  in  which  she 
argued  her  case,  and  that  we,  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  and  not  their  faction, 
were  the  apostates  from  the  truth. 

As  we  talked  on  into  the  afternoon, 
there  came  an  interesting  turn  to  our 
conversation.  It  developed  that  this 
couple  had  had  but  one  child,  a  little 
boy,  who,  when  about  seven  years  of 
age,  was  stricken  with  an  incurable  dis- 
ease. When  he  came  to  the  age  of  ac- 
countability, of  eight,  he  was  still  sick, 
and  at  nine  or  shortly  thereafter  he 
passed  away,  still  unable  to  be  taken 
into  the  waters  of  baptism. 

Now,  they  accepted  the  revelation  of 
the  Lord  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
that  at  eight  years  of  age,  the  age  of 
accountability,  children  are  to  be  bap- 
tized, except  for  which  they  should  not 
enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

"Now,"  she  asked,  "what  do  you 
think  we  ought  to  do  for  our  child?" 

I  replied:  "Oh,  that  is  easy.  Have 
him  baptized  for  in  the  temple.  That 
is  what  temples  are  for." 

But  she  said,  "We  have  no  temple." 

Then  there  came  into  my  mind  a 
scripture  in  which  the  Lord  said, 

Now  the  great  and  grand  secret  .  .  .  and 


the  summum  bonum  of  the  whole  subject 
that  is  lying  before  us,  consists  in  obtaining 
the  powers  of  the  Holy  Priesthood.  For  him 
to  whom  these  keys  are  given  there  is 
no  difficulty  in  obtaining  a  knowledge  of 
facts  in  relation  to  the  salvation  of  the 
children  of  men,  both  as  well  for  the  dead 
as  for  the  living.   (D.  &  C.  128:11.) 

Truly  as  I  thought  about  her  plight, 
the  gates  of  hell  had  prevailed  against 
her  church  because  the  keys  and  the 
power  to  reveal  knowledge  from  heaven 
was  not  to  be  found  in  that  church. 

In  other  words,  the  Lord  has  said  to 
Joseph  Smith  what  he  said  to  Peter 
and  what  he  has  said  to  every  prophet 
in  every  dispensation.  He  gives  to  each 
the  keys  to  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  and 
the  power  to  receive  revelation  in  order 
that  the  gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail 
against  his  plan. 

What  he  said  to  Peter  was  tantamount 
to  saying  to  Joseph,  if  I  can  make  this 
meaning  clear — he  might  well  have 
said, 

And  I  say  unto  thee,  thou  art  Joseph, 
and  upon  this  rock  I  will  build  my  church; 
and  the  gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail 
against  it. 

What  he  said  to  Joseph,  might  well 
have  been  said  to  Peter: 

I  give  unto  thee  the  keys  to  the  kingdom 
of  heaven,  for  he  to  whom  these  keys  are 
given  shall  have  no  difficulty  in  obtaining 
a  knowledge  of  both  the  salvation  of  the 
living  and  the  dead. 

The  importance  of  revelation  on 
which  to  found  this  Church  was  again 
impressed  on  the  day  this  Church  was 
organized,  when  the  Lord  said,  to  the 
Church,  not  only  to  those  few  who 
were  then  members,  but  also  to  all  of 
us  who  have  since  been  members, 

Wherefore,  meaning  the  church,  thou 
shalt  give  head  unto  all  his  words  [mean- 
ing the  words  of  the  President  of  the 
Church,  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord]  and 
commandments  which  he  shall  give  unto 
you  as  he  receiveth  them,  walking  in  all 
holiness  before  me; 

For  his  word  ye  shall  receive,  as  if  from 
mine  own  mouth,  in  all  patience  and  faith. 

For  by  doing  these  things  the  gates  of 
hell  shall  not  prevail  against  you;  yea,  and 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

the  Lord  God  will  disperse  the  powers  of 
darkness  from  before  you,  and  cause  the 
heavens  to  shake  for  your  good,  and  his 
name's  glory.   (D.  &  C.  21:4-6.) 

In  other  words,  the  Lord  has  said 
it  was  not  only  important  that  there 
be  revelation  to  his  Church  through 
his  mouthpiece,  the  one  who  held  the 
keys,  but  his  Church  must  also  be 
founded  on  personal  revelation,  that 
every  member  of  the  Church  who  has 
been  baptized  and  has  received  the 
Holy  Ghost  must  be  admonished  so  to 
live  that  each  might  receive  a  personal 
testimony  and  a  witness  of  the  divine 
calling  of  him  who  was  called  to  lead 
as  the  President  of  the  Church  so  that 
he  will  accept  those  words  and  that 
counsel  as  if  from  the  mouth  of  the 
Lord  himself.  Otherwise,  the  gates  of 
hell  would  prevail  against  that  indi- 
vidual. 

It  was  exactly  that  meaning  that  the 
Apostle  Paul  intended  to  convey  when 
he  wrote  to  the  Ephesians, 

And  he  gave  some,  apostles;  and  some, 
prophets;  and  some  evangelists;  and  some, 
pastors  and  teachers.  (Eph.  4:11.) 

In  other  words,  he  organized  the 
Church  and  set  up  the  proper  officers, 
"that  we  henceforth  be  no  more  chil- 
dren, tossed  to  and  fro  and  carried  about 
by  every  wind  of  doctrine,  by  the  slight 
of  men  and  cunning  craftiness,  whereby 
they  lie  in  wait  to  deceive."  Upon  this 
rock,  the  rock  of  revelation,  to  indi- 
viduals who  have  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  and  revelation  from  God  to 
his  Church,  the  Lord  in  wisdom  has 
designed  that  therefore  the  gates  of  hell 
shall  not  prevail  against  it. 

In  the  midst  of  travail  and  suffering 
the  Lord  sent  this  word  of  comfort 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph: 

God  shall  give  unto  you  knowledge  by 
his  Holy  Spirit,  yea,  by  the  unspeakable 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  has  not  been 
revealed  since  the  world  was  until  now; 
.  .  .  According  to  that  which  was  ordained 
in  the  midst  of  the  Council  of  the  Eternal 
God  of  all  other  gods  before  this  world 
was,  that  should  be  reserved  unto  the  fin- 
ishing and  the  end  thereof,  when  every 
man  shall  enter  into  his  eternal  presence 


First  Day 

and  into  his  immortal  rest.  (D.  &  C. 
121:26,  32.) 

Thus  the  rock  of  revealed  knowledge 
has  built  his  Church,  and  the  gates  of 
hell  have  never  prevailed  against  it. 

With  that  overpowering  thought  that 
the  plan  of  the  Almighty  has  been  so 
laid  that  never  has  Satan  been  able 
to  shake  it,  how  we  should  rejoice  at 
the  word  of  the  Lord  to  Joseph  when 
he  said: 

.  .  .  What  power  can  stay  the  heavens? 
As  well  might  man  stretch  forth  his  puny 
arm  to  stop  the  Missouri  river  in  its  de- 
creed course,  or  to  turn  it  up  stream,  as  to 
hinder  the  Almighty  from  pouring  down 
knowledge  from  heaven  upon  the  heads 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints.    (Ibid.,  121:33.) 

I  am  grateful  as  I  stand  here  this 
afternoon  to  realize  that  this  is  his 
Church.  We  have  at  the  head  of  this 
Church  an  earthly  head  who  presides 
as  the  President  thereof,  the  mouthpiece 
of  God.  In  this  day  to  those  who  will 
believe  and  will  listen  to  counsel,  the 
gates  of  hell  shall  never  prevail.  Those 
who  die  without  a  knowledge  will  have 
the  right  to  hear  that  truth  in  the  spirit 
world,  and  if  they  accept  it,  work  may 
be  done  vicariously  that  they  might  be 
judged  and  blessed  even  as  though  they 
had  accepted  it  in  the  flesh. 

Thanks  be  to  God  that  the  devil's 
power  has  never  prevailed  against  his 
plan  of  continued  revelation  to  his 
servants,  and  never  will  prevail  so  long 
as  the  earth  shall  stand,  for  the  gospel 
plan  was  laid  in  heaven  and  will  con- 
tinue throughout  the  eternities  for  the 
purpose  of  bringing  about  immortality 
and  eternal  life. 

I  bear  you  that  humble  testimony  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Harold  B.  Lee,  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve.  Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patriarch 
to  the  Church,  will  now  speak  to  us. 
He  will  be  followed  by  President  Levi 
Edgar  Young,  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy. 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


29 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 


T,  like  the  other  brethren,  am  in  need 
I  of  your  faith  and  prayers,  and  I  ap- 
1  predate  your  faith  and  prayers  in 
my  behalf,  especially  while  I  stand  be- 
fore you. 

As  I  look  at  this  vast  audience  and 
think  of  the  hundreds  of  thousands 
listening  over  television  and  radio,  the 
responsibility  is  frightening  in  the  ex- 
treme. There  is  only  one  consolation 
for  me:  even  though  you  do  not  re- 
member all  that  is  said  here  today, 
there  is  more  to  be  gained  than  from 
the  words  you  hear  or  than  your  memory 
can  hold.  This  is  true  when  you  are 
attending  any  meeting.  You  leave  the 
meeting  encouraged,  your  faith  re- 
newed, your  testimony  quickened,  the 
spiritual  uplift  is  beyond  measure. 

I  am  reminded  of  the  story  which 
is  so  often  told,  and  which  you  all 
know,  of  the  bishop  who  visited  a 
member  who  had  become  inactive  in 
the  ward.  They  sat  in  front  of  an  open 
fire  in  the  fireplace  in  silence,  and, 
presumably,  the  bishop  thinking  about 
how  he  could  approach  the  subject, 
reached  forth  with  the  tongs  and  lifted 
a  hot  live  coal  from  the  fire  and  set  it 
on  the  hearth  in  front  of  the  fire.  They 
sat  in  silence  and  watched  the  hot,  live 
coal  gradually  turn  cold  and  black  and 
lifeless.  Then  the  bishop  picked  up  the 
coal  with  the  tongs  again  and  set  it 
back  into  the  fire  with  the  other  living 
coals  and  watched  it  again  regain  its 
life  and  its  fire  and  its  heat  and  its 
warmth.  Still  nothing  was  said.  Fi- 
nally the  man  said,  "Bishop,  I  see  what 
you  came  here  to  tell  me." 

Through  meeting  together  the  fire  of 
our  testimony  is  kept  alive  and  glowing. 
It  is  through  meeting  and  working  to- 
gether that  we  grow  in  faith  and  in 
knowledge.  When  we  withdraw  from 
Church  activity,  we  become  as  the  lone 
coal  on  the  hearth,  cold  and  lifeless. 

We  are  fulfilling  a  commandment  of 
the  Lord  by  attending  meetings,  but  to 


grow  in  the  Church,  that  alone  is  not 
enough.  If  we  stop  there,  we  would 
not  differ  much  from  those  of  other 
churches.    James  tells  us: 

Be  ye  doers  of  the  word,  and  not  hearers 
only,  deceiving  your  own  selves. 

For  if  any  be  a  hearer  of  the  word,  and 
not  a  doer,  he  is  like  unto  a  man  behold- 
ing his  natural  face  in  a  glass: 

For  he  beholdeth  himself,  and  goeth 
his  way,  and  straightway  forgetteth  what 
manner  of  man  he  was. 

But  whoso  looketh  into  the  perfect  law 
of  liberty,  and  continueth  therein,  he  being 
not  a  forgetful  hearer,  but  a  doer  of  the 
work,  this  man  shall  be  blessed  in  his  deed. 
(James  1:22-25.) 

Now  the  perfect  law  of  liberty  re- 
ferred to  here  is  the  law  of  free  agency. 
So  if  we  were  to  say, 

But  whoso  useth  his  power  of  free  agency 
and  chooses  the  right  way,  he  being  not 
a  forgetful  hearer,  but  a  doer  of  the  work, 
this  man  shall  be  blessed  in  his  deed. 

So  exercising  our  free  agency  and 
overcoming  evil  we  become  heirs  to  the 
blessings  of  the  Lord,  not  just  passive 
hearers  of  the  word,  but  active  doers 
of  the  word. 

James  also  says, 

For  as  the  body  without  the  spirit  is 
dead,  so  faith  without  works  is  dead  also. 
(Ibid.,  2:26.) 

Many  have  expressed  the  thought  that 
if  they  receive  a  written  patriarchal 
blessing  it  will  be  fulfilled  to  the  letter 
without  any  effort  on  their  part. 

Which  reminds  me  of  the  young 
woman  who  declared  that  she  was  going 
to  be  married  in  the  temple  when  she 
got  married  and  that  was  very  certain 
and  all  her  friends  understood  her  atti- 
tude, yet  when  she  was  married,  she  not 
only  married  out  of  the  temple,  but 
she  married  a  non-member  of  the 
Church.  When  one  of  her  friends  said 
to  her  afterwards,  "Why,  Mary,  I 
thought  you,  of  all  people,  were  going 


30 

Saturday,  April  4 

to  marry  in  the  temple,"  she  answered, 
"Well,  my  patriarchal  blessing  prom- 
ised me  that  I  would  be  married  in  the 
temple,  so  I  guess  I  will  someday." 

We  must  serve  the  Lord  diligently 
and  intelligently,  keeping  all  his  com- 
mandments, if  we  expect  to  receive  his 
blessings. 

When  the  question  arises  if  the 
blessings  come  from  our  efforts  in  right- 
eousness in  fulfilling  the  law  upon 
which  the  blessing  is  predicated,  why 
have  patriarchal  blessings?  We  will  get 
our  blessings  anyway,  if  we  live  for 
them.  And  that  is  very  true,  because 
"we  must  live  for  our  blessings  if  we 
get  them,  but  there  comes  great  com- 
fort and  consolation  from  having  our 
blessings  both  promised  and  sealed  upon 
us  by  authorized  servants  of  the  Lord 
in  obedience  to  his  word  and  law,  for 
the  Lord  has  placed  authorized  agents 
on  the  earth  to  bear  his  power  and 
his  authority,  not  only  to  pronounce, 
but  to  seal  these  blessings,  that  the  Lord 
may  have  an  anchor  upon  the  souls  of 
men  and  women  forever,  for  neither 
death  nor  the  destroyer  will  end  these 
blessings,  but  the  receiver  will  possess 
and  enjoy  them  forever  and  ever." 

A  patriarchal  blessing  gives  us  cour- 
age to  live  as  we  know  we  should  live. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

It  helps  to  keep  us  from  yielding  to 
temptation,  to  do  the  things  we  have 
been  taught  to  do. 
Quoting  James  again, 

Therefore  to  him  that  knoweth  to  do 
id,  and  doeth  it  not,  to  him  it  is  sin. 


4:17.) 


After  he  has  received  a  patriarchal 
blessing,  after  he  has  been  taught  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  the  law  of  tithing, 
been  taught  to  attend  sacrament  and 
priesthood  meetings,  and  been  taught 
the  law  of  celestial  sealings,  and  then 
he  does  contrary  to  those  teachings,  to 
him  it  is  sin.  After  he  has  been  taught 
honesty,  and  there  is  no  truth  in  him, 
for  him  it  is  sin.  If  he  has  been  taught 
charity,  and  he  has  no  charity  in  his 
heart,  to  him  it  is  sin.  He  who  has 
covenanted  to  devote  his  time  and 
talents  to  the  service  of  the  Lord  and 
does  not  do  it,  to  him  it  is  sin.  He  who 
has  the  gospel  and  teaches  it  not  to 
others  by  example  as  well  as  by  pre- 
cept, to  him  it  is  sin. 

Let  us  live  worthy  of  the  blessings 
of  the  Lord,  by  living  the  gospel  every 
day.  Let  us  show  our  faith  by  our 
works,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


MAN'S  ENDOWMENT 

The  Lord  created  man  of  the  earth, 
He  endued  them  with  strength  by  them- 
selves, 

And  made  them  according  to  his  image, 
And  put  the  fear  of  man  upon  all  flesh, 
And  gave  him  dominion  over  beasts  and 
fowls. 

Counsel,  and  tongue,  and  eyes, 
Ears,  and  a  heart,  gave  he  them  to  under- 
stand. 

Withal  he  filled  them  with  the  knowledge 

of  understanding. 
And  shewed  them  good  and  evil. 
He  set  his  eye  upon  their  hearts, 
That  he  might  shew  them  the  greatness  of 

his  works, 

He  gave  them  to  glory  in  his  marvellous 
acts  for  ever, 


That  they  might  declare  his  works  with 

understanding. 
Beside  this  he  gave  them  knowledge, 
And  law  of  life  for  an  heritage. 
He  made  an  everlasting  covenant  with  them, 
And  shewed  them  his  judgments. 
Their  ways  are  ever  before  him; 
And  shall  not  be  hid  from  his  eyes. 

(Ecclesiasticus  17:1,3,4,6-9,11,12,15.) 

So  many  words  in  holy  writ  will  cre- 
ate within  us  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
as  we  hear  them  today,  for  it  is 
the  Easter  time.  All  of  the  Evangelists 
write  beautifully  of  the  resurrection.  We 
read  the  words  of  Mark: 

And  when  the  sabbath  was  past,  Mary 
Magdalene,  and  Mary  the  mother  of  James 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


31 


...0  l 

and  Salome,  had  bought  sweet  spices,  that 
they  might  come  and  anoint  him. 

And  very  early  in  the  morning,  the  first 
day  of  the  week,  they  came  unto  the 
sepulchre  at  the  rising  of  the  sun. 

And  they  said  among  themselves,  Who 
shall  roll  us  away  the  stone  from  the  door 
of  the  sepulchre? 

And  when  they  looked,  they  saw  that 
the  stone  was  rolled  away:  for  it  was  very 
great. 

And  entering  into  the  sepulchre,  they  saw 
a  young  man  sitting  on  the  right  side, 
clothed  in  a  long  white  garment;  and  they 
were  affrighted. 

And  he  said  unto  them,  Be  not  affrighted: 
Ye  seek  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  which  was 
crucified:  he  is  risen;  he  is  not  here:  be- 
hold the  place  where  they  laid  him.  (Mark 
16:1-6.) 

Every  year  at  Easter  time,  our  hearts 
are  gladdened  by  the  commemoration 
of  the  resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ,  the 
Savior  of  the  world.  Jesus  died  that 
we  might  by  our  faith  be  accounted 
worthy  to  attain  eternal  life.  "It  must 
needs  be,"  he  said,  "that  the  Son  of 
man  should  suffer  and  be  put  to  death 
and  rise  again."  (See  Luke  24:7.)  "Be- 
cause I  live,  ye  shall  also  live"  is  the 
divine  message  that  has  brought  heav- 
enly solace  to  millions  of  souls  who 
have  come  to  the  knowledge  that  death 
is  but  the  beginning  of  the  greater  and 
truer  life. 

An  ancient  prophet,  Isaiah,  in  speak- 
ing of  the  resurrection  of  the  Savior  in 
language,  poetic  and  lofty,  says: 

Ho\^'  beautiful  upon  the  mountains  are 
the  feet  of  him  that  bringeth  good  tidings, 
that  publisheth  peace;  that  bringeth  good 
tidings  of  good,  that  publisheth  salvation: 
that  saith  unto  Zion,  Thy  God  reignethl 
(Isa.  52:7.)     .  ; 

This  knowledge  is  the  deepest  need 
of  mankind  today,  for  while  we  honor 
his  name  and  his  call,  we  test  our  lives 
by:  other  times  and  by  other  peoples, 
never  allowing  ourselves  the  one  thing 
we  need  most  of  all — vision  of  the 
kingdom  of  God.  The  last  words  of 
Jesus  from  the  cross  were:  "Father,  into 
thy  hands,  I  commend  my  spirit.  .  .  .  " 
(Luke  23:46),  words  of  perfect  trust  and 
confidence.  In  all  his  life,  there  was  that 


divine  knowledge  that  from  God  he 
came  and  to  God  he  would  return. 
This  is  why  the  outward  incidents  of 
his  life  were  vested  with  the  splendor 
of  eternity.  When  he  died  upon  the 
cross,  he  assured  us  of  the  greater  life 
beyond  the  grave.     •  )  >■ 

The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  has  been  in 
the  hearts  of  the  people  who  are  as- 
sembled in  this  holy  house.  The  les- 
sons of  the  meaning  of  life  which  we 
will  take  home  will  long  remain  with 
us.  Our  minds  may  be  open  to  the 
truths  of  the  gospel.  We  cannot  listen 
to  the  brethren  who  speak  without  being 
impressed  with  a  new  sense  of  power 
and  a  new  source  of  comfort,  because 
we  have  come  to  know  God  through 
the  life  of  the  Master:  the  Savior  of 
the  world.  What  could  be  more  divine 
than  to  turn  our  thoughts  to  Jesus  Christ 
our  Savior  at  Easter  time?  The  learned 
British  author,  Lord  Ernie,  has  written: 

The  belief  in  immortality  rests  on  the 
belief  in  the  government  of  the  universe 
by  one  supreme,  moral,  and  spiritual  being. 
Happy  are  those  whose  faith  on  this  point 
has  survived  the  shock  of  recent  years,  and 
not  the  least  part  of  their  happiness  lies 
in  the  sure  and  certain  hope  of  a  future 
life. 

From  the  days  of  father  Adam  down 
through  all  centuries,  God  has  made 
manifest  his  truths  to  his  children.  The 
divine  light  has  ever  shown  forth  to 
inspire  the  sacred  teachings  which  will 
bring  the  children  of  God  back  to  his 
holy  throne.  In  Homer's  Odyssey  we 
have  the  religious  beliefs  of  the  Greeks 
of  ancient  Athens.  "Men  and  gods  are 
divine,"  says  Homer.  "In  this  life  the 
spirit  and  body  are  one,  and  to  escape 
worldly  influence  we  must  become  puri- 
fied by  denying  ourselves  certain  kinds 
of  foods  and  dress  and  avoid  contact 
with  impurities.  One  must  become  as 
near  to  God  as  possible,  and  that  means 
to  become  righteous  and  holy  with  the 
help  of  wisdom."  Concerning  the 
Hindus,  their  philosophy  of  life  is  found 
in  their  Bible,  the  Rigveda,  which 
says:  "All  children  are  and  have  been 
of  heaven  and  earth.   All  souls  in  time 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

can  be  gods.  Their  highest  ethical 
figure  is  Varuna,  who  is  unified  with  a 
glorified  body." 

Then  comes  the  conception  of  the 
ancient  Hebrews.  Job  shows  not  only 
his  belief  in  immortality,  but  also  in 
the  resurrection  of  the  body  when  he 
gives  utterance  to  the  noble  words: 

For  I  know  that  my  redeemer  liveth,  and 
that  he  shall  stand  at  the  latter  day  upon 
the  earth: 

And  though  after  my  skin  worms  destroy 
this  body,  yet  in  my  flesh  shall  I  see  God. 
(Job  19:25-26.) 

How  beautifully  Daniel  has  written: 

And  many  of  them  that  sleep  in  the  dust 
of  the  earth  shall  awake,  some  to  ever- 
lasting life,  and  some  to  shame  and  ever- 
lasting contempt. 

And  they  that  be  wise  shall  shine  in 
the  brightness  of  the  firmament;  and  they 
that  turn  many  to  righteousness  as  the 
stars  for  ever  and  ever.    (Daniel  12:2-3.) 

How  beautiful  and  with  what  deep 
humility  the  American  Indians  in  the 
past  have  spoken  words  of  faith  in  the 
Great  Spirit.  In  Francis  Parkman's 
biography  of  the  celebrated  Indian  Chief 
Pontiac,  we  have  a  statement  concern- 
ing the  Indian's  faith,  which  was  ut- 
tered when  he  surrendered  to  the  Eng- 
lish in  1765.  He  spoke  in  behalf  of  the 
several  nations  assembled  at  the  coun- 
cil of  the  English  warriors  and  the 
Indians,  and  said: 

Father,  we  have  all  smoked  out  of  this 
pipe  of  peace.  It  is  your  children's  pipe; 
and  as  the  war  is  all  over,  and  the  Great 
Spirit  and  Giver  of  Light  who  has  made 
the  earth  and  everything  therein,  has 
brought  us  all  together  this  day  for  our 
mutual  good,  I  declare  to  all  nations  that 
I  have  settled  my  peace  with  you  before 
I  came  here.  And  now  deliver  my  pipe  to 
Sir  William  Johnson,  that  he  may  know 
that  I  have  made  peace  and  have  taken  the 
King  of  England  for  my  father,  in  the 
presence  of  all  the  nations  now  assembled. 
Father,  we  are  thankful  to  you  for  lighting 
our  council  fire  for  us,  and  desiring  us  to 
return  to  it. 

Every  group  of  people  in  all  history 
has  looked  to  God  and  has  known  of 


First  Day 

the  "life  beyond."  A  shrine,  a  temple, 
or  a  church  is  a  part  of  the  great  picture 
book  of  humanity  and  testifies  alike  to 
the  goodness  and  beauty  of  human  life. 

Centuries  ago,  God  gave  the  children 
of  Israel  through  the  Prophet  Moses, 
the  Ten  Commandments,  in  which  are 
written  sublime  truths: 

I  am  the  Lord  thy  God,  which  have 
brought  thee  out  of  the  land  of  Egypt,  out 
of  the  house  of  bondage.  .  .  . 

Remember  the  sabbath  day  to  keep  it 
holy. 

Ffonour  thy  father  and  thy  mother:  that 
thy  days  may  be  long  upon  the  land  which 
the  Lord  thy  God  giveth  thee.  (Exodus 
20:2,  8,  12.) 

The  Ten  Commandments  became  the 
constitution  of  the  Holy  Land,  and 
they  have  influenced  the  civic  and  po- 
litical life  of  all  civilization  since  that 
time. 

All  through  the  ages,  since  God  sent 
his  servant  Adam  to  this  earth,  a  di- 
vine power  has  ever  directed  mankind 
and  given  him  a  knowledge  that  God 
lives.  The  holy  Bible  is  the  product  of 
men  inspired  of  God,  covering  a  period 
of  four  thousand  years.  The  holy  book 
shows  that  the  Hebrew  prophets  gave 
their  lives  to  the  service  of  God.  They 
wrote  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
God  directed  them. 

The  life  of  Christ  our  Savior,  as  given 
in  the  New  Testament,  is  to  old  and 
young  alike  the  most  moving  and  con- 
vincing truth  that  he  came  from  some 
higher  sphere  into  our  earthly  history 
with  the  mission  to  reveal  God  and 
save  man.  He  preached  the  gospel  of 
the  kingdom;  and  forever  even  until 
all  the  aeons  have  been  closed,  and 
earth  itself,  with  the  heavens  that  now 
are,  have  passed  away,  shall  every  one 
of  his  true  and  faithful  children  find 
peace  and  hope  and  forgiveness  and 
his  name  shall  be  called  Emmanuel  or 
God  with  us. 

We  always  keep  in  mind  that  in  the 
great  literature  of  the  world's  history, 
writers  have  extolled  the  powers  of  the 
mind  and  intelligences  of  mankind. 
Ever  since  the  recording  of  history  be- 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


33 


gan,  the  divine  power  of  man  has  been 
made  manifest.  "No  other  single  force 
has  entered  so  widely,  so  powerfully,  so 
continuously  into  the  renewal  of  the 
mortal  spirit  of  man,  into  the  shaping 
of  men's  ultimate  ideals,  and  into  the 
formation  of  personal  character,  as  the 
sense  of  contact  between  the  human 
and  the  divine."  One  of  the  old  He- 
brew singers — possibly  David — summed 
up  the  lesson  of  Judah  in  these  words: 
"They  that  trust  in  the  Lord  shall  be 
as  mount  Zion,  which  cannot  be  re- 
moved, but  abideth  for  ever."  (Ps. 
125:1.) 

Today  as  we  look  forward  to  the  time 
ahead,  our  vision  will  be  clear  if  we 
have  prayed  and  worked  to  have  a  testi- 
mony of  the  word  of  God  among  his 
children.  We  know  of  the  truth  that 
God  lives  and  that  Jesus  Christ,  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world,  will  come  again. 
With  understanding  hearts,  we  recall 
the  words  of  Isocrates,  an  Athenian 
philosopher  of  the  fifth  century,  B.C.: 

The  age  in  which  we  live  should  be 
distinguished  by  some  glorious  enterprise 
.  .  .  Let  the  leaders  contrive  to  put  an  end 
to  our  present  troubles.  The  treaties  of 
peace  are  insufficient  for  their  purpose; 
they  may  retard  but  they  cannot  prevent 
our  misfortunes.  We  stand  in  need  of 
some  more  endurable  plan,  which  will 
forever  put  to  an  end  our  hostilities,  and 
unite  us  by  the  lasting  ties  of  mutual 
fidelity  and  affection. 

The  writer  of  the  Acts  of  the 
Apostles  gives  an  account  of  the  last 
meeting  of  the  risen  Messiah  with  his 
disciples  in  Palestine,  and  his  last  words 
to  them: 

And  when  he  had  spoken  these  things, 
while  they  beheld,  he  was  taken  up;  and 
a  cloud  received  him  out  of  their  sight. 

And  while  they  looked  stedfastly  toward 
heaven  as  he  went  up,  behold,  two  men 
stood  by  them  in  white  apparel; 

Which  also  said,  Ye  men  of  Galilee,  why 
stand  ye  gazing  up  into  heaven?  this  same 
Jesus  which  is  taken  up  from  you  into 
heaven,  shall  so  come  in  like  manner  as 
ye  have  seen  him  go  into  heaven.  (Acts 
1:9-11.) 


Mosiah  writes  gloriously  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon: 

But  there  is  a  resurrection,  therefore  the 
grave  hath  no  victory,  and  the  sting  of 
death  is  swallowed  up  in  Christ. 

He  is  the  light  and  the  life  of  the  world; 
yea,  a  light  that  is  endless,  that  can  never 
be  darkened;  yea,  and  also  a  life  which 
is  endless,  that  there  can  be  no  more  death. 

Even  this  mortal  shall  put  on  immor- 
tality, and  this  corruption  shall  put  on 
incorruption,  and  shall  be  brought  to  stand 
before  the  bar  of  God,  to  be  judged  of 
him  according  to  their  works  whether  they 
be  good  or  whether  they  be  evil.  (Mosiah 
16:8-10.) 

God  the  Father  and  Jesus  Christ  came 
to  this  earth  and  restored  the  gospel  to 
Joseph  Smith,  and  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  was  organized.  Through  the 
years  the  Prophet's  life  was  filled  with 
sorrow  and  bitter  struggle  to  have  men 
understand.  A  few  came  with  him — 
men  of  great  character  and  women  of 
great  souls,  "That  faith  might  increase 
in  the  earth,  and  that  mine  everlasting 
covenant  might  be  established  and  pro- 
claimed unto  the  end  of  the  world." 
The  world  is  weary  of  the  religion  about 
Christ.  What  it  wants  is  the  religion  of 
Jesus  Christ.  To  follow  Jesus  Christ 
means  to  have  a  part  in  the  building  of 
his  kingdom  on  earth.  Here  we  merge 
into  the  sunshine  of  a  great  experience. 

In  words  that  are  forceful  and  clear, 
we  have  our  tenth  Article  of  Faith  as 
written  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith: 

We  believe  in  the  literal  gathering  of 
Israel  and  in  the  restoration  of  the  Ten 
Tribes;  that  Zion  will  be  built  upon  this 
[the  American]  continent;  that  Christ  will 
reign  personally  upon  the  earth;  and,  that 
the  earth  will  be  renewed  and  receive  its 
paradisiacal  glory. 

When  Jesus  Christ  gave  his  holy 
prayer  in  speaking  to  the  people  on  the 
mount,  he  uttered  words  which  to  this 
day  are  given  by  the  millions  of  peo- 
ple who  hold  him  as  the  Savior  of  the 
world.   He  said: 

After  this  manner  therefore  pray  ye:  Our 
Father  which  art  in  heaven,  Hallowed  be 
thy  name. 

Thy  kingdom  come.  Thy  will  be  done 
in  earth,  as  it  is  in  heaven. 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

Give  us  this  day  our  daily  bread. 

And  forgive  us  our  debts,  as  we  forgive 
our  debtors. 

And  lead  us  not  into  temptation,  but 
deliver  us  from  evil:  For  thine  is  the  king- 
dom, and  the  power,  and  the  glory,  for  ever. 
Amen.   (Matt.  6:9-13.) 

And  so  we  await  his  kingdom.  We 
live  day  by  day  in  preparation  of  his 
coming,  for  Christ  will  come  again. 

It  was  John  Fiske,  the  historian  at 
Harvard  fifty  years  ago,  who  wrote: 

The  future  is  lighted  for  us  with  the 
radiant  colors  of  hope.  Strife  and  sorrow 
shall  disappear.  Peace  and  love  shall  reign 
supreme.  The  dream  of  poets,  the  lesson 
of  priest  and  prophet,  the  inspiration  of 


First  Day 

the  great  musician,  is  confirmed  in  the 
light  of  modern  knowledge  and  as  we  gird 
ourselves  up  for  the  work  of  life,  we  may 
look  forward  to  the  time  when  in  the  truest 
sense,  the  kingdoms  of  this  world  shall 
become  the  kingdom  of  Christ,  and  he  shall 
reign  forever  and  ever,  the  King  of  kings 
and  the  Lord  of  lords. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Levi  Edgar  Young,  senior 
president  of  the  First  Council  of  the 
Seventy  has  just  addressed  us. 

Elder  EIRay  L.  Christiansen,  As- 
sistant to  the  Twelve,  will  now  speak 
to  us. 


ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


How  beautiful  it  is,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  and  how  satisfying  to  the 
soul  that  hungers  and  thirsts  after 
righteousness  to  sit  here  and  listen  to 
the  voices  of  these  inspired  leaders  as 
they  teach  us  and  expound  the  truths 
of  the  gospel,  unadulterated,  and  un- 
changed, and  everlasting!  I  have  been 
thrilled  with  the  proceedings  of  the 
meetings  so  far  in  this  conference,  and 
I  am  grateful  to  these  brethren  who 
are  so  firm  and  steadfast,  so  unassum- 
ing, and  yet  so  vigorous  in  the  defense 
of  the  truth. 

I  hope  that  you  will  bear  with  me, 
brothers  and  sisters,  for  a  few  minutes. 
I  should  like  to  talk  about  a  virtue, 
which  I  think  becomes  all  of  those  who 
claim  to  be  the  children  of  God,  the 
Saints  of  the  Lord,  his  followers.  I 
concluded  to  do  this  after  listening  yes- 
terday to  the  mission  presidents  as  they 
reported  their  labors,  their  successes, 
and  the  success  of  the  missionaries.  They 
did  it  so  humbly  that  I  concluded  that 
humility  must  be  one  of  the  great  vir- 
tues that  helps  to  bring  about  success 
in  doing  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

As  I  sat  in  that  meeting,  I  turned  to 
the  songbook  that  was  there  and  found 
a  song,  the  words  of  which  were  writ- 


ten by  Eliza  R.  Snow.  I  had  never 
before  noticed  it.  I  should  like  to  read 
two  stanzas. 

The  trials  of  the  present  day 

Require  the  Saints  to  watch  and  pray 

That  they  may  keep  the  narrow  way 

To  celestial  glory. 

For  even  Saints  may  turn  aside 

For  fear  of  ill  that  may  betide 

Or  else  induced  by  worldly  pride 

And  lose  celestial  glory. 

If  we  examine  the  history  of  the  na- 
tions of  the  past  that  have  been  great 
and  powerful  but  that  have  fallen,  we 
will  find  nothing  in  them,  I  am  sure, 
that  would  lead  us  to  believe  that  any 
nation,  or  any  civilization,  or  any  peo- 
ple can  find  security  merely  in  its  own 
power  and  its  own  self-sufficiency. 

The  facts  of  history  remind  us  that 
where  nations  and  peoples  continue  to 
ignore  the  principles  of  justice  and  of 
right  in  regard  to  their  peoples  and 
the  peoples  of  other  nations,  and  where 
they  put  aside  the  teachings  of  God, 
they  experience  difficulties,  hardships, 
calamities,  and,  in  the  due  time  of  the 
Lord,  history  has  proved  that  many  of 
them  have  been  destroyed. 

A  love  of  power  and  personal  ambi- 


ELDER  ELRAY  L. 


CHRISTIANSEN 


35 


tion  in  the  hearts  of  individual  leaders 
and  their  associates,  pride  and  self- 
sufficiency  that  go  with  ambition  and 
power,  cause  them  to  forget  that  the 
real  God  of  the  earth  is  Jesus  Christ; 
that  the  "earth  is  the  Lord's  and  the 
fulness  thereof,"  and  that  it  does  not 
belong  to  any  people,  or  any  nation,  or 
any  combination  of  nations. 

Now,  that  same  pride,  my  brothers 
and  sisters,  and  the  same  self-sufficiency 
that  nations  and  their  leaders  some- 
times feel  give  them  security,  may  cause 
an  individual  to  forget  that  the  Lord 
is  God,  and  may  cause  him  to  lose  faith 
in  these  principles  which  have  been  ex- 
pounded here  today  unless  he  repents 
and  turns  to  Christ,  and  takes  upon 
him  the  name  of  Christ,  recognizing 
him  for  what  he  is,  the  Son  of  God, 
the  Savior,  and  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world,  who  was  crucified,  and  who  in 
three  days  came  forth  from  the  grave, 
making  it  possible  for  all  to  receive  re- 
demption therefrom. 

King  Benjamin,  recognized  the  de- 
structiveness  of  pride  and  the  necessity 
of  humility.  He  taught  this  to  his  peo- 
ple saying  to  them: 

For  the  natural  man  is  an  enemy  to  God, 
and  has  been  from  the  fall  of  Adam,  and 
will  be,  forever  and  ever,  unless  he  yields 
to  the  enticings  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  and 
putteth  off  the  natural  man  and  becometh 
a  saint  through  the  atonement  of  Christ 
the  Lord,  and  becometh  as  a  child,  sub- 
missive, meek,  humble,  patient,  full  of 
love,  willing  to  submit  to  all  things  which 
the  Lord  seeth  fit  to  inflict  upon  him, 
even  as  a  child  doth  submit  to  his  father. 
(Mosiah  3:19.) 

And  he  continues  to  remind  his  peo- 
ple, saying: 

For  behold,  are  we  not  all  beggars?  Do 
we  not  all  depend  upon  the  same  Being, 
even  God,  for  all  the  substance  which  we 
have,  for  both  food  and  raiment,  and  for 
gold,  and  silver,  and  for  all  the  riches 
which  we  have  of  every  kind?  (Ibid.,  4:19.) 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  we  are  all 
dependent  upon  the  Lord.  The  riches 
of  the  earth  are  his  and  are  provided 
us  through  his  mercy  only.   Pride  and 


self-sufficiency  would  lead  us  to  be- 
lieve otherwise.  They  are  destroyers  of 
the  best  that  is  in  men,  but  on  the  other 
hand,  humility,  submissiveness,  willing- 
ness to  abide  by  the  teachings  of  the 
Lord  bring  out  the  best  that  is  in  men 
because  they  become  teachable  and  can 
be  molded  into  agents  usable  to  him. 
One  must  constantly  remind  himself 
and  guard  against  pride  or  he  will  find 
himself  taking  to  himself  part  of  the 
glory  that  the  Lord  has  said  is  his. 

President  Grant  once  reminded  us 
that  there  are  two  spirits  striving  with 
all  men — one  telling  them  what  to  do 
that  is  right,  and  the  other  telling  them 
to  do  that  which  will  please  them- 
selves, that  will  gratify  their  own  pride 
and  ambitions.  So,  as  King  Benjamin 
said,  unless  we  yield  "to  the  enticings 
of  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  putteth  off  the 
natural  man  .  .  .  and  becometh  as  a 
child,"  meek  and  submissive,  and  gentle, 
full  of  love,  we  are  likely  to  spend  our 
time  in  gratifying  our  own  pride  and 
following  our  own  ambitions,  and  thus 
fail  to  develop  the  spiritual  attributes 
and  power.  We  will  be  led  away  from 
the  divine  destiny  which  may  be  ours. 

Now,  humility  is  not  an  abject,  grovel- 
ing, self-despising  spirit.  It  seems  to 
me  that  it  is  rather  a  right  and  proper 
estimate  of  what  one  is  in  the  sight 
of  God.  When  we  have  that  estimate 
of  ourselves,  we  become  as  children, 
and  we  realize  that  he  controls  the 
universe.  We  learn  then,  to  appreciate 
even  the  very  air  that  we  breathe,  and 
our  ability  to  go  and  come  and  to  see 
and  to  do,  and  to  accept  and  to  reject. 
But  until  he  can  submit  himself  to  this 
status,  man  is  an  "enemy  to  God." 

True  humility,  in  my  opinion,  implies 
acknowledgment,  thanksgiving,  prayer- 
fulness,  all  those  virtues  which  become 
a  Latter-day  Saint.  It  is  becoming  to 
an  individual  no  matter  what  his  status 
in  life,  to  acknowledge  the  Lord  for 
his  goodness  and  for  his  mercy,  to  be 
humble  and  prayerful  and  submissive 
to  his  will.  True  humility  is  uplifting, 
ennobling. 

Alma,  speaking  to  his  son,  Shiblon, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


36 

Saturday,  April  4 

emphasized  this  very  thing,  when  he 
said: 

See  that  ye  are  not  lifted  up  unto  pride; 
yea,  see  that  ye  do  not  boast  in  your  own 
wisdom,  nor  of  your  much  strength. 

Use  boldness,  but  not  overbearance. 
(Alma  38:11-12.) 

I  think  that  most  fathers  could  accept 
that  counsel  and  give  the  same  to  their 
sons. 

Pride  and  ingratitude  in  the  hearts 
of  men  are  grievous  sins  in  the  sight 
of  God,  and  all  of  us  are  guilty  of  them; 
I  know  I  am;  I  suppose  you  are  to  a 
degree  as  are  people  generally.  When 
we  stop  to  think,  as  has  been  expressed 
here  today,  that  the  Son  of  God  created 
the  world  and  all  that  in  it  is,  and 
that  by  the  shedding  of  his  blood  he 
made  possible  the  redemption  of  men 
from  the  grave,  we  should  not  become 
self-sufficient,  but  we  should  remember 
that  we  are  here  living  simply  because 
of  his  mercy  and  of  his  kindness  and 
of  his  love. 

Humility,  in  my  opinion,  implies  a 
grateful  heart,  and  the  Lord  has  warned 
us  against  ingratitude,  for  in  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants  he  has  said: 

And  in  nothing  doth  man  offend  God, 
or  against  none  is  his  wrath  kindled,  save 
those  who  confess  not  his  hand  in  all 
things,  and  obey  not  his  commandments. 
(D.  &  C.  59:21.) 

How  can  a  man  or  a  woman  or  a 
child  learn  to  become  humble  and  sub- 
missive, and  gentle  and  meek?  He  has 
made  that  plain  also  here  in  the  fifty- 
ninth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, and  I  would  like  to  read  a  verse 
or  two. 

Wherefore,  I  give  unto  them  a  command- 
ment, saying  thus:  Thou  shalt  love  the 
Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  with  all 
thy  might,  mind,  and  strength;  and  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ  thou  shalt  serve 
him. 

Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself. 
Thou  shalt  not  steal;  neither  commit 
adultery,  nor  kill,  nor  do  anything  like 
unto  it. 

Thou  shalt  thank  the  Lord  thy  God  in 
all  things. 


First  Day 

Thou  shalt  offer  a  sacrifice  unto  the 
Lord  thy  God  in  righteousness,  even  that 
of  a  broken  heart  and  a  contrite  spirit. 

And  that  thou  mayest  more  fully  keep 
thyself  unspotted  from  the  world,  thou 
shalt  go  to  the  house  of  prayer  and  offer 
up  thy  sacraments  upon  my  holy  day; 

For  verily  this  is  a  day  appointed  unto 
you  to  rest  from  your  labors,  and  to  pay 
thy  devotions  unto  the  Most  High.  (Ibid., 
59:5-10.) 

And  yet,  only  a  part  of  us  see  fit  to 
do  some  of  these  according  to  our  statis- 
tics and  reports.  The  person  with  true 
humility  will  not  seek  to  aggrandize 
himself.  He  will  serve  for  the  sake  of 
service.  He  will  give  his  gifts  in  secret 
and  let  it  be  found  out  by  accident.  He 
will  realize  that  all  knowledge  comes 
from  God — for  he  knows  all.  He  will 
not  be  contentious,  unruly,  or  critical. 
He  will  not  profane  the  name  of  Deity. 
As  a  literal  child  of  God,  he  will  feel 
it  a  privilege  to  do  his  will  and  keep 
his  commandments. 

Finally,  the  Lord  has  left  us  this:  In 
order  to  shape  ourselves  to  be  fit  candi- 
dates for  his  kingdom  by  leading  lives 
of  meekness  and  humility  before  him, 
he  admonishes  us  to  "let  every  man 
esteem  his  brother  as  himself,  and 
practise  virtue  and  holiness  before  me." 
(Ibid.,  38:24-25.) 

And  if  ye  seek  the  riches  which  it  is  the 
will  of  the  Father  to  give  unto  you,  ye 
shall  be  the  richest  of  all  people,  for  ye 
shall  have  the  riches  of  eternity;  and  it  must 
needs  be  that  the  riches  of  the  earth  are 
mine  to  give;  but  beware  of  pride,  lest 
ye  become  as  the  Nephites  of  old.  .  .  . 

And  let  your  preaching  be  the  warning 
voice,  every  man  to  his  neighbor,  in  mild- 
ness and  in  meekness.  (Ibid.,  38:39,  41.) 

What  I  have  tried  to  say  is  that  in 
order  to  be  usable  in  the  hands  of  the 
Lord,  we  must  banish  pride  and  self- 
sufficiency  and  be  meek  and  humble. 
We  must  be  submissive  and  easy  to  be 
entreated.   We  must 

love  the  Lord  with  all  our  heart,  mind 
and  strength  and  our  neighbour  as  our- 
self.  (See  Matt.  23:37-39.) 

I  appreciate  the  opportunity  to  receive 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  WINS 


37 


this  training  in  this  great  Church.  I 
testify  to  you  that  I  know  that  God  lives, 
and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that 
he,  through  Joseph  Smith,  restored  the 
gospel  to  the  earth  in  this  day  as  it  is 
predicted  in  the  scriptures  of  old,  and 
that  only  by  following  the  pattern 
given  by  the  Savior  can  we  receive  the 
blessings  of  eternal  life. 

To  this  I  testify  and  do  so  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Lord.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  EIRay  L.  Christiansen  has  just 
spoken  to  us. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  will  now 
join  in  singing  that  inspired  hymn,  "O 
Say,  What  Is  Truth?"  Elder  Richard  P. 
Condie  will  lead  us. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  sang 
the  hymn,  "O  Say,  What  Is  Truth?" 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  next  speaker  will  be  Elder  An- 
toine  R.  Ivins,  of  the  First  Council  of 
the  Seventy,  and  he  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson. 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


MY  BRETHREN  AND  SISTERS,  if  I  Say 
anything  that  will  be  helpful  to 
you  this  afternoon,  it  will  be  be- 
cause you  join  your  faith  and  prayers 
with  mine  that  the  Lord  may  bless  me. 

The  other  night  Sister  Ivins  and  I 
attended  a  meeting  in  the  Assembly  Hall 
in  which  the  theme  of  the  Mutual 
Improvement  Associations  was  treated: 

...  be  thou  an  example  of  the  believers, 
in  word,  in  conversation,  in  charity,  in 
spirit,  in  faith,  in  purity.  (I  Timothy  4:12.) 

I  would  like  to  tell  you  the  thoughts 
that  that  has  brought  to  me. 

Be  thou  an  example  of  the  believers — 

I  would  like  to  add  there  the  faithful 
Christian  believer — "in  word."  What 
is  the  word  of  the  faithful  Christian? 
In  those  days  the  most  electrifying  thing 
that  the  world  had  experienced  in  years 
was  so  close  to  them  that  they  no  doubt 
were  still  startled  by  it — the  resurrection, 
the  actual,  glorified  resurrection  of 
Jesus  Christ  our  Lord.  We  are  going 
to  celebrate  it  now,  but  it  was  a  new 
thought  in  that  day,  that  it  could  be 
possible.  It  became  a  reality,  and  it  was 
the  thing  that  was  passing  from  believer 
to  believer,  publicly  and  in  private  con- 
versation. The  resurrection  of  Jesus 
Christ  verified  the  statement  that  he  was 


and  is  the  Son  of  God,  and  that  must 
have  been  the  theme  of  every  devout 
Christian  of  that  day,  just  as  it  must 
be  today.  Of  course,  they  would 
amplify  it,  after  bearing  testimony  that 
Christ  had  risen,  that  he  was  the  Son 
of  God,  that  he  was  born  of  Mary  by 
miraculous  means;  then  they  would  pass 
on  to  his  teachings  as  to  how  men  and 
women  should  live  to  gain  an  exaltation 
in  the  kingdom  of  God.  That,  it  seems 
to  me,  would  have  been  and  should  have 
been  and  must  have  been  the  "word" 
of  every  faithful  Christian  in  that  day. 
Likewise  it  should  be  your  "word"  and 
my  "word"  today.  We,  however,  have 
something  to  add  to  that  because  we 
must  tell  the  world  not  only  these 
things  but  also  that  not  too  far  back, 
Christ  the  Lord  and  his  Father  ap- 
peared to  the  boy  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
and  brought  back  to  man  the  testimony 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God. 
Then  we  must  teach  also  that  Peter, 
James,  and  John,  John  the  Baptist,  the 
Angel  Moroni,  and  the  men  who  had 
held  the  keys  of  the  various  past  dis- 
pensations, came  back  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  restoring  unto  him  the 
keys,  all  of  the  keys  that  had  ever  been 
given  to  man  through  the  various  dis- 
pensations of  time.  We  are  under  that 
obligation,  too,  and  we  must  do  it,  not 


38 

Saturday,  April  4 

only  publicly,  but  we  must  do  it  in  our 
conversations.  This  should  be  the 
theme  of  every  religious  conversation 
of  a  good  member  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  And 
it  should  go  out  as  a  living  testimony 
that  it  is  true.  Of  course  when  we  bear 
that  testimony  to  others  who  have  not 
received  it,  we  should  do  it  in  all 
charity,  but  we  should  do  it  with  spirit, 
fearlessly,  courageously,  and  never 
doubting.  If  we  can  develop  the  faith 
that  will  enable  us  to  do  that,  a  faith 
that  God  is  the  Father  of  our  spirits, 
that  he  is  the  Father  of  Jesus  Christ, 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world,  and  that  if  we  will  repent 
and  purify  our  lives,  he  will  carry  the 
burden  of  the  sins  of  the  world,  (and 
it  is  only  upon  that  condition,  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  he  says  he  will  do  it), 
if  we  can  develop  that  faith  in  our 
hearts,  then  we  should  be  able  to  carry 
on.  We  must  not  only  develop  that 
faith,  but  also  the  faith  of  a  good  Lat- 
ter-day Saint,  the  faith  of  a  good  Chris- 
tian must  be  in  himself,  in  his  neigh- 
bors, and  especially  in  his  leaders,  that 
the  Church  shall  go  forward  vigorously, 
courageously  to  a  wonderful  realization 
of  its  purposes. 

Now  I  say,  it  must  be  done  very  large- 
ly in  conversation,  and  in  that  each  one 
of  us  becomes  a  missionary  for  the 
Church.  He  who  is  warned  must  warn 
his  neighbor,  and  if  we  have  that  testi- 
mony given  to  us  by  the  Spirit  of  God, 
it  remains  for  us  to  pass  it  on  by  word 
of  mouth  to  those  who  have  not  received 
it.  It  does  not  require  a  call  from  Presi- 
dent McKay  to  enable  us  to  bear  our 
testimonies  to  our  neighbors.  We  have 
been  warned.  God  himself  has  given 
us  the  charge  to  do  it.  Then  it  is  not 
only  by  word  of  mouth  that  we  bear 
testimony,  but  it  is  also  by  purity  of 
life.  Through  the  power  we  hold  in 
the  priesthood  of  God,  we  must  be  able 
to  demonstrate  by  our  lives  its  value. 
We  can  if  we  will.  Our  problem  is  to 
will  to  do  it,  and  we  must  do  it  in  good 
spirit.  I  wonder  if  many  of  us  are 
sorry  that  we  have  so  many  things 
that  we  are  told  we  ought  not  to  do, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

whether  or  not  they  become  burdensome 
to  us.  I  frequently  tell  the  missionaries 
when  I  talk  to  them  that  they  must 
consider  the  rules  that  are  set  up  in 
the  mission  field  for  their  protection, 
and  so  it  is  with  these  things  which 
we  ought  not  to  do  as  members  of  the 
Church.  They  are  for  our  protection; 
they  are  the  reflection  of  purity  of 
life. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  if  we  will  be 
an  example  of  the  faithful  believer,  all 
these  things  we  will  do,  and  in  this 
time  of  decreasing  missionary  help,  those 
of  us  who  can  should  make  available 
our  services  and  go  forth  to  bear  this 
testimony.  There  is  no  compromise 
with  the  testimony  that  Jesus  Christ 
was  born  of  Mary  by  miraculous  means, 
that  he  is  the  Son  of  God,  that  he  was 
the  first  fruits  of  the  resurrection,  that 
through  that  resurrection  he  made  pos- 
sible to  you  and  me  a  return  to  the 
presence  of  God  our  Heavenly  Father, 
contingent  only,  that  is,  an  exaltation 
in  his  presence  is  contingent  only  upon 
faithful  service  unto  him  and  our  fel- 
lows. Let  us  let  that  service  be  in  good 
spirit.  Let  us  be  glad  to  give  up  the 
things  we  are  asked  to  give  up.  Let 
us  be  glad  to  devote  ourselves  to  His 
service.  Let  us  do  it  without  fear,  with- 
out compromise,  with  great  courage,  and 
with  all  the  energy  which  we  may 
possess.  If  we  will  do  this,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  we  will  always  enjoy  the 
Spirit  of  God,  that  testimony  will  al- 
ways remain  with  us,  and  the  devil 
will  never  prevail  against  us.  God  grant 
it,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  President 
Antoine  R.  Ivins  of  the  First  Council 
of  the  Seventy.  We  shall  now  hear 
from  Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve. 

If  Brother  Samuel  E.  Bringhurst,  re- 
cently president  of  the  Swiss-Austrian 
Mission,  is  in  the  audience,  he  will 
please  be  on  deck. 

Elder  Benson,  we  are  glad  to  have 
you  with  us  today. 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


39 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters:  I 
pray  for  strength  that  I  may  be 
able  to  control  my  emotions  and 
give  vent  to  my  feelings.  I  thank  the 
Lord  for  the  inspiration  of  this  con- 
ference. I  could  wish  that  it  might 
go  on  not  for  two  more  days  but  for 
five  or  ten.  I  have  thrilled  with  the 
proceedings  of  the  day  and  with  the 
sweet,  quiet,  peaceful  influence  that  is 
here.  The  past  three  months  have,  to 
a  degree  at  least,  been  a  study  in  con- 
trasts. 

I  am  sure,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
you  will  never  know  how  very  deeply 
I  appreciate  my  associations  in  the 
Church.  I  appreciate  the  hundreds  and 
thousands  of  messages  that  have  come 
from  all  parts  of  this  nation  and  foreign 
countries  expressing  confidence  and  love 
and  giving  assurance  of  your  faith  and 
prayers  in  the  new  assignment  which 
came  to  one  of  the  humblest  of  your 
number. 

You  will  never  know  how  deeply  I 
have  missed  the  experiences  in  the 
Church  that  have  been  mine  from  week 
to  week  during  the  past  eight  years. 
Of  course  I  have  missed  my  family  and 
the  peace  and  quiet  and  love  of  my 
home,  and  I  want  you  to  know  how 
much  I  appreciate  the  messages  that 
have  come  following  a  near-tragic  acci- 
dent to  two  of  my  loved  ones.  Messages 
have  been  received  from  all  over  the 
Church  and  from  outside  as  well. 

I  want  you  to  know  how  much  I  have 
missed  the  weekly  visits  to  stake  con- 
ferences, the  opportunity  of  visiting  in 
the  missions.  I  want  you  to  know  how 
deeply  I  have  missed  the  associations 
with  my  brethren  of  the  General 
Authorities.  I  have  missed  the  oppor- 
tunity of  performing  sacred  ordinances, 
of  blessing  people  at  stake  conferences 
and  at  the  Church  Offices.  I  have 
missed  very  deeply  the  privilege  of  per- 
forming ordinations  and  setting  apart 
my  brethren  to  positions  of  trust  in  the 
Church  and  kingdom  of  God.    I  have 


missed  the  visits  of  humble  members 
of  the  Church  to  my  office  in  the 
Church  Office  Building. 

I  have  missed  the  opportunity  to  go 
to  the  temple  frequently  to  perform 
sacred  ordinances,  to  officiate  at  mar- 
riages for  young  couples,  and  to  have 
the  opportunity  of  visiting  with  them 
intimately  before  and  after  marriage. 
I  have  missed  very  much  my  contact 
with  the  youth  of  the  Church  and  with 
the  great  Mutual  Improvement  Asso- 
ciations with  which  I  have  had  the 
pleasure,  under  the  direction  of  the 
First  Presidency,  of  serving. 

And  I  have  missed,  even  more,  those 
Thursday  meetings  in  the  temple  with 
my  brethren,  the  sacred  hour  of  prayer 
around  the  altar  in  the  temple  of  God, 
and  I  have  missed  the  meetings  with 
the  members  of  the  Twelve  as  we  have 
assembled  quarterly.  I  have  also 
missed  the  fast  days  on  the  first  Thurs- 
day of  the  month. 

I  have  been  deeply  grateful  for  the 
good  people  of  the  Washington  Stake, 
under  the  faithful  leadership  of  Brother 
J.  Willard  Marriott,  for  their  kindness, 
their  love,  and  their  understanding. 

I  think  my  testimony  of  the  truth 
has  never  been  so  strong  as  it  is  today. 
I  love  this  work.  I  know  that  God 
stands  at  the  head  of  it,  that  he  lives, 
that  he  is  directing  this  work  on  the 
earth.  I  know  that  his  priesthood  and 
power  and  authority  are  here  among 
men,  and  I  know,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  better  than  I  have  ever  known 
before  that,  even  during  hours  of  trial 
and  anxiety,  it  is  possible  to  draw  close 
to  the  Lord,  to  feel  of  his  influence  and 
of  his  sustaining  power — that  one  is 
never  alone,  if  he  will  only  humble 
himself  before  the  Almighty.  I  am 
grateful  for  that  testimony,  for  that 
assurance. 

I  know,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
the  sweetest  work  in  all  the  world  is 
the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged  in 
helping  to  save  and  exalt  the  souls 


40 

Saturday,  April  4 

of  the  children  of  men.  There  isn't 
anything  so  important,  so  precious,  so 
enjoyable,  so  soul-satisfying. 

I  have  been  happy  in  the  privilege  to 
serve,  in  a  small  way  at  least,  this  great 
country  and  the  government  under 
which  we  live.  I  am  grateful  to  the 
First  Presidency  and  my  brethren  that 
they  have  been  willing,  not  only  to 
give  consent,  but  also  to  give  me  their 
blessing  as  I  responded  to  the  call  of 
the  chief  executive.  I  am  grateful  for 
their  prayers  and  their  faith,  and  I 
know  that  my  leaving  has,  in  a  small 
way  at  least,  added  to  the  heavy  load 
they  were  already  carrying. 

To  me  it  is  a  great  honor  and  a 
privilege  to  serve  the  government  of 
the  United  States  of  America.  Our 
problems  are  numerous,  complex,  and 
difficult.  The  responsibility  is  heavy, 
but  I  have  felt  the  power  of  the  faith 
and  prayers  of  the  Saints  and  Christian 
people  generally  throughout  this  na- 
tion, who  believe  in  many  of  those 
eternal  principles  that  are  embodied  in 
the  gospel,  the  principles  for  which  we 
stand  as  a  people. 

I  am  grateful  that  I  have  been  able 
to  get  men  closely  associated  with  me 
who  love  America,  who  believe  that 
the  Constitution  of  this  land  embodies 
eternal  principles.  They  are  men  of 
faith,  men  who  are  willing  to  join  with 
me  weekly  in  prayer  in  our  staff  meet- 
ings, men  who  love  our  free  institu- 
tions, men  who  want  to  keep  America 
strong,  men  who  are  willing  to  sacrifice 
financially  in  order  to  serve  the  gov- 
ernment of  the  United  States,  this 
blessed  land  in  which  we  live. 

These  men  believe  firmly  that  the 
supreme  test  of  any  policy,  whether  it 
be  agricultural  or  otherwise,  is  this: 
How  will  it  affect  the  morale,  the 
character,  and  the  well-being  of  our 
people?  They  are  men  who  know  that 
we  need,  and  the  world  needs,  a  strong 
America  for  the  critical  years  ahead; 
men,  whose  philosophy  of  life  squares 
with  the  philosophy  which  has  come  to 
me  through  the  teachings  of  the  Church 
and  kingdom  of  God,  a  philosophy 
which  is  based  upon  eternal  principles 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

which  to  me  are  priceless,  a  philosophy 
which  teaches  that  freedom  is  a  God- 
given,  eternal  principle  vouchsafed  to 
us  under  the  Constitution. 

This  freedom  must  be  continually 
guarded  as  something  more  priceless 
than  life  itself.  Any  program  that 
would  tend  to  weaken  this  freedom  is 
inherently  dangerous  and  should  be 
guarded  against.  I  will  not  say  more 
today  about  this  philosophy — this  phi- 
losophy of  individual  freedom  and 
citizenship  responsibility,  based  upon 
the  principle  of  helping  the  individual 
to  help  himself,  and  discouraging  people 
from  expecting  the  government  to  sup- 
port them,  but  encouraging  them  to 
support  their  own  government.  I  am 
grateful  for  this  philosophy,  and  I  am 
grateful  to  learn  that  this  philosophy 
is  accepted  generally  and  rather  widely 
in  the  hearts  of  our  people  throughout 
this  land.  I  hope  and  pray  that  it  may 
be  accepted  even  to  a  greater  extent 
in  the  days  ahead.  I  trust  that  our 
great  purpose  shall  be  to  strengthen 
the  individual  integrity,  freedom,  and 
moral  fiber  of  each  citizen. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  love  this  great 
nation  in  which  we  live.  To  me  it 
is  not  just  another  nation.  It  is  my 
firm  belief  that  the  God  of  heaven 
raised  up  the  founding  fathers  and 
inspired  them  to  establish  the  Con- 
stitution of  this  land,  and  I  believe  that 
is  Mormon  doctrine.  This  is  a  part 
of  my  religious  faith  as  it  is  of  yours. 
This  is  a  great  and  glorious  nation, 
with  a  God-given,  divine  mission  to 
perform  for  liberty-loving  people  every- 
where. This  mission  cannot  be  per- 
formed unless  America  is  kept  strong 
and  virile,  unless  this  people  adheres 
to  those  eternal  principles  embodied  in 
the  gospel  and  in  the  Constitution  of 
our  land. 

So  today  I  pray  to  God  that  no  act 
of  mine  or  program  that  I  shall  ever 
advocate  will  in  the  slightest  tend  to 
weaken  this  nation  in  the  accomplish- 
ment of  that  God-given  mandate. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we 
have  recently,  since  our  last  general 
conference,  passed  through  a  great  po- 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


41 


litical  campaign  in  which  we  have 
exercised  our  freedom,  our  God-given 
right  at  the  polls.  I  rejoice  in  this 
privilege,  that  we  have  been  able  to 
go  to  the  polls  and  express  ourselves 
freely,  with  heads  erect,  unafraid.  We 
have  differed,  as  is  our  privilege,  and 
I  pray  to  God  we  may  never  lose  this 
privilege.  Many  of  us  have  supported 
men  who  were  not  elected.  The  Amer- 
ican people  spoke  on  election  day.  We 
chose  one  of  our  number  as  the  chief 
executive,  and  he  has  a  tremendous 
responsibility. 

I  was  impressed  with  that  respon- 
sibility a  few  days  ago  when  I  was 
invited  to  attend  a  prayer  breakfast  at 
the  Mayflower  Hotel  in  Washington, 
D.  C.  Gathered  there  at  an  early  hour 
were  men  of  various  political  faiths, 
various  religious  affiliations.  Brief 
messages  were  given;  prayers  were 
offered.  We  heard  an  inspirational 
message  from  the  President  of  the 
United  States.  I  sat  at  a  table  with  the 
Vice  President,  a  prominent  congress- 
man from  up  in  the  northwest,  several 
southern  Democratic  friends,  and  as  we 
visited  together  and  enjoyed  the  in- 
spiration of  that  occasion,  I  couldn't 
help  thanking  God  that  in  America  it 
is  still  possible  for  men  of  differing 
political  faiths  to  come  together  and 
in  unity  appeal  to  the  Almighty  for  his 
blessings  upon  this  land  of  America 
and  him  who  has  been  called  to  serve 
as  the  chief  executive. 

One  piece  of  literature  distributed  at 
that  meeting  came  from  Conrad  L. 
Hilton,  the  head  of  the  Hilton  chain 
of  hotels.  It  was  a  picture  of  Uncle 
Sam  upon  his  knees  in  prayer.  I  learned 
from  Mr.  Hilton  later  that  this  had 
come  as  a  result  of  an  address  he  had 
given  in  Chicago  over  one  of  the  na- 
tional broadcasting  chains  in  which  he 
had  tried  to  point  out  that  if  we  are 
going  to  have  victory  in  our  battle  for 
peace,  then  it  must  be  obtained  through 
greater  spirituality  and  dependence 
upon  the  Almighty.  The  response  to 
his  message,  through  letters  and  tele- 
grams, seemed  to  carry  one  theme  from 
people  of  various  walks  of  life  from  all 


over  America.  The  theme  was  that 
final  victory  rests  not  on  munitions, 
upon  money  or  soldiers  but  that  the 
final  victory  rests  with  the  God  of 
heaven. 

Mr.  Hilton  was  so  impressed  that  he 
tried  to  picture  this  sentiment  by  show- 
ing Uncle  Sam— America — on  his 
knees  in  prayer.  ".  .  .  not  beaten  there 
by  hammer  and  sickle,"  as  he  said,  "but 
freely,  intelligently,  responsibly,  con- 
fidently, powerfully."  .  And  then  were 
added  these  words,  "America  now 
knows  it  can  destroy  communism  and 
win  the  battle  for  peace.  We  need 
fear  nothing  or  no  one  .  .  .  except  God." 

Then  there  was  penned  a  simple 
prayer  beside  this  picture  of  Uncle  Sam. 
I  have  taken  the  liberty  of  changing 
the  pronoun  in  that  prayer  that  it  might 
conform  with  our  language  of  prayer 
as  we  use  it  in  the  Church.  I  would 
like  to  read  it  to  you: 

Our  Father  in  heaven: 

We  pray  that  thou  wilt  save  us  from  our- 
selves. 

The  world  that  thou  hast  made  for  us,  to 
live  in  peace,  we  have  made  into  an 
armed  camp. 

We  live  in  fear  of  war  to  come. 

We  are  afraid  of  "the  terror  that  flies  by 
night,  and  the  arrow  that  flies  by  day, 
the  pestilence  that  walks  in  darkness 
and  the  destruction  that  wastes  at 
noonday." 

We  have  turned  from  thee  to  go  our  selfish 
way. 

We  have  broken  thy  commandments 
and  denied  thy  truth.  We  have  left 
thine  altars  to  serve  the  false  gods 
of  money  and  pleasure  and  power. 

Forgive  us  and  help  us. 

Now,  darkness  gathers  around  us,  and  we 
are  confused  in  all  our  counsels.  Losing 
faith  in  thee,  we  lose  faith  in  ourselves. 

Inspire  us  with  wisdom,  all  of  us  of  every 
color,  race,  and  creed,  to  use  our  wealth, 
our  strength  to  help  our  brother,  instead 
of  destroying  him. 

Help  us  to  do  thy  will  as  it  is  done  in 
heaven  and  to  be  worthy  of  thy  prom- 
ise of  peace  on  earth. 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

Fill  us  with  new  faith,  new  strength,  and 
new  courage,  that  we  may  win  the 
battle  for  peace. 

Be  swift  to  save  us,  dear  God, 
before  the  darkness  falls. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  a  writ- 
ten prayer  is  not  enough.  A  spoken 
prayer  is  not  enough.  If  we  are  going 
to  realize  the  hope  that  is  in  the 
hearts  of  all  of  us,  then  as  American 
citizens,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  we  must 
live  worthy  of  the  blessings  for  which 
we  pray. 

In  closing,  I  would  like  to  appeal  to 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  all  within 
the  range  of  my  voice  today,  that  we 
seek  to  promote  a  spirit  of  humility 
throughout  this  great  land,  that  we  pray 
for  the  President  of  the  United  States. 
He  is  our  President.  He  needs  our 
faith  and  prayers.  He  has  my  confi- 
dence, as  do  the  men  associated  with 
him  in  the  cabinet. 

As  we  bow  our  heads  in  prayer  in 
cabinet  meeting  each  Friday  morning,  I 
thank  God  that  we  still  have  in  Amer- 
ica men  of  faith  who  are  not  too  proud 
to  bow  before  the  Almighty  and  seek 
his  inspiration.  We  may  not  agree 
with  all  of  the  President's  policies,  and 
I  hope  if  we  do  not,  we  will  express  our- 
selves vigorously  and  freely,  either 
policies  advocated  or  policies  adopted. 
I  hope  the  issues  will  be  debated  freely 
from  one  end  of  the  land  to  the  other, 
because  therein  is  safety.  There  is  al- 
ways safety  in  an  informed  public. 

But  let  us  pray  that  the  chief  execu- 
tive will  make  no  serious  mistakes.  Let 
us  pray  for  the  Congress  of  the  United 
States.  They  are  made  up  mostly  of 
good  men,  fine  public  servants,  who 
want  to  do  what  is  right.  They  also 
want  to  please  their  constituents,  and 
I  hope  you  will  be  wise  in  what  you 
ask  of  them.  Don't  ask  them  for  any- 
thing that  is  unsound.  Don't  put  your 
own  selfish,  narrow  desires  ahead  of 
the  public  welfare.  Give  our  legislators 
your  faith  and  your  prayers. 

Pray  also  for  the  great  judicial  branch 
of  the  government — these  men  who 
have  been  called  and  given  the  great 


First  Day 

responsibility  of  interpreting  the  laws 
of  the  land.  May  they  have  the  power 
and  influence  of  the  Spirit  of  heaven 
that  as  they  interpret  those  laws  they 
may  do  so  in  keeping  with  the  spirit 
of  the  Constitution  in  a  manner  pleasing 
to  our  Heavenly  Father. 

God  bless  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
as  Latter-day  Saints,  that  we  may  wield 
our  influence  to  the  very  maximum  in 
promoting  peace,  in  promoting  spiritual- 
ity among  the  people  of  this  great  na- 
tion, that  this  great  country  of  which 
we  are  a  part,  may  be  preserved,  and 
may  continue  to  be,  through  all  the 
days  to  come,  a  beacon  and  an  inspira- 
tion to  liberty-loving  people  everywhere. 
God  grant  his  blessings  to  this  people 
and  upon  this  great  land,  I  humbly 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken  to 
us.  We  are  glad  that  he  has  been  able 
to  leave  the  strenuous  duties  incumbent 
upon  him  as  Secretary  of  Agriculture 
to  attend  at  least  some  of  the  sessions  of 
this  conference. 

Elder  Samuel  E.  Bringhurst  will  be 
one  of  the  speakers  tonight. 

The  combined  Scandinavian  choirs 
will  now  sing  "The  Heavens  Are  Tell- 
ing," conducted  by  Elder  R.  Hulbert 
Keddington. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered 
by  Elder  Charles  Oscar  Dunn,  president 
of  the  Boise  Stake,  after  which  this 
conference  will  stand  adjourned  until 
seven  o'clock  this  evening,  when,  in 
accordance  with  the  custom  of  the 
Church,  the  General  Meeting  of  the 
Priesthood  of  the  Church  will  be  held. 
Only  those  holding  the  priesthood  are 
invited  to  be  present.  Persons  not  hold- 
ing the  priesthood  will  kindly  refrain 
from  attempting  to  enter  the  building 
or  any  of  the  other  buildings  that  will 
be  occupied. 

That  session  will  not  be  broadcast, 
but  overflow  meetings  will  be  held  in 
the  Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


43 


Proceedings  will  be  televised  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  only. 

The  session  at  10  o'clock  Sunday 
morning  will  be  broadcast  over  Station 
KSL  at  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrange- 
ment through  KSL  over  the  stations 
named  in  the  first  session  of  the  con- 
ference. That  session  will  also  be 
televised  over  KSL  television  station, 
Channel  5. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  broadcast  will 
be  from  nine  to  nine-thirty  tomorrow 
morning.  Those  desiring  to  attend  this 
broadcast  must  be  in  their  seats  by 
8:50  a.m.  It  is  requested  that  the  audi- 
ence during  the  broadcast  refrain  from 
making  any  disturbing  noise  of  any 
kind. 

The  regular  session  of  conference  will 
begin  at  10  o'clock. 

The  singing  for  today  has  been,  as 
heretofore  announced,  by  the  combined 
Scandinavian  choirs  under  the  direction 
of  Elder  R.  Hulbert  Keddington,  with 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ  this 
afternoon. 


You  have  been  thrilled  with  the  excel- 
lence of  the  singing  by  these  combined 
choirs.  We  commend  the  leader  and 
each  member  of  the  choir.  We  com- 
mend also  your  reverent  attitude.  I  do 
not  know  whether  you  have  been  able 
to  hear  all  that  has  been  said  from  this 
pulpit.  Sometimes  it  is  difficult  for 
those  in  the  rear  to  hear,  but  we  com- 
mend the  reverent  attitude  of  the  choir, 
and  particularly  the  excellence  of  their 
singing.  The  Lord  bless  them  for  the 
service  they  have  rendered. 

At  the  conclusion  of  this  meeting  the 
general  sessions  of  the  conference  will 
be  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  Sunday 
morning. 

We  will  now  have  "The  Heavens 
Are  Telling." 


The  Combined  Scandinavian  Choirs 
sang,  "The  Heavens  Are  Telling." 

President  Charles  Oscar  Dunn  of  the 
Boise  Stake  offered  the  closing  prayer. 

The  general  sessions  adjourned  until 
Sunday  morning,  October  5,  1953. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


The  General  Priesthood  meeting  of  the 
Church  was  held  in  the  great  Taber- 
nacle at  7:00  p.m.,  Saturday,  April  4, 
1953. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  services  of  this  meet- 
ing, which  commenced  promptly  at  the 
time  appointed. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

I  repeat,  brethren,  what  the  Fire  De- 
partment, City  Fire  Department,  urged 
us  not  to  do  in  our  sessions  today;  un- 
doubtedly they  will  be  even  more 
emphatic  in  their  request  that  we  clear 
the  aisles.  It  hurts  me  to  do  this.  Let 
us  see  if  we  can  crowd  in  a  little  and 
clear  some  of  these  aisles. 

I  am  pleased  to  announce  that  the  pro- 
ceedings will  be  broadcast  not  only  in 
the  Assembly  Hall  and  in  the  Barratt 
Hall,  but  on  the  grounds;  there  are  so 
many  who  are  unable  to  get  into  either 


building,  that  we  have  just  sent  word 
to  them  that  we  shall  broadcast  the 
proceedings  on  the  grounds,  so  if  you 
cannot  get  a  seat,  you  will  hear  the 
program  anyhow. 

Will  Brother  Hilton  A.  Robertson, 
recently  President  of  the  Chinese  Mis- 
sion, make  his  way  forward,  and  report 
as  soon  as  you  get  here,  come  up  and 
occupy  this  seat  on  my  right,  please. 
Likewise  Brother  George  A.  Christensen, 
recently  President  of  the  Australian  Mis- 
sion. 

This  is  the  third  session  of  the  123rd 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church.  The 
singing  during  this  session  will  be  fur- 
nished by  the  Men's  Chorus  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  with  J.  Spencer  Corn- 
wall as  director,  and  Elder  Alexander 
Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  open  these  services  by  the 
congregation's  singing,  "Redeemer  of 
Israel,"  conducted  by  Elder  Cornwall. 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

Elder  Ariel  S.  Ballif,  President  of  the 
East  Provo  Stake,  will  offer  the  opening 
prayer. 


The  congregation  and  the  Men's 
Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  sang 
the  hymn,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
President  Ariel  S.  Ballif  of  the  East 
Provo  Stake. 


First  Dan 

Singing  by  the  Men's  Chorus  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  "Guide  Me  To  Thee." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  first  speaker  this  evening  will  be 
President  Samuel  E.  Bringhurst,  recently 
President  of  the  Swiss-Austrian  Mission, 
and  one  who  was  very  active  and  in- 
strumental in  choosing  the  Temple  site 
at  Bern.    President  Bringhurst. 


ELDER  SAMUEL  E.  BRINGHURST 

Formerly  President  of  the  Swiss-Austrian  Mission 


This  is  indeed  an  inspiring  sight.  Also 
a  very  sobering  one. 
My  dear  Brethren:  I  am  happy  to 
be  here  tonight.  I  appreciate  this  op- 
portunity. With  the  exception  of  eleven 
months  in  1948,  Sister  Bringhurst  and 
I  have  had  the  privilege  of  serving  con- 
stantly in  the  mission  field  since  1944. 
We  are  grateful  to  the  First  Presidency 
and  to  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church  for  affording  us  the  privilege 
and  honor  of  presiding  over  two  of  the 
very  fine  missions  of  this  Church. 

I  should  like  to  pay  tribute  to  my 
good  wife  tonight.  She  has  stood  con- 
stantly by  my  side  and  although  when 
we  went  to  Switzerland,  she  could  not 
speak  the  German  language,  through 
hard  work,  study  and  prayer,  she  was 
able  to  conduct  her  meetings  and  take 
charge  of  them,  whether  with  the  Re- 
lief Society  or  Primary  officers  before 
we  returned  to  our  home,  before  we 
were  released.  I  am  real  grateful  to 
her  for  the  splendid  work  and  the  leader- 
ship she  brought  to  those  two  organiza- 
tions in  the  mission  field. 

We  have  had  the  privilege  of  working 
with  many  of  your  fine  sons  and  daugh- 
ters during  our  time  in  the  mission  field, 
in  those  two  splendid  missions.  I  want 
you  to  know  that  they  are  the  finest 
in  the  world,  and  I  hope  that  you  will 
not  think  that  I  am  becoming  too 
personal  or  that  I  am  intruding  myself 
into  your  business  when  I  suggest  to 
you  fathers  who  have  sons  and  daugh- 


ters in  foreign  missions,  where  it  is 
necessary  for  them  to  learn  a  foreign 
language,  to  write  a  little  more  often  to 
them.  Do  not  leave  all  the  writing 
for  your  wives  to  do.  The  first  six 
months  in  those  foreign  missions  is  a 
trying  period.  The  missionaries  must 
learn  a  new  language.  They  must 
adjust  themselves  to  new  and  changed 
conditions,  and  it  is  very  difficult  for 
them.  And  they  need  every  encourage- 
ment they  can  possibly  receive  from 
every  source. 

When  you  have  difficulties  at  home, 
take  them  to  your  bishop,  if  you  need 
to,  but  do  not  write  them  to  your  sons 
and  daughters  in  the  mission  field. 
They  worry  about  them,  it  interferes 
with  their  efficiency,  the  only  thing  they 
can  do  to  help  you  is  to  pray  for  you, 
and  I  assure  you  that  you  have  their 
prayers  and  their  faith  in  your  behalf 
when  you  do  have  difficulty. 

May  I  also  ask  you  fine  bishops — I 
know  you  do  have  a  lot  to  do,  I  speak 
advisedly — write  to  your  missionaries, 
occasionally,  they  appreciate  those  let- 
ters and  they  help  them  a  lot. 

Our  missionaries  in  the  Swiss-Austrian 
Mission  and  also  in  the  Northwestern 
States  Mission,  have  been  some  of  the 
finest  it  has  been  possible  to  send  to 
any  mission.  They  have  been  diligent 
in  their  efforts,  they  have  been  loyal 
to  the  Cause,  and  I  wish  you  fathers 
and  your  good  wives  could  have  been 
present  on  occasions  when  we  have  had 


ELDER  SAMUEL 

testimony  meetings.  It  thrills  one  to  hear 
the  humble  testimonies  of  those  fine 
boys  and  girls,  and  it  always  does 
us  good  to  hear  them  praise  their  parents 
at  home  and  ask  our  Heavenly  Father 
to  bless  and  to  guide  them. 

There  is  another  trying  period  in  the 
lives  of  these  fine  boys  and  girls,  and 
that  is  immediately  upon  reaching 
home.  Please  encourage  them,  give 
them  help.  They  have  a  difficult  time 
adjusting  again  when  they  get  home. 
They  have  been  active,  they  have  been 
working  ten  hours,  a  day  doing  mission- 
ary work  and  they  need  your  help 
and  encouragement  when  they  get 
home,  until  they  get  adjusted  again. 

It  would  be  a  fine  thing,  and  I  am 
sure  every  mission  president  would  ap- 
preciate it,  if  the  fathers  of  our  mission- 
aries would  write  the  mission  presidents 
occasionally.  I  will  tell  you  why  that 
is  important.  During  the  four  years 
that  we  were  in  the  Swiss-Austrian  Mis- 
sion, we  kept  a  graph  of  several  activi- 
ties, tracting,  cottage  meetings,  and  total, 
proselyting  hours,  also  showing  the  ex- 
penses of  the  missionary.  Without  one 
single  exception  each  time  expenses 
went  up,  all  three  of  the  other  activi- 
ties went  down,  and  when  expenses 
went  down,  the  other  three  activities 
went  up.  If  you  will  write  the  mission 
presidents  they  will  be  happy  to  tell 
you  the  amount  of  money  that  your 
missionary  boy  or  girl  needs,  and  do  not 
send  them  more  than  they  need. 

We  are  grateful  to  our  Heavenly 
Father  for  the  Gospel.  We  are  grateful 
for  the  opportunity  we  have  had  of 
serving  the  Church.  President  McKay 
has  mentioned  the  part  we  played  in 
obtaining  the  Temple  site  in  Bern, 
Switzerland.  We  deem  that  a  great 
honor.  The  greatest  privilege  that  ever 
came  to  us,  and  one  that  will  never 
be  forgotten  by  the  members  of  our  mis- 
sion there,  was  the  visit  of  President 
and  Sister  McKay  and  their  son  Law- 
rence and  wife,  they  will  never  forget 
that,  and  the  enjoyable  time  we  had 
with  them,  the  few  days  they  were  with 
us  will  always  live  in  our  memory. 


E.  BRINGHURST  45 

May  our  Heavenly  Father  continue 
to  bless  President  McKay,  that  he  may 
continue  to  be  our  inspired  leader. 

I  was  thrilled  this  morning  to  hear 
my  first  mission  president,  President 
Thomas  E.  McKay  speak  a  few  minutes. 
He  is  a  marvelous  man,  and  I  love  him. 
Way  back  in  1910,  when  he  was  our 
mission  president,  and  President  Rudger 
Clawson  was  presiding  over  the  Euro- 
pean Mission,  President  Clawson 
prophesied  that  President  Thomas  E. 
McKay  would  hold  a  more  important 
position  sometime  in  his  life  than  he 
held  at  that  time,  and  I  am  happy  to 
have  lived  to  see  that  prophecy  come 
true. 

My  brethren,  I  hope  that  you  will 
take  to  heart  the  words  of  Brother  Ben- 
son about  our  great  country.  It  seems 
as  though  we  have  to  leave  and  go 
away  for  a  while  before  we  are  really 
ready  to  take  into  consideration  the 
value  of  living  in  this  great  country  of 
ours. 

When  Sister  Bringhurst  and  I  landed 
in  New  York,  I  got  down  on  my  knees 
and  kissed  this  good  old  earth.  This 
is  the  greatest  country  in  the  world. 
Let  us  keep  it  that  way.  All  of  Europe, 
every  country  in  Europe,  is  looking  to 
us  for  leadership,  and  also  for  help. 
It  is  important  that  we  realize  our  posi- 
tion in  the  world  today. 

President  Thomas  E.  McKay  men- 
tioned these  mountains;  every  morning 
I  thank  my  Heavenly  Father  for  them. 
There  are  no  finer  mountains  in  the 
world,  and  every  time  I  gaze  at  them  I 
think  of  this  poem  written  by  the  late 
Harrison  R.  Merrill,  perhaps  his  last, 
as  it  was  found  on  his  desk  after  he 
had  passed  away. 

Oh,  God,  let  this  be  heaven — 
I  do  not  ask  for  golden  streets, 

Or  long  for  jasper  walls, 
Nor  do  I  sigh  for  peariy  shores 

Where  twilight  never  falls; 
Just  leave  me  here  beside  these  peaks, 

In  this  rough  western  land, — 
I  love  this  dear  old  world  of  Thine — 

Dear  God,  you  understand. 


46  GENERAL 

Saturday,  April  4 

Oh,  God,  let  this  be  heaven— 
I  do  not  crave  white  stainless  robes, 

I'll  keep  these  marked  by  toil; 
Instead  of  straight  and  narrow  walks 

I  love  trails  soft  with  soil; 
I  have  been  healed  by  crystal  streams, 

But  these  from  snow-crowned  peaks 
Where  dawn  burns  incense  to  the  day 

And  paints  the  sky  in  streaks. 

Dear  God,  let  this  be  heaven — 
I  do  not  ask  for  angel  wings, 

Just  leave  that  old  peak  there 
And  let  me  climb  'till  comes  the  night — 

I  want  no  golden  stair. 
Then  when  I  say  my  last  adieu 

And  all  farewells  are  given 
Just  leave  my  spirit  here  somewhere — 

Oh,  God,  let  this  be  heaven! 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  tonight,  my 
dear  brethren,  that  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  only  plan  that  will  bring 
peace  and  salvation  to  a  troubled,  sick 
world.  I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  the 
messages  we  have  heard  today  from 
these  our  brethren  are  true,  and  this 
group  of  men  whom  we  will  sustain  and 


ELDER  GEORGE 

Formerly  President  of 

My  dear  brethren,  this  is  quite  an 
experience.  When  President  McKay 
announced  my  name  and  called 
me  to  the  pulpit,  I  was  sitting  on  the 
bottom  of  the  baptismal  font.  I  have 
been  called,  in  the  past,  to  various  posi- 
tions, but  being  called  immediately 
from  the  baptismal  font  is  my  most 
unusual  experience. 

This,  Brethren,  is  an  opportunity  and 
a  privilege,  yet,  it  is  difficult  for  me 
and  I  do  ask  for  your  faith  and  prayers. 
I  humbly  pray  that  you  will  cooperate 
with  me  tonight  as  I  give  my  report. 

About  three  years  ago,  Sister  Chris- 
tensen  and  I  were  called  and  set  apart 
to  preside  over  the  Australian  Mission. 
Sister  Christensen,  because  of  illness, 
had  to  return  home  about  five  months 
later.   I  shall  never  forget  the  decision 


CONFERENCE 

First  Day 

whom  we  have  always  sustained  as  our 
General  Authorities  are  God's  representa- 
tives here  on  the  earth,  and  if  we  will 
but  live  according  to  their  teachings 
and  their  advice,  we  need  have  no 
concern  about  the  future.  I  have 
learned  that  my  Heavenly  Father  will 
be  just  as  near  to  me  as  my  life  will 
allow  him  to  be.  I  have  learned  that 
he  will  take  care  of  all  my  needs,  if  I 
do  my  part. 

May  he  help  us  to  be  the  kind  of 
men  that  we  ought  to  be,  those  of  us 
who  are  privileged  to  bear  his  priest- 
hood, may  he  continue  td  bless  and 
support  these  our  brethren,  the  General 
Authorities  of  our  Church,  I  humbly 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  George  A.  Christensen,  recently 
President  of  the  Australian  Mission,  will 
be  our  next  speaker. 


A.  CHRISTENSEN 

the  Austrian  Mission 


we  made  when  President  Smith  sent  a 
cable  to  us,  after  knowing  her  condi- 
tion, and  said  in  the  cable:  "Bring  her 
Home."  In  the  last  sentence  he  wrote, 
"Use  your  best  judgment,  you  and  Sister 
Christensen.  If  she  can  come  home 
alone,  you  may  stay  there."  Sister 
Christensen  would  have  nothing  else 
but  that  she  go  home  alone,  and  that 
I  should  stay,  and  I  was  very  willing 
if  she  felt  she  could  go  home  alone. 

So,  I  stayed  for  the  rest  of  my  mis- 
sion and  until  I  was  called  home  a  few 
months  ago  I  was  there  and  she  was 
home.  Although  I  needed  her  badly 
yet  I  appreciate  what  she  did,  through 
her  inspiring  letters  and  her  influence 
otherwise,  in  helping  the  Australian 
Mission.  Under  the  conditions  no  one 
could  have  done  more  to  inspire  me. 


ELDER  GEORGE 

That  sickness  experience  was  a  very 
impressive  experience  to  us, — to  witness 
the  faith,  the  prayers  and  the  hopes  of 
those  good  saints  in  Australia  in  her 
behalf.  I  have  never  seen  the  like, 
brethren,  and  I  honor  them  and  respect 
them  for  their  kindness  and  their  plead- 
ing to  our  Father  in  Heaven  for  her 
welfare. 

The  Lord  has  prolonged  her  life, 
she  is  getting  better,  and  we  are  very 
grateful. 

In  our  meeting  in  the  temple  yesterday 
with  the  mission  presidents,  I  was  deeply 
impressed  with  the  vastness  of  this  work. 
This  is  certainly  a  universal  Church. 
Indeed  it  has  to  do  with  the  salvation 
and  redemption  of  all  the  souls  of  men 
throughout  the  duration  of  the  earth — 
past,  present  and  future. 

Then  this  morning  as  I  listened  to 
President  McKay,  and  to  Brother  Ander- 
son give  their  reports,  how  marvelous, 
I  could  not  help  but  think  of  the  words 
given  in  1869  at  this  pulpit  by  Secretary 
of  State  Seward  of  the  United  States 
Government,  who,  when  he  was  here 
on  a  trip  to  celebrate  the  joining  of  the 
railways  at  Promontory  Point,  made 
this  statement: 

"I  pray  God  that  the  great  marvel 
which  I  witness  here,"  (and  by  the  way, 
he  had  been  here  a  few  days,  and  knew 
something  of  our  history  and  our  pur- 
pose, he  knew  something  of  the  faith 
of  our  people  and  their  program,)  and 
so  he  said,  "I  pray  that  the  great 
marvel  which  I  witness  here  may  result 
in  establishing  a  good  civilization  in  the 
heart  of  the  American  continent,  and 
be  a  sign,  a  token,  and  an  assurance  to 
mankind  in  every  nation  of  the  earth 
that  it  cannot  fail  if  it  be  prosecuted 
by  industry  and  virtue  in  advancing 
the  welfare  of  the  whole  human  race." 

If  Secretary  Seward  could  be  here  to- 
day, could  have  heard  these  reports, 
their  far-reaching  and  saving  effects 
upon  the  human  family,  to  listen  to 
the  report  on  welfare,  I  am  sure  he 
would  understand  that  his  broad  state- 
ment then  given  was  rather  confining 


A.  CHRISTENSEN  47 

in  the  light  of  what  is  being  ac- 
complished by  the  Church  today. 

I  have  had  the  joy  brethren,  as  other 
mission  presidents,  of  living  close  to  the 
people  in  the  mission,  in  administering 
to  the  sick,  advising  and  counseling  the 
brethren  and  sisters,  talking  with  the 
investigators,  listening  to  their  prayers 
and  praying  with  them;  attending  testi- 
mony meetings;  witnessing  baptismals; 
and  then  that  great  work  of  associating 
with  the  missionaires,  your  boys  and 
your  girls. 

It  is  marvelous  how  the  spirit  of  the 
Lord,  after  the  authority  has  been  given 
and  the  assignment  made  by  the  serv- 
ants of  God  to  a  boy  or  a  girl  to  proclaim 
the  truth,  how  it  modifies,  lifts  and 
inspires,  how  effective  they  become, 
how  manly,  dignified  and  gloriously  im- 
pressive in  their  labors. 

I  should  like  to  say  this  however, 
brethren,  that  you  at  home,  you  parents, 
have  a  great  deal  to  do  with  the  success 
of  a  mission.  Here  are  a  few  statements 
made  by  some  of  our  missionaries. 

One,  for  instance:  "My  sister  is  being 
married  in  the  temple,  president,  and 
I  am  so  happy." 

Another:  "My  father  is  now  keeping 
the  Word  of  Wisdom." 

Another:  "I  never  knew  my  father, 
really,  until  I  began  to  write  letters  and 
received  letters  from  him  in  the  mission 
field.  My  parents  have  never  been  so 
happy.  My  father  and  mother  are 
preparing  to  enter  the  temple  with  me 
when  I  return.  My  mother  is  now  a 
teacher  in  the  Relief  Society." 

I  can  discern  from  the  missionaries, 
brethren,  whether  or  not  the  parents 
are  living  as  the  missionaries  teach. 
Possibly  the  greatest  urge  for  those  boys 
and  girls  to  go  forward  with  confidence, 
with  joy  and  happiness,  with  a  clear 
mind  and  conscience  is  to  know  that 
"my  family  members  are  living  as  I 
teach." 

May  I  suggest  that  you  help  the 
missionary  cause  by  living  as  they  teach. 
It  is  worthwhile,  and  as  one  elder  said, 
"My  father  and  mother  are  happier 
than  they  have  ever  been,"  and  so  you 


48  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  4 

parents  become  happier  by  living  the 
Gospel  and  at  the  same  time  you 
strengthen  the  missionary  cause. 

In  all  my  experiences  in  the  mission 
I  cannot  help  but  feel  that  we  had  a 
seasoning  at  least  of  the  spirit  mani- 
fest by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  the 
first  Conference  of  the  Church.  I  think 
it  was  in  June  of  1830  when  he  made 
this  profound  statement  to  the  Saints 
and  especially  to  the  elders  of  the 
Church;  "To  find  ourselves  engaged  in 
the  very  same  order  of  things  as  ob- 
served by  the  holy  Apostles  of  old,  to 
realize  the  importance  and  solemnity  of 
such  proceedings,  and  to  witness  and 
feel  with  our  own  natural  senses  the 
like  glorious  manifestations  of  the 
powers  of  the  priesthood,  the  gift  and 
blessings  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  the 
goodness  and  condescension  of  a  merci- 
ful God  unto  such  as  obey  the  Ever- 
lasting Gospel  of  our  Lord,  Jesus  Christ, 
— all  these  combine  to  create  within  us 
sensations  of  rapturous  gratitude  to  in- 
spire us  with  fresh  zeal  and  energy  in 
the  cause  of  truth." 

So  it  does,  and  so  we  have  felt  it, 
and  as  the  Lord  sent  out  his  Seventy 
to  preach  the  Gospel,  two  by  two  before 
his  face,  into  every  city  and  place 
whither  he  himself  should  come,  later 
on  those  Seventy  returned  with  joy, 
saying,  "Even  the  devils  are  subject 
unto  us  through  thy  name." 

We  have  had  that  experience,  breth- 
ren, we  have  had  a  taste  of  this  that  is 
referred  to  by  the  Prophet,  these  great 
evidences  of  the  value  and  power  of 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  the  joy 
in  serving  and  the  joy  in  proclaiming. 

At  one  time  in  the  mission  I  felt  some- 
what concerned  about  the  decreasing 
number  of  our  missionaries.  I  felt  we 
could  use  more.  I  recalled  that  stirring 
spirit  portrayed  by  the  Prophet  Alma 
when  he  declared  in  substance:  "O  that 
I  were  an  angel  and  had  the  power  of 
speech  and  could  declare  repentance  un- 
to all  the  world." 

Then  he  realized  his  limitations  and 
withdrew  somewhat  of  his  zeal  and 
apologized  in  a  way,  to  the  Lord,  and 


First  Dan 

said  this:  "Why  should  I  desire  that 
I  were  an  angel,  that  I  could  speak  unto 
all  the  ends  of  the  earth,  for  behold 
the  Lord  doth  grant  unto  all  nations 
of  their  own  nations  and  tongue  to 
teach  his  word;  yea,  in  wisdom  all  that 
he  seeth  fit  that  they  should,  have; 
therefore,  we  see  that  the  Lord  doth 
counsel  in  wisdom  according  to  that 
which  is  just  and  true."  (Alma  29:8.) 

I  was  very  much  impressed  with  the 
thought  that  people  of  their  own  nation 
and  tongue  should  also  be  responsible 
to  do  missionary  work.  After  receiving 
the  approval  of  the  First  Presidency, 
I  called  forty  of  our  Saints,  to  part-time 
missionary  work,  and  it  proved  a  great 
boon  to  our  mission.  Although  it  did 
not  bring  about  very  many  immediate 
converts  and  baptisms,  yet  these  part- 
time  missionaries  grew  in  testimony  and 
developed  themselves  to  become  more 
effective  officers  in  the  branches,  and 
I  am  sure  they  will  be. 

Today  we  are  lamenting  the  fact 
that  because  of  the  scarcity  of  mission- 
aries, it  becomes  necessary  to  withdraw 
them  from  some  of  the  small  and  new 
branches,  new  areas  and  new  units. 
Most  of  these  units  are  made  up  of 
new  members  and  although  they  are 
faithful,  yet  it  will  be  difficult  for 
them  to  carry  on  in  full  without  the 
association  of  the  missionaries.  What 
shall  we  do?  We  have  many  young 
men  and  women  in  Australia  who  could 
go  on  a  full  time  mission.  Many  of 
them  cannot  finance  a  full  time  mis- 
sion. Our  people  in  Australia  are  not 
wealthy  people.  They  are  generally 
people  of  humble  circumstances.  They 
are  a  choice  people  but  it  is  not  easy 
for  them  to  save  and  very  few  of  them 
have  laid  by  funds  to  finance  a  mis- 
sion. 

I  now  recall  a  divine  injunction  given 
by  the  Prophet  in  this  dispensation 
when  he,  in  exhorting  the  Elders  in  the 
84th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, makes  this  matter  clear, — that 
even  though  we  can't  go  ourselves, 
sometimes  we  may  help  provide  the 


ELDER  GEORGE  A.  CHRISTENSEN 


49 


means  and  way  whereby  others  may 
go,  for  he  wrote  thus: 

"For  I  will  forgive  you  of  your  sins 
with  this  commandment — that  you  re- 
main steadfast  in  your  minds  in 
solemnity  and  the  spirit  of  prayer,  in 
bearing  testimony  to  all  the  world 
of  those  things  which  are  communicated 
unto  you. 

"Therefore,  go  ye  into  all  the  world; 
and  unto  whatsoever  place  ye  cannot 
go  ye  shall  send,  that  the  testimony 
may  go  from  you  into  all  the  world 
unto  every  creature."  (D.  &  C.  84:61- 
62.) 

I  was  very  pleased  a  short  time  ago 
after  a  meeting  when  two  brethren  told 
me:  "We  will  be  glad  to  finance  a  mis- 
sionary in  Australia — one  of  the  Aus- 
tralian saints.   How  much  will  it  cost?" 

I  said,  "It  will  cost  about  20  to  22 
pounds  a  month,  equivalent  to  about 
$45.00."  That  seemed  to  be  agreeable 
to  them. 

I  hope  and  pray  that  it  will  work  out. 
I  hope  President  Liljenquist  will  find, 
and  I  am  sure  he  can  easily  find  some 
fine  young  women  and  young  men  who 
could  be  sent,  and  thus  fulfill  what 
Alma  inferred,  that  the  people  of  that 
nation  should  be  called  into  service 
to  proclaim  the  word,  and  that  possibly 
if  we  can't  go  ourselves,  we  can  send. 

Of  course,  I  am  sure,  it  is  not  the 
intent  of  the  Church  that  the  Church 
should  send,  but  is  intended  that  the 
individual,  or  the  small  group  should 
send  by  giving  partial  financial  support 
to  those  who  could  respond. 

Brethren,  may  I  mention  one  more 
thing?  We  try  to  teach  our  people 
prayer  and  fasting.  We  try  to  teach 
them  observance  of  the  various  standards 
of  the  Church,  but  we  found  a  strange 
situation,  when  we  made  a  survey  of 
our  inactive  members,  to  learn  the  rea- 
son for  their  inactivity.  We  found  that 
the  main  reason  why  they  were  inactive 
was  because  they  claimed  they  had  been 
offended  for  some  reason  or  other.  We, 
therefore,  developed  and  presented  this 
slogan,  that,  "Real  Latter-day  Saints 


never  become  offended,  and  they  are 
least  likely  to  give  offense." 

We  proclaimed  that  repeatedly 
throughout  the  mission  and  it  became 
favorably  effective  among  most  of  the 
saints. 

We  also  encouraged  and  we  should 
encourage  the  spirit  of  charity  and  love 
toward  our  fellow  men  to  those  who 
are  down-trodden  and  disturbed.  We 
should  all  have  charity  and  mercy 
toward  such. 

But  we  sometimes  forget  this  other 
virtue,  that  of  rejoicing  in  each  other's 
achievements.  If  we  would  have  the 
spirit  of  rejoicing  in  each  other's  suc- 
cesses, we  would  likely  have  charity,  we 
would  likely  have  forbearance,  and  so 
we  asked  the  Saints  to  do  what  they 
could  to  make  it  a  ppint  to  cultivate  a 
sincere  appreciation  when  others  suc- 
ceeded. 

It  may  be  when  another's  girl  gradu- 
ated from  school  with  high  honors.  It 
may  be  when  the  neighbor's  boy  gave 
an  inspiring  talk  in  Sunday  School, 
possibly  a  Deacon.  There  are  so  many 
situations  where  we  could  sincerely  re- 
joice in  the  achievements  of  others. 

Brigham  Young  taught  that  principle 
on  the  way  out  west,  and  the  Indians 
also  were  taught  the  principle  by  the 
pioneers  and  they  appreciated  it  deeply. 
The  Indian  word  for  that  principle  is 
"Pukachee."  They  found  deep  satis- 
faction in  practicing  that  new  and  effec- 
tive principle,  pukachee. 

As  we  told  stories  to  develop  this 
principle  with  our  young  people  in  the 
Church  in  Australia,  we  received  glori- 
ous response  and  when  we  returned  to 
those  district  conferences  the  young 
people  seemed  delighted  to  remind  us 
of  pukachee  and  the  joy  they  found  in 
practicing  it. 

It  is  an  important  virtue  and  works 
wonders. 

Another  helpful  thing  we  did  is  re- 
flected in  these  lines: 

"For  what  do  you  live 
For  what  you  get  or  what  you  give? 
What  is  the  dynamo  that  makes  you  go 
Getting  or  giving? 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

Get  you  must  if  you  would  give 

But  give  you  must  if  you  would  live 

For  getting  without  giving 

Is  existence  without  living 

So  get,  give  and  live." 

We  did  not  apply  that  so  much  in 
the  material  way,  but  we  used  it  mostly 
with  the  missionaries.  Missionaries 
can't  give  the  Gospel  unless  they  get 
it,  therefore  in  order  to  get  it  they  must 
be  up  in  the  morning  at  six;  study  class 
at  seven,  breakfast  at  eight  and  then  a 
full  day  of  proselyting  and  through 
faithfully  following  the  missionary 
handbook  they  increased  their  proselyt- 
ing to  about  seven  hours  per  day  and 
so  the  Lord  blessed  their  efforts  because 
they  were  prayerfully  and  humbly 
getting  so  they  could  inspiringly  give. 

I  am  so  grateful  that  these  mission- 
aries were  willing  to  sustain  the  pro- 
gram, to  be  loyal  and  faithful,  and  to 
bring  about  many  good  results. 

In  closing  I  would  like  to  say  a  word 
about  the  Choir.  The  Mormon  Taber- 
nacle Choir  is  one  of  the  finest  influ- 
ences in  the  Australian  Mission.  It  is  a 
door  opener  to  our  missionaries.  I  have 
had  non-members  tell  me  that  their  re- 
ligion is  the  Mormon  Tabernacle  Choir 
and  Richard  L.  Evans.  That  is  their 
faith. 

When  our  missionaries  come  to  the 
door,  and  the  occupants  learn  that  these 
missionaries  represent  the  same  Church 
as  our  Choir  and  Richard  L.  Evans,  the 
door  is  generally  swung  open  and  they 
are  invited  in. 

So,  I  certainly  commend  our  Choir. 
May  God  bless  them,  and  the  spirit  of 
their  music,  the  elevating  nature  of  it, 
and  also  Richard  L.  Evans'  fine  talks  on 
ethics,  on  fundamentals  that  anyone 
can  accept.  They  believe  it,  and  it 
touches  their  better  selves,  and  it  is 
good. 

Now  the  way,  I  believe,  is  going  to 
be  opened,  and  I  hope  and  pray  it  will 
be  through  the  faithful  efforts  of  our 
good  friend  and  brother,  Cyril  Jenkins, 
that  many  other  stations  will  play  our 
records  even  the  British  Broadcasting 


First  Day 

Company,  and  if  it  does  it  will  open 
the  way  by  which  many  more  thousands 
of  good  people  in  the  world  will  hear 
the  divine  and  lifting  messages  given 
by  our  wonderful  choir  and  Brother 
Evans. 

Brethren,  the  work  of  the  Gospel  in 
which  we  are  engaged  is  true.  I  am 
proud  to  be  a  member  of  the  Church. 
I  am  glad  that  I  was  a  Deacon,  a 
Teacher  and  a  Priest,  an  Elder  and  a 
Seventy,  and  I  have  had  ward  expe- 
rience and  stake  experience,  and  above 
all,  I  am  so  happy  for  the  great  joy 
of  regularly  and  daily  striving  to 
do  the  best  I  can  in  the  Gospel.  I  am 
now  a  block  teacher  in  our  ward,  and 
I  am  grateful  for  it.  I  am  a  Special 
Interest  class  teacher  in  the  M.I.A.  and 
it  is  a  real  joy  to  be  close  to  the  people, 
to  try  and  put  over  the  work  of  the 
Lord. 

I  thank  these  brethren,  the  General 
Authorities,  bless  their  hearts,  for  their 
confidence  and  their  kindness.  They  are 
wonderful.  Because  of  increase  in  mem- 
bers and  attendance  they  have  a  build- 
ing program  in  Australia  that  will  in- 
volve 70  per  cent  of  the  branches.  Some 
branches  are  buying  lots,  others  re- 
modeling, others  building  new  chapels 
so  there  is  great  activity  and  faithful- 
ness. 

I  am  very  grateful  for  this,  and 
every  time  we  have  submitted  a  build- 
ing proposal  to  the  General  Authorities 
they  have  been  kind  and  generous.  Even 
though  that  mission  in  the  past  has 
been  self-sustaining,  as  far  as  buildings 
are  concerned,  it  is  just  possible  in  the 
near  future  they  will  have  to  ask  the 
Brethren  here1  for  a  little  help. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  us  all  that 
we  may  be  genuine  in  our  labors,  hon- 
est and  faithful,  for  this  work  is  of 
God,  and  this  I  declare  in  all  soberness 
and  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  will  present  a 
special  message  to  you  regarding  the 
Seventies. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


51 


ELDER  HA! 

Of  the  Council  of 

For  some  time  there  has  been  under 
study  by  the  First  Council  of  the 
Seventy  with  the  Twelve  as  to  what 
might  be  done  in  behalf  of  the  Seventies 
who  are  not  affiliated  at  the  present 
time  with  any  quorum. 

In  a  number  of  stakes  there  are  no 
Seventies'  Quorums,  and  there  is  no 
Quorum  of  Seventy  in  any  mission  of 
the  Church.  As  a  result,  at  the  present 
time  there  are  many  seventies  through- 
out the  missions  and  in  some  stakes 
who  have  no  affiliations  whatsoever 
with  a  quorum. 

Now  it  is  felt  that  every  Seventy 
should  be  associated  with  some  Seven- 
ties' organization.  In  order  to  correct 
this  it  is  proposed  that  in  the  future 
there  shall  be  three  terms  used  in  con- 
nection with  the  organization  of  Seven- 
ties. 

First,  the  quorum  as  at  present  to 
designate  an  organization  where  there 
exists  a  majority  of  Seventy,  or  36  or 
more  Seventies  in  a  given  stake  or  mis- 
sion, in  which  case  they  will  be  organ- 
ized as  a  Quorum,  and  so  designated. 

The  term,  Unit,  is  to  be  used  as  a 
name  for  an  organization  of  Seventies 
in  a  stake  or  a  mission  where  there  are 
less  than  36  Seventies,  and  the  term, 
Group,  as  at  present  to  designate  a  seg- 
ment of  either  a  Quorum  or  Unit, 
organized  as  Priesthood  Quorums  Groups 
are  now  established  throughout  the 
Church. 

It  is  expected  that  there  will  be  no 
Units  organized  in  any  stake  where 
there  are  more  than  36  Seventies,  in 
which  event  they  are  to  be  organized 
as  a  Quorum. 

In  every  stake  or  mission"  in  which 
there  are  36  or  more  Seventies  there 
shall  be  organized  one  or  more  Seven- 
ties' Quorums,  depending  on  the  number 
of  men  who  are  available. 

In  every  stake  or  mission,  then,  in 
which  there  are  not  sufficient  Seventies 
to  organize  a  Quorum,  there  shall  be 
organized  a  Unit,  which  will  be  pre- 
sided over  by  a  Unit  Leader,  with  two 


ilOLD  B.  LEE 

the  Twelve  Apostles 

counselors,  and  they  will  have  the  re- 
sponsibility of  carrying  on  the  Seventies' 
program  very  much  as  the  work  is  car- 
ried on  by  a  Quorum  of  Seven  Presi- 
dents when  it  is  regularly  organized. 

When  the  Unit  thus  organized 
reaches  a  membership  of  36  or  more,  it 
will  then  be  organized  into  a  Quorum, 
functioning  as  other  Seventies'  Quorums 
and  given  a  full  council  of  Seven 
Presidents  to  the  Quorum. 

As  a  Quorum  often  consists  of  two 
or  more  groups  in  the  different  wards, 
Units  might  likewise  be  made  up  of 
groups  according  to  the  need  and 
scattered  condition  of  the  Unit  as  it  may 
exist,  either  in  the  missions  or  in  the 
stakes,  and  each  group  thus  set  up  will 
operate  under  the  general  direction  of 
a  Group  Leader  and  counselors,  if  de- 
sired. 

Units  will  be  supervised  under  the 
dual  direction  of  the  stake  or  mission 
president  in  conjunction  with  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy,  as  is  the  case 
with  Seventies'  Quorums  throughout  the 
Church. 

The  Units  thus  organized  will  be 
given  consecutive  numbers  with  Quo- 
rums, so  that  if  changes  come  from 
Units  to  Quorums  there  will  be  no  con- 
fusion in  the  numbering  system.  How- 
ever, the  number  of  the  Unit  will  be 
followed  by  the  suffix,  U,  so  that  the 
organization  may  be  readily  recognized 
by  its  number  as  being  a  Unit  and  not 
a  Quorum. 

When  the  Unit  grows  large  enough  in 
numbers  to  become  a  Quorum,  the 
suffix,  U,  will  be  dropped,  and  the 
same  number  will  be  retained  for  the 
Quorum,  thus  organized  from  the  said 
Unit. 

Now,  President  McKay  has  asked  that 
I  make  this  announcement.  This  has 
been  discussed  by  the  First  Presidency 
and  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  with 
the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy,  and 
it  will  be  the  recommended  procedure 
hereafter  to  be  followed  in  organizing 
the  Seventies  throughout  the  Church. 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

The  Men's  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  sang  "The  Palms." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  assume,  brethren,  Bishop  Isaac- 
son and  Brother  Marble,  that  the  ushers 


First  Dau 

have  been  assigned  their  places  so  that 
we  may  get  a  fairly  good  estimate  of 
the  attendance,  not  only  in  the  Taber- 
nacle, but  in  the  other  assemblies. 

Our  next  speaker  will  be  President 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


My  Brethren:  Obedient  to  President 
McKay's  request,  which  is  founded, 
I  know,  on  a  good  reason,  I  shall 
take  a  little  more  time  tonight  than  I 
had  intended  to  take,  but  I  do  not 
intend  to  deprive  you  of  the  pleasure 
and  profit  of  having  a  few  words  from 
him. 

I  suppose  from  President  McKay's  ob- 
servation about  the  duty  of  the  ushers, 
that  he  has  not  yet  received  an  estimate 
of  the  number  of  the  Priesthood  who 
are  here,  on  the  grounds,  in  other  build- 
ings, and  of  course,  we  do  not  know 
the  number  that  are  listening  in  at  the 
Field  House  at  the  Brigham  Young 
University,  but  I  am  sure  it  is  a  great 
multitude.  I  suppose  it  is  the  greatest 
gathering  of  Priesthood,  the  true  Priest- 
hood, that  has  occurred  in  the  history 
of  the  whole  world. 

The  Lord  tried  to  make  a  nation  of 
priests  out  of  Israel,  but  Israel  would 
not,  and  so  the  Lord  had  to  organize, 
as  he  did,  giving  the  Priesthood  to 
one  tribe,  withdrawing  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  from  their  midst,  and  setting 
up  the  Priesthood  of  Aaron. 

We  have  been  more  fortunate,  more 
blessed,  and  I  hope  we  may  say,  in 
truth,  more  obedient,  than  ancient 
Israel,  we  do  have  a  nation,  a  people  of 
priests,  for  all  our  male  members  over 
twelve  years  of  age  do  bear  the  Priest- 
hood. This  Priesthood  has  been  known 
by  various  names,  but  apparently  the 
full  name  is  the  Holy  Priesthood  under 
or  according  to  the  Order  of  the  Son 
of  God. 

I  want  to  read  to  you  some  verses 
from  the  Book  of  Moses,  1st  chapter  and 
the  31st  to  the  33rd  verses,  part  of  the 


35th  and  then  the  37th  and  the  39th. 

"And  behold,  the  glory  of  the  Lord 
was  upon  Moses,  so  that  Moses  stood  in 
the  presence  of  God,  and  talked  with 
him  face  to  face.  And  the  Lord  God 
said  unto  Moses:  For  mine  own  pur- 
pose have  I  made  these  things."  (That 
is,  the  things  of  this  earth.)  "Here  is 
wisdom  and  it  remaineth  in  me. 

"And  by  the  word  of  my  power,  have 
I  created  them,  which  is  mine  Only 
Begotten  Son,  who  is  full  of  grace  and 
truth. 

"And  worlds  without  number  have  I 
created;  and  I  also  created  them  for 
mine  own  purpose;  and  by  the  Son  I 
created  them,  which  is  mine  Only 
Begotten.  *  *  * 

"...  For  behold,  there  are  many 
words  that  have  passed  away  by  the 
word  of  my  power.  And  there  are 
many  that  now  stand,  and  innumerable 
are  they  unto  man;  but  all  things  are 
numbered  unto  me,  for  they  are  mine 
and  I  know  them.  *  *  * 

"And  the  Lord  God  spake  unto  Moses, 
saying:  The  heavens,  they  are  many, 
and  they  cannot  be  numbered  unto 
man;  but  they  are  numbered  unto  me, 
for  they  are  mine." 

This  revelation  given  to  Moses,  thou- 
sands of  years  ago,  now  finds  its  fruit 
through  the  great  telescopes  that  have 
been  recently  erected,  which  show  that 
there  are  universes,  galaxies,  unnum- 
bered, some  of  them  as  much  as  a 
billion  or  two  billion  light  years  away, 
that  is,  it  takes  a  billion  or  two  billion 
years  for  light  traveling  185  thousand 
miles  per  second,  as  I  recall,  to  come 
from  them  to  us. 

Moses  goes  on:  "And  as  one  earth 


PRESIDENT  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


53 


shall  pass  away,  and  the  heavens  thereof 
even  so  shall  another  come;  and  there 
is  no  end  to  my  works,  neither  to  my 
words." 

The  modern  astro-physicists  suggest 
that  galaxies  may  have  been  formed 
in  the  past  and  disappeared  ("passed 
away"),  that  the  galaxies  now  formed 
may  disappear  ("pass  away"),  and  that 
others  may  be  formed  to  take  their 
places,  for  there  is  no  end  to  space. 

Moses  continues,  "For  behold,  this  is 
my  work  and  my  glory — to  bring  to 
pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of 
man." 

The  Lord  said  that  he  did  these 
works,  the  creation  of  the  worlds,  "by  the 
word  of  his  power,"  which  is  his  Only 
Begotten  Son.  It  seems  as  if  when 
God  speaks,  the  chaos  of  space  answers, 
universes  are  formed,  universes  disap- 
pear, new  worlds  are  created,  old  worlds 
disappear,  and  all  this  suggests,  as  I 
just  read,  the  end  is  not  yet. 

Now,  what  is  that  "word  of  my 
power,"  which  does  these  mighty  works 
in  the  universe?  I  want  to  read  to  you 
what  Brother  Brigham  said  about  that. 
He  said:  "If  anybody  wants  to  know 
what  the  Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God 
is,  it  is  the  law  by  which  the  worlds 
are,  were,  and  will  continue  for  ever 
and  ever.  It  is  that  system  which  brings 
worlds  into  existence  and  peoples  them, 
gives  them  their  revolutions — their  days, 
weeks,  months,  years,  their  seasons  and 
times  and  by  which  they  are  rolled  up 
as  a  scroll,  as  it  were,  and  go  into  a 
higher  state  of  existence." 

That  is,  these  measureless  creations 
have  been  formed  by  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Priesthood  of  the  Order  of  the 
Son  of  God.  This  Priesthood  we,  you 
and  I,  and  all  who  stand  in  like  places, 
possess,  not  in  its  fullness,  as  to  the 
exercise  of  its  power,  but  we  do  have 
the  Priesthood.  How  great  and  how 
multiple  are  its  powers,  which  we  do  in 
fact  possess,  some  of  you,  all  of  you, 
have  witnessed  at  one  time  or  another 
in  your  lives. 

I  would  like  to  read  what  the  Prophet 
Joseph  has  said,  some  of  the  things  he 
has  said,  about  the  Priesthood: 


"The  Priesthood,"  said  the  Prophet, 
"is  an  everlasting  principle,  and  existed 
with  God  from  eternity,  and  will  to 
eternity,  without  beginning  of  days  or 
end  of  years."  Adam  (I  am  taking  iso- 
lated sentences  and  passages)  .  .  .  Adam 
stands  next  to  Christ,  who  is  the  great 
High  Priest.  Adam  obtained  his  Priest- 
hood "in  the  Creation,  before  the  world 
was  formed." 

And  the  following  statement  of  the 
Prophet  is,  to  me,  most  significant 
"Every  man  who  has  a  calling  to  min- 
ister to  the  inhabitants  of  the  world" — 
note  that — "Every  man  who  has  a  call- 
ing to  minister  to  the  inhabitants  of 
the  world  was  ordained  to  that  very 
purpose  in  the  Grand  Council  of  heaven 
before  this  world  was.  I  suppose  (said 
the  Prophet)  that  I  was  ordained  to 
this  very  office  in  that  Grand  Council." 

I  like  to  think  that  not  alone  did 
such  men  as  Adam  and  the  Prophet 
Joseph  receive  the  Priesthood  before  they 
came  here.  I  like  to  think,  I  can  give 
you  no  scripture  for  it,  I  like  to  think 
that  those  of  us  who  are  set  apart,  chosen 
and  set  apart,  to  come  forth  in  this  the 
last  dispensation  of  time,  which  is  to 
draw  together  all  other  dispensations, 
had  a  like  conferring  of  Priesthood, 
though  not  perhaps  a  like  setting  apart. 

The  Prophet  continues,  "If  a  man 
gets  a  fullness  of  the  priesthood  of 
God,  he  has  to  get  it  in  the  same  way 
that  Jesus  Christ  obtained  it,  and  that 
was  by  keeping  all  the  commandments 
and  obeying  all  the  ordinances  of  the 
house  of  the  Lord." 

That  lets  us  glimpse  the  fact  that  we 
poor  humans,  weak  and  clogged  with 
mortality,  cannot  obtain  the  priesthood 
fullness  here,  not  now  at  any  rate,  nor 
until  we  have  yielded  obedience  to  all 
the  commandments  and  ordinances  of 
the  Lord;  but  when  we  do,  that  fullness 
will  be  ours. 

He  goes  on:  "It  (the  Priesthood)  is 
the  channel  through  which  the  Almighty 
commenced  revealing  His  glory  at  the 
beginning  of  the  creation  of  this  earth, 
and  through  which  He  has  continued 
to  reveal  Himself  to  the  children  of 
men  to  the  present  time,  and  through 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

which  He  will  make  known  His  purposes 
to  the  end  of  time." 

Now  brethren,  I  take  it  that  we  can 
all  glimpse  something  of  the  nature 
and  the  power  of  this  Priesthood,  which 
each  of  us  has.  With  the  possession  of 
that  power,  there  comes  a  tremendous 
responsibility,  so  great  indeed,  that  to 
contemplate  it  seriously,  is  almost  to 
crush  us.  Certainly,  it  is  a  humbling 
thing  to  think  and  try  to  understand, 
and  to  contemplate  that  you  and  I 
are  clothed  with  that  Priesthood,  the 
same  Priesthood  that  obtained  in  the 
creation  of  heavens  and  of  worlds.  But 
remember,  we  do  not  have  and  so  we 
cannot  exercise,  save  only  a  fraction,  a 
very  small  fraction,  of  the  fullness  of 
the  Priesthood,  and  we  must  be  most 
careful  in  our  attempted  use  of  what 
we  have. 

Years  ago,  I  did  a  little  work  classify- 
ing somewhat  the  powers  of  the  Priest- 
hood exercised  by  the  Savior,  as  re- 
corded in  the  New  Testament.  First, 
I  discovered  that  he  had  exercised  cer- 
tain creative  powers,  the  powers  of  crea- 
tion: witness  the  turning  of  water  into 
wine,  the  feeding  of  the  5,000  and  the 
4,000,  and  I  repeat  what  I  think  I  have 
said  here  before,  about  those  latter 
miracles,  please  do  not  accept  the  ex- 
planation that  is  made  by  those  who 
are  tinctured  by  this  "higher  criticism," 
please  do  not  accept  the  suggestion  that 
the  reason  the  5,000  were  fed  was  be- 
cause they  had  taken  their  lunches  with 
them. 

He  exercised  control  over  the  ele- 
ments. You  will  recall  that  he  acted 
in  seeming  disobedience  to  some  of 
what  we  call  the  laws  of  nature.  He 
stilled  the  troubled  waters  on  the  sea 
that  night  when  the  disciples  thought 
the  boat  was  about  to  be  swamped,  and 
they  awakened  him  in  their  dire  distress 
and  fear.  He  calmed  the  waters.  On 
another  occasion,  while  the  disciples 
were  going  across  the  sea  of  Galilee,  in 
their  boat,  they  having  left  him  on  the 
other  side  of  the  lake,  he  came  to  them 
in  the  night,  walking  on  the  water. 
They  thought  he  was  a  spirit.  When 
they  found  out  who  he  was,  Peter, 


First  Day 

the  impetuous  Peter,  asked  the  Savior 
to  bid  him  to  come  to  him.  The  Savior 
bade  him,  Peter  went  over  the  side 
and  started  to  walk  towards  him.  But 
the  waves  piling  up  in  front  of  him,  his 
faith  failed  him  and  he  began  to  sink. 
He  called  to  the  Savior  to  save  him. 
The  Savior  said,  "O  ye  of  little  faith," 

He  controlled  life.  You  will  remem- 
ber he  raised  the  dead,  he  healed  the 
sick,  and  the  infirm,  all  of  these  mani- 
festations, in  one  sense  or  another  in- 
volved great  creative  powers.  Most  of 
these  exhibitions  of  his  power  have 
been  repeated  in  our  time  by  the  exer- 
cise of  the  powers  of  the  Priesthood  we 
hold.  I  hope  that  if  you  have  not  re- 
cently read,  you  will  read  the  Life  of 
Jacob  Hamblin.  There  is  a  man  to 
whom  the  Church  has  not  yet  paid  due 
tribute.  He  was  a  great  missionary. 
He  was  a  diplomat  of  the  highest  order. 
He  was  a  statesman.  He,  time  and 
again,  used  these  great  priesthood  powers 
to  assist  him  in  his  work.  I  wish  that 
we  would  reprint  that  faith-promoting 
series  that  we  had  once,  and  would  use 
them  in  our  schools  to  build  up  simple 
faith  instead  of  sometimes  furnishing 
material  whose  sole  function  seems  to 
be  to  raise  doubts. 

Brethren,  have  simple  faith,  for  faith 
is  the  implementing  force  of  the  Priest- 
hood. I  want  to  read  to  you  what 
Brother  Brigham  said  about  that.  He 
said,  "If  we  speak  of  faith  in  the  abstract, 
it  is  the  power  of  God  by  which  the 
worlds  are  and  were  made,  and  is  a 
gift  of  God  to  those  who  believe  and 
obey  his  commandments." 

If  you  brethren  will  run  over  in  your 
minds  the  use  of  the  Priesthood  you 
yourselves  have  made,  you  will  find  that 
all  the  uses  which  have  to  do,  at  any 
rate,  with  the  alleviating  of  human 
suffering,  the  bestowal  of  spiritual 
powers  and  graces,  all  of  these  works  we 
do  are  brought  about  through  the  exer- 
cise of  faith. 

Now,  brethren,  here  we  are,  agents 
of  the  Lord,  and  he,  our  Lord  and 
Savior,  the  agent  of  God,  the  Father. 
That  is  the  power  we  have,  that  is  the 
responsibility  that  is  ours.  We  must  ask 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


55 


ourselves  what  kind  of  agents  are  we. 
How  well  are  we  magnifying  that 
agency,  how  nearly  are  we  living  in 
accordance  with  the  commandments  of 
God  through  which  action  only  shall 
we  ever  receive  a  fulness  of  the  Priest- 
hood which  we  now  possess. 

I  confess,  brethren,  that  to  me  this 
is  a  tremendously  important  subject. 
It  is  a  subject  that  can  occupy  our  time 
and  attention,  and  upon  which  we  may 
exert  all  the  mental  powers  we  possess 
in  order  that  we  may  gain  some  under- 
standing thereon  and  thereof. 

Brethren,  let  us  take  all  of  this  to 
heart.  Let  us  not  treat  the  Priesthood 
lightly.  Let  us  not  think,  as  I  have 
said  to  you  before,  that  we  can  lay  it 
off  tonight  and  go  out  somewhere  and 
do  as  the  lust  of  pleasure  dictates,  and 
then  come  back  and  put  it  on  and  go 
forward  again.  The  Priesthood  cannot 
be  treated  in  that  way. 

We  should  never  go  into  a  place, 
save  we  are  sent  on  a  spiritual  mission, 
where  there  would  be  any  likelihood 
that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  could  not 
go  with  us.  We  should  never  engage 
in  any  act  and  so  far  as  possible,  we 
should  not  harbor  any  thought,  to 
which  we  might  not  invite  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  to  participate  with  us. 

Do  not,  let  us  not,  I  speak  to  myself 
as  I  speak  to  you,  let  us  not  think  lightly 
of  this  priesthood,  let  us  bend  every 
effort  which  we  possess  to  do  nothing 
that  will  either  deprive  us  of  the  Priest- 
hood, or  that  will  in  any  way  impair 
our  ability  and  power  to  exercise  it. 

During  the  last  week  of  his  sojourn 
on  the  earth  as  a  mortal  in  Palestine, 
the  Lord,  returning  from  Bethany  to 
Jerusalem  one  morning,  became  hungry. 
He  saw  a  fig  tree  in  the  distance,  and 
thinking  to  relieve  his  hunger,  he  went 
to  it  and  found  that  it  had  only  leaves, 
no  fruit.  So  finding,  he  cursed  the 
tree  and  declared  that  thenceforth  for- 
ever it  should  not  furnish  fruit  to  any 
man.  Critics  have  some  difficulty  in 
understanding  that  act.  I  do  not  intend 
to  try  to  explain  it,  but  I  can  think  of 
it  as  an  illustration  of  what  will  come 
to  us,  if  we  shall  prostitute  our  Priest- 


hood. Prostitute  the  Priesthood  and  I 
am  sure  it  will  be  a  long,  laborious  task 
to  recover  it  in  the  measure  to  which 
we  had  it  before.  And  when  you  think 
of  what  that  Priesthood  means,  you 
men  of  families,  with  children, — how 
glorious  it  is  to  be  able  to  go  to  the 
Lord  when  one  of  them  is  ill  and 
particularly  when  the  doctors  tell  you 
there  is  no  hope,  how  glorious  it  is  to 
go  to  the  Lord  and  ask  for  his  help, 
doing  this  through  the  power  of  the 
Priesthood  which  you  possess,  and  with 
the  knowledge  that  if  not  contrary  to 
his  wisdom,  he  will  grant  that  help. 

And  what  a  tragedy  it  would  be,  if, 
when  that  time  should  come,  and  it 
will  come  to  most  of  you,  sooner  or 
later,  what  a  tragedy  it  would  be,  if 
your  right  to  invoke  your  Priesthood  had 
been  lost  through  your  transgression. 
What  a  tragedy  to  find  you  were  in  the 
position  of  the  fig  tree  that  had  been 
forbidden  thereafter  ever  to  bear  any 
fruit. 

I  can  testify  to  you,  my  brethren,  out 
of  my  own  experience,  that  God  hears 
and  answers  prayers.  I  can  testify  to 
you  that  through  the  exercise  of  the 
Priesthood  and  prayer  I  have  seen  mir- 
acles performed,  persons  healed.  There 
is  no  question  about  that.  One  such 
healing  of  a  loved  one,  otherwise  lost, 
as  to  mortal  life,  is  worth  a  thousand 
times  more  than  all  that  it  costs  us  to 
live  so  righteously  that  we  do  not  lose 
our  claim  upon  our  Heavenly  Father 
to  honor  our  Priesthood. 

Brethren,  I  cannot  speak  too  earnestly 
and  invoke  too  intently  the  wish  that 
we  shall,  all  of  us,  realize  what  this 
Priesthood  means;  that  we  shall  keep 
ourselves  clean  so  that  nothing  shall 
stand  betwixt  us  and  the  Lord.  I  have 
spoken  of  the  extreme  case,  in  a  way, 
the  healing  of  the  sick  of  our  dear 
ones,  but  there  is  no  hour  of  the  day 
or  the  waking  hours  of  the  night,  when 
we  do  not  stand  in  need  of  comfort, 
of  peace,  of  inspiration,  of  wisdom, 
that  can  come  only  from  our  Heavenly 
Father.  Our  priesthood  is  our  authority 
to  go  to  the  Lord  in  times  of  stress. 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

Let  us  not,  my  brethren,  do  anything 
that  will  rob  us  of  this  agency  of  ours, 
agency  to  represent  the  Lord,  and  he, 
out  of  his  agency,  to  represent  the 
Father.  We  stand  where,  in  a  limited 
way  at  least,  we  may  exercise  the  powers 
which  God  himself  might  exercise  if 
he  were  present. 

May  the  Lord  be  with  us,  encourage 
us,  help  us  to  live  as  he  would  have 
us  live,  help  us  to  keep  his  command- 
ments, help  us  to  act  straight  and  to 
think  straight,  help  us  to  guide  our 
footsteps  away  from  temptation  (you 
know,  frequently,  I  think  temptation 
comes  primarily  when  it  is  sought),  I 
humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 


First  Dan 


Our  next  speaker  will  be  President 
Hilton  A.  Robertson. 

President  Robertson  presided  over  the 
Japanese  Mission,  he  was  the  first  presi- 
dent of  the  Chinese  Mission,  and  was 
in  Hong  Kong.  He  and  Brother  Aki 
and  their  wives  organized  a  branch  in 
Hong  Kong,  and  the  Communists  made 
it  advisable  to  move  out.  They  were 
advised  to  do  so  by  the  Government. 
The  headquarters  of  the  Chinese  Mis- 
sion was  then  moved  over  to  San  Fran- 
cisco and  he  and  his  associate  elders 
organized  a  branch.  Though  he  has 
been  released,  we  have  under  con- 
sideration ways  and  means  of  taking 
care  of  these  Chinese  branches. 
President  David  O.  McKay: 


ELDER  HILTON  A.  ROBERTSON 

Formerly  President  of  the  Chinese  Mission 


This  is  one  of  the  most  marvelous 
sights  I  have  ever  witnessed.  There 
is  nothing  in  the  world  like  it. 
Sister  Robertson  and  I  have  been 
laboring  with  a  people  who  comprise 
one-fifth  of  the  population  of  the  world. 
Where  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  is,  there 
is  freedom,  and  where  men  have  lost  a 
knowledge  of  the  true  and  living  God, 
they  have  had  to  create  for  themselves, 
because  of  the  desires  within  them,  a 
god  of  their  own  making,  and  so  they 
have  depended  upon  the  arm  of  flesh. 

I  was  grateful  when  I  arrived  back 
from  Hong  Kong  and  received  a  letter 
from  the  First  Presidency  stating  that  we 
were  welcomed  back  to  the  land  of 
liberty,  the  only  place  in  the  world 
where  there  is  true  liberty  and  free- 
dom. I  believe  we  are  living  in  the 
greatest  day  and  age  of  the  world.  No 
people  have  ever  enjoyed  the  blessings 
that  we  are  enjoying  today.  When  you 
go  into  a  foreign  land,  the  land  of 
China,  where  the  people  have  been 
oppressed,  where  they  have  no  school 
facilities,  where  most  of  the  people  are 
illiterate,  where  they  have  no  oppor- 
tunity to  advance,  where  they  have  no 


knowledge  of  the  true  and  living  God, 
then  you  can  realize  the  blessings  that 
we  enjoy. 

Today,  in  China,  with  465,000,000 
people  you  would  not  see  a  sight  like 
this.  You  would  not  be  permitted,  be- 
cause of  the  oppression  under  which 
those  people  are  living  today  to  con- 
gregate as  you  are  here  this  evening 
and  to  hear  the  word  of  the  Lord 
spoken  by  his  servants.  I  know  you  do 
not  fully  appreciate  what  this  means. 

The  Chinese  people  live  in  villages. 
Those  villages  are  made  up  of  families, 
three  or  four  generations  of  the  same 
family.  Sometimes  they  are  in  these 
for  protection,  and  for  other  family  rea- 
sons. China  is  made  up  of  these  vil- 
lages. The  evil  forces  which  have  come 
amongst  them  and  oppressed  them  are 
now  seeking  to  divide  them,  disrupt 
their  family  life,  carry  them  away  into 
captivity,  disrupt  any  organization 
which  might  try  to  prohibit  the  ad- 
vancement of  that  evil  purpose. 

Some  of  the  families  are  taken  away, 
and  some  individual  members  of  fam- 
ilies, some  of  the  scholars,  some  of  the 


ELDER  HILTON  A.  ROBERTSON 


57 


greatest  business  men,  any  one  who 
would  think  for  himself  or  would  be 
most  likely  to  disapprove  of  these  things 
is  removed. 

They  have  their  schools,  which  they 
call  brain  washing,  into  which  these 
people  are  taken.  Those  who  still  ob- 
ject, whom  they  are  not  able  to  train 
are  moved  out.  Men  are  shot  without 
even  having  an  opportunity  to  defend 
themselves. 

I  know  of  one  man  who  attended 
school  at  the  University  of  Utah,  an 
architect  who  was  working  on  plans 
for  a  church  building  which  the  First 
Presidency  had  approved.  This  man 
was  a  fine,  intelligent  teacher  in  one 
of  their  schools.  He  told  of  young 
men,  17  and  18  years  old  who  came  to 
him  every  night  and  tried  to  teach 
him  this  doctrine  of  the  Communist 
party.  They  were  generous,  would  stay 
with  him  all  night  and  come  the  next 
day.  Then  he  found  out  that  it  was 
necessary  in  order  to  rid  himself  of 
them,  he  acknowledged  that  the  doc- 
trine was  all  right,  then  they  assigned 
him  to  teach  it  to  someone  else. 

Where  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  is,  there 
is  freedom.  We  are  possessors  of  the 
great  priesthood,  brethren.  It  does  not 
make  any  difference  about  the  number, 
but  it  does  of  whether  we  possess  the 
priesthood  of  God. 

Yesterday  I  received  a  letter  from 
Hong  Kong,  from  a  young  man  who  was 
ill  while  we  were  there.  He  was  af- 
flicted with  tuberculosis  and  was  very 
seriously  ill.  He  investigated  our  doc- 
trine for  more  than  a  year.  Two  months 
before  we  left  there  he  was  so  ill  that 
he  could  not  come  to  the  Church,  but 
at  the  time  that  we  left  to  return,  he 
came  to  the  boat  and  we  talked  to  him. 
He  was  very  sad  that  he  had  not 
received  baptism,  along  with  16  others 
that  we  had  just  baptized.  I  told  him 
that  as  long  as  his  heart  was  right, 
our  Father  in  Heaven  would  accept 
that,  until  he  had  the  opportunity  to  be 
baptized.  We  gave  him  a  blessing  that 
day  on  the  boat  at  his  request,  and  after 
we  returned  to  San  Francisco  he  wrote 


and  told  us  the  Lord  had  healed  him 
and  blessed  him.  He  told  us  in  a  letter 
yesterday  that  President  Mauss  had  just 
been  there  and  met  with  the  Saints  in 
the  home  of  a  very  splendid  Catholic 
friend  of  ours — those  members  that  he 
could  get  together — and  he  said  "After 
this  meeting,  I  was  baptized."  He  said, 
"I  am  thrilled  beyond  words  to  express, 
and  I  wish  you  would  send  me  a  Book 
of  Mormon  that  I  might  study  more 
deeply  the  teachings  of  the  Church." 
That  Book  is  on  its  way  to  him. 

Brethren,  the  time  is  late,  I  must  not 
take  more  time.  I  know  the  blessings  of 
this  great  priesthood.  I  recall  that  while 
I  was  living  in  Utah  County,  one  of 
the  finest  physicians  in  this  state,  who 
was  a  member  of  the  Catholic  Church 
and  whose  wife  belonged  to  another 
church,  his  child  was  very  ill.  He 
called  me  and  said,  "Would  you  come 
to  my  home.  My  child  is  very  ill." 
This  man  had  received  blessings,  he 
trained  in  the  L.D.S.  Hospital  and  he 
himself  was  blessed  for  his  health  while 
there.  This  man,  one  of  the  greatest 
medical  men  in  this  state  handed  over 
to  me  and  my  counselors  as  the  bishopric 
of  a  ward,  his  child,  and  he  said: 
"Unless  the  Lord  does  something  for 
this  child  it  cannot  live,  it  has  had 
measles  and  a  relapse,  and  I  have  done 
all  I  can."  We  administered  to  the 
child  and  that  child  is  alive  and  healthy 
today. 

I  have  seen  the  Lord  work  in  a 
marvelous  way  in  the  Hawaiian  Is- 
lands. Two  children  I  know  of, 
Japanese  children,  who  were  blessed 
there,  who  had  been  taken  all  over 
the  country  because  of  asthma,  were 
healed — they  had  not  been  to  school 
a  whole  week  in  their  lives,  because  of 
that  treacherous  disease,  and  yet  the 
Lord  blessed  them  and  healed  them. 

Brethren,  you  have  this  power,  do 
not  abuse  it.  You  have  heard  what 
Brother  Clark  has  said  today  to  you, 
tonight.  Take  it  seriously.  You  have 
this  power,  do  not  become  as  the  fig 
tree.  Hearken. 

May  God  bless  you.    I  am  happy  to 


58  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  4  First  Day 

meet  with  you.    I  pray  that  the  Lord  We  possess  the  greatest  blessing  that 

will  bless  you  that  you  will  realize  the  has  ever  come  to  man.   May  God  bless 

power  and  the  authority  that  has  been  you,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 

given  to  you  by  our  Father  in  Heaven.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


When  President  Robertson  referred 
to  the  freedom  we  enjoy  in  this  great 
country,  and  gave  us  a  glimpse  of  bar- 
barism going  on  in  China  and  other 
places,  these  lines  came  to  my  mind: 

"Breathes  there  the  man,  with  soul  so 
dead, 

Who  never  to  himself  hath  said, 
This  is  my  own,  my  native  land?" 

Let  us  thank  God  every  morning, 
every  night,  in  our  family  prayers,  that 
we  live  in  the  United  States  of  America, 
the  Constitution  of  which  vouchsafes 
individual  freedom,  and  let  us  pray 
also,  that  the  Lord  will  frustrate  the 
plans  of  the  Communists  who  would 
deprive  us  of  that  freedom. 

There  are  in  the  Tabernacle  tonight, 
10,432;  in  the  Assembly  Hall  2,932; 
in  the  Barratt  Hall  1,220;  on  the 
grounds  1,792;  the  Field  House  at  Provo 
reports  839;  making  a  total  of  over 
17,000  men  of  the  Priesthood  assembled 
tonight. 

It  has  always  been  my  nature  to 
enjoy  the  company  of  my  associates.  I 
love  to  be  with  my  friends.  The  older 
I  grow  the  more  intense  becomes  my 
appreciation  of  fellowship  in  the 
Brotherhood  of  Christ.  I  sense  that 
tonight  more  deeply,  more  sincerely 
than  ever  before.  As  I  have  looked  into 
your  faces,  partaken  of  your  spirit,  as 
I  picture  those  in  the  Assembly  Hall, 
in  the  Barratt  Hall  and  on  the  grounds 
and  down  in  the  Field  House,  I  feel 
that  it  is  one  of  the  greatest  privileges, 
one  of  the  most  inspirational  experiences 
in  life  to  associate  with  men  who  hold 
the  Holy  Priesthood. 

I  have  nothing  but  blessing  in  my 
heart  for  you.  I  love  you.  I  like  to 
call  you  my  beloved  associates  and 
fellow  workers,  and  that  love  is  akin 


to  the  love  we  have  for  our  wives  and 
our  children,  and  if  we  can  keep  this 
unity,  this  confidence,  nothing  in  the 
world  can  stop  the  progress  of  this 
work. 

You  note  tonight  that  the  theme  has 
largely  been  missionary.  We  have  called 
these  brethren  from  China,  Australia, 
and  Switzerland  merely  illustrative  of 
how  wide-spread  our  Gospel  is.  We 
have  had  them  from  the  Islands,  from 
South  Africa.  They  are  calling,  calling 
for  missionaries.  Within  the  last  few 
weeks,  prominent  visitors  from  India, 
Indo-China,  from  Hong  Kong,  have  ex- 
tended a  cordial  invitation  to  us  to  come 
to  these  places.  This  is  a  world-wide 
religion,  brethren.  It  is  the  Gospel  that 
must  be  preached  to  every  nation, 
kindred,  tongue  and  people. 

Let  me  thank  you  and  those  of  your 
families  who  have  sent  in  checks  by 
the  scores,  recently,  with  promises  to 
repeat  those  checks  monthly,  to  aid 
local  missionaries  in  spreading  the  Gos- 
pel. We  do  not  want  any  missionary 
in  Australia  or  New  Zealand  or  in  any 
of  the  American  nations,  or  in  Mexico 
to  have  his  or  her  expenses  paid  entirely, 
but  we  will  assist  whenever  possible, 
local  missionaries  who  need  supple- 
mentary assisting.  The  response  to  sug- 
gestions of  some  of  the  brethren  for 
such  missionary  funds  is  surprising  and 
gratifying.  As  far  as  possible  we  let  the 
donors  know  the  names  of  those  to 
whom  this  money  is  sent. 

How  the  way  opens  up  for  the  preach- 
ing of  the  Gospel!  The  calling  of  the 
boys  into  the  military  service  has  of 
course  crippled  our  missionary  work, 
more  than  it  should  have  done.  If  any- 
body tells  you  that  members  of  this 
Church  are  not  carrying  their  share  in 
the  military  work,  you  may  just  tell 
them  that  they  do  not  know  what  they 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


59 


are  talking  about.  I  just  take  this  op- 
portunity to  thank  all  who  are  con- 
tributing to  the  missionary  cause. 

Another  phase  of  this  missionary 
work  tonight — Professor  James  L.  Barker 
for  years  has  urged  that  we  give  classes 
in  foreign  languages,  that  our  young 
men  may  have  an  opportunity  to  study 
at  home  and  get  at  least  the  funda- 
mentals before  going  to  a  foreign  coun- 
try. Well,  it  is  a  good  suggestion,  but 
we  have  not  yet  been  able  to  make  it 
practical.  It  seems  now  that  the  time 
has  come  when  we  must  do  something. 
I  have  here  before  me  an  appeal  for 
the  teaching  of  languages  in  our  high 
schools.  I  have  a  note  from  one  who 
says  that  among  all  our  senior  high 
schools,  only  15  offer  one  or  more 
courses  in  foreign  languages.  In  the 
Church  there  are  men  and  women  from 
every  country  in  the  world,  in  which 
there  are  missionaries.  I  should  like 
to  encourage  our  young  men  and  young 
women,  young  men  particularly,  to  in- 
clude in  their  high  school  and  college 
courses,  some  of  these  languages. 

President  Wilkinson  informs  me  that 
twelve  foreign  languages  are  taught  in 
the  B.Y.U. — German,  French,  Portu- 
guese, Greek,  Syrian,  Russian,  Arabic, 
Latin,  Swedish,  Norwegian,  Finnish, 
Dutch.  In  the  University  of  Utah  I 
learn  that  they  have  810  students  regis- 
tered in  12  languages,  and  so  the  op- 
portunity is  at  hand. 

Recently  there  appeared  in  a  local 
paper  here  an  excellent  editorial  on  the 
necessity,  on  the  advisability  of  teach- 
ing languages  here  in  our  State,  and  in 
the  United  States.  "Modern  languages 
are  not  as  widely  or  as  successfully 
taught  in  United  States  schools  as 
they  should  be  to  meet  the  requirements 
of  the  nation's  position.  The  high 
school  student  who  takes  a  language 
often  finds  he  has  practically  forgotten 
it  within  a  year  or  so.  That  may  be 
due,  in  large  part,  to  the  fact  that  there 
is  little  opportunity  to  exercise  language 
skills.  The  need  to  learn  foreign  lan- 
guages should  be  accented  and  the 
acquisition  and  use  of  such  languages 


stimulated.  When  men  can  talk  to- 
gether, they  can  get  together." 

The  responsibility  of  preaching  the 
Gospel  rests  upon  us.  When  the  peo- 
ple in  Macedonia  called  to  Paul,  and 
the  spirit  told  him  to  go  over,  he 
answered  that  call.  They  are  calling 
for  us  in  various  nations,  they  are 
calling  for  more  missionaries  now  in 
the  missions  already  established,  and 
we  must  answer  that  call. 

Brethren,  in  conclusion,  let  me  urge 
more  diligence  in  living  the  principles 
of  the  Gospel.  We  may  preach,  we  may 
write,  and  publish  books,  but  the  most 
effective  way  of  preaching  the  Gospel  to 
the  nations  of  the  world,  is  by  example. 

"Therefore  whosoever  heareth  these 
sayings  of  mine,"  said  the  Savior,  "and 
doeth  them,  I  will  liken  him  unto  a 
wise  man,  which  built  his  house  upon 
a  rock: 

"And  the  rain  descended,  and  floods 
came,  and  the  winds  blew,  and  beat 
upon  that  house;  and  it  fell  not:  for 
it  was  founded  upon  a  rock. 

"And  every  one  that  heareth  these 
sayings  of  mine,  and  doeth  them  not, 
shall  be  likened  unto  a  foolish  man, 
which  built  his  house  upon  the  sand: 

"And  the  rain  descended,  and  the 
floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew,  and 
beat  upon  that  house;  and  it  fell:  and 
great  was  the  fall  of  it." 

May  God  add  his  blessings  to  the 
instructions  and  the  reports  given  this 
night,  may  we  depart  with  greater 
determination  in  our  hearts  to  serve  the 
Lord  and  keep  his  commandments,  may 
we  go  forth  with  greater  resolution  to 
defend  and  keep  his  commandments, 
may  we  go  forth  with  greater  resolution 
to  defend  one  another  in  righteous  liv- 
ing, to  defend  the  Church,  not  to  speak 
against  our  neighbors,  nor  against  au- 
thorities of  the  Church,  local,  stake  or 
general.  Let  us  avoid  evil  speaking, 
let  us  avoid  slander  and  gossip.  These 
are  poisons  to  the  soul  to  those  who 
indulge.  Evil  speaking  injures  the 
reviler  more  than  the  reviled.  I  heard 
a  recent  convert  who  came  from  Europe 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

say,  "I  am  surprised  to  hear  how  many 
people  talk  against  the  Authorities  here 
in  Salt  Lake  City."  She  was  grieved, 
she  had  the  right  ideal  of  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  that  we  should  speak  well 
of  one  another. 

Brethren,  peace  be  in  your  hearts, 
peace  and  harmony  be  in  your  homes. 
God  bless  every  man  and  every  woman 
who  has  entered  the  waters  of  baptism 
with  a  testimony  of  the  truth,  I  bear  that 
testimony  to  you  tonight  with  all  my 
soul.  I  know  that  the  power  of  God 
rests  with  his  servants.  I  know  that  he 
will  reveal  and  does  reveal  his  mind 
and  will  to  them.  The  communications 
of  man's  spirit,  of  one  holding  the 
Priesthood,  with  our  Father  in  Heaven 
through  the  Holy  Spirit  is  real.  Is 
there  anything  in  the  world  more 
precious  than  that  knowledge!  It  is 
more  precious  than  life,  because  it  gives 
assurance  that  if  death  does  come,  that 
spirit  continues.  I  bear  you  that  testi- 
mony, that  communication  with  our 
Heavenly  Father  is  real,  that  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Lord,  stands  at  the  head  of 
this  Church,  and  that  he  desires  the 
members  so  to  live  that  this  truth,  this 
Gospel,  may  be  preached  in  all  the  world 
as  a  witness  and  then  the  end  will 
come. 


First  Day 

With  all  my  soul  I  bless  you  my 
fellow  workers  and  pray  that  his  in- 
spiration will  abide  in  your  hearts  and 
that  peace  and  harmony  and  love  may 
abide  in  your  homes,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Tomorrow  morning  from  9:00  to  9:30 
will  be  the  broadcast;  please  be  in  your 
seats  at  8:30. 

Monday  night  the  Book  of  Mormon 
oratorio  by  Leroy  B.  Robertson  will 
be  given  in  this  Tabernacle  by  the 
Utah  Symphony  Orchestra  and  Com- 
bined Choruses  of  the  University  of 
Utah. 

The  Chorus,  Male  Chorus  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing  "The 
Pilgrim's  Chorus,"  under  the  direction 
of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  after  which 
Elder  Evon  W.  Huntsman,  formerly 
President  of  the  Tongan  Mission,  will 
offer  the  benediction. 


Singing  by  Men's  Chorus  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  "The  Pilgrim's 
Chorus." 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by 
Elder  Evon  W.  Huntsman,  former 
President  of  the  Tongan  Mission. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


Sunday  morning,  April  5. 

The  regular  Sunday  morning  Choir 
and  Organ  broadcast  was  presented  at 
9:00  a.m.,  in  the  Tabernacle  before  the 
great  Conference  assembly.  The  regu- 
lar session  of  the  Conference  convened 
at  10  o'clock  a.m. 

Long  before  the  hour  arrived  for  the 
presentation  of  the  Choir  and  Organ 
broadcast  the  Tabernacle  was  crowded 
to  capacity  by  members  of  the  Church 


who  had  come  from  all  parts  of  the 
Stakes  and  Wards  and  some  of  the 
missions.  The  Assembly  Hall  to  the 
south  of  the  Tabernacle  was  filled  with 
people,  as  was  also  the  Barratt  Hall 
(60  North  Main  Street),  where  those 
assembled  could  see  and  hear  the  pro- 
ceedings by  means  of  television,  and  in 
addition,  thousands  of  others  assembled 
on  the  Tabernacle  grounds  and  listened 
by  means  of  amplifiers. 


CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


The  following  broadcast,  written  and 
announced  by  Richard  L.  Evans,  and 
originating  with  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 


City,  was  presented  from  9:00  to  9:30 
a.m.,  through  the  courtesy  and  facili- 
ties of  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  Sys- 


THE  SPOKEN  WORD 


61 


tern's  network,  throughout  the  United 
States.  The  broadcast  was  as  follows: 

(The  organ  played  "As  the  Dew," 
and  on  signal  the  Choir  and  Organ 
broke  into  the  hymn,  "Gently  Raise," 
singing  the  words  to  the  end  of  the 
second  line,  and  humming  to  end  of 
verse  for  announcer's  background.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome 
you  within  these  walls  with  music  and 
the  spoken  word  from  the  Crossroads  of 
the  West. 

The  CBS  Radio  Network  and  its  af- 
filiated stations  bring  you  at  this  hour 
another  presentation  from  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  with  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall  conducting  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  Frank  W.  Asper,  Tabernacle 
organist,  and  the  spoken  word  by 
Richard  Evans. 

For  the  opening  music!  of  this  Easter 
hour,  we  turn  to  the  Eight  Favorite 
Anthems  of  Evan  Stephens:  "Christ  is 
risen  from  the  dead  .  .  .  Risen  truly  as 
He  said." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "An  Easter  Song"— 
Stephens) 

Announcer:  An  "Evensong"  by  Robert 
Schumann  is  Frank  Asper's  first  organ 
offering  from  Temple  Square  today. 

(Organ  number:  "Evensong" — Schu- 
mann) 

Announcer:  The  women's  chorus  of 
the  Choir  recalls  an  Easter  Carol  by 
Mary  E.  Caldwell,  with  the  words  of 


Robert  W.  McClellan:  "That  Blessed 
Easter  Morn." 

(The  Women's  Chorus  sang:  "That 
Blessed  Easter  Morn" — Caldwell) 

Announcer:  We  turn  next  to  an  im- 
pression of  the  mood  and  music  of  the 
fountain's  falling  waters  as  Frank  Asper 
presents  Percy  Fletcher's  "Fountain 
Reverie.'* 

(Organ  selection:  "Fountain  Reverie" 
— Fletcher) 

Announcer:  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
now  sings  three  songs  of  the  Easter  sea- 
son— one  a  Markworth  arrangement  of 
a  19th  century  Welsh  tune  by  Robert 
Williams;  another  from  the  same  writer 
as  arranged  by  C.  Albert  Scholin;  and 
the  first  of  the  three  being  Paul  Chris- 
tiansen's setting  for  these  words  from 
St.  John:  "Mary  Magdalene  came  and 
told  the  disciples  that  she  had  seen  the 
Lord,  and  that  he  had  spoken  these 
things  unto  her.  Then  the  same  day 
at  evening,  being  the  first  day  of  the 
week,  when  the  doors  were  shut  where 
the  disciples  were  assembled  .  .  .  came 
Jesus  and  stood  in  the  midst,  and  saith 
unto  them,  Peace  be  unto  you."  (John 
20:18-19.) 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Easter  Morning" 
— Christiansen) 

(Choir  selection:  "Christ,  the  Lord, 
Is  Risen  Today" — Markworth) 

(Choir  selection:  "Jesus  Christ  Is 
Risen  Today" — William-Scholin) 


THE  SPOKEN  WORD 


The  longer  we  live  the  more  aware 
we  are  of  the  shortness  of  this  life  we 
live,  and  the  more  aware  we  are  of  a 
sense  of  loss  and  of  loneliness  as  those 
whom  we  have  lived  among  and  loved 
leave  us  one  by  one.  And  ever  in  the 
background  we  are  aware  of  the  ques- 
tions that  confront  all  men:  Whence? 
and  Why?  and  Whither?  What  lies 
beyond?  Shall  we  know  them  as  we 
knew  them  here?  The  event  to  which 
this  day  is  dedicated  is  the  assurance 
that  we  shall — the  reality  of  the  resur- 
rection of  Jesus  the  Christ,  and,  through 
Him,  of  all  others  also.  We  read  of  it  in 


scripture.  We  sing  of  it  in  song.  We 
speak  of  it  in  sermon.  We  hold  to  it 
with  full  faith,  but  not  perhaps  without 
an  ardent,  living  hope  that  we  shall 
see  it  more  certainly;  or  not,  in  a  sense, 
without  wishing  that  we  had  seen  with 
our  eyes  and  touched  with  our  hands 
as  did  Thomas.  But  when  all  the  evi- 
dence is  before  us  it  doesn't  test  our 
faith  too  far.  True,  we  don't  know 
how  it  will  be  brought  about.  There 
are  unanswered  questions.  There  are  dif- 
ficulties that  may  seem  insurmountable. 
But  how  many  unanswered  questions  are 
there  concerning  other  things  that  are 


62 

Sunday,  April  5 

all  around  us?  How  can  we  account 
for  the  fact  that  we  are,  that  we  feel, 
that  we  love,  that  we  live?  How  can 
we  account  for  unnumbered  billions 
of  stars  that  are  kept  in  their  course? 
for  the  constancy  of  the  sun  and  of  the 
seasons?  for  the  awesome  miracle  of  a 
baby's  birth?  for  the  inborn  instinct  of 
animals?  If  we  had  never  seen  spring 
return  would  it  not  require  a  far-reach- 
ing of  faith  to  imagine  that  it  might  be 
so?  If  we  had  never  seen  trees  that 
seemed  dead  one  day,  break  forth  into 
full  flower — if  we  had  never  seen  these 
before  our  eyes,  these  things  which  we 
have  come  to  call  commonplace — to 
accept  them  could  require  a  far  reach 
of  our  faith.  With  ten  times  ten  thou- 
sand questions  that  we  cannot  answer 
even  about  the  things  we  can  touch 
and  feel  and  see,  it  is  but  a  little  further 
reach  of  faith  to  accept  the  reality  of 
the  resurrection  and  the  assurance  of 
everlasting  life,  and  to  trust  Him  who 
gave  us  life,  to  provide  the  way  for  us 
to  see  and  know  and  live  again  with 
those  we  love — always  and  forever. 

(Organ  number:  "Guide  Me  to 
Thee"— Huish) 

Announcer:  With  Frank  Asper  at 
the  organ  we  have  heard  a  hymn  by 
O.  P.  Huish:  "Guide  Me  to  Thee." 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

And  now  the  choir  recalls  a  "Galilean 
Easter  Carol"  by  R.  Deane  Shure. 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Galilean  Easter 
Carol"— Shure) 

Announcer:  And  now,  after  the  many 
testimonies  which  have  been  given  of 
him,  this  is  the  testimony  last  of  all 
which  we  give  of  him:  That  he  lives  I 
—"Christ  the  Lord  Is  Risen  Today." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Christ,  the  Lord, 
Is  Risen  Today" — Carey) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  leave  you 
within  the  shadows  of  the  everlasting 
hills.  May  peace  be  with  you,  this  day — 
and  always. 

This  concludes  the  twelve  hundred 
and  thirty-third  presentation,  continuing 
the  24th  year  of  this  traditional  broad- 
cast from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square,  brought  to  you  by  CBS 
radio,  and  originating  with  Radio  Sta- 
tion KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducted  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  with  its  three  hundred 
seventy-five  singing  voices.  Frank  W. 
Asper  was  at  the  organ.  The  spoken 
word  by  Richard  Evans. 

In  another  seven  days,  at  this  same 
hour,  music  and  the  spoken  word  will 
be  heard  once  more  from  the  Crossroads 
of  the  West. 


SUNDAY  MORNING  GENERAL  CONFERENCE  SESSION 


The  regular  Conference  session  com- 
menced promptly  at  10  o'clock  a.m., 
with  President  McKay  presiding  and 
conducting  the  services. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the 
leadership  of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  fur- 
nished the  choral  singing  for  this  ses- 
sion. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

"Ye  seek  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  which 
was  crucified:  he  is  risen;  he  is  not 
here:  behold  the  place  where  they 
laid  him."  So  spoke  Mark  the  Evange- 
list regarding  the  greatest  event  in  the 


history  of  mankind.  For  the  Resur- 
rection of  our  Lord  broke  the  bonds 
of  death  and  assured  us  of  immortality 
and  eternal  life. 

Thousands  are  assembled  this  morn- 
ing in  the  Tabernacle,  the  Assembly 
Hall,  Barratt  Hall,  on  the  walks  and 
lawns  of  the  Tabernacle  Grounds,  to 
worship  our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus 
Christ. 

The  third  session  of  the  General 
Conference  was  not  broadcast.  It  was 
a  General  Priesthood  Meeting  held  last 
evening  in  the  Tabernacle,  with  over- 
flow meetings  in  the  Assembly  Hall 
and  Barratt  Hall,  and  also  a  special 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


63 


meeting  in  the  Brigham  Young  Univer- 
sity Field  House,  where  800  people  as- 
sembled. And  for  your  interest  as  well, 
we  should  like  to  say,  that  as  nearly  as 
the  ushers  could  count,  there  were  as- 
sembled in  the  Priesthood  meeting  last 
evening,  in  the  Tabernacle,  the  Assem- 
bly Hall  and  Barratt  Hall,  16,376,  plus 
840  in  the  Field  House  in  Provo,  making 
a  total  of  17,212  members  of  the  priest- 
hood. It  was  a  thrill  and  an  inspiration 
to  be  in  their  presence. 

The  speakers  were  Elder  Samuel  E. 
Bringhurst,  recently  president  of  the 
Swiss-Austrian  Mission,  Elder  George 
A.  Christensen,  recently  president  of 
the  Australian  Mission,  Elder  Hilton  A. 
Robertson,  recently  president  of  the 
Chinese  Mission,  (and  still  carrying 
that  responsibility  and  that  position) — 
Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  and  President  J. 
Reuben  Clark;  President  McKay  made 
a  few  remarks  at  the  close.  The  Men's 
Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  fur- 
nished the  music.  This  then  is  the 
fourth  session  of  the  123rd  Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church.  We  are  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

President  Stephen  L  Richards  and 
Elder  Bowen  are  listening  in  over  the 
radio. 

These  services  will  be  broadcast  in 
the  Assembly  Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall 
over  a  loud  speaking  system  and  by  tele- 
vision. The  proceedings  of  this  session 
will  also  be  broadcast  over  Station  KSL 
and  over  the  stations  named  in  the 
first  session  of  the  Conference.  In  -  addi- 
tion to  these,  we  are  pleased  to  an- 
nounce this  morning  that  by  special 
arrangements  the  following  stations  are 
broadcasting  the  proceedings  of  today's 
sessions:  KBLA  of  North  Hollywood, 
KPMO  at  Pomona,  KCSB  at  San 
Bernardino,  KNOB  at  Long  Beach, 
KWCA  at  Barstow — all  these  in  Cali- 
fornia; KLAS  at  Las  Vegas,  Nevada; 
and  KULA  at  Honolulu,  Hawaii.  We 
express  appreciation  to  these  stations  for 
their  cooperation  and  those  named  this 
morning  and  those  given  to  you  the 
first  session  of  the  Conference. 


The  Conference  will  also  be  tele- 
vised over  KSL  television  station,  chan- 
nel five. 

This  morning  at  8:30  o'clock,  Elder 
John  Longden,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve, 
was  a  speaker  over  NBC's  "Faith  in 
Action"  series.  His  address  heard  in  this 
area  over  KDYL  was  entitled,  "Christ 
the  Lord  is  Risen." 

The  Choir  singing  for  this  morning's 
session  of  the  conference,  will  be  by 
the  Tabernacle  Choir,  J.  Spencer  Corn- 
wall conducting,  and  Frank  W.  Asper 
at  the  organ.  We  shall  begin  the  serv- 
ices by  the  Choir  and  Congregation 
singing,  "Come,  Come  Ye  Saints,"  con- 
ducted by  Richard  P.  Condie.  The 
opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
Fauntleroy  Hunsaker,  President  of  the 
East  Los  Angeles  Stake. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  joined 
in  singing  the  hymn,  "Come,  Come, 
Ye  Saints." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
President  Fauntleroy  Hunsaker  of  the 
East  Los  Angeles  Stake. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing, 
"Our  Father  Which  Art  in  Heaven, 
Hallowed  Be  Thy  Name,"  dedicated  to 
the  Tabernacle  Choir  by  the  composer, 
whose  name  is  McGinsey. 

The  Choir  will  now  sing.  Following 
the  Choir  we  shall  hear  from  Presi- 
dent J.  Reuben  Clark  of  the  First 
Presidency. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  a  num- 
ber, "Our  Father  Which  Art  In  Heaven, 
Hallowed  Be  Thy  Name." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

As  announced,  our  first  speaker  this 
morning  will  be  President  J.  Reuben 
Clark,  Jr.  of  the  First  Presidency.  He 
will  be  followed  by  Elder  Clifford  E. 
Young,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve.  Presi- 
dent Clark. 


64 

Sunday,  April  5 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


Second  Day 


m: 


'y  brethren  and  sisters:  To  my 
own  prayer  I  humbly  ask  you  to 
Ladd  yours,  to  strengthen  me  in  my 
weakness,  and  to  so  order  it  that  what 
I  shall  say  in  the  few  minutes  I  stand 
before  you  may  be  helpful  and  up- 
building to  all  of  us. 

Today  is  the  day  in  which  we  com- 
memorate the  resurrection  of  our  Lord 
and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ.  Always  on 
this  day,  I  like  to  run  over  in  my  mind 
the  events  that  happened  on  that  morn- 
ing of  the  resurrection.  We  cannot  be 
too  certain  of  the  order,  but  it  could 
have  been,  and  probably  was,  as  I  shall 
attempt  to  narrate. 

Before  it  was  light,  while  it  was  still 
dark,  Mary  Magdalene,  the  great  lover, 
went  to  the  tomb  of  Jesus  and  found 
the  stone  rolled  back.  Looking  in,  she 
perceived  the  body  was  not  there.  She 
hastened  back  to  Peter  and  John  and 
told  them.  They,  running,  John  out- 
running Peter,  reached  the  tomb.  John 
looked  in  but  did  not  enter.  Courageous 
Peter,  coming  up,  strode  in  and  saw 
the  burial  clothes  lying  about.  They 
then  apparently  returned  to  their  quar- 
ters. 

Mary  Followed 

It  seems  that  Mary  followed  along 
after  Peter  and  John,  and,  seeing  a  fig- 
ure, she  approached  the  figure,  think- 
ing it  was  the  gardener,  and  asked 
where  they  had  lain  her  Lord.  The 
figure  spoke,  "Mary."  She  recognized 
him  and  would  have  embraced  him, 
but  he  said,  "Touch  me  not;  for  I  am 
not  yet  ascended  to  my  Father:  but 
go  to  my  brethren,  and  say  unto  them, 
I  ascend  unto  my  Father,  and  your 
Father;  and  to  my  God,  and  your  God." 
(John  20:17.) 

Shortly  afterwards,  the  women  from 
Galilee,  carrying  spices  with  them  to 
prepare  the  body  of  Jesus  for  its  final 
burial,  came  up.  They  looked  in  and 
the  angels  inside  the  tomb  said,  "Ye 
seek  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  which  was  cruci- 
fied." (Mark  16:6.)    "...  Why  seek  ye 


the  living  among  the  dead?  He  is  not 
here,  but  is  risen."  (Luke  24:5-6.)  I  am 
sure  that  at  this  moment,  if  not  before, 
the  dense  darkness  that  had  enshrouded 
this  great  Western  Hemisphere  broke, 
the  clouds  rolled  back,  the  light  came, 
for  the  life  and  the  light  of  the  world 
had  left  the  tomb. 

The  angels  told  the  women  to  go 
and  notify  the  disciples.  They  did,  but 
the  disciples  thought  the  words  were 
idle  tales  and  believed  not. 

Appears  to  Peter 

Later  in  the  day,  two  of  the  disciples 
were  on  their  way  to  Emmaus.  The 
Lord  drew  near  and  walked  with  them. 
They  did  not  know  him.  He  inquired 
as  to  their  sadness  as  they  walked.  They 
asked  if  he  did  not  know  what  had 
happened  in  Jerusalem  in  these  days. 
He  feigned  an  ignorance  of  what  they 
were  thinking.  They  recounted  the 
arrest,  the  trial,  the  crucifixion,  and 
the  empty  tomb.  Declaring  to  them, 
"O  fools,  and  slow  of  heart  to  believe," 
(Ibid.,  25.)  he  explained  to  them  all 
the  prophets  that  had  prophesied  con- 
cerning this  great  event.  They  entered 
the  village  and  sat  at  meat;  he  broke 
bread  and  blessed  it.  Then  they  recog- 
nized him  as  he  vanished  from  their 
sight. 

During  the  same  day  he  appeared 
to  Simon  Peter.  In  the  evening,  of  the 
same  day,  the  ten  disciples  (Thomas 
absent)  had  assembled  together  in  a 
room.  The  doors  and  windows  were 
shut,  but  suddenly  Christ  stood  in  their 
midst.  They  were  affrighted.  He  dis- 
closed himself  to  them,  and  ate  with 
them. 

A  week  later,  the  disciples  were  again 
assembled  together,  Thomas  this  time 
being  there.  He  had  said  he  would 
not  believe  unless  he  could  touch  the 
body  of  the  Savior.  Christ  came  again 
to  them,  though  the  doors  were  shut, 
and  again  instructed  them. 

Thereafter,  at  the  sea  of  Tiberias,  he 
appeared  to  several  of  the  disciples, 


PRESIDENT  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  ]R. 


65 


those  who  had  gone  fishing,  thinking 
their  work  was  over.  Then  took  place 
that  great  conference,  where  he  asked 
Peter  if  Peter  loved  him,  and  Peter 
saying  "Yes,"  Jesus  said,  "Feed  my 
sheep."  (John  21:17.) 

He  appeared  to  James,  apparently 
separately,  then  to  a  great  multitude, 
then  again  to  the  disciples  at  the  time 
of  the  ascension.  He  continued  to  walk 
with  them  at  times  over  a  period  of 
forty  days,  and  then  came  the  ascen- 
sion. 

Thus  his  resurrection  was  abundantly 
verified. 

The  Jews  and  the  pagans  of  the  time 
seem  to  have  had  little  difficulty  with 
the  idea  of  a  Messiahship.  The  pagan 
theology  was  filled  with  pseudo-gods 
and  goddesses  who  were  merely  glorified 
human  beings.  They  could  glimpse  a 
Messiahship.  But  they  seemed  to  have 
had  no  concept  of  the  resurrection. 

Apostasy  Began 

Early  in  the  Christian  Church  there 
began  to  arise  heresies  regarding  the 
Christ.  These  heresies  were  aided  by 
the  attempt  of  the  early  Christians  to 
harmonize  their  beliefs  with  the  pagan 
beliefs,  by  adopting  pagan  beliefs.  But, 
finally,  in  the  main,  these  basic  anti- 
Christ  heresies  disappeared,  and  Jesus 
was  recognized  as  the  Christ. 

Then  the  apostasy  began.  The  Church 
began  to  transgress  the  laws,  to  change 
the  ordinances,  and  to  break  the  ever- 
lasting covenant.  The  simple  principles 
of  Christ's  gospel  were  lost  or  changed. 
That  was  the  first  great  apostasy. 

But  as  time  went  on,  some  of  the  an- 
cient heresies  reappeared,  and  this  re- 
appearance has  been  increasing  in  vol- 
ume. The  heresies  began  to  question 
whether  Jesus  was  the  Christ,  and  that 
question,  of  course,  really  questions  the 
Messiahship.  Today  one  great  body  of 
the  Christian  world  has  abandoned 
Christ  as  the  Messiah,  the  Atoning 
Sacrifice,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world; 
they  regard  him  now  only  as  a  great 
teacher  and  philosopher. 

Another  great  section  of  the  present 


Christian  world  has  more  or  less  taken 
away  from  the  Savior  a  great  part  of 
that  spiritual  personality  which  he  gave 
himself,  and  which  his  early  Apostles 
gave,  and  which  we  give  him.  They 
are  dividing  their  worship  between  him 
and  his  mother. 

We  know,  and  it  is  our  responsibility 
to  carry  forward  what  we  do  know,  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  he  is  the  Son 
of  God,  that  he  was  in  truth  an  atoning 
sacrifice  for  the  fall,  that  through  him 
and  by  him  all  mortals,  whoever  they 
are,  will  be  resurrected,  that  through 
his  gospel  and  by  it,  all  may  be  saved, 
not  only,  but  exalted  in  the  kingdom 
of  God. 

It  seems  that  we  are  almost  alone  in 
clinging  to  the  Christ  as  he  described 
himself  and  declared  himself.  This 
must  be  because  we  are  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Ours 
is  the  responsibility  to  see  to  it  that 
no  act  or  thought  or  teaching  of  ours 
shall  in  any  way  question  the  divinity 
of  Jesus,  nor  in  any  way  question  that 
he  was  the  Son  of  God,  nor  in  any 
way  question  the  atoning  sacrifice  which 
he  made  for  us.  If  we  do,  we  shall 
become  guilty  of  that  great  offense 
where  we  shall  crucify  to  ourselves  the 
Son  of  God  afresh,  for  which  I  am  sure 
we  shall  hardly  gain  forgiveness. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  cling  to  the 
Savior.  Accept  him  as  he,  himself, 
described  himself:  "I  am  the  light  and 
the  life  of  the  world."  (Ibid.,  8:12.) 
Salvation  comes  only  through  him,  and 
as  Peter  said  to  his  accusers:  "...  there 
is  none  other  name  under  heaven  given 
among  men,  whereby  we  must  be  saved." 
(Acts  4:12.) 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  keep  this 
testimony  in  our  hearts  and  increase 
it;  may  he  give  us  the  courage  proudly 
to  proclaim  it;  may  our  influence  in  the 
world  be  extended  until  we  shall  be 
able  to  bring  the  righteous  everywhere 
to  the  knowledge  which  we  possess, 
that  they,  along  with  us,  if  we  shall 
hold  our  course,  shall  be  saved  and 
exalted  in  the  celestial  kingdom,  I  hum- 
bly pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


66  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  5  Second  Day 

President  David  O.  McKay:  of  the  Twelve.    Brother  Young  will  be 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Clif-  followed  by  President  Oscar  A.  Kirkham, 
ford  E.  Young,  Assistant  to  the  Council    of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy. 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  may  I  ex- 
press to  you  my  deep  gratitude  for 
the   privilege   of   attending  this 
conference. 

The  opening,  impressive  address  of 
President  Clark  to  which  we  have 
just  listened  has  stimulated  our  faith 
and  given  us  renewed  hope,  and  I 
therefore  trust  that  I  shall  say  nothing 
to  detract  from  it,  for  I  have  in  my 
heart  on  this  occasion  to  say  only  that 
which  will  add  to  the  spirit  of  this 
glorious  day. 

There  are  one  or  two  things  that 
come  to  my  mind  as  I  contemplate  the 
mission  of  our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus 
Christ:  things  that  apply  to  us  in  our 
daily  lives.  You  will  remember  that 
as  the  Savior  hung  on  the  cross,  his 
suffering  was  such  that  he  sweat 
great  drops  of  blood,  yet  he  offered  that 
memorable  prayer,  "Father,  forgive 
them;  for  they  know  not  what  they  do." 
(Luke  23:34.) 

A  few  days  after  the  Savior  had 
ascended  into  heaven,  Peter  and  John 
went  to  the  temple  to  pray.  It  was 
the  ninth  hour  of  the  day,  and  as  they 
entered  the  temple,  they  noticed  a 
beggar,  one  who  was  brought  to  the 
temple  everyday  to  ask  for  alms.  He 
had  been  afflicted  from  his  birth,  and 
was  unable  to  walk.  Peter  seeing  him 
said, 

.  .  .  Silver  and  gold  have  I  none;  but 
such  as  I  have  give  I  thee:  In  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Nazareth,  rise  up  and  walk. 

And  he  took  him  by  the  right  hand, 
and  lifted  him  up:  and  immediately  his 
feet  and    ankle   bones  received  strength. 

And  he  leaping  up  stood,  and  walked, 
and  entered  with  them  into  the  temple, 
walking,  and  leaping,  and  praising  God. 
(Acts  3:6-8.) 

This  incident  created  quite  a  sensa- 


tion because  later  on  multitudes  fol- 
lowed Peter  and  John  seeking  to  know 
more  of  the  power  by  which  this  great 
miracle  had  been  performed.  And  then 
Peter,  recognizing  that  some  of  the  very 
throng  were  those  who  had  participated 
in  the  crucifixion  said  to  them: 

"And  now,  brethren,  I  wot  that 
through  ignorance  ye  did  it,  as  did  also 
your  rulers."  (Ibid.,  3.T7.)  We  read 
that  there  were  rulers  with  the  multi- 
tude at  the  crucifixion.  "I  know  that 
through  your  ignorance  ye  did  it,"  is 
what  Peter  said  to  them;  thus  in  accord 
with  what  the  Savior  had  said,  "Father, 
forgive  them;  for  they  know  not  what 
they  do."  (Luke  23:34.)  Then  Peter 
went  on  to  say: 

Repent  ye  therefore,  and  be  converted, 
that  your  sins  may  be  blotted  out,  when 
the  times  of  refreshing  shall  come  from 
the  presence  of  the  Lord; 

And  he  shall  send  Jesus  Christ,  which 
before  was  preached  unto  you: 

Whom  the  heaven  must  receive  until  the 
times  of  restitution  of  all  things,  which 
God  hath  spoken  by  the  mouth  of  all  his 
holy  prophets  since  the  world  began.  (Acts 
3:19-21.) 

This  is  an  impressive  lesson.  It  is 
a  lesson  to  you  and  me,  who  have  been 
made  partakers  of  the  truth.  Much  is 
expected  of  us,  because  we  know.  Jesus 
made  it  clear.  Peter  made  it  clear 
that  in  cases  of  ignorance,  the  Lord 
would  be  merciful,  and  kind,  and  just, 
but  with  those  who  know  and  who  have 
the  responsibility,  it  is  a  different  mat- 
ter. It  is  knowledge  that  brings  responsi- 
bility. 

I  remember  one  occasion  when  Presi- 
dent Grant  attended  one  of  our  Alpine 
Stake  meetings  where  at  that  time  I 
was  presiding.  We  called  all  the  priest- 
hood together  and  had  invited  members 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 


67 


of  the  Church  who  had  been  indifferent 
to  their  responsibilities,  and  during 
that  meeting  President  Grant  made  a 
characteristic  talk  on  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom. At  the  close  of  the  meeting,  one 
of  the  brethren  remarked  that  he  thought 
President  Grant  was  rather  harsh  in 
his  appeal  for  Latter-day  Saints  to  keep 
the  Word  of  Wisdom.  I  told  Brother 
Grant  of  the  comment,  and  he  replied, 
"I  was  not  talking  to  the  outsiders,  I 
was  talking  to  you,  to  Latter-day  Saints 
who  know  better."  I  repeat,  it  is  knowl- 
edge that  brings  accountability. 

And  so  we  have  this  lesson.  The 
Lord  is  merciful  and  just  and  kind  be- 
cause he  recognizes  that  there  is  a  dif- 
ference in  degree,  that  his  children 
are  not  all  reared  under  the  same 
environment.  Some  come  from  good 
homes,  from  Latter-day  Saint  homes, 
where  they  have  been  taught  the 
truth  and  where  they  know,  or  should 
know,  the  truth.  Others  have  come 
from  broken  homes,  where  there  is 
some  question  in  their  minds  as  to 
the  divinity  of  this  work  and  where 
there  is  a  lack  of  understanding  of  the 
truth  and  of  its  great  power.  To  them 
the  Lord  is  merciful  and  kind.  That 
is  illustrated  beautifully  in  the  story 
of  Jonah.  You  will  remember  that  the 
Lord  had  told  Jonah  to  warn  Nineveh, 
and  he  had  failed  in  his  responsibility. 
He  thought  he  knew  better  than  the 
Lord,  and  finally,  after  a  serious  ex- 
perience on  the  sea,  and  being  cast 
up  on  the  shore  by  a  great  fish,  the 
Lord  appeared  to  him  again  and  said, 
"Now,  Jonah,  you  do  as  I  told  you  to 
do."  And  this  time  Jonah  went  to 
Nineveh  and  warned  the  people  that 
if  they  did  not  turn  from  their  evil 
ways  they  would  be  destroyed.  He  did 
not  understand  that  there  was  an  op- 
portunity to  repent.  After  preaching 
to  the  people  he  went  over  on  the  side 
of  a  hill  and  sat  under  a  gourd  which 
the  Lord  had  caused  to  grow  up  to 
protect  him  from  the  sun.  By  and  by 
the  gourd  wilted,  and  as  Jonah  waited 
and  the  city  was  not  destroyed,  he 
sulked  and  felt  sorry  for  himself  and 


the  gourd.  Then  the  Lord  came  to 
him  again  and  said, 

.  .  .  Thou  hast  had  pity  on  the  gourd, 
for  the  which  thou  hast  not  laboured, 
neither  madest  it  grow;  which  came  up  in 
a  night,  and  perished  in  a  night: 

And  should  not  I  spare  Nineveh,  that 
great  city,  wherein  are  more  than  sixscore 
thousand  persons  that  cannot  discern  be- 
tween their  right  hand  and  their  left 
hand.  (Jonah  4:10-11.) 

And  so  I  say,  my  brothers  and  sisters, 
the  Lord  knows  and  understands  the 
hearts  of  the  children  of  men.  He  knows 
our  intent,  our  desires,  and  he  also 
knows  what  is  expected  of  us.  And  we 
should  know  what  is  expected  of  our- 
selves. In  harmony  with  this  thought, 
I  would  like  to  read  a  statement  that 
was  made  by  Elder  Albert  E.  Bowen 
from  this  pulpit  about  two  years  ago. 
He  said,  "The  measure  of  a  man's 
achievements  lies  not  altogether  in 
where  he  gets  to.  You  have  to  have 
regard  for  the  place  from  which  he 
started;  and  the  degree  of  his  advance- 
ment, though  he  has  not  reached  so 
high  a  place  as  one  of  his  fellows,  may 
be  greater  because  of  the  handicap  of 
the  position  from  which  he  set  out." 

We  do  not  all  start  from  the  same 
source. 

Another  thought  in  connection  with 
this  seems  to  me  to  be  fundamental 
to  repentance.  The  Lord  has  said  that 
it  is  his  glory  and  his  work  to  bring  to 
pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life 
of  his  children.  We  know  from  our 
earthly  experience  how  our  hearts  are 
drawn  toward  our  children,  and  the 
great  love  and  compassion  we  have  for 
them  even  in  their  weaknesses.  How 
great  must  be  the  compassion  and  love 
of  our  Heavenly  Father  for  us,  his 
childrenl  He  does  not  condone  sin, 
but  he  exercises  mercy  for  his  children. 
He  knows  their  weaknesses,  and  be- 
cause of  this  understanding  he  exercises 
justice  and  mercy  in  connection  with 
the  operation  of  his  divine  law. 

There  is  another  matter  to  which  I 
would  like  to  call  attention.  I  can 
only  touch  on  it  briefly.    It  is  a  mat- 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  5 

ter,  however,  that  emphasizes  the  need 
on  our  part  of  an  understanding  heart 
toward  our  children  and  also  impresses 
us  with  this  fundamental  doctrine  of  the 
Church  of  eternal  life,  of  living  again. 
We  have  a  glorious  privilege  given  to 
us  through  the  restoration  of  the  Holy 
Priesthood  by  which  we  are  permitted 
to  go  to  the  temples  of  the  Lord  and 
we  may  officiate  in  holy  ordinances 
where  parents  may  be  sealed  with  their 
children  for  time  and  all  eternity.  Have 
you  ever  stopped  to  think  what  this 
connotes,  my  brethren  and  sisters?  It 
is  eternal  life.  The  very  gift  that  was 
made  possible  on  that  first  Easter  morn- 
ing through  Jesus  Christ,  that  we  may 
live  again,  that  we  shall  not  only  live, 
but  that  we  shall  also  have  those  whom 
we  love  who  are  dearer  to  us  than  life 
itself.  Think  what  that  means.  That 
is  another  of  the  blessings  that  have 
been  vouchsafed  to  us  through  the  min- 
istry of  Jesus  Christ. 

In  this  connection  we  as  parents  have 
an  obligation  to  our  children  to  help 
them  to  prepare  for  these  blessings.  I 
sometimes  think  we  are  a  little  lax  in 
not  better  preparing  our  children  for 
the  responsibilities  of  temple  marriages. 
I  think  bishops  could  do  much  in  that 
field,  in  helping  our  young  people  to 
prepare  for  this  great  responsibility  so 
that  they  will  have  understanding  hearts 
and  will  appreciate  the  great  blessings 
of  going  to  the  house  of  the  Lord  and 
making  holy  covenants  that  will  pre- 
serve them  and  their  families  forever. 
If  all  the  young  people  of  the  Church 
could  be  impressed  with  the  importance 
of  temple  marriage,  with  all  the  sacred- 
ness  that  goes  with  it,  the  keeping 
of  covenants,  the  preservation  of  love 
and  virtue  in  every  home,  it  would 
indeed  be  one  of  the  greatest  factors  in 
banishing  hatreds,  in  eliminating  broken 
homes  and  all  the  sorrows  incident 
thereto.  It  would  ultimately  bring  peace 
to  the  world.  This  is  another  of  the 
great  blessings  that  come  to  you  and 
me  through  the  ministry  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Now  one  closing  thought — my  grand- 
mother on  my  mother's  side  was  a 


Second  Day 

Quaker.  She  joined  the  Church  in 
Westchester,  Pennsylvania  and  with  her 
family  immigrated  to  Nauvoo.  After 
the  martyrdom  of  the  Prophet  she  was 
among  those  who  moved  out  to  Winter 
Quarters  and  then  came  west  in  1847. 
I  like  to  think  of  her  as  one  of  those 
of  the  "Last  Wagon"  that  President 
Clark  so  beautifully  speaks  of  in  his 
book.  Before  her  death  she  lived  with 
my  mother,  and  I  remember  on  one  oc- 
casion as  we  sat  around  the  old  fire- 
place, Grandmother  seemed  to  be  con- 
scious of  the  fact  that  she  would  not 
be  here  very  long.  She  had  a  strong 
testimony  and  a  very  deeply  rooted 
faith.  She  had  no  fear  of  death.  She 
seemed  to  realize  fully  that  it  was 
merely  the  passing  from  this  life  to  the 
other  side.  After  discussing  some  of  the 
blessings  of  the  gospel  and  expressing 
her  gratitude  that  she  and  her  family 
had  been  made  partakers  of  its  blessings, 
she  remarked  to  my  mother  in  her 
typical  Quaker  style,  "Ibbie,  when  I  am 
gone,  thee  must  not  come  to  the  ceme- 
tery. I  will  not  be  there."  I  could  not 
quite  understand  it  then,  but  I  do 
now.  Reference  has  already  been  made 
to  the  statement  of  the  angel  to  the 
women  at  the  tomb  of  the  Savior,  "... 
Why  seek  ye  the  living  among  the 
dead?"  (Luke  24:5.)  And  I  repeat, 
why  seek  ye  the  living  among  the  dead? 
We  will  not  be  there.  That's  the  mes- 
sage of  hope  we  are  speaking  of  and 
thinking  of  today.  Our  spirits  are  eternal. 
They  do  not  die.  It  is  the  cloak  that 
covers  our  spirits  that  we  lay  aside.  I 
know,  brothers  and  sisters,  that  we  do 
not  understand  the  processes,  but  that 
does  not  change  the  eternal  truth. 

Every  day  we  learn  of  great  dis- 
coveries that  are  being  made — the  work 
of  the  astronomers,  the  galaxies  that 
are  being  discovered- — -millions  of  them, 
beyond  number.  This  scientific  age  is 
an  age  of  miracles,  and  when  we  con- 
template them,  we  cannot  help  think- 
ing how  presumptuous  of  us  to  question 
the  miracle  of  being  able  to  lay  this 
body  away,  the  cloak  of  our  spirit,  but 
that  our  spirits  may  continue  to  live.  I 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 


69 


repeat  again,  we  will  not  be  there  be- 
cause our  spirits  are  immortal!  Some  day 
we  will  come  back  just  as  the  Savior 
came  back;  and  our  bodies  will  be  healed 
through  the  great  natural  processes;  our 
spirits  will  again  enter  them;  and  we 
will  become  living  souls.  That  does 
not  mean  we  will  live  again;  we  have 
lived  all  the  time,  just  as  the  Savior 
while  his  body  was  in  the  tomb,  was 
preaching  to  those  spirits  in  prison. 

We  will  have  responsibilities.  But 
let  us  not  forget  that  at  the  cemetery 
we  are  not  there.    I  do  not  want  to 


detract  from  the  sacredness  that  you 
feel  in  your  heart  as  you  go  to  the  rest- 
ing place  of  those  whom  you  love,  not 
that  at  all.  But,  brothers  and  sisters, 
there  is  something  far  and  beyond  it 
all.  As  Jesus  was  the  Christ,  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world,  and  lived  again, 
so  we  live  again  eternal  lives,  and  we 
will  continue  to  live. 

May  God  help  us  to  appreciate  this 
and  sanctify  to  our  good  the  lessons 
learned  from  this  great  Easter  day,  I 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


I humbly  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless 
me  this  Easter  morning.  This  is 
truly  a  great  day  when  we  contem- 
plate what  is  happening  across  the  earth. 
In  ten  thousand  churches,  on  a  thou- 
sand hilltops,  everywhere,  men  and 
women  are  declaring  their  faith  in  the 
divine  mission  of  Jesus  Christ.  We  of 
the  Latter-day  Saint  Church  join  our 
voices  happily  with  the  multitudes  that 
declare  their  faith  in  God. 

One  of  the  most  striking  expressions 
of  the  Savior  is,  "He  went  about  doing 
good."  With  my  life's  work  with  youth, 
I  have  constantly  been  reminded  that 
I  must  be  practical.  Youth  lives  in 
action,  in  doing.  "He  went  about  do- 
ing good." 

I  read  also  these  words  from  Psalm 
27:11:  "Teach  me  thy  way,  O  Lord, 
and  lead  me  in  a  plain  path."  Recently 
in  a  small  village  in  Nevada,  I  was 
called  to  dedicate  a  small,  lovely  chapel. 
The  story  was  told  by  the  bishop  of 
how  they  had  a  great  struggle  to  raise 
the  money  and  do  their  part.  He  said, 
"The  time  came  when  we  had  to  get  the 
last  five  thousand  dollars  to  do  our  part." 
He  went  before  the  people  and  literally, 
not  figuratively,  but  literally  took  off  his 
coat,  and  said,  "I  will  not  put  on  my 
coat  again,  with  the  Lord's  help,  until 
we  have  raised  our  part."  And  he  went 
forward,  and  his  family  was  with  him. 
And  then  I  saw  the  joy  of  the  accom- 


plishment. My  heart  was  thrilled.  People 
came  from  distant  states.  They  rode 
down  the  valley  from  everywhere  to  be 
with  their  friends  and  neighbors,  and 
when  it  was  all  over,  a  delightful  thing 
happened.  Although  an  appointment 
called  me  to  hurry  away  to  a  neighbor- 
ing city,  as  we  looked  back  from  the  car 
window,  we  saw  the  crowd  was  still 
there,  shaking  hands  with  neighbors 
and  friends,  enjoying  the  loveliness  of 
the  occasion  and  the  spirit  of  their  ac- 
complishment. 

May  we  also  "take  off  our  coats,"  to 
do  our  part  in  this  hour  of  challenge 
and  opportunity.  May  I  suggest  one  or 
two  simple  things,  plain  things,  as 
David  said  in  the  Psalms,  which  are 
also  the  teachings  of  the  Latter-day 
Saint  Church? 

Help  someone  in  need:  Rushing  from 
one  city  to  another  to  escape  bombing 
not  long  ago,  people  by  the  thousands 
were  trying  to  find  a  way  to  safety,  in 
one  of  the  cities  of  China.  All  at  once 
in  the  rush  the  crowd  crossing  the 
bridge  stopped,  for  someone  was  hold- 
ing up  the  traffic.  It  was  a  boy.  He 
could  not  cross  the  bridge.  He  heard 
the  cry  of  a  child  that  had  fallen. 
Quickly  he  went  to  help — to  help  some- 
one in  need.  When  the  child  was 
made  safe,  he  again  hurried  on  his  way. 

Did  you  read  the  other  day  that  on 
Baldy  Hill  fifteen  American  soldiers  were 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  S 

commissioned  to  go  and  bring  out  a 
number  of  boys  that  had  been  left,  un- 
fortunately not  able  to  get  away  under 
the  fire?  They  worked  and  worked; 
they  heard  of  another  buried  some- 
where out  in  the  debris.  They  went 
again  very  early  in  the  morning  be- 
fore it  was  light.  As  they  came  to  a 
nob  of  the  hill,  they  heard  a  voice 
crying,  "Water,  water."  They  quickly 
dug.  They  rescued  a  young  man  from 
death  and  by  the  grace  of  God  carried 
him  safely  down  the  hill  where  he 
received  further  help.  There  are  many 
everywhere  calling,  "Water,  water." 

Stand  for  the  truth  and  the  right  with 
all  good  men:  In  this  very  tabernacle  I 
heard  one  evening  an  appeal  made  by 
the  queen  of  Holland.  She  told  of  the 
sorrow  of  her  people,  many  of  them 
giving  their  lives,  but  she  ended  that 
beautiful  appeal  of  deep  sincerity  with 
these  words,  "Let  us  all  do  our  best, 
and  leave  the  rest  to  God." 

President  David  O.  McKay,  addressing 
the  graduating  class  at  the  University 
of  Utah,  said: 

Young  men  and  young  women:  The  fu- 
ture awaits  you!  It's  yours!  If  you  would 
end  war  and  give  peace  to  the  world,  you 
have  campaigns  to  organize  and  conquests 
to  achieve.  These  will  be  campaigns 
planned  for  the  establishment  of  justice. 
These  are  the  conquests  of  the  soul:  whether 
it  is  better  to  walk  along  the  easy  road  to 
selfishness  and  indulgence  than  to  strive 
through  self-mastery  and  service  in  the 
realm  of  spirituality,  you  must  decide. 

Have  courage  for  prayer.  That  must 
be  part  of  the  high  resolve  of  this  con- 
ference. Courage  for  the  right  1  So 
much  is  happening  in  public  places, 
so  many  are  brought  into  contact  where 
public  opinion  is  a  power.  I  am  proud, 
and  you  are  proud,  when  you  heard  the 
President  of  the  United  States  before 
he  gave  his  inaugural  address  say,  "I 
want  to  say  a  little  prayer." 

I  went  one  day  down  to  the  station 
with  a  group  of  missionaries  to  say  good- 
bye. A  father,  my  neighbor,  was  with 
me.  There  was  a  group  about  us.  The 
stationmaster  came  out  and  said,  "It 
will  be  about  twenty  minutes  before  the 


Second  Day 

train  leaves.  Don't  go  far  away."  Then 
I  saw  my  neighbor  walk  through  the 
crowd  quickly,  his  son  on  his  arm, 
through  the  station,  and  they  were 
gone  for  a  time.  Then  I  saw  him  re- 
turn just  before  the  train  pulled  out.  He 
kissed  the  boy  good-bye,  and  the  boy 
was  off.  I  walked  over  to  my  friend 
and  said:  "I  want  to  ask  you  a  personal 
question.  I  have  a  thought  that  I 
want  to  ask  you  about  your  boy."  I 
said,  "Where  did  you  go  when  you  took 
your  boy?  Now,  pardon  me,  if  this 
is  too  private,  you  do  not  need  to  an- 
swer, but  I  have  an  idea."  He  said, 
"Oh,  I  think  you  have  the  right  idea. 
I  took  my  boy  home.  We  went  to  the 
bedroom  alone.  I  said,  'Son,  I  am  so 
proud  today,'  and  I  finally  mustered  up 
courage  to  do  what  I  should  have  done 
probably  many  times  before.  'Sit  on 
the  edge  of  the  bed,  I  want  to  bless 
you.  I  am  proud  of  you.  Mother  is 
proud  of  you.  This  is  a  great  day.' 
And  I  blessed  my  son." 

One  other  closing  story:  I  heard  it  in 
the  temple  from  one  of  the  mission 
presidents.  The  children  of  neighbors 
and  friends  often  come  with  their  play- 
mates to  the  auxiliary  organizations  of 
the  Latter-day  Saint  Church.  One  lit- 
tle girl  had  caught  the  message  on  sev- 
eral occasions  about  family  prayer. 
When  she  came  home  one  day,  she 
said  to  her  parents,  "Have  I  got  any 
rights  in  this  family?"  The  father  an- 
swered, "Why,  certainly  you  have, 
dear."  "Well,  I  want  family  prayer." 
"Well,  my  dear,  you  shall  have  family 
prayer."  But  it  went  on,  and  when  the 
occasion  came  again,  the  child  said, 
"Have  I  got  any  rights  in  this  family?" 
There  was  a  longer  pause,  more  reflec- 
tion, then,  "Yes,  dear."  And  family 
prayer  was  said. 

May  God  bless  us.  May  we  help 
someone  in  need.  May  we  stand  for 
the  truth  and  right.  May  we  have 
courage  for  prayer.  "Teach  me  in  thy 
way,  O  Lord,  and  lead  me  in  a  plain 
path."  (Psalms  27:11.)  May  we  as  he 
did  ever  go  about  doing  good,  I  pray,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


71 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder    LeGrand    Richards    of  the 


Council  of  the  Twelve  will  now  speak 
to  us,  and  he  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Bruce  McConkie. 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


At  the  opening  session  of  this  great 
conference  yesterday,  President  David  ' 
O.  McKay  gave  us  two  great  objec- 
tives: the  one,  to  put  our  homes  in 
order,  and  the  second,  to  proclaim  the 
divine  mission  of  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world.  We  have  listened  to  some  beau- 
tiful talks  on  those  subjects,  and  par- 
ticularly on  the  mission  of  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world  since  that  opening  address, 
especially  appropriate  in  view  of  the 
fact  that  today  is  Easter,  when  all  the 
Christian  world  is  celebrating  that  event. 

I  should  like  to  tell  you  an  experi- 
ence I  had  while  laboring  as  a  mis- 
sionary in  New  Bedford,  Massachusetts, 
some  years  ago.  We  were  approaching 
the  Easter  Sunday,  and  I  had  a  discus- 
sion with  a  minister  of  the  gospel  about 
the  mission  of  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world.  I  had  him  explain  to  me  the 
God  in  whom  he  believed.  Naturally, 
in  keeping  with  the  ordinary  orthodox 
Christian  view,  he  explained  how  God 
the  Father,  and  God  the  Son  and  God 
the  Holy  Ghost  were  one  God,  and 
then  he  went  on  to  indicate  their  works 
and  said,  in  substance,  that  they  were 
so  large  that  they  filled  the  whole  uni- 
verse, and  so  small  that  they  could 
dwell  in  our  hearts;  that  they  were 
the  life  of  the  plants  and  flowers  and 
everything  around  us.  And  then  I  inter- 
jected this  question,  "What  are  we 
celebrating  this  week?"  And  he  said, 
"The  Easter."  I  said,  "What  does  that 
really  mean?"  "Well,"  he  said,  "it's 
the  resurrection  of  Christ."  I  said,  "Just 
what  do  you  mean  by  the  resurrection 
of  Christ?"  Then  I  led  him  to  ex- 
plain. I  said,  "You  mean  that  the 
stone  was  actually  rolled  away  and  that 
when  the  women  came  to  the  tomb  that 
the  angels  proclaimed  that  he  was  not 
there,  that  he  was  arisen,  that  the  very 


body  that  was  taken  down  from  the 
cross  and  laid  in  that  tomb  had  arisen?" 
And  he  admitted  that  that  was  true. 

And  I  said  that  in  that  body  he  ap- 
peared to  his  disciples  and  when  doubt- 
ing Thomas  questioned  the  fact  that  he 
was  actually  the  Redeemer  whom  they 
had  known,  he  asked  Thomas  to  put 
his  hand  in  the  wound  in  Jesus'  side 
and  feel  the  prints  in  his  hands,  and 
see  that  "I  am  the  same,"  for,  said  he, 
"A  spirit  hath  not  flesh  and  bones,  as 
ye  see  me  have."  (See  Luke  24:39.) 
And  to  indicate  further  the  fact  that 
he  had  that  same  body  that  was  laid 
away  in  the  tomb,  he  took  fish  and 
honeycomb  and  ate  with  them.  I  said, 
"Now  that  was  the  same  body  that  he 
laid  away  in  the  tomb,  wasn't  it?"  And 
he  agreed  that  it  was. 

And  then  I  led  him  on  through  the 
experience  of  the  Savior  in  ministering 
among  his  disciples  for  forty  days  until 
in  the  presence  of  five  hundred  of  the 
brethren  he  was  carried  away  in  the 
clouds  of  heaven,  and  two  men  dressed 
in  white  apparel  stood  and  said,  as  the 
brethren  gazed  into  heaven  to  watch 
him  ascend,  "...  Ye  men  of  Galilee, 
why  stand  ye  gazing  up  into  heaven? 
this  same  Jesus,  which  is  taken  up  from 
you  into  heaven,  shall  so  come  in  like 
manner  as  ye  have  seen  him  go  into 
heaven."  (Acts  1:11.)  And  he  agreed 
that  that  actually  happened. 

And  then  I  said,  "My  friend,  where 
is  the  body  that  Jesus  took  out  of  the 
tomb,  if  he  and  the  Father  are  one, 
and  an  essence  everywhere  present  in 
the  world?  Would  you  say  that  Jesus 
died  a  second  death  and  laid  his  body 
down  again?"  And  he  thought  for  a 
few  minutes.  He  said,  "I  am  afraid  I 
can't  answer  that.  I  have  never  thought 
of  it  before  in  that  way." 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  5 

Now,  brothers  and  sisters,  I  thank 
God  that  we  have  a  recommitment  to 
this  earth  in  our  day  and  time  that 
he  does  have  his  body,  that  he  does 
actually  exist  as  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world,  that  he  did  break  the  bands  of 
death,  that  the  grave  might  have  no 
victory  in  that  it  delivered  up  his  body, 
as  it  will  do  for  all  of  us,  of  which  we 
have  heard  such  wonderful  testimonies 
here  in  this  conference. 

Sometime  ago,  Brother  Clifford  Young 
gave  a  Church  of  the  Air  address.  He 
told  me  following  that  of  some  of  the 
letters  he  had  received  commenting  on 
his  address.  And  one  was  from  a 
minister  of  the  gospel,  in  which  he  said 
something  like  this:  "It  pleases  me 
greatly  to  know  that  the  Mormons  be- 
lieve in  the  Christ."  I  have  thought 
a  great  deal  about  that  statement  since, 
and  I  have  thought  of  the  feeling  the 
world  has  toward  our  people.  I  have 
compared  it  to  the  time  when  Paul 
stood  at  Rome  to  be  judged,  and  they 
said  unto  him,  "...  we  desire  to  hear 
of  thee  what  thou  thinkest:  for  as  con- 
cerning this  sect,  we  know  that  every 
where  it  is  spoken  against."  (Acts 
28:22.)  Why  did  they  speak  against 
it?  Was  it  not  the  same  when  Paul 
stood  there  bound  in  chains,  when  he 
delivered  that  marvelous  testimony  be- 
fore Agrippa  and  Festus,  when  Agrippa 
said,  "Almost  thou  persuadest  me  to  be 
a  Christian."  (Ibid.,  26:28.)  And  Festus 
said,  "...  thou  art  beside  thyself; 
much  learning  doth  make  thee  mad." 
(Ibid.,  26:24.)  To  which  Paul  replied, 
"I  am  not  mad,  most  noble  Festus;  but 
speak  forth  the  words  of  truth  and 
soberness."  (Ibid.,  26:25.)  And  then 
he  said:  "I  would  to  God,  that  not  only 
thou,  but  also  all  that  hear  me  this 
day,  were  both  almost,  and  altogether 
such  as  I  am,  except  these  bonds." 
(Ibid.,  26:29.)  Think  of  Saul  just  short- 
ly before  that,  when  they  laid  at  his 
feet  the  cloaks  of  those  who  stoned 
and  put  to  death  Stephen,  the  prophet 
of  God.  And  you  remember  how 
Stephen  gazed  into  heaven  and  saw 
Jesus  sitting  on  the  right  hand  of  his 


Second  Day 

Father.  And  then  Saul  went  from  that 
experience  into  Damascus  with  an  order 
to  persecute  the  Christians. 

That  is  just  like  the  world.  They 
don't  understand,  and  so  they  malign 
us,  and  they  tell  all  manner  of  things 
that  are  not  true,  and  they  do  not  have 
the  right  conception,  just  like  Paul  of 
old.  But  when  the  testimony  had  come 
.  to  Paul,  he  was  a  different  man.  The 
Church  hadn't  changed;  Christ  hadn't 
changed;  his  truth  was  the  same;  but 
Saul  of  Tarsus  had  changed.  He  was 
now  Paul,  the  Apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ. 

A  short  time  ago  I  sent  one  of  our 
Church  books  to  a  distant  relative  on 
my  mother's  side,  back  in  Massachu- 
setts. My  cousin,  Merlin  Steed,  had  been 
there  and  had  visited  him.  He  wrote 
Merlin  a  letter  and  said  he  had  spent 
three  weeks  reading  the  book.  He  said, 
"It  is  a  great  eye  opener  to  me.  It  is 
the  first  book  I  have  ever  read  in  favor 
of  the  Mormons."  And  then  he  added 
this  statement,  "I  doubt  if  you  have 
any  idea  of  the  fantastic  yarns  that 
are  current  in  New  England  concerning 
the  Mormon  Church.  Some  of  them 
are  so  wild  that  I  doubt  if  the  persons 
who  tell  them  really  believe  what  they 
are  saying  themselves." 

That  is  what  we  have  to  meet  in  the 
world.  If  the  Lord  would  but  take 
that  prejudice  out  of  their  hearts!  I 
ask  this  question:  Why  did  they  perse- 
cute the  saints  of  old?  Why  did  they 
put  to  death  the  Apostles  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ?  Why  did  they  crucify 
our  Lord?  Only  because  of  the  dark- 
ness that  covered  their  minds  and  the 
efforts  of  the  evil  one  to  destroy  the 
work  of  God  in  the  earth,  and  for 
that  same  reason,  they  misunderstand 
the  motives  of  this  great  Church  today. 

I  had  an  experience  in  Oregon  after 
my  first  mission.  I  had  spent  some 
time  with  a  prominent  businessman. 
He  didn't  know  I  was  a  Mormon,  and 
he  painted  the  Mormons  and  the  Mor- 
mon missionaries  so  black  it  almost 
made  my  blood  run  cold.  When  he 
was  through,  I  said,  "My  friend,  now 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


73 


don't  you  feel  embarrassed,  because,"  I 
said,  "you  are  sitting  right  here  at  the 
side  of  a  Mormon  missionary."  He  went 
red  in  the  face,  and  I  said,  "I  forgive 
you,"  because  I  had  qualified  him  be- 
fore. I  said,  "Have  you  ever  read  a 
Mormon  book?"  He  said,  "No."  I 
said,  "Have  you  ever  met  a  Mormon?" 
And  he  said,  "No."  I  said,  "I  forgive 
you  because  you  are  not  supposed  to 
know  any  better.  Where  did  you  get 
your  information  from?"  "Oh,"  he 
said,  "you  hear  it  on  the  streets,  and 
you  read  it  in  the  magazines  and  in 
the  newspapers;  everybody  knows  what 
the  Mormons  are." 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  if  there  is 
any  Church  in  this  world  that  really 
believes  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  surely 
it  is  the  Latter-day  Saints.  No  Church 
has  ever  exalted  him  as  has  this  Church. 
He  is  the  head  of  the  Church,  literally, 
as  the  man  is  the  head  of  the  woman; 
the  Church  bears  his  name;  and  there 
was  no  other  Church  in  the  world  that 
bore  his  name  when  he  committed  it 
to  this  Church  and  commanded  that 
the  Church  should  be  named  after  him. 
The  whole  premise  of  Mormonism  is 
based  upon  the  fact  that  the  Father 
and  the  Son  literally  appeared  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  They  couldn't 
have  done  that  if  they  were  only  an 
essence,  everywhere  present  in  the 
world.  With  that  glorified  body  that 
Jesus  took  out  of  the  tomb,  he  appeared 
to  Joseph  Smith,  and  if  that  thing  did 
not  actually  transpire,  we  have  no  right 
to  be  assembled  here  in  a  conference 
claiming  to  be  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ.  And  if  it  did  actually  transpire, 
then  all  the  people  of  this  world  will 
ultimately  have  to  accept  of  the  work 
that  he  established  through  the  Prophet 
that  he  raised  up  in  this  dispensation. 

We  have  had  testimony  borne  here 
today  of  how  he  appeared'to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  and  Sidney  Rigdon,  and 
I  would  like  to  leave  this  thought  with 
you.  It  wasn't  only  what  Jesus  taught. 
You  remember  that  he  said  to  those  of 
old,  "If  ye  believe  not  my  words,  be- 
lieve then  my  works."    Here  are  the 


works  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the  estab- 
lishment of  his  great  Church. 

As  I  have  sat  here  in  this  conference, 
I  have  thought  of  the  words  of  Nephi  of 
old  who  saw  our  day  and  the  coming 
forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the 
establishment  of  the  kingdom  of  God 
upon  the  earth,  and  he  said  he  saw  the 
Saints  of  God  scattered  upon  the  face 
of  the  whole  earth  and  the  power  of 
God  resting  upon  them  in  great  glory. 
And  I  testify  to  you  that  the  power  of 
God  is  with  this  Church  in  great  glory 
today. 

I  would  like  to  add  another  thought. 
Jesus  said,  "Not  every  one  that  saith 
unto  me,  Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into 
the  kingdom  of  heaven;  but  he  that 
doeth  the  will  of  my  Father,  which  is 
in  heaven."  (Matt  7:21.)  In  the  world 
today,  in  the  Christian  world,  there 
are  too  many  just  saying,  "Lord,  Lord," 
and  they  are  not  doing  the  will  of  our 
Father.  Then  I  remind  you  that  when 
Jesus  stood  on  the  Mount  of  Olives 
overlooking  Jerusalem  and  recalled  how 
they  had  rejected  him,  he  cried  out, 
as  it  were,  in  the  anguish  of  his  soul, 

0  Jerusalem,  Jerusalem,  thou  that  killest 
the  prophets,  and  stonest  them  which  are 
sent  unto  thee,  how  often  would  I  have 
gathered  thy  children  together,  even  as  a 
hen  gathereth  her  chickens  under  her  wings, 
and  ye  would  not!  (Ibid.,  23:37.) 

And  then  he  said, 

Behold,  your  house  is  left  unto  you  deso- 
late. 

For  I  say  unto  you,  Ye  shall  not  see  me 
henceforth,  till  ye  shall  say,  Blessed  is  he 
that  cometh  in  the  name  of  the  Lord. 
(Ibid.,  23:38-39.) 

Now  I  want  to  tell  you  that  when 
God  the  Eternal  Father,  through  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ,  sends  a  prophet  unto 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  when  they 
reject  the  prophet  of  God,  they  reject 
Christ  the  Lord.  That,  he  has  de- 
clared through  his  own  words. 

1  would  like  to  call  your  attention  to 
the  promise  in  the  Book  of  Mormon 
of  the  prophet  that  God  declared  he 
would  send,  the  promise  he  made  to 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  5 

Joseph  who  was  sold  into  Egypt  that  in 
the  latter  days  out  of  his  seed,  he 
would  raise  up  a  choice  seer  and  prophet 
like  unto  Moses.  And  then  I  remind 
you  that  in  holy  writ  we  read  that 
there  was  no  prophet  in  Israel  like  unto 
Moses  because  Moses  talked  with  God 
face  to  face,  as  one  man  speaks  with 
his  friend.  According  to  the  scriptures, 
most  of  the  prophets  received  the  word 
of  God  by  inspiration,  but  Moses  talked 
with  God,  and  God  declared  that  in 
this  day  he  would  raise  up  a  prophet 
like  unto  Moses.  And  then  he  said, 
"Unto  him  will  I  give  power  to  bring 
forth  my  word,"  and  there  isn't  time 
to  recount,  but  you  just  think  of  what 
the  Lord  has  brought  forth  through  this 
modern  Prophet.  Then  he  said,  "And 
not  to  the  bringing  forth  my  word  only 
— but  to  the  convincing  them  of  my 
word  which  shall  already  have  gone 
forth  among  them,"  and  that  is  what 
the  missionaries  of  this  Church  are  do- 
ing all  over  the  world.  They  are  open- 
ing the  Bible,  the  stick  of  Judah,  and 
teaching  the  people  things  they  have 
never  heard  of.  I  have  told  people  in 
the  mission  field  plenty  of  times  that 
I  would  show  them  out  of  that  book 


Second  Day 

things  they  had  never  read  in  their 
lives,  I  didn't  care  how  many  times 
they  had  read  it.  And  then  the  Lord 
declared  that  "the  thing  which  the 
Lord  shall  bring  forth"  by  this  Prophet 
like  unto  Moses,  "shall  bring  my  people 
unto  salvation." 

Brothers  and  sisters,  I  leave  my  testi- 
mony with  you  that  the  resurrected 
Christ  lives  today,  that  he  is  directing 
his  Church,  that  he  has  raised  up  a 
Prophet  like  unto  Moses  of  old,  and 
that  if  we  will  follow  his  teachings 
they  will  lead  us  unto  salvation.  May 
God  help  each  one  of  us  to  do  this 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


The  Choir  and  the  congregation  sang 
the  hymn,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God, 
For  A  Prophet." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  LeGrand  Richards,  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve,  has  just  concluded 
speaking.  We  shall  now  hear  from 
Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy.  He  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter. 


T 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


he  Holy  Ghost 


is  the  gift  of  God  unto  all  those  who 
diligently  seek  him,  as  well  in  times  of  old 
as  in  the  time  that  he  should  manifest 
himself  unto  the  children  of  men. 

For  he  is  the  same  yesterday,  today, 
and  forever;  and  the  way  is  prepared  for 
all  men  from  the  foundation  of  the  world, 
if  it  so  be  that  they  repent  and  come  unto 
him. 

For  he  that  diligently  seeketh  shall  find; 
and  the  mysteries  of  God  shall  be  unfolded 
unto  them,  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
as  well  in  these  times  as  in  times  of  old, 
and  as  well  in  times  of  old  as  in  times 
to  come;  wherefore,  the  course  of  the  Lord 
is  one  eternal  round.   (1  Ne.  10:17-19.) 

The  Father,  a  personage  of  tabernacle 


having  flesh  and  bones,  begat  us  as 
spirits  in  the  beginning  and  ordained  the 
plan  whereby  we  might  have  power  to 
grow  in  intelligence  and  knowledge 
and  become  like  him. 

The  Son,  his  Firstborn  in  the  spirit 
and  Only  Begotten  in  the  flesh,  under 
his  direction,  became  the  Creator  and 
Redeemer  of  the  earth  and  all  things 
that  are  on  it.  From  time  to  time  he 
has  revealed  to  men  the  plan  of  salva- 
tion, the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

The  Holy  Ghost,  a  personage  of 
spirit,  is  their  minister,  who  has  been 
given  the  power  and  assigned  the  func- 
tions of  bearing  record  of  the  Father 
and  the  Son,  of  revealing  the  truths 


ELDER  BRUCE 

of  salvation  to  men  on  earth,  and  in 
due  course,  of  revealing  to  them,  all 
truth. 

Now,  when  Christ  was  here  in  his 
ministry,  he  told  his  Apostles  that  when 
he  went  away,  he  would  send  them 
another  Comforter — that  is  a  Comforter 
other  than  he,  himself,  for  he  was  a 
comfort  unto  them — and  that  this  Com- 
forter would  recall  to  their  minds  all 
things  that  he  had  told  them,  and 
would  guide  them  into  all  truth.  And 
when  he  said  they  would  be  guided  into 
all  truth,  I  believe  that  he  meant  it 
literally,  and  that  in  due  course — not 
in  time,  but  in  eternity — they  would 
obtain  a  fulness  of  truth,  even  as  Christ 
himself,  having  gone  from  grace  to 
grace,  has  received  a  fulness  of  truth, 
and  a  fulness  of  the  glory  of  the  Father. 

But  the  thing  that  we  are  concerned 
with  here  in  mortality,  is  to  have  the 
Holy  Ghost  reveal  to  us  the  things  of 
God,  the  knowledge  that  God  is  our 
Father,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  his  Son,  liter- 
ally born  of  him  in  the  flesh,  and  that 
the  kingdom  of  God  has  been  set  up  on 
earth  again  for  the  last  time,  that  we, 
with  the  ancients,  might  be  heirs  of 
the  fulness  of  the  Father's  kingdom. 

We  believe  that  it  is  life  eternal  to 
know  God  and  Jesus  Christ,  whom  he 
has  sent,  and  that  these  glorious  beings 
are  manifest  by  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost. 

We  believe  that  man  is  saved  no 
faster  than  he  gains  knowledge,  mean- 
ing knowledge  of  God  and  of  his  laws, 
as  these  things  are  revealed  by  the 
Holy  Ghost. 

We  believe  that  no  man  can  be  saved 
in  ignorance,  meaning  in  ignorance  of 
God  and  his  laws,  of  Jesus  Christ,  and 
the  truths  of  the  gospel,  as  these  things 
are  made  manifest  by  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost. 

You  will  recall  it  was  Paul  who  said: 

.  .  .  Eye  hath  not  seen,  nor  ear  heard, 
neither  have  entered  into  the  heart  of  man, 
the  things  which  God  hath  prepared  for 
them  that  love  him. 

But  God  hath  revealed  them  unto  us 
by  his  Spirit:  for  the  Spirit  searcheth  all 
things,  yea,  the  deep  things  of  God. 


R.  McCONKIE  75 

For  what  man  knoweth  the  things  of  a 
man,  save  the  spirit  of  man  which  is  in 
him?  even  so  the  things  of  God  knoweth 
no  man,  but  the  Spirit  of  God.  (I  Cor. 
2:9-11.) 

Now  the  truths  about  God  and  sal- 
vation are  not  gained  by  the  wisdom 
of  men.  They  are  not  to  be  found  by 
the  research  of  the  world.  They  are 
not  found  in  the  creeds  of  men,  for  the 
Lord  has  said  that  those  creeds  are  an 
abomination  in  his  sight.  God  stands 
revealed,  or  he  remains  forever  un- 
known. Knowledge  about  God  and 
about  the  divinity  of  Jesus  Christ  and 
the  great  atoning  sacrifice  which  he 
worked  out  is  had  in  the  world  today, 
by  us,  because  God  has  spoken  in  this 
day,  and  has  given  these  truths  again, 
by  the  same  direct  revelation  that  he 
gave  them  in  times  of  old. 

The  Holy  Ghost  has  been  given  to 
righteous  men  from  the  beginning  so 
they  could  certify  of  the  truths  about 
God  and  salvation.  He  has  been  the 
companion  of  those  who  have  presided 
over  the  Church  and  the  kingdom  in 
every  age,  and  by  his  power  they  have 
received  revelation  and  given  guidance 
to  the  people  of  the  Church  and  to 
all  people  in  the  world.  And  when 
these  brethren  speak,  these  brethren, 
the  First  Presidency  and  the  Twelve, 
who  are  prophets,  and  seers,  and  rev- 
elators,  it  is  by  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  and  what  they  say  is  the  mind 
and  the  will  of  the  Lord. 

Last  night  when  President  McKay 
said,  speaking  of  present-day  conditions 
and  what  is  needed  in  the  world  now, 
that  the  Lord  desired  that  this  gospel 
roll  forth  and  be  taken  to  every  nation, 
kindred,  tongue,  and  people,  he  was 
telling  what  the  Lord  wants  done  in 
this  day.  And  so  it  is  for  what  other 
counsel  we  have  received.  It  should 
be,  and  is,  as  the  mouth  and  the  voice 
of  the  Lord  to  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  Holy  Ghost  is  a  revelator.  He 
will  reveal  to  any  person  who  is  honest 
and  God-fearing  and  diligent  in  seeking 
truth,  the  fact  that  this  is  the  Lord's 
work;  that  Joseph  Smith  is  his  prophet; 
that  he  is  the  greatest  witness  of  Christ 


76 

Sunday,  April  5 

that  there  has  been  in  the  world  since 
the  day  that  Christ  himself  proclaimed 
that  he  was  the  Son  of  God.  And  there 
is  not  any  reason  or  any  excuse  why 
anyone  who  is  upright  and  honest 
should  not  have  this  knowledge.  Every 
Latter-day  Saint  should  have  it. 

You  will  recall  that  in  ancient  Israel, 
after  Eldad  and  Medad  had  been  called 
of  God  to  a  high  calling,  that  his  Spirit 
fell  upon  them  and  they  prophesied 
in  the  camp.  Then  Joshua  came  before 
Moses  and  said,  ".  .  .  My  lord  Moses, 
forbid  them."  But  Moses  who  himself 
had  this  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  this 
spirit  of  revelation  and  of  prophecy — 
and  it  was  by  this  power  that  he  had 
led  Israel  through  the  Red  Sea — said: 
".  .  .  Enviest  thou  for  my  sake?  would 
God  that  all  the  Lord's  people  were 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

prophets,  and  that  the  Lord  would  put 
his  spirit  upon  them!"  (Num.  11:28-29.) 

There  is  no  greater  gift  that  a  per- 
son can  earn  and  enjoy  for  himself, 
in  mortality,  than  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  which  gift  is  the  right  to  the 
constant  companionship  of  that  mem- 
ber of  the  Godhead,  and  which  gift 
is  actually  enjoyed  only  on  condition 
of  individual  righteousness. 

In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie,  of  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy.  Elder  Milton 
R.  Hunter  of  the  same  Council  will  now 
speak  to  us. 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


fT]ODAY  the  hearts  of  millions  of  people 
I  throughout  the  world  are  turned  in 
X  adoration  to  the  Master  of  life  and 
salvation.  We,  the  members  of  the 
true  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  in  this 
great  conference  assembled,  bow  our 
heads  in  reverence  and  from  the  depths 
of  our  hearts  thank  God  for  the  mission 
of  Jesus  Christ  and  the  marvelous  atone- 
ment which  he  so  gloriously  brought 
about.  Already  in  this  meeting  we 
have  listened  to  some  wonderful  testi- 
monies given  by  the  various  speakers 
regarding  the  resurrection  of  the  Son 
of  God.  Especially  is  that  true  in  the 
case  of  the  testimony  which  was  so 
beautifully  presented  by  President  J. 
Reuben  Clark.  I  also  want  to  voice 
my  testimony  here  on  this  glorious 
Easter  morning,  because  I  also  know 
that  my  Redeemer  liveth;  and  my  heart 
is  filled  with  gratitude  for  that  knowl- 
edge. 

I  have  never  read  a  statement  in  any 
of  the  holy  scriptures  dealing  with  the 
work  of  God  which  is  as  important  as 
the  one  found  in  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price.   It  is  as  follows: 


For  behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my 
glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and 
eternal  life  of  man.  (Moses  1:39.) 

That  marvelous  statement  contains 
two  distinctive  features.  The  one  is  the 
immortality  of  man;  and  the  other,  the 
eternal  life.  Each  of  these  items  means 
something  entirely  different,  distinctively 
different,  from  the  other.  Immortality 
means  the  resurrection  from  the  grave. 
Eternal  life  means  the  type  of  life  that 
will  be  lived  in  celestial  glory  by  those 
who  showed  their  love  for  God  by  keep- 
ing his  commandments  while  living  in 
mortality. 

When  the  Eternal  Father  appointed 
his  Only  Begotten  Son  to  be  the  Savior 
of  the  world,  he  gave  unto  him  two 
major  assignments.  One  of  these  as- 
signments was  to  break  the  bands  of 
death  and  thereby  bring  about  the 
resurrection  of  all  of  God's  sons  and 
daughters.  In  other  words,  Jesus  was 
to  give  immortality  universally  to  the 
human  family.  The  other  assignment 
was  to  proclaim  a  gospel  plan  of  salva- 
tion to  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth, 
granting  all  men  their  free  agency  and 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


77 


promising  that  all  those  who  would 
obey  that  gospel  plan,  which  contained 
the  words  of  eternal  life,  eventually 
would  be  brought  back  into  the  presence 
of  the  Father  and  the  Son  and  receive 
eternal  life. 

In  the  meridian  of  time,  Jesus  Christ 
came  into  the  world;  and  in  three  short 
years'  time  of  public  ministry  he  marked 
out  the  pathway  which  leadeth  unto 
eternal  life.  In  other  words,  by  the 
life  he  lived  and  through  the  teachings 
he  gave,  he  proclaimed  to  the  human 
family  the  gospel  plan  of  salvation,  as- 
suring exaltation  to  everyone  who 
proved  faithful  in  doing  "all  things 
whatsoever  the  Lord  their  God  shall 
command  them."  (Abraham  3:25.)  And 
then,  having  been  rejected  by  his  own, 
he  was  crucified,  dying  as  a  ransom 
for  the  sins  of  the  world. 

As  was  so  beautifully  explained  by 
President  Clark  in  his  address  a  few 
moments  ago,  early  on  that  first  Easter 
morning,  Mary  Magdalene  and  others 
of  the  women  from  Galilee  who  loved 
Jesus  very  much  went  to  the  tomb  for 
the  purpose  of  giving  the  Master's  body 
a  more  proper  burial.  As  has  been 
pointed  out,  upon  finding  the  tomb 
empty,  all  the  women  returned  to 
Jerusalem  except  Mary  Magdalene.  She 
lingered  near  the  doorway  of  the  tomb 
weeping,  and  then  she  looked  inside. 
There  she  saw  two  angels  dressed  in 
white  and  heard  one  of  them  declare: 

...  I  know  that  ye  seek  Jesus,  which  was 
crucified. 

He  is  not  here:  for  he  is  risen,  .  .  . 
(Matt.  28:5-6.) 

Thus,  as  had  been  predicted  by  the 
holy  prophets  even  from  the  very  be- 
ginning, Jesus  Christ,  the  Savior  of  the 
world,  had  broken  the  bands  of  death. 
He  had  now  overcome  the  tomb  and 
the  grave  and  thereby  had  given  assur- 
ance to  the  human  family  that  as  he 
had  risen  from  the  grave,  each  of  us 
also  shall  rise  from  the  grave  and  take 
upon  ourselves  immortality. 

The  holy  prophets  had  proclaimed 
that  Jesus  Christ  was  the  Lamb  of  God 
slain  from  the  foundation  of  the  world; 


that  he  would  die  and  rise  again;  and 
that  every  man,  woman,  and  child — 
bond  and  free,  rich  and  poor,  righteous 
and  wicked — would  receive  immortality 
as  a  result  of  his  atoning  sacrifice. 

Regarding  this  vital  subject,  the  Lord 
revealed  the  fact  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  that  through  the  redemption  of 
the  Only  Begotten  Son  the  human  fam- 
ily would  be  raised  from  death 

...  in  immortality  unto  eternal  life, 
even  as  many  as  would  believe; 

And  they  that  believe  not  unto  eternal 
damnation;  ...  (D.  &  C.  29:43-44.) 

Amulek  declared  that  resurrection  or 
immortality  would  come  to 

.  .  .  all,  both  old  and  young,  both  bond 
and  free,  both  male  and  female,  both  the 
wicked  and  the  righteous.  .  .  . 

[And  at  the  resurrection  or  the  receiv- 
ing of  immortality] 

.  .  .  the  wicked  remain  as  though  there 
had  been  no  redemption  made,  except  it 
be  the  loosing  of  the  bands  of  death. 
(Alma  11:44,  41.) 

The  other  part  of  that  great  scripture, 
previously  quoted,  is: 

For  behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my 
glorv — to  bring  to  pass  .  .  .  the  eternal  life 
of  man.  (Moses  1:39.) 

Eternal  life  is  very,  very  important.  A 
careful  study  of  the  scriptures  reveals 
the  fact  that  it  is  the  most  desirable 
and  important  thing  of  all  that  exists. 

In  modern  revelation  we  read:  "Be- 
hold, he  that  hath  eternal  life  is  rich." 
(D.  &  C.  6:7;  11:7.)  The  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  also  states  that  "...  eternal 
life  ...  is  the  greatest  of  all  the  gifts 
of  God."  (Ibid.,  14:7.)  Therefore,  eternal 
life  is  the  blessing  that  comes  to  the 
individual  who  keeps  the  command- 
ments in  their  fulness. 

Since  eternal  life  is  the  greatest  of 
all  of  God's  gifts  to  man,  it  should  be 
of  more  importance  and  much  more 
worth  while  to  you  and  me  to  put  forth 
every  effort  to  attain  eternal  life  than 
it  would  be  to  accumulate  a  million 
dollars,  or  even  a  million,  million  dol- 
lars, or  to  rise  to  any  position  of  leader- 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  5 

ship  in  this  world,  or  to  gratify  any  or 
all  of  our  mortal  desires. 

A  careful  study  of  the  statements  on 
this  subject  found  in  the  scriptures, 
especially  those  found  in  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  reveals  the  fact  that 
eternal  life  is  the  gift  received  by  hus- 
band and  wife  who  are  married  for 
eternity,  and  has  reference  to  their 
power  of  eternal  increase  or  a  continua- 
tion of  the  seeds  forever  and  ever.  Also, 
exaltation  may  include  less  than  a  con- 
tinuation of  the  seeds  and  Godhood  may 
convey  a  slightly  different  shade  of 
meaning.  In  many  of  the  quotations  in 
the  scriptures,  "eternal  life"  and  "life 
eternal"  are  also  used  with  meanings 
closely  akin  with  those  other  words  or 
phrases.  Therefore,  all  of  those  terms, 
although  possessing  slightly  different 
shades  in  meaning,  seem  to  lead  to  a 
similar  final  goal.  In  order  to  come  to 
a  more  thorough  understanding  regard- 
ing the  meaning  of  those  terms,  we 
shall  refer  directly  to  latter  day  revela- 
tion. In  Section  131  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  it  is  written: 

In  the  celestial  glory  there  are  three 
heavens  or  degrees; 

And  in  order  to  obtain  the  highest,  a 
man  must  enter  into  this  order  of  the 
priesthood  [meaning  the  new  and  ever- 
lasting covenant  of  marriage]; 

And  if  he  does  not,  he  cannot  obtain  it. 

He  may  enter  into  the  other,  but  that 
is  the  end  of  his  kingdom;  he  cannot  have 
an  increase.  (Ibid.,  131:1-4.) 

Section  132,  that  marvelous  revelation 
on  celestial  marriage,  explains  and 
clarifies  the  quotation  I  have  just  given, 
and  also  tells  definitely  what  is  meant 
by  eternal  life,  exaltation,  etc.  In  that 
revelation  the  Lord  has  informed  us  that 
if  a  man  and  a  woman,  members  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  refuse  to  enter 
into  God's  holy  order  of  marriage,  but 
accept  instead  a  man-made  order,  and 
if  this  man  and  woman  live  all  of  the 
other  principles  of  the  gospel  sufficiently 
well  to  go  to  the  celestial  glory,  they 
will  not  attain  exaltation.  To  quote  the 
words  of  the  Lord  as  received  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith: 


Second  Day 

...  they  ...  are  appointed  angels  in 
heaven;  which  angels  are  ministering 
servants,  to  minister  for  those  who  are 
worthy  of  a  far  more,  and  an  exceeding, 
and  an  eternal  weight  of  glory. 

For  these  angels  did  not  abide  my  law; 
therefore,  they  cannot  be  enlarged,  but 
remain  separately  and  singly,  without  exalta- 
tion, in  their  saved  condition,  to  all  eternity; 
and  from  henceforth  are  not  gods,  but  are 
angels  of  God  forever  and  ever.  (Ibid., 
132:16-17.) 

We  also  read  in  the  same  revelation 
that  if  a  man  and  a  woman  enter  into 
the  holy  covenant  of  marriage,  according 
to  God's  law,  and  are  sealed  by  the  Holy 
Spirit  of  promise,  living  in  accordance 
with  the  covenants  made  therein, 
rendering  obedience  to  all  of  his  com- 
mandments and  enduring  faithful  to 
the  end,  they  shall  rise  in  the  resurrec- 
tion and  be  assigned  to  dwell  with 
the  Lord  in  the  celestial  glory.  And 
then  the  revelation  states: 

.  .  .  they  shall  pass  by  the  angels,  and 
the  gods,  which  are  set  there,  to  their 
exaltation  and  glory  in  all  things,  as  hath 
been  sealed  upon  their  heads,  which  glory 
shall  be  a  fulness  and  a  continuation  of 
the  seeds  forever  and  ever.  (Ibid.,  132:19.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  points  out 
that  this  "continuation  of  seeds  forever 
and  ever,"  means  to  have  children  in 
the  celestial  glory. 

To  continue  the  revelation: 

Then  shall  they  be  gods,  because  they 
have  no  end;  .  .  . 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  except 
ye  abide  my  law  ye  cannot  attain  to  this 
glory. 

For  strait  is  the  gate,  and  narrow  the 
way  that  leadeth  unto  the  exaltation  and 
continuation  of  the  lives,  and  few  there  be 
that  find  it,  because  ye  receive  me  not  in 
the  world  neither  do  ye  know  me. 
(Ibid.,  132:20-22.) 

And  then  the  Lord  explained  the 
meaning  of  eternal  lives.   He  said: 

This  is  eternal  lives — to  know  the  only 
wise  and  true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ,  whom 
he  hath  sent.  .  .  .  (Ibid.,  132:24.) 

Now  how  can  we  come  to  know  God 
fully  and  completely?    Such  a  knowl- 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


79 


edge  or  status  cannot  be  obtained  com- 
pletely in  this  world.  A  full  knowledge 
of  God  can  be  attained  only  in  the 
celestial  degree  of  glory  by  those  who 
ultimately  become  as  he  is.  When  one 
thinks  as  he  thinks,  acts  as  he  acts,  at- 
tains power  comparable  to  that  enjoyed 
by  him,  then  that  individual  has  at- 
tained exaltation  or  eternal  life.  To 
such  a  person,  Jesus  has  promised:  "... 
all  that  my  Father  hath  shall  be  given 
unto  him."  (Ibid.,  84:38.) 

The  question  of  importance  which 
lies  deeply  imbedded  in  the  hearts  of 
each  of  us  is:  How  may  we  gain  eternal 
life? 

Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord  and  Master, 
came  to  the  earth  and  pointed  out  the 
path  which  leadeth  to  eternal  life; 
and  he  commanded  us,  saying: 

And  I  now  give  unto  you  a  commandment 
to  beware  concerning  yourselves,  to  give 
diligent  heed  to  the  words  of  eternal  life. 

For  you  shall  live  by  every  word  that 
proceedeth  forth  from  the  mouth  of  God. 
(Ibid.,  84:43-44.) 

A  summary  of  Jesus  of  Nazareth's 
teachings  regarding  the  pathway  that 
leadeth  to  eternal  life  is  as  follows: 

First,  we  must  have  faith,  faith  in 
Jesus  Christ  and  in  the  gospel  plan 
which  he  promulgated; 

Second,  we  must  repent  of  all  our 
sins; 

Third,  we  must  be  baptized  by  one 
having  proper  authority; 

Fourth,  we  must  be  confirmed  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  and 
receive  the  Holy  Ghost; 

(Then,  according  to  Nephi,  we  have 
entered  through  the  gateway  into  the 
kingdom  of  God  and  are  now  on  the 
"...  straight  and  narrow  path  which 
leads  to  eternal  life."  [2  Nephi  31:17- 
18.]) 

Fifth,  we  must  receive  the  Holy  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood  and  honor  and 
magnify  that  priesthood; 

Sixth,  we  must  enter  into  the  law  of 
celestial  marriage  and  keep  all  of  the 
covenants  made  therein; 

Seventh,  we  must  demonstrate  to 
the  Lord  through  the  lives  we  live  and 


by  rendering  obedience  to  his*  com- 
mandments that  we  are  willing  to  con- 
secrate all  we  possess — our  talents,  our 
time,  our  means,  and  our  very  lives  if 
need  be — to  the  upbuilding  of  the 
Church  and  kingdom  of  God  here  upon 
the  earth  and  also  to  the  salvation  of 
his  sons  and  daughters; 

Eighth,  we  must  continue  to  press 
forward  with  unshaken  faith  in  the 
words  of  Jesus  Christ,  whether  spoken 
by  himself  or  through  the  mouths  of 
his  prophets,  proving  faithful  in  keep- 
ing all  of  the  commandments,  pressing 
"forward  with  a  steadfastness  in  Christ, 
having  a  perfect  brightness  of  hope, 
and  a  love  of  God  and  of  all  men," 
and  enduring  faithful  to  the  end,  then, 
according  to  the  promise  of  the  Eternal 
Father,  we  "  .  .  .  shall  have  eternal 
life."  (Ibid.,  31:20.) 

Thus,  if  we  prove  faithful  in  walk- 
ing along  the  pathway  enumerated  in 
those  eight  points,  "...  feasting  upon 
the  word  of  Christ,  .  .  .  [for]  there  is 
none  other  way  nor  name  given  under 
heaven  whereby  man  can  be  saved 
in  the  kingdom  of  God,"  (Ibid.,  31:20- 
21)  then  our  election  shall  be  made 
sure,  with  the  glory  of  eternal  lives 
as  our  reward;  and  then,  as  the  revela- 
tion previously  quoted  states,  those 
faithful  ones  "...  shall  pass  by  the 
angels,  and  the  gods,  which  are  set 
there,  to  their  exaltation  and  glory  in 
all  things,  as  hath  been  sealed  upon 
their  heads."  (D.  &  C.  132:19.) 

I  would  like  to  bear  my  testimony, 
which  testimony  has  been  given  to  me 
through  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the 
Only  Begotten  Son  of  God.  I  know 
as  I  know  that  I  live  that  he  died  for 
you  and  me,  and  on  the  third  day  he 
was  resurrected,  thereby  breaking  the 
bands  of  death  and  giving  immortality 
to  the  human  family.  I  have  a  strong 
conviction  that  some  of  God's  children 
will  rise  through  immortality  to  eternal 
life  and  others  will  rise  through  im- 
mortality to  eternal  condemnation.  It 
is  also  my  testimony  that  through  the 
blood  that  Jesus  shed  and  the  sacrifice 
that  he  made,  he  atoned  for  the  sins 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  5 

of  those  who  receive  him  and  keep  his 
commandments;  but,  on  the  other  hand, 
as  Jesus  of  Nazareth  declared,  those 
who  will  not  receive  him  and  repent 
and  keep  his  commandments  will  be 
required  to  suffer  even  as  he,  the  great- 
est of  all,  suffered;  and  his  suffering 
was  so  intense  that  it  caused  him  "... 
to  tremble  because  of  pain,  and  to  bleed 
at  every  pore,  and  to  suffer  both  body 
and  spirit."  (D.  &  C.  19:17-18;  Mosiah 
3:7;  Luke  22:44.) 

I  know  also  that  if  we  will  render 
obedience  to  all  the  commandments 
given  us  by  our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus 
Christ,  and  also  those  given  through 
his  holy  prophets,  someday  we  will 
come  back  into  the  presence  of  God 
and  hear  the  voice  of  the  Lamb,  saying: 
"Well  done,  my  beloved  servants,  enter 
ye  into  your  exaltation";  and  as  King 
Benjamin  has  said,  through  the  cove- 
nants we  have  made  and  by  taking  upon 
ourselves  his  name,  we  become  sons 
and  daughters  of  Jesus  Christ  and  shall 
dwell  with  him  eternally  in  the  celes- 
tial degree  of  glory.  (Mosiah  5:6-10.) 
This  blessing  and  glory  will  be  ours  if 
we  press  forward  "with  an  eye  single 
to  the  glory  of  God"  and  endure  faith- 
ful to  the  end.  (D.  &  C.  4:5;  82:19.) 

May  our  Eternal  Father  bless  us  as 
Latter-day  Saints,  who  are  now  on  the 
pathway  which  leadeth  to  eternal  life, 
that  we  will  be  diligent  and  faithful 
in  all  things  and  eventually  receive 
that  great  blessing  which  is  "the  great- 
est of  all  the  gifts  of  God,"  namely, 
eternal  life,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

As  we  stated  at  the  opening  of  this 
session,  many  thousands  have  partici- 
pated in  worship  on  this  calm  Easter 
morning.  Sitting  in  seats  reserved  for 
them  here  in  the  Tabernacle  are  presi- 
dencies of  stakes,  bishoprics  of  wards, 
heads  of  priesthood  quorums,  and  of 
Auxiliary  organizations,  and  among 
them  we  note  representatives  from  our 
State  departments,  and  our  educational 
institutions.  We  are  pleased  to  note 
in  addition  the  President  and  deans  of 


Second  Day 

our  Brigham  Young  University.  We 
have  the  President  of  the  University  of 
Utah,  of  the  Agricultural  College,  of 
Rick's  College,  of  the  Weber  College, 
Branch  Agricultural  College  at  Cedar, 
and  representatives  and  heads  of  our 
State  educational  system.  To  all  we  ex- 
tend hearty  welcome  and  express  satis- 
faction and  pleasure  in  your  presence 
and  your  cooperative  spirit  in  this  ses- 
sion. 

To  our  visitors  who  have  come  here 
this  morning  from  afar,  we  bid  a  hearty 
welcome. 

The  closing  song  by  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  will  be,  "Out  of  the  Silence." 
This  was  composed  and  written  by 
Brother  Cyril  Jenkins,  a  member  of  the 
Church  from  Australia,  who  is  present 
here  today,  being  in  Salt  Lake  City  on 
a  special  mission  pertaining  to  the 
Choir  and  the  possible  rendering  of  some 
of  its  choicest  selections  in  Great  Britain 
over  the  British  Broadcasting  System. 
We  are  glad  Brother  Jenkins  is  here; 
and  we  shall  listen  with  interest  to  his 
composition,  "Out  of  the  Silence,"  as 
now  sung  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir, 
under  the  direction  of  Elder  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  D.  Edward  Judd,  President  of  the 
Ensign  Stake,  following  which  this  con- 
ference will  stand  adjourned  until  two 
o'clock  this  afternoon. 

For  this  profusion  of  beautiful  calla 
lilies  we  are  indebted  to  the  members 
of  the  Berkeley  Stake  in  California.  The 
Choir  singing  this  morning  has  been 
furnished  by  the  congregation  and  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  with  Brother  Corn- 
wall conducting,  and  Elder  Frank  W. 
Asper  at  the  organ. 

After  the  benediction  by  President 
D.  Edward  Judd  this  Conference  will 
stand  adjourned  until  two  o'clock  this 
afternoon. 


Singing  by  the  Choir,  "Out  Of  The 
Silence,"  (by  Cyril  Jenkins). 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by 
President  D.  Edward  Judd  of  the  En- 
sign Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


Conference  reconvened  Sunday  after- 
noon, April  5,  at  2:00. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  the 
choral  numbers  for  this  session. 

President  McKay  called  the  meeting 
to  order  promptly  at  the  scheduled  time 
by  making  the  following  brief  state- 
ment: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Members  of  the  Church  are  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  in  the 
fifth  session  of  the  123rd  Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  These  services 
are  being  broadcast  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall  over  a  loud- 
speaking  system  and  by  television.  The 
proceedings  will  be  broadcast  also  over 
Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City,  and  over 
the  stations  named  in  the  first  session 
of  this  Conference,  and  named  this 
morning,  stations  in  California  and 
Nevada. 


The  music  for  this  session  will  be 
rendered  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  un- 
der the  direction  of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall, 
with  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  this  service  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  singing,  "Sing  Unto 
God." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Martin  E.  Christensen,  President 
of  the  Mill  Creek  Stake. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  a  selec- 
tion: "Sing  Unto  God." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Martin  E.  Christensen,  President 
of  the  Mill  Creek  Stake. 

An  anthem,  "The  Twenty-Third 
Psalm,"  was  sung  by  the  Tabernacle 
Choir. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  first  speaker 
this  afternoon.  He  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Alma  Sonne. 


M 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


ay  I  read  again  the  beautiful  words 
which  have  just  been  sung  to  you 
by  our  wonderful  choir. 


The  Lord  is  my  shepherd;  I  shall  not 
want. 

He  maketh  me  to  lie  down  in  green  pas- 
tures: he  leadeth  me  beside  the  still  waters. 

He  restoreth  my  soul:  he  leadeth  me  in 
the  paths  of  righteousness  for  his  name's 
sake. 

Yea,  though  I  walk  through  the  valley 
of  the  shadow  of  death,  I  will  fear  no  evil: 
for  thou  art  with  me;  thy  rod  and  thy  staff 
they  comfort  me. 

Thou  preparest  a  table  before  me  in  the 
presence  of  mine  enemies:  thou  anointest 
my  head  with  oil;  my  cup  runneth  over. 

Surely  goodness  and  mercy  shall  follow 
me  all  the  days  of  my  life:  and  I  will  dwell 


in  the  house  of  the  Lord  for  ever.  (Psalm 
23.) 

That  is  a  great  testimony.  I  am  grate- 
ful that  the  choir  sang  this  number, 
giving  this  testimony  of  the  psalmist  be- 
cause this  has  been  a  conference  of 
testimonies — testimony  after  testimony 
to  the  divinity  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
testimony  after  testimony  to  the  good- 
ness of  the  Lord  our  Father  to  all  men 
who  will  follow  him  and  really  make 
him  their  shepherd.  People  who  thus 
follow  him,  testify  anew  day  by  day 
indeed  that  the  Lord  is  their  shepherd; 
they  shall  not  want  and  say,  "Surely 
goodness  and  mercy  shall  follow  me 
all  the  days  of  my  life:  and  I  will  dwell 
jn  the  house  of  the  Lord  for  ever." 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  S 

I  remember  also  that  this  choir  has 
sung  words  from  Isaiah,  "All  we  like 
sheep  have  gone  astray."  (Isa.  53:6.) 
And  then  I  remember  this  beautiful 
story  of  the  Savior: 

How  think  ye?  if  a  man  have  an  hun- 
dred sheep,  and  one  of  them  be  gone  astray, 
doth  he  not  leave  the  ninety  and  nine, 
and  goeth  into  the  mountains,  and  seeketh 
that  which  is  gone  astray? 

And  if  so  be  that  he  find  it,  verily  I  say 
unto  you,  he  rejoiceth  more  of  that  sheep, 
than  of  the  ninety  and  nine  which  went 
not  astray. 

Even  so  it  is  not  the  will  of  your  Father 
which  is  in  heaven,  that  one  of  these  little 
ones  should  perish.  (Matt.  18:12-14.) 

The  work  of  the  Church  is  a  work 
of  conversion.  This  has  been  well 
demonstrated  by  the  testimonies  and 
the  wonderful  addresses  which  have 
been  given  here,  and  by  the  appeals 
which  have  been  made  for  further  con- 
versions. We  seek  for  conversion  of 
ourselves,  of  our  children,  and  of  all 
mankind  who  will  listen  to  us — con- 
version to  the  point  where  we  and 
they  will  be  willing  to  accept  the  teach- 
ings and  commandments  of  the  Lord 
our  Savior  and  by  following  them  work 
out  our  salvation.  As  the  Lord  says 
here,  "...  it  is  not  the  will  of  your 
Father  which  is  in  heaven,  that  one  of 
these  little  ones  should  perish."  (Ibid., 
18:14.) 

But  in  spite  of  all  the  work  that  is 
done  in  the  Church  in  the  way  of  con- 
version and  teaching,  and  so  much  won- 
derful work  is  done,  there  are  some 
instances  where  people  go  in  reverse 
and  fall  away.  Sometimes  they  accept 
the  teachings  of  false  leaders  and  false 
teachers  who  lead  them  astray. 

Often  I  have  asked  myself  why  it 
is  that  some  people  apostatize  from  the 
truth.  I  have  never  believed  that  a 
person  falls  away  suddenly,  all  at  once, 
any  more  than  a  person  who  has 
been  righteous  and  honest  all  his  life 
would  go  out  and  suddenly  rob  a  bank. 
There  is  some  preparatory  work  done 
in  advance.  There  is  some  "softening- 
up"  process  which  leads  to  the  apostate 
condition.    Big  sins  generally  are  pre- 


Second  Day 

ceded  by  little  ones,  and  I  believe  that 
this  is  true  with  respect  to  people  who 
fall  away  from  the  truth. 

Seeds  are  sown,  seeds  of  doubt,  dis- 
belief, distrust,  disrespect.  These  seeds 
are  watered;  they  are  nurtured,  and 
finally  they  become  fully  developed  un- 
til they  produce  their  evil  fruit. 

Who  sows  these  seeds  of  doubt  and 
distrust?  They  are  sown  in  many  ways. 
I  might  mention  a  few. 

I  have  heard  of  a  man  who  claims 
to  be  a  very  good  Latter-day  Saint.  He 
claims  that  he  loves  the  Church,  but 
he  also  loves  the  world,  and  he  lives 
as  close  as  he  possibly  can  to  the  line 
of  disobedience  without  actually  vio- 
lating the  letter  of  the  law.  He  does 
not  realize  that  he  must  avoid  even  the 
very  appearance  of  evil.  He  does  not 
realize,  possibly,  that  by  living  as  close 
to  the  line  of  disobedience  as  he  can, 
he  sows  seeds  of  doubt  and  distrust  in 
the  minds  of  others. 

There  are  those  who  live  in  open  re- 
bellion against  the  word  of  God  and 
violate  the  commandments  continuously 
and  intentionally,  and  of  course  they 
always  leave  doubt  in  the  minds  of 
others,  with  some  disrespect  for  them 
themselves. 

And  then  there  are  the  seeds  that 
are  sown  by  some  of  our  teachers  and 
preachers  within  our  own  organization, 
who  like  to  advance  some  new  doctrine, 
or  some  new  interpretation,  or  some 
speculative  theory,  or  advance  some- 
thing that  is  sensational,  because  to  ad- 
vance the  sensational  seems  to  feed  their 
ego  inasmuch  as  they  become  the  center 
of  a  discussion. 

Most  of  our  teachers  and  preachers 
are  wonderful.  They  teach  the  truth; 
they  bring  about  conversions  in  the 
minds  and  hearts  of  those  who  listen 
to  them.  But  there  are  these  few 
teachers  who  sow  seeds  of  doubt  by 
speculative  and  unsound  doctrines,  and 
as  they  do  so  they  "soften  up,"  to  use 
the  army  expression,  some  of  their 
hearers  who  might  later  be  taken  over 
by  the  apostate  teachers  who  come 
among  them. 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


83 


It  is  my  full  belief  that  whenever 
any  of  us  accepts  a  position  of  any 
description  in  the  Church,  we  accept 
along  with  it  the  responsibility  of  that 
office,  whatsoever  it  may  be.  I  believe 
that  if  a  person  accepts  a  position  as  a 
teacher  in  one  of  our  organizations,  or 
if  he  accepts  the  responsibility  of 
preaching  from  the  pulpit,  such  person 
accepts  the  responsibility  which  goes 
with  that  call.  He  becomes  a  repre- 
sentative of  the  Church  in  that  position. 
Every  teacher  and  every  preacher  there- 
fore is  duty-bound,  upon  accepting  such 
a  call,  to  represent  the  official  views 
and  doctrines  of  the  Church,  and  to 
teach  those  official  doctrines  in  his 
class  or  from  the  pulpit,  with  the  one 
thought  in  mind  that  conversion  is  to 
come  about  in  the  hearts  of  those  who 
listen  to  him.  I  do  not  believe  that 
conversion  to  the  truth  comes  through 
the  teaching  of  half-truths  or  untruths. 

Our  classrooms  and  our  assembly 
rooms  have  been  built  at  great  expense 
with  only  one  thought  in  mind,  and 
that  is  that  in  them  we  may  teach  the 
truth  so  that  we  may  convert  those  who 
come  there,  so  that  they  in  turn  will 
live  the  gospel  and  work  out  their  sal- 
vation in  the  earth. 

I  do  not  believe  that  the  classrooms 
or  the  pulpits  of  our  Church  are  for 
laboratory  purposes  in  which  to  experi- 
ment with  new  doctrines  and  specula- 
tive notions.  They  are  exclusively  for 
the  use  of  those  who  are  willing  to 
convert  men  and  women  and  boys  and 
girls  to  the  truth. 

There  is  only  one  man  in  all  the 
world  who  has  the  right  to  introduce  a 
new  doctrine  to  this  Church,  and  that 
man  is  the  President  of  the  Church.  So 
teachers,  until  you  become  the  President 
of  the  Church,  will  you  be  willing  to 
content  yourselves  with  the  present  of- 
ficially accepted  doctrines  of  the  Church? 

I  do  not  believe  that  we  can  escape 
the  responsibility  of  starting  someone 
off  on  the  wrong  way  if  we  teach  wrong 
principles.  I  do  not  believe  that  any  of 
us  can  afford  to  take  that  responsibility. 

I  do  not  believe,  therefore,  that  we 


can  bring  into  our  classes  or  our  ser- 
mons views  and  doctrines  which  are 
not  accepted  and  officially  advocated  by 
the  Church. 

I  do  not  believe  that  any  teacher  in 
any  organization  has  the  right  to  dis- 
card the  prescribed  lesson  course  and 
substitute  in  its  place  magazine  arti- 
cles, philosophical  discussions,  lectures, 
or  any  other  extraneous  matter. 

I  do  not  believe  that  we  can  bring 
into  our  classrooms  or  sermons  the 
philosophies  and  doctrines  of  uninspired 
men  of  the  world,  no  matter  how  well 
educated  they  may  be,  and  present  them 
as  accepted  truth. 

I  do  not  believe  we  should  accept  every 
theory  advanced  by  men  of  science  as 
though  it  were  true.  These  men  change 
their  minds  much  too  often  for  that. 

I  do  not  believe  we  should  bring 
into  our  classes  and  sermons  the  doc- 
trines of  other  churches  and  teach  them 
as  accepted  truth. 

I  do  not  believe  we  should  teach 
the  doctrines  of  the  British-Israel  or 
similar  organizations,  sensational  though 
they  may  be,  presenting  them  to  our 
people  as  though  they  were  true. 

I  do  not  believe  we  should  give  time 
in  our  classes  to  discussions  of  the  al- 
leged interpretations  of  the  measure- 
ments of  the  Great  Pyramid  of  Egypt, 
fantastic  and  unreliable  as  they  so  often 
are. 

I  do  not  believe  we  should  accept  the 
current  views  that  the  lost  ten  tribes 
have  been  found  in  the  northern  na- 
tions of  Europe,  or  that  they  have  been 
named,  indexed,  and  classified. 

I  do  not  believe  that  we  can  accept 
the  peculiar  notion  that  the  mythical 
Odin  of  the  North  was  in  reality  the 
Savior  of  the  world  performing  his 
work  among  the  northern  nations  of 
Europe  or  the  ten  tribes. 

I  do  not  believe  we  should  give 
credence  to  the  highly  speculative 
theories  about  Book  of  Mormon  geog- 
raphy. 

I  do  not  believe  that  there  were  two 
Hill  Cumorahs,  one  in  Central  America 
and  the  other  one  up  in  New  York,  for 


84  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  5 

the  convenience  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  so  that  the  poor  boy  would  not 
have  to  walk  clear  to  Central  America 
to  get  the  gold  plates. 

I  do  not  believe  we  can  be  good  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  and  question  the  integrity 
of  Joseph  Smith. 

I  do  not  believe  we  can  be  good  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  and  question  the  testi- 
mony of  the  eleven  witnesses  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon. 

I  do  not  believe  you  have  a  testi- 
mony of  the  truth  if  you  question  the 
accuracy  of  the  translation  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon. 

I  do  not  believe  you  have  the  facts 
or  are  being  honest  with  yourself  if 
you  question  the  Manifesto  as  it  ap- 
pears in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants. 

I  do  not  believe  we  should  try  to 
establish  our  personal  fads  as  Church 
doctrine.  I  do  not  believe  my  eternal 
salvation  will  be  affected  in  any  way 
if  I  eat  white  bread  or  white  sugar.  I 
do  not  believe  the  doctrines  of  the 
Church  are  in  any  way  involved  in 
whether  my  whole  wheat  is  stone- 
ground  or  steel-cut. 

I  do  not  believe  we  can  be  good 
Christians,  regardless  of  the  denomina- 
tion, if  we  refuse  to  believe  that  Jesus 
Christ  died  on  the  cross.  I  do  not  be- 
lieve anyone  can  be  a  good  Christian, 
regardless  of  denomination,  if  he  ques- 
tions the  reality  of  the  literal,  physical 
resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ  on  the  third 
day  after  his  crucifixion. 

I  do  not  believe  we  can  be  good 
Christians  of  any  denomination  and 
reject  the  Old  Testament.  I  do  not 
believe  we  can  be  good  Christians  of 
any  denomination  and  reject  the  epis- 
tles of  the  New  Testament. 

I  do  not  believe  we  can  be  good  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  or  that  we  are  loyal  to 
this  Church,  if  we  accept  alleged  revela- 
tions of  men  and  women  who  claim  to 
have  received  them  for  the  member- 
ship of  the  Church  when  we  know  that 
the  Lord  designates  the  President  of 
the  Church  as  the  only  one  on  earth 
to  whom  he  will  reveal  his  mind  for 
the  Church  at  large. 


Second  Day 

I  do  not  believe  that  we  can  be  good 
Latter-day  Saints  or  good  Christians  of 
any  denomination  and  accept  the  teach- 
ings of  some  that  death  was  a  mistake, 
that  it  can  be  avoided,  and  that  we  can 
achieve  immortality  without  passing 
through  death,  just  by  following  the 
teachings  of  some  false  prophet. 

I  do  not  believe  that  we  can  ignore 
the  teachings  of  the  Savior  when  he 
said, 

.  .  .  there  shall  be  no  disputations  among 
you,  as  there  have  hitherto  been;  neither 
shall  there  be  disputations  among  you  con- 
cerning the  points  of  my  doctrine,  as  there 
have  hitherto  been. 

For  verily,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  he  that 
hath  the  spirit  of  contention  is  not  of  me, 
but  is  of  the  devil,  who  is  the  father  of 
contention,  and  he  stirreth  up  the  hearts 
of  men  to  contend  with  anger,  one  with 
another.  (3  Nephi  11:28-29.) 

On  the  other  hand,  I  do  believe  most 
positively  that  if  we  bring  false  teach- 
ings into  our  classes  or  sermons  we  do 
our  people  a  great  disservice,  for  we 
confuse  their  minds,  we  make  them 
doubt  the  truth  when  it  is  given  to 
them,  and  we  "soften  them  up"  for  the 
attacks  of  apostate  teachers  who  come 
among  them. 

I  do  believe  positively  that  whenever 
we  teach  any  speculative  notion  or  try 
to  unravel  any  mystery,  or  advance  any 
doctrine  not  accepted  by  the  Church, 
we  contribute  to  the  spiritual  delin- 
quency of  those  whom  we  influence. 

I  do  believe  that  whenever  we  by  our 
acts  or  our  teachings  reflect  discredit 
upon  the  Church  or  its  doctrines,  we 
contribute  to  the  spiritual  delinquency 
of  those  about  us. 

I  do  believe  that  God  will  hold  us 
accountable  for  every  act  and  word  by 
which  we  contribute  to  the  spiritual 
delinquency  of  other  people. 

I  do  believe  that  the  President  of  the 
Church  is  in  very  deed  the  mouthpiece 
of  God  on  earth,  the  prophet,  seer,  and 
revel  ator  of  the  Lord,  and  that  he  and 
he  alone  has  the  right  and  power  to 
give  to  the  Church  any  new  doctrines 
or  new  interpretations  of  existing  doc- 
trines. 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


85 


I  do  believe  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the 
Son  of  the  Eternal  God,  Creator  of 
heaven  and  earth,  that  he  died  on  the 
cross  and  was  resurrected  the  third  day, 
literally  and  physically. 

I  do  believe  positively  that  as  we  all 
die,  even  so,  through  the  power  of  Jesus 
the  resurrected  Christ,  we,  too,  will  liter- 
ally and  physically  be  resurrected. 

I  do  believe  that  the  revealed  doc- 
trines and  teachings  of  the  Christ  will 
save  us  without  any  additions  by  un- 
authorized persons. 

I  do  believe  that  the  Lord  has  given 
to  the  Latter-day  Saints  a  fair  amount 
of  intelligence.  I  do  believe  that  he 
expects  us  to  use  that  intelligence  in 
studying  his  revealed  word  and  follow- 
ing his  prophets  here  on  earth,  so  that 
we  will  not  be  tossed  about  by  every 
wind  of  doctrine. 

I  do  believe  that  he  expects  our 
teachers  and  preachers  to  use  the  com- 
mon sense  he  has  given  them  to  teach 
the  simple  truth  which  saves,  rather 
than  the  speculations  and  theories  of 


men,  which  only  confuse  the  mind  and 
lead  some  of  our  people  right  out  of 
the  Church. 

I  do  believe  that  by  proper  teaching 
of  the  revealed  truth  we  can  convert 
ourselves  and  our  children  and  all 
others  who  are  willing  to  listen  to  us. 

I  do  believe  that  people  are  converted 
to  the  truth  only  by  the  truth  and  not 
through  the  teaching  of  half-truths  and 
untruths. 

I  do  believe  that  only  in  loyally 
teaching  and  living  the  true  principles 
of  the  gospel  can  we  fulfil  the  re- 
sponsibility which  God  has  given  us, 
and  this  is  my  testimony  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  concluded 
speaking.  Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  will  now  address  us, 
and  Elder  Sonne  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young. 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


MY  BRETHREN  AND  SISTERS,  I  hope  all 
the  teachers  in  the  Church  will 
have  available  to  them,  the  splen- 
did discourse  delivered  by  Elder  Mark  E. 
Petersen.  I  believe  the  spirit  of  the 
anti-Christ  is  rampant  in  the  world  and 
is  asserting  itself  as  never  before.  That 
places  upon  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  a  great  responsi- 
bility because  it  is  our  mission  to  preach 
Jesus  Christ  and  him  crucified. 

In  this  great  conference  of  the  Church 
at  this  season  we  are  celebrating  two 
great  events,  as  I  see  it.  The  Easter 
time,  commemorating  the  resurrection 
of  the  Lord  Jesus,  and  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  on  the  6th  day  of 
April,  1830.  I  have  before  me  the 
statement  made  by  Joseph  Smith,  the 
Prophet,  relative  to  that  first  organiza- 
tion meeting,  where  six  humble  men 
met  together  and  initiated  the  great 


movement  which  is  going  forward  so 
rapidly  today.    The  Prophet  writes: 

Having  opened  the  meeting  by  solemn 
prayer  to  Our  Heavenly  Father,  we  pro- 
ceeded, according  to  previous  commandment, 
to  call  on  our  brethren  to  know  whether 
they  accepted  us  as  their  teachers  in  the 
things  of  the  Kingdom  of  God,  and  whether 
they  were  satisfied  that  we  should  proceed 
and  be  organized  as  a  Church  according  to 
said  commandment  which  we  had  received. 
To  these  several  propositions  they  consented 
by  a  unanimous  vote.  I  then  laid  my  hands 
upon  Oliver  Cowdery,  and  ordained  him  an 
Elder  of  the  "Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,"  after  which,  he  ordained 
me  also  to  the  office  of  an  Elder  of  said 
Church.  We  then  took  bread,  blessed  it, 
and  brake  it  with  them;  also  wine,  blessed 
it,  and  drank  it  with  them.  We  then  laid 
our  hands  on  each  individual  member  of 
the  Church  present,  that  they  might  re- 
ceive the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  be 
confirmed  members  of  the  Church  of  Christ. 
The  Holy  Ghost  was  poured  out  upon  us 


86 

Sunday,  April  S 

to  a  very  great  degree — some  prophesied, 
whilst  we  all  praised  the  Lord,  and  rejoiced 
exceedingly.  (D.H.C.  1:77-78.) 

I  need  not  tell  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  the  Church,  commenced 
with  such  a  humble  beginning,  grew 
and  prospered.  The  organization  was 
completed  with  Apostles,  prophets,  high 
priests,  seventies,  elders,  priests,  teachers, 
deacons,  patriarchs,  and  bishops.  It  was 
the  only  Church  on  the  earth  thus 
organized,  even  though  these  callings 
in  the  priesthood  existed  in  the  Primi- 
tive Church. 

I  observed  that  in  the  account  given 
of  this  meeting,  three  important  pro- 
cedures were  introduced:  first,  the  prin- 
ciple of  common  consent  that  no  man 
can  preside  in  the  Church  without  the 
consent  of  the  membership;  second,  the 
introduction  of  the  sacrament  of  the 
Lord's  supper  which  was  very  appropri- 
ate because  the  first  principle  of  the 
restored  gospel  is  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ;  and  third,  the  ordinance  of  lay- 
ing on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  when  a  person  is  confirmed  a 
member  of  the  Church,  or,  when  he 
is  ordained,  or  set  apart,  for  any  re- 
sponsibility in  the  Church. 

The  Church,  organized  in  this  man- 
ner, has  from  its  very  beginning  felt 
a  strong  urge — an  impelling  motive, 
to  preach  the  gospel  in  all  the  world, 
and  to  build  up  God's  kingdom  upon 
the  earth. 

Not  long  ago,  in  Gordon  B.  Hinckley's 
book,  What  of  the  Mormons?,  I  read  the 
dramatic  account  of  Samuel  H.  Smith's 
missionary  journey  in  the  region  near 
his  home.  It  was  probably  the  first 
missionary  undertaking  in  this  dispen- 
sation. Samuel  was  nineteen  years  old 
and  a  brother  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  He  carried  with  him  copies  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon  in  a  knapsack 
thrown  over  his  shoulders.  After  walk- 
ing twenty-five  miles  the  first  day  he 
was  refused  lodging  by  the  innkeeper. 
Continuing  his  journey  the  next  day  he 
called  on  Reverend  John  P.  Greene, 
a  Methodist  minister.  Reverend  Greene 
accepted  a  book  but  refused  to  buy  it. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Dan 

During  his  absence  while  visiting  his 
circuit,  however,  his  wife  read  the  book, 
and  like  many  others,  was  deeply  im- 
pressed. Mrs.  Greene  urged  her  hus- 
band to  read  the  book.  This  he  did,  and 
as  a  result  both  joined  the  Church. 

Samuel  H.  Smith  returned  from  his 
mission,  somewhat  discouraged,  feeling 
that  he  had  failed.  But,  unknown  to 
him,  the  book  had  fallen  into  the  hands 
of  Brigham  Young.  He  read  it  and 
began  to  investigate  Mormonism.  He 
did  so  for  two  years,  and  then  he,  too, 
joined  the  Church.  Samuel  H.  Smith's 
mission  had  not  been  a  failure.  The 
book  distributed  by  him  and  others, 
also  fell  into  the  hands  of  Dr.  Willard 
Richards  of  Boston,  Massachusetts,  who, 
when  he  had  read  the  first  page,  re- 
marked; "Either  God  or  the  devil  wrote 
that  book."  When  he  finished  the 
book,  he  concluded  it  had  come  from 
God,  and  he,  also,  joined  the  Church. 

Later,  the  volume  was  read  by  Par- 
ley P.  Pratt,  a  minister  in  the  Campbell- 
ite  Church.  He  was  similarly  impressed 
and  joined  the  Church  to  become  one 
of  its  outstanding  missionaries.  I  read 
his  testimony:  "As  I  read,  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  was  upon  me,  and  I  knew 
and  comprehended  that  the  book  was 
true  as  plainly  and  manifestly  as  a 
man  knows  and  comprehends  that  he 
exists.  My  joy  was  now  full,  as  it  were, 
and  I  rejoiced  sufficiently  to  more  than 
pay  me  for  all  the  sorrows,  sacrifices, 
and  toils  of  my  life." 

Parley  P.  Pratt  took  the  book  to  his 
brother,  Orson  Pratt,  then  a  young  man 
nineteen  years  of  age.  He,  like  the 
others,  read  the  book  and  became  a 
convert  and  a  great  power  in  the  Church. 

One  of  the  mission  presidents  stated 
yesterday  that  twenty-five  percent  of 
the  converts  in  his  mission  were  brought 
into  the  Church  through  reading  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  Surely,  it  is  a  pow- 
erful book.  It  is  a  great  converter.  It 
should  be  read  and  studied  by  all  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  for  it  will  strengthen 
their  faith  and  give  them  courage  and 
hope  to  go  forward  in  the  great  work 
of  the  Lord. 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 


87 


The  Church  from  its  very  beginning 
in  this  dispensation  has  put  forth  every 
effort,  it  seems  to  me,  to  tell  the  world 
about  the  restoration  of  the  gospel  and 
the  mission  of  Joseph  Smith,  the  Proph- 
et. This  impression  came  to  me  with 
great  force  as  I  read  an  epistle  to  the 
members  of  the  Church  under  date  of 
April  7,  1851.  This  was  less  than  four 
years  after  the  pioneers  entered  the 
Salt  Lake  Valley.  The  epistle  was 
signed  by  Brigham  Young,  Heber  C. 
Kimball,  and  Willard  Richards,  and 
was  addressed  to  the  "Saints  scattered 
throughout  the  earth." 

I  learned  from  that  epistle  that  all 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles  were  then 
abroad  except  Wilford  Woodruff  and 
Ezra  T.  Benson.  Their  President,  Or- 
son Hyde  was  in  Kanesville,  Iowa; 
Parley  P.  Pratt  was  on  his  way  to 
Chile,  his  mission  was  to  all  the  lands 
bordering  the  Pacific  Ocean;  Orson 
Pratt  was  somewhere  in  the  States  on 
his  way  to  the  valley  to  become  asso- 
ciated with  the  University  of  Deseret; 
John  Taylor  was  in  Boulogne,  France, 
"preaching,  publishing,  and  translat- 
ing"; Lorenzo  Snow  was  in  Italy,  visit- 
ing the  Italian  states;  Erastus  Snow  was 
in  Copenhagen,  Denmark,  where  he 


was  translating  the  Book  of  Mormon; 
Franklin  D.  Richards  was  presiding  over 
the  British  Mission  with  headquarters 
in  Liverpool,  England;  Amasa  Lyman 
and  Charles  C.  Rich  were  on  their  way 
to  the  Cajon  Pass;  and  George  A.  Smith 
was  presiding  in  Iron  County.  All  of 
them  were  preaching  the  gospel  "to 
every  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  peo- 
ple." What  better  evidence  could  they 
give  of  their  sincerity  and  integrity? 
The  best  leadership  of  the  Church  was 
surely  needed  here  in  the  valley,  where 
the  foundations  of  a  great  common- 
wealth were  being  laid;  cities,  towns, 
and  villages  were  being  laid  out  and 
settled;  churches  and  schools  were  be- 
ing erected;  and  roads  and  bridges  were 
under  construction.  But  the  paramount 
obligation  resting  upon  the  Church  then 
as  now  was  to  preach  the  gospel  and 
to  proclaim  the  divine  mission  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  In  this  tre- 
mendous responsibility  the  leaders  of 
the  Church  have  been  diligent  and 
determined.  May  we  be  given  the 
faith  and  the  understanding  to  continue 
in  this  great  enterprise  and  thus  dis- 
charge the  solemn  obligation  resting  up- 
on all  of  us,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


By  the  Spirit  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  about 
whom  my  fellow  council  member 
spoke  so  movingly  this  morning,  I 
can  bridge  the  nineteen  hundred  odd 
years  between  our  day  and  the  time  of 
our  beloved  Lord.  By  that  Spirit  I  can 
go  with  him  as  he  walked  the  hills  of 
Judea;  I  can  follow  him  to  the  cross; 
I  can  hear  the  discussion  at  Emmaus 
and  can  enjoy  the  perfect  love  for  him 
which  his  disciples  felt  after  his  resur- 
rection. That  event  we  celebrate  today. 
While  the  distance  in  time  through  the 
years  has  been  long,  it  seems  but  a  short 
time  because  of  this  Spirit.  I  am  grate- 
ful to  have  a  testimony  which  speaks 
to  my  heart  that  he  was  indeed  resur- 
rected.   Because  of  that  resurrection,  I 


may  have  hope,  hope  for  eternal  life. 

So  also  may  I  enjoy  the  feeling  and 
knowledge  of  how  my  brethren  felt 
when  they  heard  that  on  that  immortal 
day  133  years  ago,  a  new  prophet  was 
in  the  earth,  and  that  he  indeed  had 
seen  his  Redeemer  and  had  been  told 
that  through  him,  he  being  faithful, 
would  come  the  restoration  of  the  ever- 
lasting gospel.  By  the  Spirit  the  vision 
of  that  day  becomes  very  real. 

We  sit  here  today,  comfortable,  be- 
cause of  those  events  and  because  of 
our  belief  and  acceptance  of  them.  And 
on  this  day,  which  is  Easter,  I  wonder 
now,  what  of  the  future.  We  can  think 
of  the  past;  we  can  enjoy  it;  but  our 
future  depends  upon  us,  and  that  fu- 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  5 

ture  is  bound  up  in  what  we  intend 
to  do  about  preaching  this  gospel  to 
the  nations  of  the  earth. 

Did  you  hear,  as  I  heard  yesterday, 
the  statement  made  that  we  had  a  num- 
ber slightly  over  two  thousand  mission- 
aries? As  I  recall  it,  a  year  or  so  ago 
there  were  over  six  thousand.  That  gap 
should  be  filled.  And  personally,  I  can 
see  no  reason  why  it  should  not  be  filled. 
The  men  with  the  power  to  catch  up  the 
number  sit  in  this  Tabernacle  under 
the  direction  of  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church.  The  bishop  of  the  ward  shall 
call  upon  people  who  he  thinks  might 
be  able  to  go  on  missions;  the  stake 
president  will  interview  them  and  then 
pass  their  applications  on  to  the  Gen- 
eral Authorities. 

It  should  not  be  a  hard  thing,  from 
fifteen  hundred  wards,  to  find  four 
thousand  people.  It  is  only  three  for  each 
ward  on  the  average.  In  the  days  of 
our  poverty,  can  you  see  two  mission- 
aries, who  had  less  apparent  reason 
to  have  faith  than  we  have,  starting 
out  on  a  mission  which  they  had  been 
told  to  fill  in  England?  They  go  off  in 
a  wagon,  hardly  able  to  stand.  On  the 
way  they  meet  a  brother  who  is  felling 
trees,  barefooted.  I  suppose  he  does  not 
want  to  do  it  barefooted,  but  he  does 
not  have  any  shoes.  He  says,  "I  have 
nothing  to  give  you,  but  here  is  a 
purse."  You  and  I,  in  our  modern  way 
of  looking  at  things,  might  say,  "Well, 
what  is  the  good  of  a  purse?"  But  they 
take  it  and  thank  him  and  go  on.  A 
little  farther  along  the  road,  they  meet 
another  one,  equally  poverty-stricken, 
equally  poor.  He  says,  "I  have  nothing 
much  to  give  you;  what  do  you  have?" 
And  one  of  them  speaks  up  and  says, 
"Well,  we  have  a  purse."  "Good,  I 
have  a  dollar  to  put  in  that  purse." 
And  so  he  gives  them  his  only  dollar. 
One  of  those  men  said  later,  "From 
that  moment  on,  that  purse  was  never 
empty.  As  I  needed,  I  could  take  from 
it  that  which  was  necessary." 

It  befalls  my  lot  to  interview,  occa- 
sionally, missionaries,  in  the  days  of  our 
prosperity.    A  few  weeks  ago  I  had  a 


Second  Day 

young  man  come  into  the  office  to  be 
interviewed.  I  said  to  him  in  the  course 
of  the  conversation,  "Who  is  going  to 
support  you  on  this  mission?" 

And  he  said,  "My  mother." 

I  said,  "Is  your  father  alive?" 

"No,  sir,  he  is  dead." 

"Can  your  mother  do  it?" 

He  said,  "She  cannot,  but  she  will." 

There  is  no  doubt  in  my  mind  that 
she  will. 

Many  of  the  boys  who  go  out,  go 
out  that  way,  because  somebody  has 
enough  faith  to  know  that  in  the  Lord's 
work  the  way  opens. 

I  think  I  shall  recount  to  you,  so 
that  you  will  not  overlook  others  be- 
sides widows'  sons,  an  experience  had 
by  one  of  our  co-laborers,  which  was 
related  to  me  a  few  days  ago.  I  hope 
he  will  forgive  me  for  mentioning  it. 
President  Grant,  from  this  pulpit  one 
time,  invited  men  to  become  mission- 
aries, and  said,  in  effect,  too,  that 
that  did  not  exclude  stake  presidents 
and  bishops.  And  one  of  these  breth- 
ren, a  bishop,  went  home  and  said 
to  himself,  "Well,  I  guess  that  must 
mean  me.  I  am  a  bishop,  and  the 
President  of  the  Church  said  bish- 
ops were  not  excluded."  He  had  a 
family  of  several  children,  a  prosperous 
growing  business,  but  he  laid  it  aside 
and  accepted  a  mission  and  was  gone 
several  months,  preaching  the  gospel, 
because  he  thought  the  prophet  of  the 
Lord  meant  him,  personally. 

Now,  he  took  that  to  himself.  The 
prophet  did  not  point  his  finger  at  him, 
but  hearing  the  word  he  applied  it  to 
himself.  I  think  we  must  apply  it  to 
ourselves,  now.  If  we  can  not  obtain 
twenty-year-old  boys,  can't  we  have 
some  thirty-year-old  men?  If  we  have 
eighteen  thousand  or  so  seventies,  could 
we  not  find  four  thousand  of  them? 
They  are  minute  men.  I  believe  we 
can. 

And,  of  course,  the  Presidency  have 
pointed  out  several  times,  in  my  hearing, 
that  we  do  have  in  the  foreign  mis- 
sion fields  able  people  who  can  already 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 


89 


speak  the  languages,  ready  and  willing 
to  serve.  They  can  do  that  one  thing 
which  we  can't  do;  that  is,  interpret 
to  the  people  our  beliefs  in  terms  of 
that  language.  They  are  unable  to 
go  because  they  have  not  the  way  to 
finance  themselves. 

I  know  they  can  be  financed.  Presi- 
dent McKay  suggested  last  night  that 
they  should  be  partially  financed,  be- 
cause they  ought  to  make  some  contribu- 
tion themselves  or  their  folks  ought  to 
help  them,  too.  But  we  can  take  care 
of  the  difference  easily. 

It  occurred  to  me  one  time  that  in 
every  stake  there  are  between  eight 
hundred  and  twelve  hundred  families. 
I  said  to  the  members  of  one  stake,  in 
a  quarterly  conference,  "Why,  if  you 
went  to  only  one  movie  a  week,  you 
would  be  able  to  save  the  difference, 
from  the  two  movies  you  usually  at- 
tend." One  little  boy  on  the  front  row 
piped  up  and  said,  "I  go  to  three." 

Staying  away  from  a  movie  a  week, 
would  make  it  possible  for  every  stake 
in  this  Church  to  supply  anywhere 
from  eight  to  twelve  of  those  foreign- 
speaking  members  of  ours,  and  no  harm 
would  be  done. 

I  used  to  work  in  an  organization 
which  builds  character  in  boys.  Its 
main  object  is  to  have  them  do  things, 
many  times  repeated,  in  order  to  learn. 
We  had  a  motto  which  we  tired  to 
instil  into  those  boys.  It  reads,  "Do  a 
good  turn  daily,"  the  idea  being  that 
if  a  boy  does  it  every  day  he  will  soon 
have  the  habit  of  doing  it. 

The  actual  builders  of  the  characters 
of  your  children  are  not  the  organi- 
zations, but  you  parents:  you  can 
build  into  your  children  whatever  you 
want  to.  Do  you  want  your  children 
to  become  missionary-minded?  Do  you 
want  them  to  believe  they  ought  to  be 
missionaries  when  they  grow  up?  Then 
have  them  do  things  now  which  will 
bring  to  their  minds  the  work  of  our 
missionary  system. 

May  I  suggest  something?  You 
farmers — why  do  not  your  boys  this 


year  have  one  row  of  potatoes  which, 
when  harvested  next  fall,  will  be  given 
to  the  missionary  fund  of  the  Church? 
No  harm  is  done;  nobody  is  hurt.  You 
beet  farmers,  why  not  one  row  of  beets 
your  boys  and  your  girls  can  harvest, 
and  let  that  portion  apply?  You  men 
who  raise  hay,  why  not  a  quarter  or 
half  an  acre  dedicated  to  the  Finnish 
Mission?  You  sheep  men,  have  your 
child  raise  a  lamb,  dedicated,  when  it 
is  fattened  and  killed,  to  one  of  the 
German  missions. 

You  folk  in  California — one  nut  tree, 
one  orange  tree,  your  children  dedicating 
it  and  talking  about  it  and  picking  the 
fruit,  saying  all  the  while,  "This  is  for 
the  missionary  system."  Nobody  is 
harmed;  your  income  has  not  shrunk; 
and  the  fund  is  increased  to  where  we 
can  actually  do  the  business. 

Yes,  and  you  folk  in  the  cities — the 
car  can  last  another  year;  the  suit  of 
clothes  can  go  another  year;  desserts 
served  less  often;  a  bottle  on  the  pantry 
shelf  labeled  "missionary  fund"  and 
the  trick  is  done,  and  the  children  are 
conscious  of  it.  We  then  have  back 
again  our  six  thousand  missionaries, 
and  more,  too.  In  the  time  of  our 
poverty  we  could  do  it.  Why  cannot 
we  do  it  in  the  time  of  our  prosperity? 
There  is  so  little  poverty  in  the  Church. 
There  is  so  much  prosperity. 

May  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  dictate 
to  each  of  us  our  place,  our  duty,  and 
our  responsibility,  I  humbly  ask,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  con- 
gregation will  now  sing,  "The  Spirit  of 
God  Like  a  Fire  is  Burning." 

After  the  singing  we  shall  hear  from 
Bishop  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson. 


The  congregation  and  the  Choir 
joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "The  Spirit 
of  God  Like  A  Fire  Is  Burning." 


90 

Sunday,  April  5 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


Second  Dan 


President  McKay,  President  Richards, 
who  is  following  the  conference  on 
television,  whom  we  miss  very  much, 
President  Clark,  and  my  dear  brothers 
and  sisters:  I  enjoy  very  much  listening 
to  the  sermons  of  the  Brethren.  They 
are  comforting  to  me.  They  build  me 
up  in  my  faith  and  in  my  testimony. 
I  love  these  Brethren,  every  one  of 
them.  I  pray  for  them  daily,  as  I 
beg  of  them  and  beg  of  you  to  pray 
for  me,  one  of  the  most  humble, 
I  believe,  among  you.  I  know  these 
men  are  true  servants  of  the  Lord. 
I  bear  testimony  to  you  that  many  times 
I  have  felt  and  witnessed  the  inspira- 
tion from  on  high  come  to  them  when 
I  little  expected  it.  I  came  from  the 
business  world  to  meet  with  these  breth- 
ren, practically  strangers,  and  I  didn't 
know  it  was  possible  to  love  men  as 
I  have  learned  to  love  them,  and  as 
I  know  they  love  one  another.  I  pray 
that  I  might  have  the  right  attitude 
and  the  right  spirit  while  I  occupy  this 
position,  so  that  I  can  receive  the 
favor  of  the  Lord  and  his  sustaining 
influence  and  power.  I  shall  be  grate- 
ful to  you  if  I  can  have  an  interest  in 
your  faith  and  prayers  because  I  know 
I  need  the  blessings  of  the  Lord,  and 
I  will  be  grateful  to  you  for  your  kind- 
ness, your  co-operation,  and  your  love. 

This  is  a  frightening  experience,  espe- 
cially for  me.  The  spirit  here  today 
has  been  beautiful.  It  has  been  up- 
lifting, the  spirit  of  brotherhood,  and 
the  spirit  of  love.  I  am  sure  that  all 
of  our  young  children  today,  on  this 
particular  day  of  Easter,  have  enjoyed 
what  it  means.  My  own  little  grandson 
came  at  noon  just  as  I  was  leaving,  only 
five  years  of  age,  but  he  had  some  Easter 
things,  and  I  said,  "What  are  those 
things,  Bodie?"  And  he  said,  "O,  it's 
Easter  for  my  Jesus."  How  grateful 
we  should  be  for  that  kind  of  lesson 
that  is  taught  to  the  youth  of  this 
Church. 

There  are  problems  in  life  that  come 


to  all  of  us.  The  day  and  age  in  which 
we  live  has  brought  forth  some  new 
theories,  new  standards,  and  there  is  a 
feeling  that  we  should  perhaps  be  more 
concerned  about  the  word  security  than 
about  other  things  in  life.  Now  the 
true  feeling  of  security  is  a  wonderful 
feeling,  but  there  is  a  great  deal  more 
to  security,  than  just  the  longing  for 
it.  We  make  our  own  security  in  a 
large  degree,  at  least  we  should,  both 
spiritually  and  temporally. 

Sometimes  incidents  happen  in  the 
lives  of  men  that  disturb  them,  and 
they  may  become  irritated,  and  then  they 
may  start  finding  fault,  and  then 
they  become  critical,  and  before  long 
they  may  become  bitter,  and  at  that 
time  we  lose  the  finest  things  in  life. 
True,  the  world  is  not  at  ease.  We  have 
been  at  high  tension  for  a  number  of 
years.  We  have  seen  great  changes.  We 
have  just  finished  a  very  bitter  political 
campaign.  There  has  been  prejudice  de- 
velop, misunderstandings  develop,  but 
it  is  best  that  we  forget  them  entirely. 

Real  security  to  the  members  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  will  come  to  us  as  individuals 
through  the  living  of  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  In  the  gospel  are 
found  the  laws  of  truth,  the  laws  of 
mankind,  and  if  we  live  the  principles 
of  the  gospel,  the  security  that  men 
seek  and  the  security  that  men  desire 
will  come  to  each  one  of  us.  If  we  are 
not  careful,  however,  living  under  these 
particular  times  and  under  this  at- 
mosphere, we  may  lose  track  of  some  of 
the  finer  things  of  life,  and  allow  some- 
one to  mislead  us.  We  may  develop 
prejudices.  We  may  be  led  off  the  true 
course.  None  of  this  is  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord.  None  of  this  is  the  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  the  spirit 
of  the  adversary,  working  upon  the 
minds  and  hearts  and  souls  of  men  to 
discourage  them,  to  cause  confusion,  to 
create  antagonism  and  misunderstand- 
ings one  toward  the  other. 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


91 


In  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  found 
the  complete  law  of  happiness — the  laws 
that  govern  our  daily  lives,  the  laws 
that  we  can  follow  without  any  hesita- 
tion or  without  any  misgivings.  As 
members  of  the  Church,  we  need  no 
security  other  than  the  gospel.  If  we 
live  it,  there  will  come  to  all  of  us 
everything  that  we  may  need  and  every- 
thing that  we  may  desire,  for  the  Lord 
has  said, 

He  that  receiveth  my  Father  receiveth 
my  Father's  kingdom:  therefore  all  that  my 
Father  hath  shall  he  given  unto  him. 
(D.  &  C.  84:38.) 

The  security  in  the  gospel  to  the 
brethren  of  the  Church  is  the  kind  of 
security  that  cannot  be  found  anywhere 
else  in  the  world.  It  is  the  kind  of 
security  that  the  world  does  not  under- 
stand. This  security  is  given  to  the 
brethren  of  the  Church  who  hold  the 
Holy  Priesthood  of  God,  the  power 
delegated  to  man  to  act  in  the  name 
and  in  the  place  of  our  Father  in 
heaven  here  upon  the  earth  in  the 
building  up  of  his  kingdom.  The  power 
of  the  priesthood  is  the  greatest  power 
and  the  greatest  force  on  the  face  of 
the  earth.  Talk  about  real  securityl 
That  will  be  with  us  if  we  keep  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord,  and  if  we 
keep  the  covenants  that  we  have  made 
with  the  Lord. 

There  is  a  security  that  comes  to  all 
members  of  the  Church  who  have  re- 
ceived the  great  Comforter  spoken  of 
by  Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  this  morn- 
ing, the  power  and  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  And  the  Lord  said  regarding 
that  great  Comforter, 

And  I  will  pray  the  Father,  and  he  shall 
give  you  another  Comforter,  that  he  may 
abide  with  you  for  ever: 

Even  the  Spirit  of  truth;  whom  the  world 
cannot  receive,  because  it  seeth  him  not, 
neither  knoweth  him;  but  ye  know  him; 
for  he  dwelleth  with  you,  and  shall  be  in 
you.  (John  14:16-17.) 

As  members  of  the  Church  this  type 
of  security  is  the  type  of  security  that 
will  be  enduring  and  everlasting. 


We  must  not  expect  perfection  in  the 
other  fellow  because  we  ourselves  do 
not  give  perfection.  We  might  be  more 
tolerant  with  one  another.  Yes,  we  may 
have  our  differences,  but  we  should  have 
faith  in  our  fellow  men;  faith  in  our- 
selves; faith  in  our  friends  and  asso- 
ciates; and  above  all,  faith  in  God  our 
Eternal  Father  and  in  his  Son,  Jesus 
Christ;  faith  in  the  mission  of  the  Savior 
who  was  crucified  on  Calvary. 

When  we  talk  of  that,  I  wonder 
whether  we  stop  to  think  of  the  great  suf- 
fering that  He  was  willing  to  go  through 
for  us.  We  should  have  faith  in  the  mis- 
sion of  the  Redeemer  of  mankind,  the 
Savior  of  the  world;  faith  in  the  mission 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  truly  an 
instrument  in  the  hands  of  God  in  bring- 
ing forth  the  restored  gospel  that  should 
make  our  lives  sweeter,  more  tolerant, 
and  more  considerate.  There  isn't  any 
teaching  in  the  gospel  that  teaches  us 
bitterness;  in  fact  we  are  taught  to  be 
tolerant  and  forgiving  and  understand- 
ing. The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  can  be 
found  in  our  own  hearts.  If  we  are  out 
of  harmony  with  the  Lord,  our  spiritual 
well-being  is  not  in  accordance  with  the 
wishes  of  the  Lord. 

Yes,  men  may  have  their  differences 
and  often  do,  but  these  differences  can 
all  be  settled  if  men  will  go  about  set- 
tling those  differences  as  the  gospel 
has  prescribed  the  brethren  of  the 
Church  to  do.   The  Lord  said, 

But  I  say  unto  you,  that  whosoever  is 
angry  with  his  brother  shall  be  in  danger 
of  his  judgment.  And  whosoever  shall  say 
to  his  brother,  Raca,  [meaning  the  calling 
of  angry  names]  shall  be  in  danger  of  the 
council;  and  whosoever  shall  say,  Thou  fool, 
shall  be  in  danger  of  hell  fire. 

Therefore,  if  ye  shall  come  unto  me,  or 
shall  desire  to  come  unto  me,  and  remem- 
berest  that  thy  brother  hath  aught  against 
thee — 

Go  thy  way  unto  thy  brother,  and  first 
be  reconciled  to  thy  brother,  and  then  come 
unto  me  with  full  purpose  of  heart,  and 
I  will  receive  you.  (3  Nephi  12:22-24.) 

Oh,  brethren,  if  we  can  only  follow 
that  principle  when  we  have  our  dif- 


92 

Sunday,  April  5 

ferences,  they  would  fade  away  as  the 
snow  in  the  sunshine. 

The  doctrines  taught  in  early  times 
are  real  truths  and  principles.  Time 
has  worn  well  with  them,  and  their 
victory  stands  firmly  before  the  world. 
The  security  that  men  sought  for  in 
early  years  was  that  afforded  by  the 
blessing  of  opportunity. 

The  liberty  of  man  may  be  circumscribed, 
his  hands  and  his  legs  may  be  chained, 
and  his  body  may  be  tortured,  but  as  long 
as  his  soul  is  free  to  commune  with  God, 
he  will  never  really  become  enslaved  by  any 
destructive  force. 

Men  in  the  Kremlin  who  have  had  their 
satellites  in  Europe  and  Asia  have  been 
unable  to  date  to  permanently  purge  re- 
ligion from  their  borders,  and  they  will 
never  purge  the  belief  in  God  from  the  souls 
of  men. 

May  we  have  the  true  Spirit  of  the 
Christ.  May  we  remain  faithful.  We 
should  never  permit  uneasiness  or  an- 
tagonism or  bitterness  to  come  into  our 
souls.   We  must  not  judge  too  harshly 

unless  we  ourselves  bear  the  mark  of 
perfection. 

Talking  to  the  young  people  about 
that  word  security  that  we  read  so  much 
about,  an  educator  recently  informed  me 
of  a  survey  that  he  had  completed  of 
a  group  of  seniors  to  see  exactly  what 
was  foremost  in  their  minds,  and  he 
asked  them  about  twenty  practical  ques- 
tions as  to  what  was  really  their  greatest 
concern.  He  asked  them  whether  they 
wanted  to  start  in  business  and  work 
their  way  up,  or  whether  they  wanted 
to  go  into  the  government  service,  or 
whether  they  wanted  to  render  social 
service,  or  missionary  service,  what  they 
thought  of  their  fellow  men,  what  they 
thought  of  opportunities  and  security, 
and  to  his  surprise,  a  large  group  of 
those  young  men  interviewed  listed  the 
thing  that  was  uppermost  in  their  minds 
was  that  of  security.  They  were  not 
concerned  too  much  about  opportunity, 
and  yet  in  this  land,  men  have  prayed 
that  we  would  have  opportunity,  and 
we  have  been  blessed  abundantly  with 
opportunities.    Our  grandparents  never 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

thought  of  that  word  temporal  security. 
They  were  willing  to  make  their  own. 
All  they  desired  and  prayed  for  was 
the  opportunity  to  do  so. 

My  association  and  some  of  my  as- 
signments have  brought  me  in  contact 
with  fine  men  who  for  some  reason  or 
other  have  become  inactive  in  the 
Church,  and  I  want  to  bear  you  my 
testimony  that  I  have  seen  these  men 
literally  changed.  I  want  to  tell  you 
that  when  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  touches  the  souls  of  men,  they 
are  transformed  into  real,  humble  serv- 
ants in  his  work.  No  man  when  he  is 
humble  and  prayerful  can  resist  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  if  he  will  put  him- 
self in  tune  with  communication  with 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  And  as  the 
poem  states  from  Boubar 

Great  Master,  touch  us  with  thy  skilful 
hand. 

Let  not  the  music  that  is  within  us  die. 
Great  sculptor,  hew  and  polish  us, 
Nor  let  hidden  and  lost  thy  form  within 
us  lie. 

Spare  not  the  stroke,  Do  with  us  as  thou 
wilt, 

Let  there  be  not  unfinished  or  marred. 
Complete  thy  purpose  that  we  may  become 

thy  perfect  image, 
For  thou  art  God,  our  Lord. 

I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  proph- 
et of  God.  I  am  grateful  for  the  mis- 
sion of  his  brother,  Hyrum.  Oh,  what 
a  brother!  An  elder  brother  to  the 
Prophet.  What  a  lesson  he  could  preach 
to  all  the  brethren  of  the  Church, 
brothers,  I  mean,  in  families.  He  stayed 
with  the  Prophet  until  his  death.  I 
know  that  Joseph  Smith  and  Brigham 
Young  were  true  prophets  of  God.  I 
know  it  by  the  dictates  of  the  Holy 
Spirit  and  by  the  gift  and  the  power 
of  the  Holy  Ghost.  I  know  that  all 
the  Presidencies  and  Apostles  from  that 
time  to  this  have  been  called  of  God, 
and  divinely  called,  and  that  they  are 
inspired  each  day  of  their  lives.  I  know 
that  President  David  O.  McKay  is  a 
true,  living  prophet  of  God,  and  that 
he  does  receive  inspiration  and  revela- 
tion from  on  high,  and  that  the  Lord 


ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY 


93 


reveals  his  will  to  him  and  that  the 
Lord  has  protected  him  as  though  in 
the  hollow  of  his  hand. 

May  we  keep  the  covenants  that  we 
have  made  with  the  Lord.  It  is  my 
testimony  that  there  is  no  enduring 
security  other  than  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  This  security  will 
comfort  our  hearts;  this  security  will 
sustain  our  souls.  God  grant  that  we 
may  remain  faithful,  that  we  may  keep 
the  lines  of  communication  open  so 
that  not  alone  in  time  of  need,  but 
every  day  of  our  lives  we  can  humble 
ourselves,  as  Brother  Christiansen  talked 
about  yesterday,  that  we  can  go  to  the 
Lord,  that  we  will  not  have  to  face 


the  problems  of  life  alone.  Our  big 
problem  is  to  keep  ourselves  in  tune 
with  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  so  that  we 
can  hear  the  dictates  which  prompt  us 
through  the  power  and  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost;  this  I  humbly  pray  for  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric  has  just  spoken  to 
us.  Elder  Matthew  Cowley  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  next 
speaker.  And  Elder  Cowley  will  be 
followed  by  Bishop  Wirthlin. 


ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I would  like  very  much  to  welcome 
my  friends  who  have  come  from 
far-off  Hawaii,  to  this  conference, 
Aloha  mai,  aloha  nui  loa. 

Yesterday  morning,  had  I  been  called 
upon  to  speak,  I  would  have  attempted 
to  speak  about  the  integrity  of  the 
home.  Had  I  been  called  upon  yester- 
day afternoon,  I  would  have  talked  about 
this  nation  under  God.  Had  I  been 
called  upon  last  night  in  priesthood 
meeting,  I  would  have  urged  the 
brethren  to  keep  in  training  with  re- 
spect to  the  priesthood  which  they  hold. 
Had  I  been  called  upon  this  morning, 
I  would  have  talked  about  John  the 
Baptist  who  was  the  forerunner  of 
Christ,  whose  resurrection  we  com- 
memorate this  day.  But  I  was  told  this 
morning  that  an  inquiry  had  been  made 
about  when  I  was  going  to  speak  so 
that  a  little  friend  of  mine  could  listen 
in,  and  so  I  am  going  to  talk  about 
my  little  friend,  my  little  friend,  Joe, 
who  is  in  the  polio  ward  of  the  county 
hospital. 

A  few  weeks  ago  I  went  with  a  young 
bishop  to  visit  Joe.  I  did  not  know 
how  old  he  was,  I  could  not  see  how 
large  he  was,  all  I  could  see  was  his 
head  protruding  from  an  iron  lung.  He 
was  unconscious.  He  was  afflicted  with 


polio  and  double  pneumonia.  When 
we  went  in,  the  nurse  placed  robes  on 
us,  and  we  had  to  put  masks  over  our 
faces.  We  prayed  over  little  Joe.  Two 
weeks  later  we  called  again  at  the 
hospital  and  asked  if  we  could  see  the 
little  lad.  The  nurse  said,  "yes,"  and 
when  she  called  him,  he  came  running 
up  the  hall  to  meet  us. 

I  said,  "Do  you  know  who  I  am?" 
He  replied,  "Are  you  Brother  Cowley?" 
I  said,  "Yes."  He  then  said,  "I  was 
unconscious  when  you  came  before, 
wasn't  I?"  "You  certainly  were,"  I  said, 
and  then  he  replied,  "No  wonder  I  don't 
recognize  you." 

He  took  us  into  his  room,  and  lying 
in  an  adjoining  bed  to  his  was  another 
young  chap,  twice  the  age  of  Joe.  And 
after  visiting  for  awhile,  we  were  about 
to  go  when  little  Joe  said,  "Wait  a  min- 
ute, don't  forget  my  partner."  I  said, 
"What  do  you  mean?"  And  he  said, 
"You  pray  over  my  partner,  and  then 
he  can  thank  you  for  a  prayer  the  same 
as  I  did." 

And  so  we  turned  to  his  companion, 
a  young  lad  sixteen  years  of  age,  stricken 
with  polio,  and  he  said,  "I  would  like  a 
blessing.  I  am  a  teacher  in  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  in  my  ward."  And  so  we 
blessed  Joe's  partner.   Two  weeks  later 


94 

Sunday,  April  5 

we  called  back  again.  On  this  visit 
little  Joe  was  rather  sad,  and  we  asked 
him.  what  was  the  matter.  He  said,  "I 
am  lonely.  Maybe  I  shouldn't  have 
asked  you  to  bless  my  partner.  He  got 
well  too  soon  and  has  gone  home." 

Well,  little  Joe  is  probably  listening 
in,  and  maybe  he  can  see  me  on  televi- 
sion as  I  speak,  so  I  want  to  say  to  you, 
little  Joe,  we  are  thinking  about  you. 
We  are  praying  for  you.  We  have  been 
told  here  by  the  great  leaders  of  this 
Church  that  we  should  have  a  simple 
faith.  Christ  himself  says  that  we 
should  have  faith  like  yours,  the  faith 
of  a  little  child,  and  unless  we  have  your 
faith,  we  cannot  enter  the  kingdom  of 
heaven.  Joe,  you  are  of  the  kingdom 
of  heaven  because  yours  is  a  faith  which 
has  not  been  tarnished  by  learning,  by 
the  wisdom  of  men.  It  is  simple.  And 
there  are  many  of  your  companions  down 
there  with  you.  We  are  thinking  of 
them.  There  are  the  little  Joes  and 
the  little  Janes  who  are  there,  some  in 
iron  lungs  and  some  on  rocking  beds, 
some  being  fed  with  a  spoon.  We  are 
thinking  about  them,  and  I  know,  my 
little  friend,  that  your  faith  can  do 
much  to  make  them  whole.  And  over 
in  the  other  ward  there  are  others, 
adults,  those  who  are  old  enough  to  be 
your  parents,  who  are  reaching  out  for 
help  because  they  feel  that  medical 
science  may  fail.  And  with  your  faith 
they  can  know  that  when  medical  sci- 
ence has  to  lay  the  burden  down,  the 
power  and  priesthood  of  God  can  pick 
that  burden  up  and  restore  them  to 
health  and  strength. 

Up  there  in  another  ward  of  that 
hospital  there  is  another  sweet  friend  of 
mine.  She  is  almost  ninety-three  years 
of  age,  still  clear  in  her  mind.  I  visited 
her  on  one  of  her  birthdays,  and  at  the 
side  of  her  bed  was  a  little  vase  of  flowers. 
I  read  the  card,  "Many  happy  returns 
of  the  day  from  the  Moose  Lodge."  She 
did  not  know  anything  about  the  Moose 
Lodge.  All  she  knew  about  was  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  All  she  knew  about  was  the 
years  that  she  had  spent  in  the  temple 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

of  God,  saying  as  the  Master  said  to 
that  thief  upon  the  cross,  "Today  shalt 
thou  be  with  me,"  (Luke  23:43)  as  she 
worked  for  the  dead. 

Joe  remind  me  that  I  must  not 
forget  her  birthday  this  coming  July. 
There  must  not  only  be  flowers  from 
the  Moose  Lodge,  but  there  must  also 
be  flowers  from  the  ward  to  which  she 
belongs. 

I  also  have  another  friend  about 
whom  I  am  thinking.  She  is  not  in 
the  hospital.  She  is  at  a  home.  Her 
limbs  are  rigid.  She  cannot  use  her 
hands.  She  cannot  walk.  Her  eyeballs 
appear  to  be  frozen  in  their  sockets. 
She  has  been  that  way  for  twenty-five 
years,  and  yet  when  I  call  on  her, 
she  laughs,  or  tries  to;  she  tires  to 
joke;  she  asks  me  to  take  her  to  a  dance. 

And  so,  Joe  I  am  talking  to  you.  I 
hope  you  are  listening.  There  are 
many  others  like  you,  and  we  remember 
them,  too.  We  may  not  have  the  time 
to  call  often.  I  know  others  who  must 
not  be  forgotten.  Oh,  I  am  thinking 
of  the  sisters  who  live  on  the  top  floor 
of  the  Constitution  Building,  over  here 
on  Main  Street.  Some  of  them  near 
unto  ninety,  who  cannot  get  out,  but 
who  love  the  Church,  who  appreciate 
the  blessings  of  the  priesthood,  and 
who  are  praying  for  you  and  for  me, 
and  for  the  brethren  of  this  Church. 

God  bless  the  eight-year-olds  of  this 
Church,  those  who  have  been  baptized. 
When  you  were  baptized,  Joe,  you  were 
not  sprinkled;  water  was  not  poured 
upon  you;  but  you,  like  the  Master,  to 
commence  to  fulfil  all  righteousness, 
were  taken  down  into  the  water;  and 
you  were  immersed;  and  now  yours  is 
the  opportunity  to  follow  in  the  foot- 
steps of  your  Savior  and  be  like  unto 
him. 

God  bless  you,  my  young  friend, 
with  the  power  of  the  priesthood  of 
heaven.  God  grant  that  his  Spirit  may 
be  and  abide  with  you  and  with  your 
partners  down  there  in  that  polio  ward. 
Thank  your  doctors  and  your  nurses 
for  me,  they  who  are  so  kind  and  so 
gentle   and  so  concerned  about  the 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


95 


restoration  of  health  to  you  and  your  you  are  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven.  God 

companions.  grant  that  we  may  all  have  your  faith, 

But,  Joe,  continue  to  rely  upon  your  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 

God.    Whatever  the  results  may  be,  Amen. 

BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Ohurch 


I sincerely  trust,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  I  might  enjoy  the  in- 
spiration of  the  fine,  sweet  spirit 
that  has  inspired  the  previous  speakers. 
It  is  a  glorious  honor  and  distinction 
to  hold  membership  in  the  Church  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

Through  the  restoration  of  the  Church 
and  its  establishment  upon  the  earth, 
a  part  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven  is  upon 
the  earth  to  prepare  men  for  the  second 
coming^of  the  Prince  of  Peace,  and 
hence,  this  great  organization  is  one 
of  divine  government. 

Brigham  Young  declared  that  the 
priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God  which  we 
have  in  our  midst  is  a  perfect  order  and 
system  of  government,  and  this  alone 
can  deliver  the  human  family  from  all 
the  evils  which  now  afflict  its  members 
and  insure  them  of  happiness  hereafter. 

One  of  the  grand  and  glorious  bless- 
ings of  this  great  priesthood  govern- 
ment is  the  fact  that  every  man  and 
young  man  who  holds  the  priesthood  of 
God,  if  he  will  fill  his  assignments 
rendering  the  service  that  is  required 
of  him,  becomes  an  officer  in  the  priest- 
hood government  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ. 

The  priesthood  government  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  comparable  in  many 
respects  to  civil  government.  It  has 
various  departments.  There  is  a  de- 
partment of  education,  a  department  of 
health,  a  department  of  recreation  and 
culture,  a  welfare  department,  a  judiciary 
department,  and  a  finance  department. 

So,  without  going  into  detail  with 
reference  to  all  of  these  departments 
and  their  various  functions,  I  should  like 
to  talk  to  you  for  a  moment  about  the 
finance  department  of  the  priesthood 
government  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 


There  stands  at  its  head  the  prophet, 
revelator,  and  seer  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  He  directs  the  great  finance  de- 
partment of  this  government.  The  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  are  fiscal  agents  of  the 
First  Presidency,  and  the  many  bishops 
and  presidencies  of  independent  branches 
who  receive  the  finances  of  the  finance 
department  are  agents,  too,  and,  under 
the  direction  of  the  First  Presidency 
and  various  committees,  disburse  the 
same  as  the  needs  of  the  Church  de- 
mand. 

The  sources  of  income  for  the  finance 
department  are  four: 

The  first  is  tithing  in  cash;  the  second 
is  tithes  in  kind;  the  third  is  fast  offer- 
ings; and  the  fourth,  commercial  in- 
come of  the  Church. 

I  should  like  to  discuss  for  a  moment 
the  commercial  income  of  the  Church. 
There  are  many  people  who  are  curious 
about  it.  Certain  groups  speculate  as 
to  what  the  wealth  of  the  Church  is, 
what  its  investments  are,  as  to  what 
the  amount  of  the  commercial  income 
might  be. 

The  commercial  income  of  the  Church 
provides  funds  to  carry  on  the  opera- 
tion of  the  Church  for  approximately 
fifteen  days  out  of  the  year,  so  you  can 
readily  see  that  it  is  an  infinitesimal  part 
of  the  funds  that  are  needed  to  finance 
the  program  of  the  Church,  particularly 
in  view  of  that  fact,  as  was  stated  yester- 
day morning,  in  the  financial  statement 
of  the  Church,  some  twenty-three  mil- 
lions were  expended  from  tithing  funds 
for  various  purposes. 

Out  of  the  question  of  commercial  in- 
come, the  question  arises,  "Why  is  the 
Church  in  business?" 

We  are  in  business  to  some  extent 
because  in  the  early  days  of  the  Church 


96 

Sunday,  April  5 

it  was  necessary  for  this  organization  to 
help  establish  industry;  for  example,  in 
the  days  of  President  Brigham  Young, 
most  of  the  retailing  of  merchandise  was 
controlled  by  those  not  of  our  faithfl 
Exorbitant  prices  were  charged.  To 
solve  the  problem,  a  great  mercantile 
institution  was  established  for  the  sole 
purpose  of  selling  merchandise  to  our 
people  at  a  fair  and  equitable  price. 

At  the  same  time,  there  was  estab- 
lished what  was  known  as  mercantile 
co-ops.  There  was  the  Eleventh  Ward 
Co-op  established  on  the  corner  of  First 
South  and  Seventh  East;  the  Tenth 
Ward  Co-op  established  on  Eighth  East 
and  Fourth  South;  the  Twentieth  Ward 
Co-op  on  the  corner  of  Fifth  East  and 
South  Temple.  These  co-ops  were  also 
established  throughout  the  settlements 
of  the  state  for  the  sole  purpose  of 
providing  merchandise  for  our  people  at 
the  right  price. 

The  Church,  to  some  extent,  is  still 
interested  in  these  pioneer  enterprises. 
In  the  great  mercantile  institution  es- 
tablished by  Brigham  Young  and  his 
associates,  the  Church  still  has  a 
minority  interest.  There  are  literally 
hundreds  of  others  holding  shares  in 
this  great  institution. 

We  are  asked  the  question:  "Why  are 
we  in  the  sugar  business?"  We  are  in 
the  sugar  business  because  of  the  fact 
that  in  the  days  of  Wilford  Woodruff, 
those  who  were  engaged  in  the  field  of 
agriculture  had  difficulty  in  disposing  of 
the  kind  of  crops  produced.  Hay,  grain, 
and  livestock  were  not  marketable.  So, 
in  order  to  solve  the  problem,  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church  and  his  associates 
gave  consideration  to  several  solutions. 

Finally  it  was  decided  that  sugar  beets 
would  grow  in  this  area.  The  climate 
was  right,  and  out  of  it  there  were 
established  sugar  factories  that  our 
farmers  might  have  channels  through 
which  their  products  could  be  sold, 
and  where,  in  return,  they  might  re- 
ceive cash  income. 

With  reference  to  the  establishment 
of  the  sugar  industry,  there  was  in- 
spiration in  it.    President  Woodruff 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

made  it  a  matter  of  prayer,  and  when 
he  had  a  positive  attitude  toward  the 
establishing  of  the  sugar  industry,  there 
came  to  him  light.  When  his  attitude 
was  negative,  all  was  dark.  There  is 
no  question  but  what  the  prophet  of 
the  Lord  was  inspired  and  directed  in 
establishing  the  sugar  industry  to  the 
end  that  our  farmers  might  produce  a 
crop  which  would  bring  to  them  a  cash 
return. 

The  Church  never  was  and  is  not  the 
sole  owner  of  the  sugar  industry,  today, 
as  there  are  hundreds  of  other  share- 
holders. 

The  question  is  asked:  "Why  are  we 
in  the  radio  and  television  business?" 
Solely  for  the  purpose  that  the  voice 
of  the  Church  might  be  heard  over  the 
air.  I  am  sure  our  interest  in  the  radio 
business  has  more  than  paid  us  many 
dividends  in  the  opportunity  provided 
by  the  Sunday  morning  broadcasts  of 
our  great  choir,  and.  the  fine  sermons 
of  Elder  Richard  L.  Evans,  which  are 
heard  by  millions  of  people,  and  in  ad- 
dition, the  broadcasting  of  general  con- 
ference. 

I  have  met  many  people  not  of  our 
faith  who  have  declared:  "My  church 
is  the  Sunday  morning  broadcast  of  the 
great  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  sermon 
of  Richard  L.  Evans." 

It  is  true  that  the  Church  is  inter- 
ested in  some  real  estate,  most  of  which 
surrounds  this  block,  purchased  for  the 
sole  purpose  of  protecting  the  temple 
block  from  business  that  would  be 
derogatory  to  the  atmosphere  and  the 
spirit  of  the  house  of  the  Lord. 

The  Church  has  has  some  interests  in 
ranching  projects  which  have  grown 
largely  out  of  colonization  projects, 
particularly  in  Canada  and  Mexico. 

A  large  ranch  was  purchased  in  Can- 
ada; parts  of  it  were  sold  to  our  people 
who  settled  there;  and  out  of  it  there  was 
left  a  large  tract  which  was  open  do- 
main whereon  people  ran  their  cattle 
for  years;  later  it  was  fenced.  Sheep 
and  cattle  were  placed  upon  this  ranch, 
and  out  of  its  earnings,  the  ranch  opera- 
tion has  been  expanded,  and  the  divi- 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


97 


dends  returned  from  this  operation  have 
been  spent  in  the  erection  of  chapels 
in  Canada,  and  paying  some  of  the 
maintenance  expense  of  the  Church  in 
that  part  of  the  Lord's  vineyard. 

So  the  matter  of  our  commercial  in- 
come should  not  be  one  of  great  curi- 
osity nor  speculation,  for  as  I  have  indi- 
cated, it  is  but  an  infinitesimal  part  of 
the  funds  needed  to  finance  the  priest- 
hood government  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ. 

The  bulk  of  Church  income  is  de- 
rived from  tithing,  based  upon  the 
faith  and  the  testimony  of  the  member- 
ship of  the  true  Church.  It  thrills  me 
as  I  travel  over  the  Church  and  see  the 
lovely  meetinghouses  that  have  been 
erected,  the  cost  of  which  is  paid  partly 
from  the  tithes,  and  the  other  part  from 
the  contributions  of  the  people. 

I  do  not  believe  that  I  would  be  con- 
tradicted if  I  were  to  make  the  state- 
ment today  that  of  all  the  religious 
organizations  in  the  world,  this  Church 
at  the  moment  is  erecting  more  places 
in  which  to  worship  God  than  any  other 
religious  organization. 

The  tithes  in  kind  amount  to  little. 
There  are  a  few  cases  where  individuals 
pay  their  tithing  in  crops  or  livestock, 
and  these  are  immediately  converted  in- 
to cash,  and  forwarded  to  the  office  of 
the  Presiding  Bishopric. 

Tithing  is  a  just  and  an  equitable 
law.  The  amount  that  we  are  asked 
to  pay  as  a  tithe  was  fixed  by  the  Lord 
through  revelation  and  direction  to  his 
servants.  Tithing  is  a  principle  that 
is  as  old  as  the  Lord's  work  itself. 

We  read  of  Abraham  who  went  to 
the  high  priest,  Melchizedek,  to  render 
unto  the  Lord  a  tithe  or  one-tenth  of 
his  crops  and  herds.  Isaac  and  Jacob 
paid  tithes.  As  you  follow  through  the 
history  of  the  ancient  prophets,  it  was 
the  financial  law  by  which  the  Lord 
financed  his  work  upon  the  earth. 

In  the  days  of  the  Savior,  tithing  was 
used  to  finance  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

But,  if  you  compare  tithing  with  the 
tax  laws  of  the  land,  you  find  tithing 


is  a  fixed  amount  of  one's  income — ten 
percent,  no  more  or  no  less. 

In  civil  government,  the  tax  laws  are 
flexible,  and  usually  flexible  upward. 
The  average  income  tax  and  taxes  paid 
by  the  ordinary  citizen  of  this  country 
run  between  thirty  and  thirty-five  per- 
cent of  his  total  income,  and  there  are 
some  cases  in  which  an  individual  could 
pay  as  much  as  ninety  percent  of  his 
income  to  finance  the  government. 

However,  in  the  priesthood  govern- 
ment of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the 
maximum  requirement  is  ten  percent, 
whether  it  be  from  the  widow's  mite 
or  from  the  rich  man's  income. 

Brigham  Young  said: 

Everybody  should  pay  their  tenth.  A 
poor  woman  ought  to  pay  her  tenth  chicken, 
if  she  has  to  draw  out  ten  times  its  value 
for  her  support.  .  .  .  (Discourses  of  Brigham 
Young,  1943  edition,  178.) 

In  civil  government  if  the  tax  laws 
are  not  adhered  to,  there  are  certain 
penalties  that  are  inflicted,  fines  and 
imprisonment.  But  in  the  priesthood 
government  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
the  matter  of  tithing  comes  as  a  volun- 
tary contribution.  If  there  are  any 
penalties  involved,  and  there  are,  they 
are  self-inflicted  because  if  we  refuse 
to  obey  the  commandments  of  the  Lord 
we  deny  ourselves  the  blessings  of 
heaven.  The  Lord  made  it  perfectly 
clear  in  the  1 19th  section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  the  6th  verse,  wherein 
he  said, 

And  I  say  unto  you,  if  my  people  ob- 
serve not  this  law,  to  keep  it  holy,  and 
by  this  law  sanctify  the  land  of  Zion  unto 
me,  that  my  statutes  and  my  judgments 
may  be  kept  thereon,  that  it  may  be  most 
holy,  behold,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  it  shall 
not  be  a  land  of  Zion  unto  you. 

The  land  of  Zion  is  where  the  Spirit 
of  God  can  be  found  in  rich  abundance. 
It  is  a  place  where  we  may  enjoy  peace, 
brotherly  love,  and  the  temporal  bless- 
ings needed  to  sustain  life. 

I  think  of  the  time  when  the  great 
pioneer  prophet  Brigham  Young  on  com- 
ing into  the  valley  declared  we  blessed 


98 

Sunday,  April  5 

the  land  and  dedicated  it  to  the  end 
that  it  would  be  productive  enough  to 
take  care  of  all  who  come  into  the 
valley.  Said  he,  "All  of  these  blessings 
are  contingent  upon  our  obedience." 
Since  the  days  of  Brigham  Young  after 
he  dedicated  the  land  that  it  would  be 
fruitful,  literally  hundreds  of  thousands 
of  people  have  come  into  what  Brigham 
Young  saw  as  a  desert,  a  barren  wilder- 
ness, and  now  it  blooms  as  the  rose; 
and  hundreds  of  thousands  of  people 
are  provided  for  and  taken  care  of  as 
far  as  their  temporal  needs  are  con- 
cerned. 

The  Lord  revealed  in  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  section  85,  verse  3, 

It  is  contrary  to  the  will  and  command- 
ment of  God  that  those  who  receive  not 
their  inheritance  by  consecration,  agree- 
able to  his  law,  which  he  has  given,  that 
he  may  tithe  his  people,  to  prepare  them 
against  the  day  of  vengeance  and  burning, 
should  have  their  names  enrolled  with 
the  people  of  God. 

And  in  these  days  of  difficulty,  blood- 
shed, and  war  a  tithed  people  according 
to  this  promise  should  have  their  names 
enrolled  with  the  people  of  God  and 
enjoy  the  promised  protection  that  will 
come  through  obedience. 

How  many  times  the  question  is 
asked,  "What  is  a  tithe?"  The  very 
word  itself  denotes  one-tenth.  A  tithe 
is  one-tenth  of  the  wage  earner's  full 
income.  A  tithe  is  one-tenth  of  the 
professional  man's  net  income.  A  tithe 
is  one-tenth  of  the  businessman's  net  in- 
come. A  tithe  is  one-tenth  of  the 
farmer's  net  income,  and  also  one-tenth 
of  the  produce  used  by  the  farmer  to 
sustain  his  family  which  is  a  just  and 
equitable  requirement,  as  others  pur- 
chase out  of  their  income  such  food 
as  is  needed  to  provide  for  their  families. 
A  tithe  is  one-tenth  of  the  dividends 
derived  from  investments.  A  tithe  is 
one-tenth  of  net  insurance  income  less 
premiums  if  tithing  has  been  paid  on 
the  premiums.  May  we  follow  the 
admonition  of  Brigham  Young: 

We  do  not  ask  anyone  to  pay  tithing 
unless  they  are  disposed  to  do  so,  but  if 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

you  pretend  to  pay  tithing,  pay  it  like  an 
honest  man.  (Discourses  of  Brigham  Young, 
1943  edition,  177.) 

May  we  meet  our  tithing  obligations 
fully  and  therefrom  derive  the  promised 
blessings  both  spiritual  and  temporal. 

As  to  the  handling  of  tithing,  ac- 
cording to  the  revelations,  the  following 
officers  of  the  priesthood  government  of 
the  Lord  are  responsible:  the  President 
of  the  Church  who  is  trustee-in-trust; 
the  Presiding  Bishopric,  and  all  of  the 
bishoprics  who  preside  in  the  wards,  and 
branch  presidencies  who  preside  over 
the  branches.  Once  a  month  all  the 
tithes  received  by  the  ward  bishoprics 
and  the  branch  presidencies  are  for- 
warded to  the  office  of  the  Presiding 
Bishopric  in  full;  the  bishoprics  and 
the  branch  presidencies  do  not  retain 
any  of  the  tithing.  The  tithing  is  ac- 
companied by  duplicate  receipts  of  the 
receipts  issued  to  the  donors.  In  the 
office  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  a  per- 
sonal tithing  account  has  been  set  up 
for  each  donor.  At  the  end  of  each 
three  months  of  the  year  there  is  re- 
turned to  the  bishoprics  of  the  Church 
a  tithing  statement  drawn  up  in  the 
office  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  listing 
all  who  have  paid  tithing  during  that 
period  and  the  amount.  By  this  ar- 
rangement, the  bishoprics  of  the  ward 
have  a  record  of  what  each  tithepayer 
has  paid  for  any  three  months  of  the 
year  or  for  the  whole  year,  which  makes 
it  possible  at  tithing  settlement  time 
for  each  tithepayer  to  receive  from  the 
bishop  a  personal  record  of  tithes  paid. 

All  tithing  received  by  the  Presiding 
Bishopric  is  transferred  in  full  to  the 
First  Presidency. 

The  shining  example  of  integrity  on 
the  part  of  the  brethren  who  handle 
the  tithes  in  the  wards  and  the  branches 
of  the  Church  is  without  parallel.  I 
doubt  if  in  civil  government  you  will 
ever  find  a  record  of  integrity  compara- 
ble to  that  which  we  find  in  the  priest- 
hood government  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ. 

The  question  is  often  asked,  "How 
is  the  tithing  disbursed?"   The  plan  for 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHL1N 


99 


disbursement  is  found  in  the  120th 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
and  is  as  follows: 

Verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord,  the  time  is 
now  come,  that  it  [speaking  of  the  tithing] 
shall  be  disposed  of  by  a  council,  composed 
of  the  First  Presidency  of  my  Church,  and 
of  the  bishop  and  his  council,  and  by  my 
high  council;  and  by  mine  own  voice  unto 
them,  saith  the  Lord.  .  .  . 

And  so  in  compliance  with  this  revela- 
tion, a  council  called  "The  Council  for 
the  Disbursement  of  Tithing,"  composed 
of  the  First  Presidency,  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve,  and  the  Presiding  Bishop- 
ric has  been  organized,  and  under  the 
direction  of  this  council  for  the  dis- 
bursement of  tithing  there  has  been 
organized  a  budget  committee  composed 
of  two  members  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  and  a  member  of  the  Presiding 
Bishopric.  Each  year  the  budget  com- 
mittee analyzes  the  financial  needs  of 
the  various  departments  of  the  Church 
from  the  point  of  view  of  eliminating 
unnecessary  expenditures.  The  budget, 
when  compiled,  is  presented  to  the  coun- 
cil for  the  disbursement  of  tithing,  where 
again  the  First  Presidency  and  the 
members  of  the  council  analyze  the 
budget  very  carefully  to  assure  them- 
selves of  no  extravagant  spending,  and 
under  the  direction  of  this  council  for 
the  disbursement  of  tithing  there  is  an- 
other committee  called  "The  Expendi- 
ture Committee"  of  the  Church  who  are 
authorized  to  approve  expenditures  as 
they  are  required  by  the  departments  of 
the  Church.  This  committee  meets  once 
a  week.  It  is  composed  of  the  First 
Presidency,  three  members  of  the 
Twelve,  and  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 
And  over  the  fifteen  years  that  I  have 
had  the  privilege  of  being  a  member  of 
this  committee,  I  have  been  inspired 
and  thrilled  by  the  careful  appropriating 
of  Church  funds.  Civil  government 
could  well  afford  to  follow  the  example 
of  the  expenditure  committee  of  the 
priesthood  government  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ. 

What  are  the  tithes  used  for?  By 
revelation  they  are  used  to  assist  the 


poor,  to  erect  temples  and  meeting- 
houses, for  the  maintenance  of  temples 
and  missions,  for  the  erection  of  school 
buildings,  seminaries,  and  institute 
buildings,  and  for  the  other  operating 
expenses  that  are  necssary.  Tithing 
may  be  used  for  the  purchase  of  land. 
In  the  42nd  section  and  35th  verse  of 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  it  is  indi- 
cated surpluses  might  be  used  to  pur- 
chase land  for  the  public  good  of  the 
people. 

The  Prophet  Malachi  declared: 

Bring  ye  all  the  tithes  into  the  store- 
house, that  there  may  be  meat  in  mine 
house,  and  prove  me  now  herewith,  saith 
the  Lord  of  hosts,  if  I  will  not  open  you 
the  windows  of  heaven,  and  pour  you 
out  a  blessing,  that  there  shall  not  be 
room  enough  to  receive  it.  (Malachi  3:10.) 

I  am  not  going  to  say  to  you,  because 
you  pay  your  tithing  that  tomorrow 
morning  there  may  be  a  Cadillac  in  your 
garage  or  that  you  may  all  be  blessed 
with  a  mansion  in  which  to  live.  That 
promise  I  cannot  make. 

The  Lord  promised  us  that  he  would 
bless  the  obedient  with  the  necessities 
of  life.  He  will  bless  us  with  the  in- 
spiration to  wisely  handle  our  income 
and  use  it  in  a  thrifty  way  to  the  end 
that  we  will  be  able  to  meet  our  obliga- 
tions. 

In  many  wards  of  the  Church  where 
chapels  are  in  the  course  of  construction, 
members  are  paying  and  have  paid  more 
tithing  than  they  had  previously,  which 
is  an  evidence  that  the  Lord  directly, 
and  through  the  inspiration  of  his  Holy 
Spirit,  blesses  us  in  our  temporal  affairs 
when  we  obey  the  commandment  of 
tithing. 

At  the  time  President  Lorenzo  Snow 
took  over  the  administration  of  the 
priesthood  government  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  it  was  at  the  end  of  a  terrible 
period  in  its  history.  The  Church  had 
been  prosecuted  and  persecuted  with 
reference  to  the  question  of  plural  mar- 
riage. Its  properties  had  been  confis- 
cated; money  was  borrowed  at  the  rate 
of  twelve  percent  interest;  and  the  total 
income  of  the  Church   at  the  time 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  5 

President  Snow  came  in  was  required  to 
pay  the  interest  on  these  loans. 

The  Prophet  supplicated  God  might- 
ily for  divine  direction  and  received  a 
revelation  indicating  to  him  that  if  the 
people  of  the  Church  would  obey  the 
law  of  tithing  their  lands  would  be 
productive,  the  rains  would  come,  and 
the  financial  problem  of  the  Church 
would  be  solved.  The  promise  of  the 
Lord  was  kept  through  the  obedience 
of  the  people;  the  credit  of  the  Church 
was  saved;  and  today  it  rests  upon  a 
strong  financial  foundation. 

There  are  spiritual  blessings — the 
blessing  of  faith,  the  blessing  of  testi- 
mony, the  divine  power  that  motivates 
you  and  me  to  meet  this  divine  com- 
mandment and  out  of  which  comes 
spiritual  understanding,  and  that  greatly 
needed  virtue  to  be  honest  with  our 
Father  in  heaven,  honest  with  ourselves, 
and  honest  with  our  fellow  men. 

Happiness  comes,  and  full  fellowship 
in  that  we  enjoy  the  association  of  our 
Heavenly  Father's  Holy  Spirit.  These 
are  rewards  of  which  Malachi  spoke. 

Brigham  Young  declared: 

If  we  live  our  religion  we  will  be  willing 
to  pay  tithing.  We  are  not  our  own,  we 
are  bought  with  a  price,  we  are  the  Lord's; 
our  time,  our  talents,  our  gold  and  silver, 
our  wheat  and  fine  flour,  our  wine  and  our 
oil,  our  cattle,  and  all  there  is  on  this  earth 
that  we  have  in  our  possession  is  the  Lord's, 
and  he  requires  one-tenth  of  this  for  the 
building  up  of  His  Kingdom.  Whether 
we  have  much  or  little,  one-tenth  should 
be  paid  in  for  tithing.  (Discourses  of  Brig- 
ham  Young,  1943  edition,  176.) 

In  conclusion,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, if  there  is  any  question  in  your 
minds  about  this  divine  law,  I  ask  you 
to  follow  the  admonition  of  the  resur- 
rected Savior  wherein  he  counseled  as 
follows: 

My  doctrine  is  not  mine,  but  his  that 
sent  me.  If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he 
shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be 
of  God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself. 
(John  7:16-17.) 

I  promise  you  as  God  lives,  through 
the  spirit  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  testi- 


Second  Dai/ 

mony  will  come  into  your  hearts  that 
the  law  of  tithing  is  a  divine  law,  and 
it  is  necessary  to  carry  on  the  functions 
of  the  priesthood  government  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

May  God  give  us  the  strength  to  obey 
all  of  his  commandments,  that  we 
might  enjoy  salvation  and  a  place  in 
the  celestial  kingdom,  I  humbly  ask  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  speaker  who  has  just  concluded 
is  Bishop  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin. 

The  Deseret  Union  Sunday  School 
Conference  will  convene  in  this  build- 
ing at  7  o'clock  tonight.  All  Sunday 
School  workers  should  be  in  attendance. 
Others  are  cordially  invited. 

I  am  sure  I  express  your  feelings 
when  I  say  we  are  grateful  for  the 
Choir,  the  Tabernacle  Choir.  Every 
week,  every  month,  for  years,  they 
have  devoted  their  time  and  their  means 
to  make  a  success  of  this  organization; 
to  the  officers,  the  conductors,  the 
organists,  members,  we  extend  our  sin- 
cere gratitude  and  blessing.  Their  in- 
fluence is  felt  throughout  the  world. 

We  are  not  unmindful  of  your  serv- 
ice.   We  give  you  our  blessing. 

We  are  grateful  to  the  ushers  for  the 
service  they  have  rendered;  also  to  the 
officers  of  the  Salt  Lake  City  Safety 
Department,  who  are  rendering  service 
on  the  grounds,  on  the  streets,  and  we 
ask  you  to  cooperate  with  them.  Huge 
crowds  are  here  in  the  city,  the  high- 
ways will  be  crowded.  This  morning  I 
received  a  special  delivery  letter  from 
the  mayor  of  one  of  our  cities,  who  calls 
attention  to  fast  driving  through  the 
town.  He  writes,  "Friday  afternoon, 
Saturday  morning,  our  road  patrol  offi- 
cers had  occasion  to  stop  20  motorists 
who  were  exceeding  the  speed  limit. 
17  of  those  were  going  to  Conference." 

Fast  drivers  should  keep  in  mind  the 
question  that  a  driver  gave  to  some 
women  who  were  urging  him  to  hurry 
so  they  would  not  be  late  to  their 
meeting:  He  said,  "Would  you  prefer 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


101 


to  be  late  for  your  meeting,  or  early 
for  eternity?"    The  answer  is  obvious. 

Let  us  be  careful,  particularly  around 
this  block  and  the  city  streets,  and  on 
the  highways  too  when  you  return  to 
your  homes  tonight  or  tomorrow  and 
come  back  to  Conference. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  favor 
us  with  the  anthem,  "Worthy  is  the 
Lamb." 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  J.  Raymond  Dewey,  President  of 


the  Weiser  Stake,  after  which  this  Con- 
ference will  stand  adjourned  until  ten 
o'clock  tomorrow  morning. 


Singing  by  the  Choir,  "Worthy  Is 
The  Lamb." 

Elder  J.  Raymond  Dewey,  President 
of  the  Weiser  Stake,  offered  the  closing 
prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Monday 
morning,  April  6  at  10:00. 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


Conference  reconvened  Monday  morn- 
ing, April  6  at  10  o'clock. 

The  choral  music  for  this  session  of 
the  Conference  was  furnished  by  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Combined 
Choruses. 

President  McKay  opened  the  meet- 
ing with  the  following  introductory 
remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  are  assembled  in  the  great  Taber- 
nacle on  Temple  Square,  in  Salt  Lake 
City,  in  the  sixth  session  of  the  123rd 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  These 
services  will  be  broadcast  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall  and  Barratt  Hall  over  a 
loudspeaking  system  and  by  television. 

The  Tabernacle  is  crowded  to  over- 
flowing, and  it  is  necessary  to  open 
these  other  buildings  for  the  over- 
flow. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will 
also  be  broadcast  over  station  KSL 
and  over  the  stations  named  in  the 
first  session  of  the  conference,  and  also 
the  stations  named  Sunday  morning,  in 
California,  in  appreciation  of  which,  I 
am  pleased  to  read  the  following  tele- 
gram just  received,  dated  yesterday: 

"Dear  President:  Thousands  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  Southlanders  thrill  to 
direct  wire  conference  broadcast  here 
in  Southern  California.    We  are  look- 


ing today.  We  can  hear  in  its  entirety. 
With  regards,  Committee  for  Southern 
California  Broadcasts,  by  Benjamin  G. 
Carlyle." 

Appreciation  is  a  virtue. 

This  session  will  be  televised  over 
KSL  television  station,  channel  five. 

The  singing  for  this  session  will  be 
furnished  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Combined  Choruses,  with  Broth- 
er Newel  Waite,  conducting,  and  Frank 
W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  by  the  Brigham  Young 
University  Combined  Choruses  singing, 
"Blessed  be  the  Lord,"  Brother  Ray 
Leonard  is  soloist.  This  is  written 
by  Brother  Gerrit  dejong,  Jr.,  conducted 
by  Brother  Newel  Waite. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered 
by  President  J.  Quayle  Ward,  President 
of  the  University  Stake. 

The  Combined  Choruses  sang: 
"Blessed  Be  The  Lord." 

President  J.  Quayle  Ward  of  the  Uni- 
versity Stake  offered  the  opening  prayer. 

The  Combined  Choruses  sang  the 
hymn,  "High  On  The  Mountain  Top." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  of  the 
First  Presidency,  will  now  present  the 
General  Authorities,  General  Officers, 
and  General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the 
Church  for  the  sustaining  vote  of  the 
General  Conference. 


102  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  6  Third  Day 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency, 
presented  for  the  vote  of  the  people  the  General  Authorities,  General  Officers,  and 
General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church,  and  they  were  unanimously  sustained 
by  those  present.    The  list  as  presented  and  sustained  is  as  follows: 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  First  Presidency 

David  O.  McKay,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Stephen  L  Richards,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Matthew  Cowley 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Henry  D.  Moyle 

Harold  B.  Lee  Delbert  Leon  Stapley 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  Marion  G.  Romney 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  LeGrand  Richards 

Mark  E.  Petersen  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  counselors  in  The  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and  the  Patriarch 
to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Thomas  E.  McKay  Stayner  Richards 

Clifford  E.  Young  El  Ray  L.  Christiansen 

Alma  Sonne  John  Longden 

George  Q.  Morris 

Trustee-in-Trust 
David  O.  McKay 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  Seymour  Dilworth  Young 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Milton  R.  Hunter 

Richard  L.  Evans  Bruce  R.  McConkie 
Oscar  A.  Kirkham 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED 


Presiding  Bishopric 

Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Presiding  Bishop 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  First  Counselor 
Carl  W.  Buehner,  Second  Counselor 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  as  Assistant 

Church  Board  of  Education 

David  O.  McKay  Mark  E.  Petersen 

Stephen  L  Richards  Matthew  Cowley 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Henry  D.  Moyle 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Delbert  Leon  Stapley 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Marion  G.  Romney 

Harold  B.  Lee  LeGrand  Richards 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  Franklin  L.  West 

Commissioner  of  Education 

Franklin  L.  West 

Seminary  Supervisors 

J.  Karl  Wood 
Joy  F.  Dunyon 

Auditing  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams  George  S.  Spencer 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Harold  H.  Bennett 

Tabernacle  Choir 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor 

Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner  Frank  W.  Asper 

Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant 

CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 
Advisers 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Alma  Sonne 

Harold  B.  Lee  EIRay  L.  Christiansen 

Henry  D.  Moyle  John  Longden 

Matthew  Cowley  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Delbert  L.  Stapley  Oscar  A.  Kirkham 

Marion  G.  Romney  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 

LeGrand  Richards  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 

Thomas  E.  McKay  Carl  W.  Buehner 

Clifford  E.  Young 

General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  6  Third  Day 

General  Committee 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 
Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 
Marion  G.  Romney,  Assistant  Managing  Director 
Paul  C.  Child  Lorenzo  H.  Hatch 

T.  C.  Stayner  Walter  Dansie 

Mark  B.  Garff  LeRoy  A.  Wirthlin 

Leonard  E.  Adams  Henry  C.  Jorgensen 

J.  Leonard  Love  Walter  Stover 

W.  T.  Lawrence 


GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 
Relief  Society 

Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Velma  N.  Simonsen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 

George  R.  Hill,  General  Superintendent 
David  Lawrence  McKay,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Lynn  S.  Richards,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Elbert  R.  Curtis,  General  Superintendent 
A.  Walter  Stevenson,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
David  S.  King,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Bertha  S.  Reeder,  President 
Emily  H.  Bennett,  First  Counselor 
LaRue  C.  Longden,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 

Primary  Association 

LaVern  W.  Parmley,  President 
Arta  M.  Hale,  First  Counselor 
Florence  H.  Richards,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 


President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.:  President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  McKay,  as  far  as  I  have  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  of  the 

been  able  to  observe,  all  votes  were  First  Presidency,  has  just  presented  the 

unanimous  in  the  affirmative.  General  Authorities,  the  General  Offi- 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


105 


cers  and  the  General  Auxiliary  Officers 
of  the  Church,  for  the  sustaining  vote 
of  the  Conference,  and  you  have  just 
heard  that  the  voting  has  been  unan- 
imous in  the  affirmative. 

Will  Brother  Adam  S.  Bennion  please 
come  forward  and  take  his  place  on  the 
rostrum.    We  welcome  Elder  Bennion 


to  his  position  in  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve. 

Our  first  speaker  this  morning  will  be 
Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve.  He  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  George  Q.  Morris,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve. 


ELDER  SPENCJ 

Of  the  Council  of 

Mi  beloved  brothers  and  sisters:  I 
pray  for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord, 
as  have  those  who  have  spoken  be- 
fore me,  and  I  enlist  an  interest  in  your 
faith  and  prayers.  This  morning  I  am 
missing  from  our  number  Elder  John 
A.  Widtsoe,  our  beloved  brother,  and 
I  pay  tribute  again  to  him.  I  am  grate- 
ful for  his  rich  life  of  devotion  to  the 
Church  and  the  delightful  association 
we  have  had  with  him. 

It  shall  be  my  great  pleasure  to  sus- 
tain and  to  receive  into  my  heart  and 
into  our  Council,  Brother  Adam  S.  Ben- 
nion, whose  life  of  rich  and  varied  ex- 
perience, his  wealth  of  training,  and 
his  stalwart  faith  will  bring  to  the 
people  of  the  Church  great  blessings, 
and  I  am  sure  that  you  will  love  him. 

Much  has  been  said  in  this  conference 
about  missionary  work.  Nearly  every 
speaker  has  referred  to  it.  I  am  tre- 
mendously interested  in  the  missionary 
work  of  the  Church,  both  foreign  and 
stake.  I  wish  to  direct  my  remarks  this 
morning  more  toward  the  stake  mis- 
sionary service  and  of  that  work,  the 
minority  program,  and  of  the  minority 
program,  particularly  the  Lamanite 
phase. 

The  Lamanite  is  the  forgotten  man, 
and  though  there  has  been  much 
progress  and  though  there  have  been 
friends  raised  up  to  him,  he  still  is  the 
forgotten  man  and  is  in  need  of  as- 
sistance. It  seems  to  me  that  if  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  were  here  with  us  in 
person,  he  would  emphasize  the  work 
among  these  people.  I  remember  that 
as  early  as  July  1828,  the  Lord  said: 


SR  W.  KIMBALL 

the  Twelve  Apostles 

And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  O 
inhabitants  of  the  earth:  I  the  Lord  am 
willing  to  make  these  things  known  unto 
all  flesh.  (D.  &  C.  1:34.) 

Nevertheless,  my  work  shall  go  forth, 
for  inasmuch  as  the  knowledge  of  a  Savior 
has  come  unto  the  world,  through  the 
testimony  of  the  Jews,  even  so  shall  the 
knowledge  of  a  Savior  come  unto  my  peo- 
ple — 

And  to  the  Nephites,  and  the  Jacobites, 
and  the  Josephites,  and  the  Zoramites, 
through  the  testimony  of  their  fathers — 

And  this  testimony  shall  come  to  the 
knowledge  of  the  Lamanites,  and  the 
Lemuelites,  and  the  Ishmaelites,  who 
dwindled  in  unbelief  because  of  the  iniquity 
of  their  fathers,  whom  the  Lord  has  suf- 
fered to  destroy  their  brethren  the  Nephites, 
because  of  their  iniquities  and  their  abom- 
inations. 

And  for  this  very  purpose  are  these  plates 
preserved,  which  contain  these  records — 
that  the  promises  of  the  Lord  might  be 
fulfilled,  which  he  made  to  his  people; 

And  that  the  Lamanites  might  come  to 
the  knowledge  of  their  fathers,  and  that 
they  might  know  the  promises  of  the 
Lord,  and  that  they  may  believe  the  gospel 
and  rely  upon  the  merits  of  Jesus  Christ, 
and  be  glorified  through  faith  in  his  name, 
and  that  through  their  repentance  they 
might  be  saved.  Amen.  {Ibid.,  3:16-20.) 

A  little  later  in  the  same  year,  1828, 
the  Lord  seemed  to  have  this  on  his 
mind,  as  he  dictated: 

And  I  said  unto  them,  [the  holy  prophets 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon]  that  it  should 
be  granted  unto  them  according  to  their 
faith  in  their  prayers; 

.  .  .  that  my  gospel  .  .  .  might  come 
unto  their   brethren  the   Lamanites,  and 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  6 

also  all  that  had  become  Lamanites  because 
of  their  dissensions.  (Ibid.,  10:47-48.) 

In  September  1830,  the  Lord  said: 

And  now,  behold,  I  say  unto  you  that 
you  shall  go  unto  the  Lamanites  and  preach 
my  gospel  unto  them;  and  inasmuch  as 
they  receive  thy  teachings  thou  shalt  cause 
my  church  to  be  established  among 
them.  .  .  .  (Ibid.,  28:8.) 

That  same  mouth,  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  the  Lord  said  to  the 
Whitmers  to  go  with  Oliver  Cowdery, 

...  for  I  have  given  unto  him  power  to 
build  up  my  church  among  the  Lamanites. 
(Ibid.,  30:6.) 

And  again  in  October  of  that  year, 
he  revealed,  "And  Ziba  Peterson  also 
shall  go  with  them,"  that  is,  with  Oliver 
Cowdery,  Peter  Whitmer,  and  Parley 
P.  Pratt,  "and  I  myself  will  go  with 
them  and  be  in  their  midst;  and  I  am 
their  advocate  with  the  Father,  and 
nothing  shall  prevail  against  them." 
(Ibid.,  32:3.) 

Then  in  March  1831,  through  the 
Prophet  there  came  a  revelation  to 
Sidney  Rigdon,  Parley  P.  Pratt,  and 
Leman  Copley — 

But  before  the  great  day  of  the  Lord 
shall  come,  Jacob  shall  flourish  in  the 
wilderness,  and  the  Lamanites  shall  blos- 
som as  the  rose.  (Ibid.,  49:24.) 

And  then  I  am  remembering  the 
prayer  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  in  the 
Kirtland  Temple  in  1836  and  his  refer- 
ence to  these  people  again,  and  he 
supplicates  the  Father, 

And  cause  that  the  remnants  of  Jacob, 
who  have  been  cursed  and  smitten  because 
of  their  transgression,  be  converted  from 
their  wild  and  savage  condition  to  the 
fulness  of  the  everlasting  gospel.  (Ibid., 
109:65.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  1841 
was  receiving  a  great  many  Indian 
chiefs  and  their  groups  in  Nauvoo. 
They  came  over  on  the  ferryboat  and 
two  flatboats  to  see  the  Prophet  Joseph. 
And  he  says: 


Third  Day 

I  accordingly  went  down,  and  met  Keokuk, 
Kis-ku-kosh,  Appenoose,  and  about  one 
hundred  chiefs  and  braves  of  those  tribes, 
with  their  families.  *  *  *  I  conducted  them 
to  the  meeting  grounds  in  the  grove,  and 
instructed  them  in  many  things  which 
the  Lord  had  revealed  unto  me  concerning 
their  fathers,  and  the  promises  that  were 
made  concerning  them  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  I  advised  them  to  cease  killing 
each  other.  *  *  * 

Keokuk  replied  that  he  had  a  Book  of 
Mormon  at  his  wigwam  which  I  had  given 
him  some  years  before.  "I  believe,"  said 
he,  "you  are  a  great  and  good  man;  I  look 
rough,  but  I  also  am  a  son  of  the  Great 
Spirit.  I  have  heard  your  advice — we  in- 
tend to  quit  fighting,  and  follow  the  good 
talk  you  have  given  us."  (D.H.C.  4:401- 
402.) 

Now,  all  through  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  all  through  those  early 
years,  it  would  seem  that  the  Lord 
intended  that  the  work  among  these 
great  people  should  not  be  hampered 
or  delayed  but  should  go  forward  with- 
out any  delay. 

President  John  Taylor  said,  and  I 
have  quoted  this  before, 

The  work  among  the  Lamanites  must  not 
be  postponed,  if  we  desire  to  retain  the 
approval  of  God.  Thus  far  we  have  been 
content  simply  to  baptize  them,  let  them 
run  wild  again,  but  this  must  continue 
no  longer.  The  same  devoted  effort,  the 
same  care  and  instruction,  the  same  or- 
ganization and  priesthood  must  be  intro- 
duced and  maintained  among  the  house  of 
Lehi  as  amongst  those  of  Israel  gathered 
from  Gentile  nations.  As  yet  God  has 
been  doing  all  and  we  comparatively  noth- 
ing. He  has  led  many  of  them  to  us  and 
they  have  been  baptized,  and  now  we  must 
instruct  them  further,  organize  them  into 
churches  with  proper  presidencies,  attach 
them  to  our  stakes,  organizations,  etc.,  in 
one  word,  treat  them  exactly  in  these 
respects,  as  we  would  and  do  treat  our 
white  brethren.  (The  Gospel  Kingdom, 
John  Taylor,  247.) 

Many  changes  have  come  since  those 
days.  Nations  have  been  annihilated; 
lands  and  forests  and  streams  have 
been  appropriated;  royalty  has  been 
humbled;  and  great  peoples  have  been 
subdued  and  brought  to  extremes  in 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


107 


want,  poverty,  ignorance,  superstition, 
and  deprivation.  They  have  been 
scattered  and  driven  according  to 
prophecy.  They  have  been  hissed  and 
spurned,  and  the  full  weight  of  a  big 
nation  has  pressed  down  upon  them. 

But  a  new  day  is  dawning.  The 
Lamanites  are  putting  on  their  beauti- 
ful garments;  they  have  made  much 
progress  with  our  limited  assistance  and 
much  on  their  own.  We  have  the 
priesthood  among  them.  Many  hun- 
dreds are  occupied  now  in  positions  of 
responsibility.  The  Church  has  been 
established  among  them,  to  a  limited 
degree,  and  we  hope  that  it  will  con- 
tinue. There  are  Lamanite  wards  and 
branches  in  many  parts  of  the  Church. 
In  the  islands  of  the  sea,  of  course,  this 
is  a  program  extending  over  a  century. 
But  here  among  the  Lamanites,  as 
Brother  Cowley  said  so  beautifully  last 
night  in  our  Sunday  School  conference, 
it  is  rather  a  new  thing.  We  have  bap- 
tized this  year  2500  Lamanites  in  the 
Church,  and  we  have  now  approximately 
45,000  of  them  on  the  records  of  the 
Church.  We  have  in  the  El  Paso 
Third  Ward  a  Lamanite  bishop,  a  high 
priest  in  the  Church,  and  you  should 
have  seen  the  tears  of  joy  of  his  people 
as  he  was  installed  in  this  high  and 
important  place. 

We  have  a  Pima  Indian  bishop  in 
the  Papago  Ward  in  the  Maricopa  Stake, 
a  forty-five-year-old  man  who  runs  a 
grade  A  dairy  and  operates  a  1200  acre 
farm.  He  has  been  on  the  tribal  coun- 
cil, and  is  a  man  of  power  and  in- 
fluence. 

In  the  Mexican  Mission  we  have  the 
advisory  council,  twelve  strong,  faithful 
men.  We  have  district  presidencies 
and  branch  presidencies,  and  it  was  the 
privilege  of  Brother  McConkie  and  my- 
self in  November  to  meet  with  many 
of  these  groups  of  branch  presidencies, 
and  in  their  very  humble  circumstances 
they  sat  and  with  their  books  and  pen- 
cils were  taking  notes  of  suggestions 
which  we  gave  them  as  to  the  conduct 
of  branches  and  districts  in  the  organiza- 
tion and  teaching  of  their  people.  These 


branch  presidencies  and  these  Lamanite 
bishops  are  interviewing  people  as  to 
their  worthiness  and  they  have  the 
power  to  withhold  or  to  give  temple 
blessings  and  other  Church  privileges 
to  their  members. 

All  through  the  Lamanite  world  we 
have  leaders,  and  they  are  emerging 
now  with  greater  strength  and  power. 
We  have  in  the  Mexican  Mission  forty- 
five  young  people  who  are  filling  full- 
term  missions  in  addition  to  the  fifty 
white  boys  and  girls  from  other  areas. 
There  soon  will  be  a  preponderance  of 
Spanish-speaking  missionaries  in  that 
field.  They  are  being  supported  by  the 
special  missionary  fund  of  the  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church  and  by  individual 
donors  who  are  helping  them. 

Down  in  the  Navajo  area,  we  have 
branch  presidencies  now  who  are  con- 
ducting sacrament  meetings,  who  are 
leading,  who  are  speaking,  who  are 
praying,  and  we  have  "singing  mothers" 
groups  among  them.  It  is  glorious  to 
see  them  growing  and  expanding  and 
coming  into  their  own.  The  work  is 
developing  among  them.  A  great  need 
is  missionaries.  In  Mexican  cities  we 
met  in  groups  where  we  had  as  many 
as  two  or  three  hundred  people,  hunger- 
ing and  thirsting  for  the  word  of  the 
Lord,  and  three-fourths  of  them  were 
not  members  of  the  Church. 

We  have  branches  down  in  Navajo 
land  and  Hopi  land,  with  105,  140; 
160  members  of  the  Church  carrying 
on  in  normal  fashion.  This  coming 
from  what  were  termed  the  primitive 
Indians  yesterday  is  a  great  advance, 
and  we  are  grateful  for  it. 

Temple  work  is  going  forward. 
Through  the  work  of  Sister  Ivy  Huish 
Jones,  wife  of  the  mission  president  in 
the  Spanish-American  Mission,  10,000 
sheets  of  family  groups  have  been  pre- 
pared, and  all  through  the  Spanish- 
speaking  missions  the  work  is  going 
forward. 

It  would  do  your  heart  good  to  see 
numbers  of  Lamanite  brothers  and 
sisters  sealed  in  the  temple.  Seventeen 
couples  in   San  Antonio   alone  have 


108  GENERAL  C 

Monday,  April  6 

been  sealed  in  the  temple;  fifty-three  in 
this  small  El  Paso  Ward  have  been  to 
the  temple  and  had  their  endowments; 
281  people  in  the  Mexican  Mission, 
coming  as  far  as  a  thousand  miles, 
have  had  their  endowments  in  the  holy 
temple.  It  is  a  great  joy  to  see  the 
Hawaiian  Temple  as  I  saw  it  one  day, 
filled  with  Japanese  members  doing 
their  work,  and  all  of  the  workers  in 
the  temple  were  Lamanites — Samoans 
and  Hawaiians. 

The  question  is  asked  me  nearly 
every  day  when  the  Indian  program  is 
mentioned:  Will  they  stay  with  the 
Church?  Will  they  retain  their  faith? 
Or,  will  they  go  back  "to  the  blanket?" 
And  I  want  to  tell  you  that  few  will 
return  to  the  blanket  when  they  have 
had  their  opportunities  in  education  and 
the  gospel. 

President  Golden  Buchanan  of  the 
Southwest  Indian  Mission  wrote  me 
this:  "We  have  had  no  excommunica- 
tions, and  with  the  exception  of  two 
or  three,  none  have  apostatized  nor 
joined  other  churches,  nor  gone  back 
to  their  own  church.  ...  It  is  my 
opinion  that  our  loss  through  apostasy 
is  probably  smaller  than  any  other  mis- 
sion or  group  of  people." 

Their  superstitions  are  giving  way. 
The  medicine  man  is  being  replaced  by 
the  administering  elders,  and  also  the 
M.D.'s.  They  are  taking  inoculations 
and  vaccinations;  they  are  going  to 
hospitals  for  their  babies.  Twenty-three 
hundred  Navajo  boys  and  girls  are  up 
at  the  Intermountain  Indian  school  at 
Brigham  City.  They  are  all  taken  care 
of  with  chest  X-rays  and  complete  physi- 
cal examinations.  They  are  learning 
that  there  are  germs  in  the  world,  and 
by  avoiding  them  they  are  increasing 
their  health. 

Superstitions  held  them  down  but 
they  are  giving  way  and  twins  are  now 
permitted  to  live.  That  was  not  possible 
yesterday.  Twins  were  a  bad  omen, 
and  they  were  not  allowed  to  live  but 
were  starved  or  otherwise  permitted  to 
die.  But  today  twins  are  living.  Down 
in  Arizona  the  other  day  two  boys  whose 


Third  Day 

names  were  Franklin  Roosevelt  and 
Wendell  Willkie  Gallerito  were  danc- 
ing for  tourists,  and  you  can  guess  their 
ages  by  their  names. 

Marriage  has  come  to  have  a  different 
significance.  The  first  formal  modern 
wedding  was  performed  in  Yakima  re- 
cently. One  of  our  young  couples  was 
married  by  one  of  our  elders.  The 
Yakima  paper  stated  it  was  "the  first 
formal  wedding  in  the  history  of  the 
Yakima  Indian  tribes." 

Their  burials  have  changed,  that  is, 
they  are  changing.  It  is  a  gradual 
process.  Instead  of  cremation,  they  are 
being  buried.  A  few  years  ago  with 
President  Flake,  I  visited  Chief  Baha 
Alchesay,  the  last  hereditary  chief  of 
the  3800  Apaches  in  Arizona.  He  set 
a  pattern  for  his  Apache  people  when 
he  asked  for  Christian  burial.  He  had 
a  great  funeral;  the  governor  of  the 
state  of  Arizona  was  the  speaker,  and 
it  was  conducted  by  a  Protestant  minis- 
ter of  the  church  to  which  he  belonged. 

The  Indians  wept  as  they  followed 
him  to  his  grave.  They  shot  no  favor- 
ite horse;  the  widow  did  not  clip  her 
hair;  no  food  or  water  was  left  in  the 
casket  or  near  it.  He  was  buried  in  a 
blue  serge  suit  with  a  white  shirt  and 
with  a  four-in-hand  tie.  He  was  the 
last  of  the  hereditary  chiefs.  He  did 
not  put  the  mantle  of  his  chiefship 
upon  his  son,  as  had  his  father  upon 
him.  The  work  now  is  carried  on  in 
a  democratic  way  by  the  tribal  council 
groups  who  are  elected  by  their  mem- 
bers. 

The  Apaches  are  quite  well-to-do, 
and  the  Navajos  have  come  into  some 
money,  and  the  Utes  out  here  have 
received  some  money;  and  it  is  the 
privilege  now  of  the  missionaries  and 
all  of  us  to  help  teach  them  to  use 
their  money  in  beneficial  ways  for  them- 
selves instead  of  squandering  it. 

The  Indian  now  has  the  franchise. 
Theoretically  he  has  had  it  ever  since 
World  War  I,  but  until  last  year  it  was 
not  a  reality  in  Arizona,  where  the 
greatest  number  of  the  Indians  reside. 
Now  they  may  vote.    In  the  Shonto 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


109 


precinct  last  fall  there  were  tweny- 
six  voters  and  of  them,  twenty-two  were 
Navajo  votes.  Of  the  election  board, 
five  out  of  six  were  Navajos,  three  men 
and  two  women.  It  was  their  first 
chance  to  vote  for  the  President  of  the 
United  States.  There  were  768  Navajos 
registered  last  year.  About  a  quarter 
of  the  Apaches  were  registered  for  the 
election. 

I  should  like  to  say  that  Dr.  George 
A.  Boyce  is  doing  a  good  work  with 
the  2300  Indian  boys  and  girls  at  Brig- 
ham  City.  One  hundred  and  seven 
of  them  are  Latter-day  Saints,  and  you 
saw  ten  or  fifteen  of  them  here  last 
night  at  the  Sunday  School  presenta- 
tion. One  little  boy  wrote  at  election 
time: 

The  President  promised  to  protect  and 
defend  the  government  of  the  United 
States.  He  said  he  would  try  to  stop  war 
and  live  in  freedom.  This  is  what  he 
said.    I  hope  he  will. 

Living  advantages  have"  increased. 
There  are  refrigerators  in  many  homes, 
and  there  are  also  electric  lights.  Four- 
teen communities  now  are  being  con- 
sidered for  gas  in  the  Navajo  reserva- 
tion— gas  and  electric  lights  in  a  Navajo 
hogan!  It  is  coming.  About  one  out 
of  every  four  hogans  is  said  to  have 
a  radio  in  it  now. 

In  Gallup  they  have  a  radio  station, 
and  they  give  an  hour  a  week  in  the 
Navajo  language  to  send  their  messages 
to  the  people  out  in  the  hinterlands,  and 
every  day  fifteen-minute-broadcasts  are 
heard. 

This,  of  course,  is  old  for  many  of 
the  Lamanites  in  other  areas,  but  it  is 
new  here. 

Employment  is  increasing.  Thou- 
sands have  found  in  their  service  in 
the  war  that  it  was  good  to  sleep  be- 
tween sheets,  and  to  have  three  good, 
varied  meals  a  day  and  to  have  good 
clothes  and  money  in  their  pockets,  and 
to  have  all  the  advantages  that  white 
people  have,  and  they  have  come  back 
to  the  reservations  dissatisfied  and  now 
thousands  of  them  are  working  on  rail- 
roads, in  the  mines,  on  the  farms;  and 


this  brings  to  us  another  great  oppor- 
tunity to  teach  them  the  gospel  as  they 
come  among  us,  instead  of  shunning 
them  as  many  do. 

The  Indian  converts  are  firm  and 
steadfast.  One  Lamanite  sister  was  in 
a  group  of  women  sitting  together,  and 
something  came  up  about  what  the  bish- 
op was  going  to  require  of  them,  and  a 
white  sister  said,  "Well,  we  just  are 
not  going  to  do  it,  are  we,  Sister 
Poogy?"  And  Sister  Poogy  said, 
"Whatever  the  authorities  ask  us  to  do, 
that  I  am  going  to  do." 

They  attend  their  meetings  faith- 
fully. Brother  McConkie  met  1144  on 
the  Navajo  reservation  down  there  a 
few  months  ago  when  he  was  visiting 
the  mission.  They  preach;  they  teach 
all  phases  of  the  gospel;  they  teach  the 
Word  of  Wisdom;  they  teach  chastity; 
they  teach  the  restoration;  they  call  the 
people  to  repentance;  and  they  are  living 
the  commandments  well. 

And  I  could  tell  you  many  stories 
about  their  honesty  and  their  integrity, 
about  their  cleanliness  of  living,  about 
their  love  for  the  program  of  the  Church. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  there  is  much 
I  should  like  to  say  to  you  this  morning 
about  this  great  program,  but  time  will 
not  permit,  but  I  would  like  to  close 
with  one  or  two  further  thoughts,  and 
then  I  am  through. 

Here  is  a  letter  from  a  good  brother 
who  had  been  in  the  Church  only 
months.  Here  is  real  devotion  to  the 
Church.   He  wrote: 

Dear  Friend:  I  am  going  to  write  to  you 

for  about  Miss  Mary    She 

is  in  school  at    place,  and  she 

is  write  me  a  letter  and  she  finds  that 
they  don't  let  her  go  to  Mormon  Church. 
Do  you  know  why  they  don't  let  her  go 
to  our  Church,  and  what  can  I  do  for  her 
for  she  can  go  to  Mormon  Church,  because 
I  ask  her  and  she  my  girl?  You  know  we 
belong  Mormon  Church.  Will  you  please 
write  to  me  and  let  me  know  and  maybe 
you  know  what  I  do  for  it?  I  am  sure 
like  it  for  her  to  go  to  Mormon  Church. 
She  said  they  let  her  go  to  another  kind 
of  Church.  You  know  her.  She  was 
down  with  last  month  ago  when  is  bap- 
tized.   I  just  want  to  let  you  know  about 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  6 

why  they  don't  let  her  go  to  Mormon 
Church.  Answer  soon.  Please. 

The  Lord  bless  the  Lamanite  people. 
They  are  a  great  people.  They  are 
intelligent,  and  I  repeat  my  theme  song: 
The  difference  between  them  and  us  is 
opportunity.  It  is  your  privilege  and 
mine  through  education,  through  em- 
ployment and  every  other  means,  and 
particularly  through  bringing  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  in  all  kindliness  and 


Third  Day 

brotherliness  to  them,  to  give  them  that 
opportunity  which  will  make  of  them 
enlightened,  faithful  sons  and  daugh- 
ters of  God  with  all  of  the  blessings 
which  are  promised  to  them. 

I  pray  with  one  of  our  Lamanite 
sisters,  who  pleaded,  "Heavenly  Father, 
please  bless  the  missionaries,  that  they 
won't  get  discouraged  with  us  Indians, 
and  please  bless  the  Indians  that  they 
will  always  listen."  This  is  my  prayer, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  GEORGE  Q.  MORRIS 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


MY  DEAR  BRETHREN  AND  SlSTERS:  I  re- 
joice  in  being  with  you  here  this 
morning.  I  have  been  very  much 
interested  in  Brother  Kimball's  refer- 
ences to  the  Lamanite  people,  and  I 
recall  a  beautiful  scene  up  on  the 
borders  of  the  Dominion  of  Canada,  a 
winding  river  with  a  background  of 
forest  and  soft,  green  sloping  banks, 
where  a  Mohawk  Indian,  dressed  in 
white,  baptized  his  family  into  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  sincerely  pray  that  the  Lord  may 
direct  me  to  say  that  which  he  would 
have  me  say.  I  rejoice  in  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  It  is  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation,  and  what  it  is  doing 
for  the  Lamanites,  it  is  doing  for  all 
people  who  will  accept  it. 

There  is  a  statement  in  the  scrip- 
tures made  by  the  Apostle  Paul,  at 
least  so  translated, 

Therefore  leaving  the  principles  of  the 
doctrine  of  Christ,  let  us  go  on  unto  per- 
fection. (Hebrews  6:1.) 

I  haven't  time  to  deal  with  the  various 
versions  of  this  passage  except  to  say, 
of  course,  it  doesn't  mean  that  we  can 
discard  any  of  the  principles  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  we  cannot,  after 
joining  the  Church,  leave  behind  and 
discard  the  principles  and  ordinances 
that  we  call  the  first  principles  in  the 
articles  of  our  faith.  The  rendering  of 
this  passage  by  the  Prophet  Joseph 


Smith  in  the  inspired  version  is,  "There- 
fore not  leaving  the  principles  of  the 
doctrine  of  Christ,  let  us  go  on  to  per- 
fection." I  believe  we  should  be  more 
cognizant  of  the  fact  that  we  need  the 
first  principles  of  the  gospel  every  day 
of  our  lives.  It  is  by  these  principles 
that  we  live. 

They  are:  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  repentance,  baptism  by  immer- 
sion for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  lay- 
ing on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  By  these  two  principles 
and  the  principles  involved  in  these 
two  ordinances  we  come  into  the 
Church,  and  it  is  my  opinion  that  it 
is  by  the  operation  of  these  principles 
that  we  stay  in  the  Church,  and  that 
we  grow  in  the  Church.  Without  them 
we  could  not  remain  faithful,  and  with 
them,  we  may  advance  to  salvation  and 
perfection  through  the  power  of  the 
Lord. 

It  is  sometimes  said  it  is  humanly 
impossible  to  keep  all  the  command- 
ments of  God.  The  Apostle  said  we 
should  go  on  to  perfection,  and  the 
Lord  said  in  his  Sermon  on  the  Mount, 

Be  ye  therefore  perfect,  even  as  your 
Father  which  is  in  heaven  is  perfect.  (Matt. 
5:48.) 

It  is  not  humanly  possible  for  us  to 
become  perfect  and  to  keep  all  the  com- 
mandments of  God,  but  we  are  not 
talking  about  a  human  institution.  We 


ELDER  GEORGE  Q.  MORRIS 


111 


are  talking  about  what  the  Apostle 
Paul  said  "is  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation"  (Romans  1:16),  and  it  is 
by  the  power  of  God  that  these  things 
are  done,  as  we  place  ourselves  in  a 
position  for  these  principles  to  oper- 
ate upon  us. 

It  is  the  purpose  of  the  Lord  to  bring 
us  all  back  into  his  presence,  if  we 
will  keep  his  commandments  and  enter 
into  covenant  with  him  and  walk  up- 
rightly before  him  and  serve  him  and 
keep  his  commandments  all  the  days 
of  our  lives.  Now,  I  am  sure  every- 
one here  every  day  needs  some  re- 
pentance, and  we  need  to  have  a  re- 
mission of  our  sins,  which  comes  by 
virtue  of  the  fact  that  we  repent  and 
that  we  have  been  baptized  into  the 
Church.  And  above  all,  we  need  the 
Spirit  and  power  of  God.  The  older 
I  grow,  the  more  I  am  convinced  that 
the  chief  thing  that  we  do  need,  and 
the  highest  achievement  in  the  world 
to  which  we  can  attain,  is  to  be  guided 
by  the  Spirit  of  God.  We  can  do  that 
by  keeping  his  commandments  and  in 
no  other  way  that  I  know  of.  The 
Lord  has  outlined  that  most  wonder- 
fully in  the  ninety-third  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  referring  to 
the  operation  of  that  principle  and  these 
principles  of  the  gospel  that  have  been 
given  to  us.  He  speaks  of  the  reference 
in  John,  to  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  as 
having  become  perfect  by  receiving 
grace  upon  grace  and  advancing  from 
grace  to  grace  until  he  had  a  fulness. 
That  is  set  forth  as  the  method,  the 
progress  toward  salvation  and  exalta- 
tion in  the  presence  of  God,  and  it  is 
held  up  as  the  method  by  which  we 
may  progress. 

We  will  obtain  the  advantage  of 
these  principles  by  having  faith.  In 
our  first  principle,  it  is  not  the  ab- 
stract principle  of  faith  that  we  hold 
to  as  the  first  principle  of  the  gospel, 
but  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
And  the  only  true  faith  in  him  is  a 
faith  in  him  as  the  Son  of  God,  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world,  who  atoned 
for  our  sins,  who  opened  the  tomb  and 


instituted  the  resurrection  from  the 
dead.  He  is  the  light  and  the  life  of 
the  world,  the  Lord  omnipotent.  When 
we  have  true  faith  in  him,  all  neces- 
sary things  are  possible,  and  it  is  by 
the  power  of  God,  through  this  faith, 
that  we  are  to  be  perfected  and  made 
fit  to  come  back  into  the  presence  of  our 
God.  We  need  that  faith  every  day 
in  our  personal  conduct,  in  overcoming 
our  shortcomings,  in  keeping  the  com- 
mandments, in  being  forgiven  for  our 
transgressions,  in  having  an  increase  of 
the  Holy  Spirit  with  us  to  guide  us  and 
direct  us. 

Every  principle  requires  faith.  I 
was  very  much  edified  by  Bishop  Wirth- 
lin's  reference  to  the  law  of  tithing  and 
the  appeal  that  we  should  pay  tithing. 
I  think  that  is  a  good  illustration  of 
this  principle  of  faith.  I  think  when 
people  say  they  haven't  money  enough 
to  pay  tithing,  they  should  say  they 
haven't  faith  enough  to  pay  tithing.  It 
is  my  conviction  that  we  pay  tithing  with 
faith  and  not  with  money,  because  when 
a  man  has  so  much  money  that  he  has 
a  large  tithing,  he  can't  pay  tithing.  He 
has  too  much  money  and  too  little 
faith  to  pay  tithing,  and  just  feels  he 
can't  afford  it.  I  know  a  man  who 
must  have  earned  twenty-five  thousand 
dollars  or  fifty  thousand  dollars  a  year, 
and  he  sent  in  a  little  pittance  of  three 
hundred  dollars  so  that  he  would  be 
on  the  tithing  list.  That  wasn't  tith- 
ing. I  won't  say  what  it  was.  I  knew 
another  man  who  was  in  financial  dis- 
tress, losing  his  home,  harassed,  but 
his  tithing  always  came  through.  He 
didn't  have  money  to  spare  for  tithing 
in  one  sense.  He  didn't  have  money 
enough  to  pay  his  debts,  his  pressing 
obligations,  but  he  had  faith,  and  by 
faith  he  paid  his  tithing  and  remained 
straight  with  the  Lord.  I  urge  with 
all  my  heart  that  all  the  members  of 
this  Church  who  should  pay  tithing, 
pay  an  honest  tithing — and  don't 
scrape  the  measure  off  too  level.  Put 
a  little  offering  of  gratitude  there,  to 
heap  it  up  just  a  little.  The  Lord 
heaps  things  up  until  they  are  running 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  6 

over  with  the  blessings  we  receive  from 
him.  Let's  be  true  and  faithful.  It  is 
an  interesting  thing  in  this  matter  of 
tithing,  which  the  Lord  has  set  it  up 
as  his  means  of  carrying  on  his  work. 
It  is  through  his  blessings  that  all  our 
money  comes  to  us,  and  our  means.  It 
is  a  gift  from  him.  The  singular  thing 
is  that  he  has  arranged  that  he  must 
give  $10,000  to  get  $1,000  back  for  his 
work.  That  may  seem  a  very  odd  way 
of  doing  it,  but  that  is  his  generous 
method;  and  the  only  way  the  Lord  can 
get  $1,000  contributed  to  the  carrying 
on  of  his  work  under  the  tithing  system 
is  to  give  $10,000.  I  will  leave  it  for 
you  to  figure  out  to  whom  he  is  going 
to  give  $10,000,  whether  it  will  be  to 
those  who  keep  it  all,  or  whether  it 
will  be  to  those  who  turn  back  the 
$1,000  that  he  requires  for  his  work.  If 
we  will  pay  our  honest  tithing  to  God, 
he  will  bless  us  and  prosper  us  and 
increase  our  faith,  and  I  believe  the 
Lord  has  a  lot  of  things  to  do  that  he 
can  only  do  through  people  who  have 
faith  to  pay  their  honest  tithing. 

I  speak  of  that  only  as  an  illustration. 
I  think  the  same  principle  applies  in 
all  our  conduct,  as  far  as  our  char- 
acters are  concerned.  Through  faith 
in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  we  may  cor- 
rect ourselves  and  have  our  sins  remitted 
and  have  an  increased  portion  of  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

Now  what  is  the  process.  The  Lord 
outlines  that  most  wonderfully  in  the 
ninety-third  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  as  I  have  said  referring  to 
the  Savior,  advancing  from  grace  to 
grace,  he  applies  the  same  principle 
to  us:  "For  if  you  keep  my  command- 
ments you  shall  receive  of  his  fulness, 
and  be  glorified  in  me  as  I  am  in  the 
Father."  (D.  &  C.  93:20.)  That  is  the 
direct,  clear  word  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  to  every  man  in  this  world,  if 
he  will  accept  the  gospel,  and  to  us 
who  have  the  gospel.  We  are  promised 
that  we  shall  be  glorified  in  him,  as 
he  is  in  the  Father.  Again. 

The  Spirit  of  truth  is  of  God.  I  am  the 
Spirit  of  truth,  and  John  bore  record  of 


Third  Day 

me,  saying:  He  received  a  fulness  of  truth, 
yea,  even  of  all  truth; 

And  no  man  receiveth  a  fulness  unless 
he  keepeth  his  commandments. 

He  that  keepeth  his  commandments  re- 
ceiveth truth  and  light,  until  he  is  glori- 
fied in  truth  and  knoweth  all  things. 
(Ibid.,  93:26-28.)  " 

That  is  spoken  to  us  as  members  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  and  applies  to  all  people  of 
the  world.  The  process  is  the  same 
with  us  as  with  the  Lord.  From  grace 
to  grace  we  advance  until  we  are  glori- 
fied in  truth  and  know  all  things.  The 
Lord  in  this  section  (verse  36)  says  that 
"the  glory  of  God  is  intelligence,"  and 
that  is  what  the  Lord  is  speaking  of 
in  this  I  have  just  read  when  he  said 
we  were  to  receive  truth  and  light  be- 
cause he  defines  intelligence,  which  is 
the  glory  of  God,  as  light  and  truth.  I 
thank  the  Lord  for  that  definition  of 
intelligence  because  one  may  become 
greatly  confused  as  between  intelligence 
and  mental  brilliance  and  other  unusual 
qualities  that  men  have.  Satan  was 
the  Son  of  the  Morning,  evidently  a 
powerful  spirit  in  the  councils  of  God, 
called  "Lucifer,  the  Son  of  the  Morn- 
ing," but  he  was  without  intelligence. 
The  Lord  said  "he  was  a  murderer 
from  the  beginning,"  the  father  of  lies. 
Those  are  the  words  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  who  knew  him,  for  he  it  was 
whom  Satan  tried  to  dethrone. 

So  that  is  the  course  of  advancement. 
It  is  within  our  reach,  not  by  our  power 
alone,  but  through  the  power  of  God. 

Now  what  is  the  opposite  of  that? 
It  is  set  forth  in  this  same  section, 

And  that  wicked  one  cometh  and  taketh 
away  light  and  truth  through  disobedience, 
from  the  children  of  men.  (Italics  Author's.) 
(Ibid.,  93:39.) 

Here  is  set  up  the  controlling  princi- 
ple of  all  advancement  in  the  kingdom, 
that  of  obedience.  Anything  we  hope 
for,  anything  we  desire,  anything  we 
should  have  will  come  to  us  through 
the  principle  of  obedience  and  by  the 
same  token  all  may  be  lost  by  disobedi- 
ence.  How  simple  the  gospel  is  I  The 


ELDER  ADAM  S.  BENNION 


113 


requirement  is  an  obedient  heart,  art 
obedient  heart. 
In  another  place  the  Lord  said, 

If  you  keep  not  my  commandments,  the 
love  of  the  Father  shall  not  continue  with 
you,  therefore  you  shall  walk  in  darkness. 
(Ibid.,  95:12.) 

May  the  Lord  give  us  power,  humility, 
and  meekness,  that  with  determination 
and  in  gratitude  and  thanksgiving  to 
him,  we  may  be  intelligent  enough  to 
keep  his  commandments  and  glorify  his 
holy  name,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Chist.  Amen. 


The  Combined  Choruses  of  the  Brig- 
ham  Young  University  and  the  congre- 
gation sang  the  hymn,  "Praise  To  The 
Man  Who  Communed  With  Jehovah." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Adam  S.  Bennion,  whom  you 
have  just  this  morning  sustained  as  a 
member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
will  now  address  us.  He  will  be  fol- 
lowed by  Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner. 


ELDER  ADAM  S.  BENNION 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


No  man  who  has  not  been  through 
this  experience  can  appreciate  what 
it  means.  I  am  honored  but 
humbled.  For  years  I  have  been  going 
up  and  down  the  land  preaching,  but 
in  the  hour  of  this  greatest  call  I  have 
no  preachment.  With  your  faith  and 
prayers  and  with  the  sustaining  in- 
fluence of  our  Father  in  heaven,  I 
should  like  to  give  you  in  a  few  brief 
minutes  my  personal  witness. 

President  McKay  has  been  an  ideal 
to  me  all  my  life,  and  I  love  him. 
Thirty-eight  years  ago  I  was  called  to 
the  membership  of  the  general  board 
of  Sunday  Schools  at  the  instance  of 
President  McKay  and  President  Stephen 
L  Richards.  During  those  years  I  have 
sat  at  their  feet  to  admire  them,  to 
marvel  at  their  strength,  to  glory  in 
their  service.  President  Clark  I  have 
always  regarded  as  one  of  the  strong 
men  of  America.  These  men  who  con- 
stitute the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church  I  have  known  and  have  worked 
with,  and  I  honor  and  sustain  them  all. 
The  members  of  the  Twelve,  and  the 
Assistants,  and  the  Presiding  Bishopric, 
and  all  others  called  to  these  high 
positions — I  love  them.  I  can  only  hope 
in  my  heart  that  they  will  find  it  in 
theirs  to  sustain  me  as  I  sustain  them. 

I  love  this  Church  and  its  people. 
In  the  fall  of  1847  my  grandfather 


came  across  the  plains  and  lived  in  a 
log  cabin  such  as  is  in  the  southeast 
corner  of  this  block.  For  a  quarter  of 
a  century  now  it  has  been  my  privilege 
to  bring  men  from  all  parts  of  the 
country  to  this  block,  and  in  tribute  to 
our  pioneers  I  always  take  them  to  one 
spot.  If  you  haven't  seen  it,  I  commend 
it  to  you.  If  you'll  go  yonder  to  the 
southeast  corner  and  stand  with  one 
eye  on  their  early  abode,  the  log  cabin, 
and  the  other  eye  turned  a  little  to 
the  northwest,  you  will  realize  that 
while  they  lived  in  the  log  cabin  they 
dreamed  dreams  of  a  temple.  A  hun- 
dred years  ago  this  year  they  laid  the 
foundation.  The  men  who  come  from 
New  York  marvel  as  they  turn  from 
the  log  cabin  and  its  hint  of  poverty 
to  the  temple  that  took  forty  years  to 
build  and  required  four  million  dollars 
that  they  did  not  have.  They  were  real 
people. 

I  love  this  country.  I  love  its  in- 
spired Constitution  and  its  great  free 
institutions.  If  I  have  had  a  text  for 
the  last  twenty  years,  it  has  been  the 
preservation  of  all  that  we  cherish  in 
the  name  of  freedom.  It  is  my  hope 
that  the  things  that  are  our  benedic- 
tion may  be  passed  on  to  our  children. 
This  country  has  been  wonderful  to 
me  as  has  this  Church. 

I  think  that  perhaps  nobody  in  this 


114 

Monday,  April  6 

congregation  came  from  humbler  cir- 
cumstances than  I,  and  for  that  I  am 
grateful.  I  do  not  recall  my  father  at 
all  because  he  died  when  I  was  a  year 
and  a  half  old,  but  like  you  I  had  a 
wonderful  mother.  As  a  matter  of  fact, 
my  life  has  been  enriched  by  three 
wonderful  women:  the  mother  who  bore 
me  and  nurtured  me  through  the  priva- 
tions of  those  days  when  with  five  little 
ones  she  made  ends  meet  somehow;  the 
companion  of  my  life  who  for  forty-one 
years  has  sustained  me  with  an  unfail- 
ing devotion;  and  a  mother-in-law  who 
has  none  of  the  attributes  that  we  so 
familiarly  attach  to  the  name,  Sister 
Richard  W.  Young,  with  her  ninety 
years  of  benediction. 

I  have  said  I  love  this  Church  and 
its  people.  I  love  the  Lord.  My  life  is 
anchored  to  the  testimony  that  I  have 
that  God  lives  and  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ.  I  glory  in  my  membership  in  a 
Church  which  was  instituted  through 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

revelation,  and  I  testify  to  you  today 
that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  all 
of  his  successors,  men  of  God,  have 
been  inspired  to  build  this  great  insti- 
tution. 

President  McKay,  in  the  love  I  bear 
you,  I  give  you  my  life  and  my  serv- 
ice, and  with  your  sustaining  benedic- 
tion and  the  blessings  of  heaven,  I'll 
go  where  you  want  me  to  go;  I'll  give 
my  best  in  an  attempt  to  do  what  you 
and  He  would  have  me  to  do. 

God  bless  you  all.  If  my  assignment 
may  in  some  part  be  with  these  grand 
young  people  such  as  are  here  from 
Brigham  Young  University  today,  it 
will  be  a  glorious  privilege  to  bear  wit- 
ness to  a  new  generation  of  the  glories 
of  the  gospel  as  they  have  blessed  me 
at  every  turn  of  my  life.  I  pray  the 
blessings  of  God  upon  us  all,  and  I 
dedicate  myself  to  this  service,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


This  is  a  great  and  an  inspiring  con- 
ference, and  I  am  most  happy  that 
I  can  be  here  this  morning  and 
raise  my  hand  to  sustain  those  who 
have  been  called  to  preside  over  us  in 
this  great  Church. 

I  would  like  Brother  Bennion  to 
know  (I  have  known  him  for  many 
years)  that  he  has  been  an  inspiration 
in  my  life,  and  that  I  am  sure  he  will 
find  great  joy  and  happiness  in  the 
new  assignment  that  has  come  to  him. 

I  should  publicly  like  to  thank  the 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church  for 
the  great  experience  that  came  to  me 
immediately  following  the  last  general 
conference,  of  going  into  the  islands 
of  the  Pacific  and  meeting  there  a  very 
wonderful  people.  I  had  the  oppor- 
tunity of  visiting  New  Zealand,  Samoa, 
Tonga,  the  island  of  Niue,  and  the 
Hawaiian  Islands,  and  I  found  there 
a  people  of  great  faith,  who  have  an 
admiration  for  the  leadership  of  this 
Church.    I  am  sure  this  morning  their 


eyes  are  focused  on  this  great  confer- 
ence, from  which  the  law  goes  forth. 

I  should  like  to  relate  one  brief  expe- 
rience, and  that  is  because  I  have  ob- 
served the  great  number  of  people  who 
have  tried  to  get  into  the  Tabernacle  to 
hear  the  conference.  I  participated  in 
the  dedication  of  a  little  chapel  at  Pago 
Pago  in  the  Tutuilla  District,  and  I 
observed  something  there  that  I  would 
like  to  recommend  to  the  Church.  I 
would  like  to  see  it  tried  here.  This 
little  chapel,  which  normally,  I  imagine, 
would  seat  about  two  hundred  people 
if  it  were  equipped  like  our  chapels 
are,  had  no  benches  in  it.  The  people 
all  sat  on  the  floor  with  crossed  legs. 
We  had  508  in  a  little  chapel  that 
normally  would  hold  two  hundred.  I 
am  not  recommending  that  we  take 
the  benches  out  of  the  Tabernacle,  but 
we  may  use  some  new  chapel  as  a 
guinea  pig  to  try  the  new  method,  and 
possibly  we  could  reduce  the  size  of 
our  buildings  so  that  we  could  build 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 


115 


more  chapels,  be  just  as  happy  and  just 
as  comfortable  as  these  fine  people  in 
the  isles  of  the  Pacific.  It  was  a  great 
experience. 

My  note  here  says  that  I  was  to  say 
something  about  this  beautiful  spring- 
time and  how  nature  has  put  on  its  new 
garments.  Looking  out  of  the  windows, 
you  can  tell  I  didn't  write  this  speech 
this  morning. 

When  I  was  in  the  Hawaiian  Islands, 
I  had  a  little  story  related  to  me  by 
President  Edward  L.  Clissold  of  the 
Oahu  Stake  which  impressed  me  very 
much.  He  told  me  of  a  Filipino  man 
who  was  very  earnestly  studying  the 
gospel,  who  was  a  very  studious  sort  of 
person,  a  man  who  was  very  shy  and 
backward,  who  became  acquainted  with 
the  missionaries  and  also  with  Presi- 
dent Clissold,  and  after  becoming 
intensely  interested  and  studying  the 
gospel  for  some  time,  became  a  convert 
to  the  Church.  President  Clissold  said 
shortly  after  this  time  they  were  holding 
a  quarterly  conference  in  the  stake,  and 
he  kept  having  the  impression  that  he 
should  like  to  have  some  person,  who 
recently  had  come  into  the  Church, 
bear  his  testimony,  and  the  name  of 
this  Filipino  who  had  recently  become 
a  convert  kept  crossing  his  mind,  but 
he  said,  "I  knew  if  I  called  on  him  it 
would  frighten  him  to  death,  knowing 
the  nature  of  the  person;  but  that  idea 
so  persisted  that  I  finally  called  him 
up  out  of  the  audience,  and  he  came  to 
the  stand.  When  he  spoke,  he  said, 
'I  am  forty-two  years  of  age.  For  forty- 
one  years  I  do  not  know  where  I  am  or 
where  I  am  going;  but  for  one  year, 
I  know  where  I  am  and  where  I  am 
going.' "  I  thought,  there  is  a  thought- 
provoking  subject  on  which  sermons 
could  be  preached.  Something  came 
into  that  man's  life  that  changed  his 
whole  perspective,  and  in  a  few  short 
months,  after  becoming  acquainted  with 
those  who  have  authority  to  preach  the 
true  gospel,  he  could  also  say  he  knew 
where  he  was  now,  and  where  he  was 
going.  I  tell  you,  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  probably  the  great  difference  be- 


tween the  true  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
and  all  these  other  denominations  is 
in  that  very  statement — that  those  who 
have  accepted  the  truth  know  where 
they  are  and  know  where  they  are  going, 
and  I  doubt  that  the  rest  of  the  Christian 
world  can  say  that  thing. 

I  have  had  some  great  experiences  in 
the  stakes  of  the  Church.  My  work  in 
the  Presiding  Bishopric  has  largely  been 
with  an  army  of  men  who  have  become 
a  little  wayward,  a  little  backward, 
who  have  acquired  a  few  bad  habits, 
and  because  of  this,  have  not  identified 
themselves  too  regularly  with  the  organ- 
izations of  the  Church.  We  have  made 
a  great  effort  to  reclaim  some  of  these 
brethren.  My  heart  goes  out  to  bishops, 
bishops'  counselors,  ward  teachers,  ad- 
visers, and  others,  who  put  their  arms 
around  these  men  and  point  out  to 
them  the  thing  they  have  missed  in 
life  and  bring  them  back. 

I  heard  one  recently  down  in  the 
Uvada  Stake.  He  was  invited  to  say  a 
few  words  at  quarterly  conference.  It 
was  a  great  effort  for  this  man,  and 
when  he  had  finished  his  little  talk,  he 
said,  "I  would  like  you  folks  to  know 
that  when  the  bishop  asked  me  to  give 
this  little  talk,  the  devil  also  assigned 
someone  to  tell  me  not  to  give  this 
talk,"  and  then  he  began  to  point  out 
eight  different  occasions  where  the  devil 
and  he  had  a  contest  over  whether  or 
not  he  was  going  to  give  this  talk.  You 
know,  that  influence  is  rampant  in  the 
earth,  and  I  am  sure  many  of  us  are 
being  influenced  by  it.  I  am  sure  we 
are  locked  with  him  many  times.  Some- 
one said  in  these  few  words:  "I  have 
heard  much  about  the  devil.  I  have 
read  a  great  deal  about  the  devil.  I 
have  even  done  business  with  the  devil, 
but  it  didn't  pay." 

I  would  like  to  tell  you  today  that  I 
hope  we  starve  the  devil  to  death,  that 
we  give  him  no  business,  and  that  we  de- 
vote all  our  time  and  all  our  energies  to 
doing  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  think 
that  is  one  way  we  are  going  to  bind 
Satan,  by  not  letting  him  have  influence 
concerning  us. 


116  GENERAL  C 

Monday,  April  6 

I  was  in  the  North  Weber  Stake  just 
last  week,  and  I  heard  another  of  these 
young  men  stand  up,  and  as  he  did  so, 
he  said,  "I'll  never  get  over  thanking 
the  bishop  who  put  his  arm  around  me 
four  months  ago  and  invited  me  to  do 
a  little  something  in  the  Church."  Then 
he  bore  his  testimony  indicating  how 
happy  he  was,  and  he  said,  "For  twenty- 
one  years  I  have  been  inactive  in  this 
Church  and  have  missed  a  great  oppor- 
tunity." When  that  meeting  was  over, 
the  first  person  to  rush  up  and  embrace 
him  was  his  wife,  and  standing  next  to 
his  wife  was  his  mother,  her  eyes  filled 
with  tears.  She  said  to  me,  "This  is  one 
of  the  greatest  days  of  my  life,  to  have 
my  son  stand  there,  bear  his  testimony, 
and  express  his  gratitude  that  he  is 
now  active  again  in  the  Church." 

I  heard  a  good  sister  not  so  long  ago 
in  one  of  the  stakes  up  in  the  east  here, 
who  was  responding  to  a  little  talk 
about  what  the  activity  of  her  husband 
meant  to  her.  She  said  she  had  prayed 
and  worked  in  the  Church  for  twenty- 
two  years  and  hoped  that  the  day 
would  come  when  something  would  in- 
fluence her  husband  to  turn  him  away 
from  some  of  the  habits  he  had  so  that 
eventually  they  could  enjoy  some  of 
the  great  blessings  that  come  to  the 
faithful  in  the  Church.  She  said  that 
early  in  his  life  he  had  been  a  sheep 
man.  He  went  out  in  the  sheep  camp 
and  acquired  some  bad  habits.  Later 
on  his  brother  became  very  ill,  and 
unknown  to  anyone  else,  he  went  to 
the  elders  and  had  them  administer  to 
him.  His  brother  was  seriously  ill, 
and  he  even  despaired  as  to  whether 
he  might  recover  or  not.  The  Lord 
heard  the  prayers  of  the  elders,  and  this 
man's  health  was  restored  to  him.  Later 
on  this  man  became  seriously  ill  himself, 
and  he  asked  for  the  elders  to  administer 
to  him,  and  he  had  a  recovery.  About 
that  time  his  wife  said,  "My  husband 
felt  that  he  ought  in  some  way  to  repay 
the  Lord  for  the  goodness  that  had  come 
to  him,  and  so  he  began  to  go  to  meet- 
ings and  participate  in  some  of  the 
activities.   He  began  to  lay  aside  some 


Third  Dan 

of  his  bad  habits.  The  bishop  recogniz- 
ing this,  made  him  a  member  of  the 
building  committee  of  the  ward.  He 
was  a  man  with  a  fine  personality,  a 
fine  looking  man,  and  he  did  a  great 
job."  She  said,  "One  morning  we  were 
having  breakfast,  and  our  small  daugh- 
ter (I  suppose  noticing  that  the  father 
poured  himself  a  cup  of  coffee)  said, 
'Dad,  you  are  getting  along  fine.  When 
are  you  going  to  quit  drinking  coffee?' 
The  man  said,  'I  guess  I  might  as  well 
quit  right  now,' "  and  she  said,  "He 
poured  the  coffee  back  in  the  coffeepot, 
and  that  was  the  last  coffee  that  he 
drank."  His  activity  increased,  and 
the  happiness  in  the  home  began  to  in- 
crease also.  Then  she  said  the  bishop 
finally  gave  him  another  job  in  the 
Church.  A  few  months  later  someone 
came  to  him  and  said,  "Your  name 
has  been  recommended  to  have  you 
interviewed  to  be  ordained  an  elder 
in  the  Church,"  and  that  so  thrilled 
the  man  that  from  then  on  he  didn't 
miss  any  more  meetings  of  any  kind. 
He  became  very  faithful  and  very  ac- 
tive. Then  she  said,  as  her  eyes  filled 
with  tears,  "Finally,  the  great  day  came 
when  the  bishop  came  to  us  and  said, 
'I  have  noticed  the  activity  of  your 
husband  and  the  members  of  your  fam- 
ily. I  am  sure  you  are  ready  to  go  into 
the  temple  to  be  sealed  for  time  and 
all  eternity.' "  Then  she  said,  "That 
great  day  came  when  we  were  in  the 
Salt  Lake  Temple,  my  husband  and  I 
and  our  children  being  sealed  together 
for  time  and  all  eternity.  I  waited 
twenty-two  years,  but  it  was  worth  every 
minute  of  it." 

I  heard  a  number  of  these  men,  and 
I  have  been  impressed  by  the  great 
work  we  can  do,  brethren,  if  we  will 
reach  out  our  arms  and  invite  them  back 
into  activity.  Most  of  them  just  need 
a  little  job,  need  a  little  encouragement, 
need  someone  who  has  a  little  interest 
in  them,  and  we  can  accomplish  a  great 
good  with  these  fine  people. 

I  am  sure  my  time  is  gone.  I  would 
like  to  mention  one  other  little  story 
that  a  father  told  me  about  his  little 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


117 


son.  Someone  mentioned  a  little  boy 
yesterday  in  his  talk.  This  little  boy 
was  not  quite  six  years  of  age,  and  his 
father  said  that  last  Father's  Day  he 
wanted  to  make  an  impression  on  his 
youngster.  He  had  been  playing  out 
on  the  street.  They  brought  him  in  and 
washed  him  up,  and  at  the  dinner  table 
he  wanted  to  impress  this  youngster 
with  the  value  of  Father's  Day  and 
what  a  great  man  the  father  was.  He 
said  as  he  was  getting  along  with  his 
little  talk,  his  little  boy  said,  "Daddy, 
do  you  know  that  God  is  the  Daddy  of 
all  of  the  daddies  and  that  Jesus  is  the 
Oldest  Brother  of  all  of  the  brothers?" 
That  father  said,  "I  all  but  got  off  my 
chair  and  knelt  at  the  feet  of  my  little 
son."  I  want  to  tell  you,  in  the  words 
of  a  child,  that  was  a  great  truth,  and 
I  wish  people  of  the  world  could  under- 
stand just  that,  that  God  is  the  Daddy 
of  all  of  the  daddies  and  that  Jesus  is 


the  Oldest  Brother  of  all  of  the  brothers. 

Then  in  conclusion  someone  else  said, 
"Be  careful.  You  may  be  the  only 
standard  works  that  some  people  may 
read."  Now  think  that  over.  I  think 
there  is  a  lot  of  truth  in  that. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  live  our 
lives  worthy  of  membership  in  this 
Church,  and  may  we  be  anxious  and 
willing  to  do  our  part  to  help  move 
forward  this  great  work,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  who  has  just  spoken  to  us  is 
Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner,  a  member  of 
the  Presiding  Bishopric  of  the  Church. 
We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Delbert 
L.  Stapley  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 
who  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Marion 
G.  Romney.    Elder  Stapley — 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


MY  BROTHERS  AND  SISTERS,  I  should 
like  to  pay  tribute  to  our  late  be- 
loved departed  associate,  Elder 
John  A.  Widtsoe,  a  man  who  has  con- 
tributed much  to  this  Church  and  its 
people.  He  left  many  books,  manu- 
scripts, and  leaflets  that  we  can  all 
use  and  profit  by.  I,  too,  want  to  wel- 
come Elder  Adam  S.  Bennion  into  the 
Quorum  of  the  Twelve  and  assure  him 
that  he  has  my  love,  my  prayers,  my 
blessing,  my  help.  I  know  he  will 
contribute  a  great  deal  to  the  work.  He 
is  filling  the  shoes  of  a  very  important 
individual,  but  I  know  he  will  rise  to 
the  great  responsibilities  of  this  call. 

I  would  like  for  you  to  keep  in  mind, 
my  brothers  and  sisters,  as  I  speak  to 
you,  the  talks  of  President  David  O. 
McKay  on  the  home,  of  Bishop  Thorpe 
B.  Isaacson  on  security  in  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  and  the  talk  of  President 
Bruce  R.  McConkie  on  the  Holy  Ghost, 
its  powers  and  functions. 


Toward  the  close  of  his  ministry, 
Christ  taught  his  disciples  that  he  must 
suffer  many  things  and  be  crucified  and 
would  rise  again  the  third  day.  Peter 
rebuked  the  Savior  saying,  "Be  it  far 
from  thee,  Lord:  this  shall  not  be  unto 
thee."  Jesus  turned  to  Peter  and  said, 
"Get  thee  behind  me,  Satan:  thou  art 
an  offence  unto  me:  for  thou  savourest 
not  the  things  that  be  of  God,  but  those 
that  be  of  men."  (Matt.  16:22-23.)  If 
the  Lord  walked  among  us  today,  would 
we  be  an  offense  unto  him  and  subject 
to  chastisement  for  savoring  the  things 
of  men  more  than  the  things  of  God? 

Our  modern  scientific  material  world 
with  its  great  achievements,  conven- 
iences, comforts,  and  tempting  prosperity 
has  diverted  many  a  good  man  from  his 
avowed  plan  to  serve  God  faithfully. 
Opportunities  for  riches,  and  the  power 
that  goes  with  them,  often  impels  men 
to  pursue  increased  possessions,  money, 
and  the  honors  of  men  more  than  the 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  6 

love  and  favor  of  God.  The  faith  of 
many  such  men  often  is  destroyed  and 
their  spiritual  opportunities  and  bless- 
ings sacrificed.  They  become  cold  and 
indifferent  to  religion  and  pierce  them- 
selves and  families  through  with  many 
sorrows. 

...  it  is  the  will  of  God  that  man  should 
repent  and  serve  Him  in  health,  and  in 
the  strength  and  power  of  his  mind,  in 
order  to  secure  his  blessing,  and  not  wait 
until  he  is  called  to  die.  (Teachings  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  197.) 

We  have  the  responsibility  as  parents 
of  providing  for  our  own,  and  in  our 
best  endeavors  to  do  so  there  are  normal- 
ly accumulations  of  material  possessions. 
There  is  nothing  against  a  person  earn- 
ing and  enjoying  material  possessions 
provided  he  is  not  spiritually  hurt  in 
the  process  and  fulfils  completely  his 
heavenly  covenants  and  sacred  obliga- 
tions to  his  God.  "For  a  man's  life," 
says  the  Savior,  "does  not  consist  in  the 
abundance  of  the  things  which  he 
possesses." 

The  Lord  has  given  us  the  good  things 
of  the  earth  that  we  might  better  serve 
him.  Somehow  people  get  mixed  up  in 
values  and  fail  to  recognize  the  im- 
portant purposes  of  earth  life  that  a 
kind  and  loving  Heavenly  Father  has 
so  graciously  provided  for  them. 
.  Our  most  important  possession  is  the 
gospel.  It  has  no  counterpart.  It  en- 
compasses all  truth.  It  is  the  only 
plan  for  life  and  salvation  that  is 
eternal  and  applies  to  all  mankind. 
Obedience  to  its  principles,  doctrines, 
and  ordinances  is  our  only  hope  for 
protection  and  peace  in  a  disturbed 
world.  The  Lord  has  counseled  us  "to 
seek  first  the  kingdom  of  heaven  and 
its  righteousness,  and  all  else  will  be 
added."  The  Nephites,  following 
Christ's  ministry  among  them,  for  two 
hundred  years  realized  the  full  benefits 
of  following  this  counsel.  There  was 
an  unprecedented  era  of  righteousness 
and  faith  among  these  people.  They 
had  all  things  common  among  them. 
There  were  not  rich  and  poor,  bond 


Third  Day 

and  free,  and  there  were  no  conten- 
tions or  disputations  among  them.  They 
dealt  justly  with  each  other;  the  Lord 
prospered  them  exceedingly;  and  they 
builded  large  cities.  In  Fourth  Nephi 
we  read, 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  there  was  no 
contention  in  the  land,  because  of  the  love 
of  God  which  did  dwell  in  the  hearts  of 
the  people. 

And  there  were  no  envyings,  nor  strifes, 
nor  tumults,  nor  whoredoms,  nor  lyings, 
nor  murders,  nor  any  manner  of  lascivious- 
ness;  and  surely  there  could  not  be  a  hap- 
pier people  among  all  the  people  who  had 
been  created  by  the  hand  of  God.  (4  Nephi 
15-16.) 

God  did  bless  them  in  all  their  do- 
ings, but  later,  however,  wealth,  pride, 
and  the  desire  for  influence  and  power 
led  to  their  complete  destruction  as  a 
people  and  a  nation.  Moral  decay  has 
ever  been  the  downfall  of  peoples  and 
nations. 

Faith  in  God  and  in  his  son  Jesus 
Christ  must  find  lodgment  and  full  and 
continued  expression  in  every  heart  or 
man  will  be  destroyed  by  his  own  ig- 
norance and  materialism.  Today,  man's 
world  with  the  Christ  and  his  teachings 
is  on  the  brink  of  disaster.  As  I  think 
about  it,  I  wonder  what  condition  the 
world  would  be  in  if  it  did  not  have  a 
Christ  and  did  not  have  his  teachings 
with  the  great  plan  of  salvation  as  we 
know  and  understand  it.  No  doubt  the 
people  of  the  world  would  have  been 
destroyed  long  ago. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  has  gained  influence  and 
prestige  among  men.  It's  opportunities 
to  do  good  are  unlimited.  If  the  Church 
is  to  be  as  a  light  upon  a  hill  and  a 
beacon  to  all  people,  I  am  firmly  con- 
vinced that  our  most  important  duty  is 
to  be  true,  faithful,  and  devoted 
disciples  of  Christ,  and  not  as  people 
of  the  world,  for  the  Lord  has  called 
us  out  of  the  world,  a  people  peculiar 
unto  him.   In  I  John  we  read, 

Love  not  the  world,  neither  the  things 
that  are  in  the  world.    If  any  man  love 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


119 


the  world,  the  love  of  the  Father  is  not  in 
him; 

For  all  that  is  in  the  world,  the  lust  of 
the  flesh,  and  the  lust  of  the  eyes,  and  the 
pride  of  life,  is  not  of  the  Father,  but  is 
of  the  world. 

And  the  world  passeth  away,  and  the 
lust  thereof;  but  he  that  doeth  the  will 
of  God  abideth  for  ever.  (I  John  2:15-17.) 

This  does  not  mean  the  Lord  will 
deny  to  his  people  the  good  things  that 
modern  science  and  invention  have 
provided  for  the  better  enjoyment  of 
life,  but  we  are  counseled  to  forego 
worldly  pursuits  and  pleasures  in  favor 
of  heavenly  and  spiritual  things. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  has  said, 
"As  a  Church  and  a  people  it  behooves 
us  to  be  wise  and  to  seek  to  know  the 
will  of  God  and  then  be  willing  to  do 
it,  for  blessed  is  he  that  heareth  the 
word  of  the  Lord  and  keepeth  it."  To 
accomplish  the  purposes  of  the  Lord's 
latter-day  kingdom,  his  people  must 
show  vision  and  understanding  by  right 
choices  and  judgments  in  personal  af- 
fairs as  they  are  influenced  by  the  Holy 
Ghost,  the  heavenly  gift  and  power 
given  to  guide  his  faithful  Saints.  This 
sets  an  example  and  pattern  of  business 
conduct  that  all  men  can  follow  with 
profit  and  confidence.  Under  present 
doubtful  economic  conditions  we,  as 
Latter-day  Saints,  should  not  over- 
extend  our  resources  by  taking  unwise 
and  hazardous  chances.  To  do  so  would 
make  us  vulnerable  to  reverses  and 
losses,  thus  seriously  and  adversely  af- 
fecting our  lives  and  the  Lord's  work. 
To  keep  ourselves  financially  strong  and 
secure  in  whatever  we  possess  is  most 
important  to  each  of  us.  I  believe  it 
wise  to  have  available  unused  borrow- 
ing capacity  even  under  less  than 
normal  conditions  and  also  satisfactory 
bank  accounts  or  savings  (which  could 
be  cheap  dollars)  to  tide  us  through 
difficult  situations  or  conditions.  Any 
reverses  without  available  funds  or  bor- 
rowing privileges  could  jeopardize  entire 
holdings.  This  is  not  a  time  to  have 
our  credit  stretched  to  the  limit  and 
no  cash  reserves  on  hand. 

In  this  great  land  of  ours  we  have 


enjoyed  twelve  prosperous  years.  No 
previous  time  begins  to  compare  with 
it  either  for  volume  or  duration.  It 
would  now  seem  prudent,  wise,  and 
timely  to  stabilize  our  financial  posi- 
tions, making  safe  our  holdings  and 
possessions  to  assure  security,  proper 
living  standards,  cultural  and  economic 
advantages  for  ourselves  and  families, 
and  also  make  possible  our  most  sacred 
duty  in  building  up  the  Lord's  kingdom 
in  the  earth. 

The  Lord  has  counseled  his  people 
to  pray  over  their  flocks  and  herds, 
which  applies  to  every  man's  interests. 
If  we  faithfully  live  the  gospel  and 
honor  the  Holy  Priesthood  of  God,  we 
have  a  right  and  claim  upon  him  for 
his  blessings  and  the  inspiration  to 
guide  us  in  making  proper  decisions 
for  the  conduct  of  our  businesses  in 
this  period  of  economic  uncertainty. 
There  are  serious  rough  spots  ahead, 
flashing  warning  lights  of  caution  that 
Latter-day  Saints  cannot  ignore.  This 
past  week  the  stock  market  ran  for 
shelter  on  indication  of  possible  peace 
in  Korea.  Business  and  markets  are 
sensitive  to  any  change  in  world  condi- 
tions. We  must  recognize  the  signs  of 
the  times  as  indicated  by  prophecy  and 
have  vision  and  wise  understanding  of 
national  and  world  trends  to  safeguard 
our  interests  and  thus  strengthen  the 
cause  of  Zion,  even  as  Joseph  of  old 
so  wisely  planned  and  prepared  against 
the  days  of  famine  and  adversity,  and 
thus  became  a  great  benefactor  to  the 
Egyptians  and  his  father's  family.  We 
need  all  the  help  that  faith,  prayer, 
and  inspiration  can  give. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  by  getting  out 
of  debt  and  thus  securing  their  holdings 
could  set  a  good  example  for  all  peo- 
ple. We  were  advised  recently  from 
this  pulpit  by  President  Stephen  L 
Richards  to  get  out  of  debt,  and  that 
counsel  now  under  present  economic 
conditions,  and  particularly  in  the  light 
of  the  past  week's  happenings,  is  most 
timely  and  wise.  With  such  admoni- 
tion there  should  be  no  cause  for  us 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  6 

to  err  in  our  judgments  as  to  the  course 
we  should  follow. 

We  are  acquainted  with  recent  gov- 
ernment economy  moves  which,  I  hope, 
we  all  approve  and  commend  our  na- 
tional leaders  for,  but  it  does  indicate 
a  cautious  trend  in  our  national  life 
and  is  bound  to  spread  to  other  fields. 
We  have  also  witnessed  an  adjustment 
in  farm  commodity  and  livestock  prices. 
In  spite  of  heavy  government  military 
orders,  consumer  merchandise  is  be- 
coming more  plentiful  and  shortages 
progressively  fewer  in  number.  Prices 
in  some  lines  are  softening,  and  the 
cost  of  living  index  is  lowering.  The 
long  sustained  inflationary  boom  period 
made  possible  by  war  scare,  high  taxes, 
a  staggering  government  debt,  also  in- 
creasing serious  world  problems  with 
peace  in  the  balance,  are  danger  signals 
that  call  for  caution  and  wise  decisions. 
The  economic  adjustments  now  taking 
place  should  over  the  long  pull  be 
helpful  to  our  national  economy,  but 
some  segments  of  our  economic  life 
cannot  help  being  hurt  by  lower  prices 
caused  by  such  adjustments.  Some  of 
our  people  have  already  experienced 
serious  and  costly  losses. 

It  is  generally  conceded  that  1953  will 
be  a  good  business  year,  the  first  half 
favorable,  the  last  half  perhaps  doubt- 
ful, and  1954  rather  clouded.  The 
Latter-day  Saints  should  take  advantage 
of  whatever  remaining  good  times  that 
are  ahead  to  get  out  of  debt,  make  se- 
cure present  holdings,  and  not  take 
chances  with  odds  against  them  for  a 
high  rate  of  prosperity  continuing.  No 
one  can  ever  be  criticized  for  consolidat- 
ing his  position  and  holdings  to  assure 
security  and  opportunities  for  himself 
and  family.  We  must  remember  that 
we  pay  obligations  and  meet  our  com- 
mitments out  of  what  is  left  after  taxes. 
Taxation  is  a  heavy  taskmaster  and  a 
hard  teacher.  I  wonder  whether  heavier 
tax  burdens  leaving  us  less  to  show  for 
our  labors  and  thrifty  habits  are  neces- 
sary before  we  realize  what  the  true 
values  of  life  are. 


Third  Day 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  has  issued 
this  warning, 

I  will  prophesy  that  the  signs  of  the 
coming  of  the  Son  of  Man  are  already 
commenced.  One  pestilence  will  desolate 
after  another.  .  .  .  Some  may  have  cried 
peace,  but  the  Saints  in  the  world  will 
have  little  peace  from  henceforth.  .  .  .  Wars 
are  at  hand.  .  .  .  We  ought  to  have  the 
building  up  of  Zion  as  our  greatest  ob- 
ject. (Teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  160.) 

I  call  your  attention  to  the  statement 
by  President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  in 
last  Saturday's  conference  session  when 
he  said  peace  would  not  come  to  the 
earth  until  the  Savior  brings  it  at  his 
second  coming. 

Now  in  this  talk,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  I  am  not  intending  to  cause  panic 
or  fear  in  the  hearts  of  the  Latter-day 
Saint  people.  Again,  1953  is  conceded 
a  fair  year,  however,  an  orderly  and 
planned  program  of  debt  liquidation 
with  protection  of  interests,  eliminating 
all  risk  hazards  should  be  very  helpful 
and  not  harmful  to  the  national  econ- 
omy, and  as  I  interpret  present  condi- 
tions, it  appears  to  me  the  wise  course 
to  follow.  I  know  it  will  bring  peace 
and  comfort  of  mind  and  a  glorious 
sense  of  security  and  well-being  for 
those  we  love  and  who  depend  upon  us 
with  full  trust  and  confidence  for  life's 
necessities  and  opportunities. 

My  soul  is  full  with  the  spirit  of  this 
latter-day  work.  It  is  most  important. 
It  must  not  fail.  God  has  called  us  to 
holy  callings  and  depends  on  us  to 
keep  free  of  entanglements  and  financial 
involvments  to  serve  him  freely  and 
effectively  and  to  promote  his  glorious 
kingdom  on  earth.  May  we  ever  keep 
in  mind  these  suggestions  and  be  faith- 
ful and  true  in  our  Church  obligations, 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley,  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to 
us. 

Among  our  educators  who  have  been 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


121 


in  attendance  at  the  Conference  sessions, 
or  heads  of  departments  of  leading 
schools,  is  President  John  L.  Clarke, 
President  of  Ricks  College.  Brother 
Clarke,  will  you  please  call  Operator 
103  at  Rexburg.   It  is  an  emergency. 

The  closing  song  by  the  Brigham 
Young  University  Combined  Choruses, 
will  be  "Omnipotence,"  conducted  by 
Brother  Newel  Weight,  the  Soloist  is 
Sister  Lula  Reeter  Matis. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered 
by  Elder  A.  Sherman  Gowans,  formerly 
President  of  the  Norwegian  Mission, 
following  which  this  Conference  will 
stand  adjourned  until  two  o'clock  this 
afternoon.  The  proceedings  of  this 
afternoon's  session  will  be  broadcast 
over  all  the  stations  heretofore  an- 
nounced, and  over  television. 

The  Combined   Choruses  sang  an 


anthem,  "Omnipotence,"  conducted  by 
Don  L.  Earl. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Combined  Choruses  will  be  with 
us  again  this  afternoon.  We  appreciate 
this  large  attendance  from  the  Brigham 
Young  University,  and  are  grateful  for 
the  service  they  have  rendered  this 
morning.  President  Gowans,  formerly 
President  of  the  Norwegian  Mission  will 
now  offer  the  benediction. 


Elder  A.  Sherman  Gowans,  formerly 
President  of  the  Norwegian  Mission, 
offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  concluding  session  of  the  Con- 
ference was  called  to  order  promptly  at 
2:00  p.m.,  Monday  afternoon,  with 
President  David  O.  McKay  presiding 
and  conducting  the  services. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  were  again  in  attendance 
and  furnished  the  choral  music  for  this 
session. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  the  concluding  and  seventh 
session  of  the  123rd  Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  We  are  convened  in  the 
Tabernacle  in  Salt  Lake  City.  For 
those  who  are  unable  to  enter  the 
building,  we  announce  that  the  services 
are  being  broadcast  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall  over  a 
loud  speaking  system,  also  by  televi- 
sion. 

The  proceedings  will  be  broadcast 
over  station  KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City, 
and   by   arrangements  through  KSL 


over  the  stations  named  in  the  first  ses- 
sion of  this  Conference.  We  shall  not 
take  the  time  to  read  them,  but  we 
thank  these  radio  stations  and  net- 
works for  their  cooperation  and  for  the 
excellent  service  they  have  rendered 
throughout  this  Conference. 

The  music  for  this  session  will  be 
rendered  by  the  Brigham  Young  Univer- 
sity Combined  Choruses,  under  the  di- 
rection of  Elder  John  R.  Halliday,  with 
Frank  Asper  at  the  organ.  The  students 
are  here  in  large  numbers,  occupying  all 
the  choir  seats,  and  rendering  excellent 
service.  We  do  appreciate  their  coming. 

We  shall  begin  the  service  by  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Choruses 
singing,  "Glory  to  God,"  with  Elder 
Halliday  conducting.  The  opening 
prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder  John 
C.  Dalton,  President  of  the  East  Long 
Beach  Stake. 


The  Combined  Choruses  sang  as  an 
opening  number,  "Glory  To  God," 
John  R.  Halliday  conducting. 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  6 

Elder  John  C.  Dalton,  President  of 
the  East  Long  Beach  Stake  offered  the 
invocation. 

Singing  by  the  Combined  Choruses, 
"Christ,  the  Lord,  Is  Risen  Today." 


Third  Day 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  first  speaker  this  afternoon  is 
Elder  Marion  G.  Romney  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve.  He  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Henry  D.  Moyle. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Somehow  I  don't  feel  like  giving  the 
talk  which  I  had  prepared  for  the 
conference.  I  would,  however,  like 
to  discuss  with  you  a  few  things  that 
are  in  my  mind,  without  attempting  to 
make  a  speech  or  deliver  a  discourse. 

In  the  first  place,  I  extend  my  wel- 
come to  Brother  Bennion,  who  has  to- 
day been  called  into  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve.  He  has  great  talents  and  the 
ability  to  do  great  service  in  the  Church. 
He  touched  my  life  for  good  more  than 
thirty  years  ago  when  he  gave  me  en- 
couragement in  a  trying  time. 

I  express  my  regrets,  too,  at  the  passing 
of  Brother  Widtsoe,  a  great  man  who 
for  many,  many  years  was  one  of  the 
outstanding  leaders  of  the  Church.  I 
am  sure  our  hearts  go  out  to  Sister 
Widtsoe  and  to  her  family.  Just  a 
year  ago  Brother  Widtsoe  gave  his  last 
conference  talk.  He  had  recently  re- 
turned, you  will  remember,  from  a  very 
important  assignment  in  Canada.  He 
talked  about  preserving  water  and  mak- 
ing it  available  to  the  land.  He  told 
how  putting  water  on  land  turns  barren 
soil  into  fertile,  productive  soil.  From 
this  he  drew  the  following  gospel  les- 
son: 

The  weavers  of  the  midlands  in  England, 
the  coal  miners  of  Wales,  the  fishermen  in 
Norway,  the  trudging  farmers  of  Denmark, 
very  common,  ordinary  people,  who  accept 
the  gospel  from  the  lips  of  some  humble 
Mormon  missionary  become  so  changed  by 
those  enlightening  truths  of  the  gospel  that 
they  are  not  the  same  people  any  longer. 
They  have  been  fertilized,  so  to  speak,  by 
the  Spirit  of  God  that  flows  from  eternal 


truth,  just  as  in  irrigation  the  barren,  dry 
soil  is  fertilized  by  diverting  the  stream  of 
water  from  the  irrigation  ditch  onto  the 
thirsty  land.  (Conference  Report,  April, 
1952,  p.  34.) 

I  am  sure  we  shall  long  remember 
the  labors  of  Brother  Widtsoe. 

I  would  like  to  say  a  word  to  you, 
Brother  Bowen,  if  you  are  listening. 
Our  hearts  go  out  to  you;  we  love  you; 
we  recognize  the  strength  of  your  great 
character  and  your  unusual  intellect. 
I  would  like  to  put  in  the  record  a 
statement  from  the  address  you  delivered 
here  a  year  ago.  You  were  explaining 
how  the  adoption  of  the  precepts  of 
men  had  changed  the  doctrines  of  the 
Christian  Church.  You  were,  of 
course,  speaking  of  churches  generally, 
not  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  Then  you  concluded 
— and  I  remember  these  words  as  you 
spoke  them: 

In  my  view  there  is  only  one  safety;  there 
is  only  one  cure;  and  that  is  to  take  the 
pure  and  unadulterated  word  of  God  and 
set  that  up  as  our  standard  of  measurement, 
and  measure  every  creed  and  doctrine  and 
dogma  by  that  yardstick.  That  which  will 
not  square  with  the  declarations  of  Al- 
mighty God  we  can  lay  aside  as  unsuited 
for  the  need  of  man.  (Ibid.,  p.  66.) 

I  know,  Brother  Bowen,  you  would 
love  to  be  here  today.  We  would  love 
to  have  you,  and  we  give  you  our  faith 
and  our  prayers. 

Now  may  I  call  your  attention  to 
President  Richards'  conference  address 
given  six  months  ago.    You  will  recall 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


123 


that  he  extended  an  invitation  to  the 
peoples  of  the  world.  It  began  with 
these  words: 

I  desire  to  use  this  .opportunity  to  ex- 
tend an  invitation.  ...  To  the  people  of 
the  Church,  there  is  nothing  novel  in  this 
invitation.  Although  it  has  gone  out  to 
the  people  of  the  world  for  more  than  a 
century,  there  are  still  few  of  the  world 
who  fully  understand  its  import.  This  is 
the  invitation,  addressed:  To  All  Men, 
Women,  and  Children.  Dear  Friends:  You 
are  cordially  and  earnestly  invited  to  par- 
ticipate in  building  the  kingdom  of  God 
in  the  earth.  Place — Everywhere.  Time- 
Now.   {Ibid.,  October,  1952,  pp.  97-98.) 

President  Richards,  we  remember  that 
great  talk.  We  have  re-read  it.  We 
pray  God,  our  Eternal  Father,  to  bring 
you  back  that  you  may  give  many  more 
such  talks. 

President  McKay,  in  the  opening  ad- 
dress of  this  conference,  said  there  were 
two  things  that  we  should  do.  One  of 
them  was  to  put  our  homes  in  order; 
the  other  was  to  bear  witness  of  the 
Redeemer.  He  was  thus  quoted  in  the 
press: 

President  McKay,  in  his  opening  mes- 
sage to  the  Church  membership,  emphasized 
what  he  termed  two  great  duties  of  Latter- 
day  Saints:  (1)  to  put  their  homes  in  order, 
and  (2)  to  proclaim  the  divinity  of  the 
mission  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  would  like  to  say  just  a  word  about 
my  testimony  of  the  mission  of  Jesus 
Christ.  I  want  to  go  a  little  farther 
back  for  a  moment,  if  I  can  be  given 
guidance  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to 
speak  the  truth  accurately,  and  men- 
tion the  great  condition  precedent  to 
the  efficacy  of  the  mission  of  Jesus 
Christ.  That  condition  precedent  is 
the  mission  of  Father  Adam,  because 
without  the  mission  of  Adam  there 
would  have  been  no  need  for  the  mis- 
sion— the  atonement— of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  have  an  assignment  from  the  First 
Presidency  to  serve  on  the  Church  pub- 
lications committee.  This  committee  is 
expected  to  read  and  pass  upon  the 
literature  proposed  for  use  in  the  study 
courses  of  our  auxiliary  organizations. 


It  would  please  me  immensely  if,  in  the 
preparation  of  this  literature,  we  could 
get  away  from  using  the  language  of 
those  who  do  not  believe  in  the  mission 
of  Adam.  I  have  reference  to  words 
and  phrases  such  as  "primitive  man," 
"prehistoric  man,"  "before  men  learned 
to  write,"  and  the  like.  We  sometimes 
use  these  terms  in  a  way  that  offends 
my  feelings;  in  a  way  which  indicates 
to  me  that  we  get  mixed  up  in  our  un- 
derstanding of  the  mission  of  Adam. 
The  connotation  of  these  terms,  as  used 
by  unbelievers,  is  out  of  harmony  with 
our  understanding  of  the  mission  of 
Adam. 

"Adam  fell  that  man  might  be."  (2 
Nephi  2:25.)  There  were  no  pre- 
Adamic  men  in  the  line  of  Adam.  The 
Lord  said  that  Adam  was  the  first  man. 
(Moses  1:34,  3:7;  D.  &  C.  84:16.)  It  is 
hard  for  me  to  get  the  idea  of  a  man 
ahead  of  Adam,  before  the  first  man. 
The  Lord  also  said  that  Adam  was  the 
first  flesh  (Moses  3:7)  which,  as  I  under- 
stand it,  means  the  first  mortal  on  the 
earth.  I  understand  from  a  statement 
in  the  book  of  Moses,  which  was  made 
by  Enoch,  that  there  was  no  death  in 
the  world  before  Adam.  (Moses  6:48; 
see  also  2  Nephi  2:22.)    Enoch  said: 

.  .  .  death  hath  come  upon  our  fathers; 
nevertheless  we  know  them,  and  cannot 
deny,  and  even  the  first  of  all  we  know, 
even  Adam. 

For  a  book  of  remembrance  we  have 
written  among  us,  according  to  the  pattern 
given  by  the  ringer  of  God;  and  it  is  given 
in  our  own  language.    (Moses  6:45-46.) 

I  understand  from  this  that  Enoch 
could  read  about  Adam  in  a  book  which 
had  been  written  under  the  tutelage  of 
Almighty  God.  Thus  there  were  no 
prehistoric  men  who  could  not  write 
because  men  living  in  the  days  of 
Adam,  who  was  the  first  man,  wrote. 

I  am  not  a  scientist.  I  do  not  pro- 
fess to  know  anything  but  Jesus  Christ, 
and  him  crucified,  and  the  principles 
of  his  gospel.  If,  however,  there  are 
some  things  in  the  strata  of  the  earth 
indicating  there  were  men  before  Adam, 
they  were  not  the  ancestors  of  Adam. 


124 

Monday,  April  6 

Adam  was  the  son  of  God.  He  was 
our  elder  brother,  not  older  than  Jesus, 
but  he  was  our  brother  in  the  same 
sense  that  Jesus  was  our  brother,  and  he 
"fell"  to  earth  life.  He  did  not  come 
up  through  an  unbroken  line  of  organic 
evolution.  There  had  to  be  a  fall. 
"Adam  fell  that  men  might  be."  (2 
Nephi  2:25.) 

I  will  go  on  now  and  read  this  scrip- 
ture before  I  forget  it: 

For  a  book  of  remembrance  we  have 
written  among  us,  according  to  the  pattern 
given  by  the  finger  of  God;  and  it  is  given 
in  our  own  language. 

And  as  Enoch  spake  forth  the  words  of 
God,  the  people  trembled,  and  could  not 
stand  in  his  presence.   (Moses  6:46-47.) 

Some  men  speak  of  the  ancients  as 
being  savages,  as  if  they  had  no  intelli- 
gence. I  tell  you  this  man  Enoch  had 
intelligence,  and  Adam  had  intelligence, 
as  much  as  any  man  that  ever  lived 
since  or  that  lives  now.  They  were 
mighty  sons  of  God. 

And  he  said  unto  them:  Because  that 
Adam  fell,  we  are;  and  by  his  fall  came 
death;  and  we  are  made  partakers  of  misery 
and  woe.   (Moses  6:48.) 

If  Adam  and  Eve  had  not  partaken 
of  the  forbidden  fruit,  they  would  have 
had  no  children,  and  we  would  not 
have  been.  (2  Nephi  2:23-25;  Moses 
5:11.) 

I  do  not  look  upon  Adam's  action  as 
a  sin.  I  think  it  was  a  deliberate  act 
of  free  agency.  He  chose  to  do  that 
which  had  to  be  done  to  further  the 
purposes  of  God.  The  consequences  of 
his  act  made  necessary  the  atonement 
of  the  Redeemer. 

I  must  not  go  into  a  longer  discus- 
sion, but  I  say  again  that  I  would  be 
very  pleased  if,  in  our  teaching  of  the 
gospel,  we  could  keep  revealed  truth 
straight  in  our  minds  and  not  get  it 
confused  with  the  ideas  and  theories  of 
men,  who  do  not  believe  what  the  Lord 
has  revealed  with  respect  to  the  fall  of 
Adam. 

Now,  I  believe  with  Enoch,  "...  Be- 
cause that  Adam  fell,  we  are;  and  by 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Dan 

his  fall  came  death;"  (Moses  6:48)  that 
every  man  must  die,  as  Brother  Petersen 
said  yesterday.  I  believe  that  to  meet 
the  demands  of  justice,  it  took  the 
atonement  of  Jesus  Christ  to  redeem 
men  from  that  death,  that  they  may 
be  raised  again  and  have  their  spirits 
and  their  bodies,  which  are  separated 
through  death,  reunited.  I  believe  that 
through  the  atonement  of  Jesus  Christ 
whatever  "transgression"  Adam  com- 
mitted was  paid  for,  and  that  as  in 
Adam  all  die,  even  so  in  Christ  shall 
all  be  made  alive,  every  living  creature. 
(I  Cor.  15:22;  D.  &  C.  29:24,  77:2.)  I 
believe,  too,  that  through  the  atonement 
of  Jesus  Christ  my  individual  sins,  your 
individual  sins,  and  the  individual  sins 
of  every  human  being  that  ever  lived 
or  ever  will  live  upon  the  earth  were 
atoned  for,  upon  condition  that  we  ac- 
cept the  gospel  and  live  it  to  the  end 
of  our  lives. 

I  know  that  my  Redeemer  lives.  I 
shall  not  know  it  better  when  I  stand 
before  the  bar  of  God  to  be  judged.  I 
know  that  Jesus  is  the  Redeemer.  I 
bear  that  witness  to  you,  not  from  what 
people  have  told  me;  I  bear  it  out  of  a 
knowledge  revealed  to  me  by  the  Holy 
Spirit.  As  to  this  knowledge,  the  Lord, 
after  commanding  the  early  Apostles 
of  this  dispensation  to  testify  that  the 
words  he  had  spoken  to  them  were  of 
him,  said: 

For  it  is  my  voice  which  speaketh  them 
unto  you;  for  they  are  given  by  my  Spirit 
unto  you,  and  by  my  power  you  can  read 
them  one  to  another;  and  save  it  were  by 
my  power  you  could  not  have  them; 

Wherefore,  you  can  testify  that  you  have 
heard  my  voice,  and  know  my  words. 
(D.  &  C.  18:35-36.) 

I  am  willing  to  bear  this  witness  to 
all  the  Saints  and  to  all  men  and 
women  everywhere,  saints  and  sinners, 
in  all  the  world,  for  it  is  the  eternal 
truth. 

I  know  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  prophet  of  God.  I  know  he  saw 
God,  the  Eternal  Father,  and  his  Son, 
Jesus  Christ,  as  he  says  he  did.  I  was  not 
there,  but  I  have  read  his  account  many, 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


125 


many,  many  times.  From  his  account 
I  get  in  my  mind  a  mental  picture,  but 
I  did  not  get  my  knowledge  that  he  had 
the  vision  from  that  source.  I  received 
it  from  the  whisperings  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  and  I  have  had  those  whisperings 
in  my  mind  the  same  as  Enos  had  when 
he  said,  "...  the  voice  of  the  Lord 
came  into  my  mind."  (Enos  10.) 

I  know  that  God  revealed  every  prin- 
ciple of  salvation  necessary  to  the  salva- 
tion of  men  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
I  know  that  his  successor  who  sits  here 
today,  David  O.  McKay,  holds  every 
power  and  every  authority  and  all  the 
priesthood  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  had 
— unless  it  be  the  keys  of  this  last  dis- 
pensation— but  every  power  that  is  nec- 
essary to  the  salvation  of  men,  he  holds. 
Nobody  has  a  testimony  of  the  gospel 
that  will  save  him  unless  he  knows  it, 
too. 

It  is  an  easy  thing  to  believe  in  the 
dead  prophets,  but  it  is  a  greater  thing 
to  believe  in  the  living  prophets.  I 
will  give  you  an  illustration. 

One  day  when  President  Grant  was 
living,  I  sat  in  my  office  across  the 
street  following  a  general  conference. 
A  man  came  over  to  see  me,  an  elderly 
man.  He  was  very  upset  about  what 
had  been  said  in  this  conference  by 
some  of  the  Brethren,  including  myself. 
I  could  tell  from  his  speech  that  he 
came  from  a  foreign  land.  After  I  had 
quieted  him  enough  so  he  would  listen, 
I  said,  "Why  did  you  come  to  America?" 

"I  came  here  because  a  prophet  of 
God  told  me  to  come." 

"Who  was  the  prophet?"  I  continued. 

"Wilford  Woodruff." 

"Do  you  believe  Wilford  Woodruff 
was  a  prophet  of  God?" 

"Yes,"  said  he. 

"Do  you  believe  that  his  successor, 
President  Lorenzo  Snow,  was  a  prophet 
of  God?" 

"Yes,  I  do." 

"Do  you  believe  that  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God?" 
"Yes,  sir." 

Then  came   the   "sixty-four  dollar 


question."  "Do  you  believe  that  Heber 
J.  Grant  is  a  prophet  of  God?" 

His  answer:  "I  think  he  ought  to 
keep  his  mouth  shut  about  old  age  as- 
sistance." 

Now  I  tell  you  that  a  man  in  his 
position  is  on  the  way  to  apostasy.  He 
is  forfeiting  his  chances  for  eternal  life. 
So  is  everyone  who  cannot  follow  the 
living  prophet  of  God. 

I  want  to  say  one  more  thing  before 
I  sit  down.  Today  being  the  twentieth 
anniversary  of  Brother  Clark's  call  to 
the  First  Presidency,  I  want  to  pay  him 
a  tribute.  I  love  him.  Although  the 
Lord  had  to  go  all  the  way  to  Mexico 
City  to  find  him,  I  am  grateful  that  he 
brought  him  back  to  give  us  this  twenty 
years  of  service.  I  want  to  read  a 
statement  from  the  message  he  gave 
twenty  years  ago.  In  it  he  spoke  of  his 
great  humility  and  of  the  apprehension 
he  felt  as  to  whether  he  could  meet  the 
requirements  of  his  new  position.  In 
telling  of  the  joys  he  anticipated,  he 
said: 

We  shall  have  the  joy  of  work,  too,  for 
man  also  is  that  he  might  work,  he  went 
forth  from  the  innocence  of  Eden  to  the 
God-like  knowledge  of  good  and  evil,  with 
the  Divine  blessing — not  curse — as  it  seems 
to  me:  "In  the  sweat  of  thy  face  shalt  thou 
eat  bread."  And  save  in  extremity,  no  man 
may  rightfully  violate  that  law  by  living  by 
the  sweat  from  the  brow  of  his  brother.  It 
is  the  eternal,  inescapable  law  that  growth 
comes  only  from  work  and  preparation, 
whether  the  growth  be  material,  mental, 
or  spiritual.  Work  has  no  substitute. 
Idleness  brings  neither  profit,  nor  advan- 
tage, nor  good — only  a  withering  decay  and 
death.  The  world  is  near  to  forgetting  all 
this;  I  hope  that  we  as  a  people  shall  keep 
it  ever  in  remembrance,  for  in  proportion 
as  it  is  forgotten,  evil  will  rule.  (Confer- 
ence Report,  April,  1933,  p.  103.) 

I  have  watched  him  work  through 
these  years,  as  have  the  other  brethren. 
We  greatly  appreciate  the  example  he 
has  set  for  us. 

In  conclusion,  let  me  say  this  by  way 
of  general  statement.  Work,  brothers 
and  sisters,  work  in  the  kingdom.  Get 
the  testimony  of  the  gospel.   I  think  it 


126 

Monday,  April  6 

is  a  disgrace  for  men  and  women  to 
stand  on  the  same  ground  day  after 
day  in  their  testimony,  their  knowledge 
of  the  gospel,  and  their  work  in  the 
Church.  We  should  go  forward.  We 
ought  to  be  on  our  mettle  all  the  time, 
reaching,  perfecting  our  lives,  doing 
more  work,  going  forward  preparing  to 
meet  the  Redeemer.  We  live  in  the 
day  just  before  his  coming.  We  must 
speed  the  day,  speed  the  work  in 
preparation  for  that  great  day,  that  we 
may  rest  our  souls  in  the  kingdom  of 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

God,  which  I  hope  we  may  all  do,  and 
so  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Marion  G.  Romney  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  has  just  con- 
cluded speaking. 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Henry 
D.  Moyle,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Stayner 
Richards. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


We  have  all  been  thrilled  with  the 
marvelous,  inspired,  testimony  of 
Elder  Marion  G.  Romney.  Every 
word  that  he  uttered  found  a  responsive 
chord  in  my  being.  And  I  should  like 
to  say  amen  to  all  that  he  said. 

I  have  a  feeling  akin  to  the  last  state- 
ment which  he  made,  concerning  the 
necessity  for  us  to  show  in  our  lives  by 
our  works,  the  faith  that  we  have  in 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

If  we  believe,  as  we  profess,  we  should 
constitute  the  greatest  body  of  friends 
the  earth  has  ever  known.  I  have  been 
reading  recently  the  statement  of  a  great 
writer  who  must  have  had  a  deep  in- 
sight into  the  subject  of  friendship, 
though  his  attitude  toward  the  same 
may  have  been  somewhat  cynical.  He 
said,  and  I  am  quoting  from  Emerson: 

The  higher  the  style  we  demand  of  friend- 
ship, of  course,  the  less  easy  to  establish  it 
with  flesh  and  blood.  We  walk  alone  in 
the  world.  Friends  such  as  we  desire  are 
dreams  and  fables.  But  a  sublime  hope 
cheers  even  the  faithful  heart,  that  else- 
where, in  other  regions  of  the  universal 
power,  souls  are  now  acting,  enduring,  and 
daring,  which  can  love  us  and  which  we 
can  love.  We  may  congratulate  ourselves 
that  the  period  of  nonage,  of  follies,  of 
blunder,  and  of  shame,  is  passed  in  soli- 
tude, and  when  we  are  finished  men,  we 
shall  grasp  heroic  hands  in  heroic  hands. 
Only  be  admonished  by  what  you  already 
see,  not  to  strike  leagues  of  friendship  with 
"cheap  persons  where  no  friendship  can  be. 


Our  impatience  betrays  us  into  rash  and 
foolish  alliances  which  no  god  attends.  By 
persisting  in  your  path,  though  you  forfeit 
the  little,  you  gain  the  greater. 

I  am  conscious  today  that  had  there 
come  into  Emerson's  life  that  which  has 
come  into  yours  and  mine,  the  power 
of  the  priesthood  of  God,  he  would 
have  had  a  different  idea,  a  different 
conception  of  friendship.  We  have 
spoken  frequently  during  this  confer- 
ence of  our  testimony  of  the  divinity 
of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged. 
We  know  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ.  We  know  that  the  Savior 
of  mankind  is  the  only  Begotten  Son 
of  the  Father.  I  bear  witness  to  these 
facts  in  all  solemnity,  and  I  likewise 
want  to  bear  witness  to  the  fact  that 
there  is  a  brotherhood  of  man,  that  just 
as  Jesus  is  our  elder  brother,  so  are 
we  brethren  ourselves.  We  belong  to  a 
society  in  which  there  can  be  a  perfect 
friendship.  It  requires  of  us  but  one 
thing,  and  that  is  that  we  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  God.  It  is  this  fellow- 
ship, this  brotherhood  that  makes  it 
possible  for  us  to  magnify  the  priest- 
hood of  God  which  has  been  conferred 
upon  us  as  men  of  Israel  in  these  latter 
days. 

I  want  to  bear  witness  to  you  today, 
my  brethren,  that  none  of  us  can  magni- 
fy our  callings  in  the  priesthood,  none 
of  us  can  exercise  the  power  of  the 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


127 


priesthood  efficaciously,  and  none  of  us 
can  have  that  witness  come  into  our 
hearts  that  gives  us  that  knowledge 
supreme  of  the  existence  of  God  and 
his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  unless  we  are 
true  brothers,  unless  we  belong  to  a  so- 
ciety of  men  who  love  one  another, 
and  who  are  devoted  to  one  another, 
who  have  confidence  in  one  another, 
and  who  are  much  more  apt  to  forgive 
the  mistakes  of  one  another  than  to 
criticize  that  which  we  may  see  amiss 
in  our  neighbor. 

Emerson  goes  on  to  say  in  that  beau- 
tiful essay  of  his  on  friendship,  I  love 
to  read  it,  that  it  is  difficult  if  not  im- 
possible for  true  friendship  to  exist 
between  more  than  two  people.  He 
writes  further: 

Friendship  demands  a  religious  treatment. 
We  talk  of  choosing  our  friends,  but  friends 
are  self-elected.  Let  me  be  alone  to  the 
end  of  the  world  rather  than  my  friend 
should  overstep  by  word  or  look  his  real 
sympathy.  I  am  equally  balked  by  antag- 
onism and  by  compliance.  Let  him  not 
cease  an  instant  to  be  himself.  I  hate  when 
I  looked  for  a  manly  furtherance  or  at  least 
a  manly  resistance  to  find  a  mush  of  con- 
cession. 

Oh,  how  I  wish  that  he  had  felt  that 
brotherhood  of  God  which  exists  in 
the  lives  and  in  the  hearts  and  in  the 
spirit  of  the  men  of  Israel  today,  who 
are  magnifying  their  callings  in  the 
priesthood. 

As  President  McKay,  at  the  opening 
of  this  great  conference,  spoke  of  the 
home,  I  could  not  help  feeling  that  the 
degree  of  brotherhood,  that  degree  of 
friendship  which  you  and  I  exhibit  in 
our  lives  may  well  demonstrate  the  con- 
tacts, the  experiences,  the  influences  of 
the  homes  in  which  we  are  raised.  I 
know  as  I  live  that  if  I  reflect  in  my  life 
the  love  and  the  affection,  the  devo- 
tion that  my  father  had  for  my  mother, 
then  I  must  constantly  pray  to  my 
Heavenly  Father  for  the  strength  and 
the  courage  to  do  his  will  and  to  keep 
his  commandments.  I  am  sure  that 
there  is  nothing  that  we  can  do,  breth- 
ren who  hold  the  priesthood,  more  im- 


portant in  our  lives  than  to  bring  into 
our  homes  that  greatest  power  of  all, 
love.  We  should  bestow  love,  affec- 
tion, and  devotion  upon  our  wives  and 
let  that  radiate  from  us  into  the  lives 
of  our  children.  May  we  all  go  from 
our  homes  and  throughout  our  lives 
in  our  contacts  with  our  fellow  men 
radiating  that  love,  that  affection  for 
mankind  which  will  give  to  mankind 
a  confidence,  a  respect,  even  an  obedi- 
ence to  that  which  we  profess. 

I  was  impressed  this  morning  when 
Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  was  talking  to  the 
missionary  meeting  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  as  to  the  qualifications  of  mission- 
aries. I  tell  you,  brethren,  there  is  no 
power  on  earth  by  which  we  can  pene- 
trate the  souls  of  men,  the  equal  of 
that  radiation  of  love  and  affection 
which  will  naturally  pass  from  us  to 
those  to  whom  we  bring  truth  and 
light  and  knowledge  and  understanding. 

We  owe  this  sort  of  friendship  in  the 
family,  this  love  and  affection,  for  our 
own  brothers  and  our  own  sisters  in  the 
home,  that  that  might  reflect  itself  in 
our  lives,  in  our  contacts  with  the  world. 
What  we  are  will  bear  witness  to  our 
friends  more  eloquently  than  any  words 
or  any  testimony  that  we  can  speak. 

Elder  Romney's  testimony  this  after- 
noon would  not  have  had  the  effect 
upon  me  that  it  had  if  I  had  not  known 
that  in  his  heart  he  has  a  love  for  his 
fellow  men,  willing  to  devote  himself, 
his  life,  all  that  he  has  and  is,  all  that 
he  ever  hopes  to  be  to  bring  to  them 
the  satisfaction  that  the  testimony  of 
his  has  brought  to  him. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  opportunity  I 
have  of  associating  with  men  who  know 
what  it  is  to  belong  to  an  association 
of  true  friends,  bound  together  as  we 
are  by  the  bonds  of  the  Holy  Priesthood. 
I  bear  witness  to  you  today  that  as  we 
create  these  friendships  and  affections 
that  we  have  for  one  another,  we  can 
continue  them  eternally  through  our 
obedience  to  the  principles  of  truth  and 
right.  When  you  brethren  come  up  to 
me  and  shake  my  hand  as  your  brother 
and  pay  respect  to  the  office  to  which  I 


128 

Monday,  April  6 

have  been  called,  there  comes  into  my 
being  a  consciousness  that  that  friend- 
ship is  of  no  limited  duration,  but  it 
is  just  as  eternal  in  its  nature  as  the 
priesthood  which  we  possess  and  which 
causes  us  to  assure  one  another  by  that 
handshake  that  we  truly  love  one  an- 
other as  sons  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

I  pray  that  we  may  go  away  from 
this  meeting,  from  this  great  confer- 
ence, with  our  testimonies  renewed,  and 
with  our  desires  to  serve  the  Lord  and 
keep  his  commandments  increased.  May- 
be, after  all,  there  are  only  two  great 
commandments.    We  have  spoken  a 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

great  deal  about  them  both.  I  love  the 
Lord  with  all  my  heart,  and  with  all 
my  soul,  and  I  have  no  other  desire 
in  life  than  to  serve  him.  I  hope  that 
I  may  go  on  in  life  to  the  end  of  my 
journey,  retaining  that  love  which  I 
have  in  my  heart  for  him.  I  have  no 
greater  desire  than  to  have  that  same 
love  for  all  my  fellow  men.  I  hope  I 
may  be  bound  closely  to  my  brothers 
and  my  sisters  in  the  kingdom  of  God, 
and  that  that  relationship  may  be 
eternal  and  be  righteous,  I  pray,  humbly, 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER  STAYNER  RICHARDS 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


■  fter  almost  a  lifetime  of  acquaint- 
/I  ance  with  Adam  S.  Bennion,  I  want 
XX  to  assure  him  and  assure  you  that 
I  can  support  him  in  his  new  position 
one  hundred  percent.  I  am  sure  with 
his  intellectual  talents,  the  faith  that  he 
has  in  God,  that  he  will  add  greatly 
to  the  strength  of  the  Church. 

In  listening  to  the  reports  of  the 
twenty-five  or  more  mission  presidents, 
I  noted  that  each  one  paid  a  glowing 
tribute  to  his  wife.  Certainly  these 
sisters  and  the  others  of  the  Church 
are  doing  a  wonderful  work  and,  inci- 
dentally, are  equal  to  any  occasion,  and 
possibly  I  may  be  pardoned  if  I  tell 
a  little  experience  that  would  prove 
this  to  the  brethren. 

On  one  occasion  a  small  boy  returned 
from  Sunday  School  where  apparently 
they  had  been  talking  about  the  Dar- 
winian theory,  and  as  he  entered  the 
home,  he  said,  "Mother,  am  I  descended 
from  a  monkey?"  She  said,  "I  don't 
know,  Jimmy,  I  didn't  know  your 
father's  folks  very  well.". 

If  I  may  enjoy  an  interest  in  your 
feelings  and  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
for  a  few  minutes,  I  would  like  to  speak 
upon  a  subject  that  I  have  chosen  to 
call  "Monuments  to  Spirituality."  First 
I  would  like  to  make  mention  of  the 
new  temple  under  construction  in  Los 
Angeles.    It  was  my  privilege  just  a 


week  ago  this  morning,  after  attending 
a  conference  in  the  Los  Angeles  Stake, 
to  be  shown  through  the  construction 
work  there  by  Elder  Soren  Jacobsen, 
directly  in  charge  of  building  opera- 
tions. And  I  think  that  he  must  have 
had  in  mind  the  spirit  of  the  ancient 
prophet  who  said,  "Except  the  Lord 
build  the  house,  they  labour  in  vain 
that  build  it,"  (Psalms  127:1)  for  you 
will  be  interested  to  know  that  every 
morning  before  they  start  work,  he  calls 
the  workmen  together  and  there  have 
a  word  of  prayer.  I'm  sure  that  that 
practice  is  going  to  pay  dividends  in 
finer  construction  and  certainly  a  greater 
interest  in  the  work.  And  I  was  happy 
to  notice  that  during  the  hour  and  a 
half  I  spent  going  through  those  work- 
ings I  never  saw  one  man  loafing,  nor 
anyone  using  tobacco,  and  I  never 
heard  one  man  profaning.  Now,  that 
may  not  always  be  the  case,  but  at 
least  we  hope  that  it  might  be. 

As  I  have  traveled  through  a  num- 
ber of  the  stakes  of  Zion,  I  have  been 
thrilled  and  impressed  with  the  won- 
derful new  buildings  that  have  been 
erected  in  the  wards  and  stakes.  In- 
deed they  constitute  a  source  of  pride 
to  every  Latter-day  Saint,  and  they  are 
a  credit  to  the  community,  and  a  still 
greater  credit  to  the  Church.  They  all 
have  a  spire  pointing  heavenward,  in- 


ELDER  STAYNER  RICHARDS 


129 


dicating  that  they  are  houses  of  the 
Lord.  They  are  well  designed  and  built 
of  fine  materials.  After  the  landscaping 
of  the  grounds  around  them,  they  are 
an  inspiration  and  incentive  for  all  the 
members  of  our  Church  living  in  those 
communities  to  beautify  their  own 
places. 

As  you  enter  these  buildings,  you  are 
thrilled  with  the  wonderful  facilities 
for  worship,  classwork,  and  recreation 
provided  for  the  old  and  young  alike. 
The  chapel,  recreation  hall,  and  all 
other  rooms  are  so  artistically  decorated, 
with  the  colors  of  the  walls,  drapes, 
and  floor  coverings  blending  into  such 
an  attractive  picture,  that  you  know 
expert  attention  has  been  given  to  these 
items. 

The  building  of  these  lovely  edifices 
has  afforded  the  opportunity  of  bring- 
ing into  activity  many  of  the  inactive 
members  of  the  Church.  I  think  it 
is  safe  to  say  that  because  of  the  con- 
struction since  the  war  of  these  nine 
hundred  or  more  buildings  that  have 
been  dedicated  or  are  ready  for  dedica- 
tion or  are  now  under  construction, 
that  in  each  case  there  have  been  at 
least  ten  or  twelve  inactive  men  brought 
into  the  Church,  and  that  would  mean 
at  least  10,000  families,  formerly  in- 
active in  the  Church,  now  active  and 
enjoying  the  great  blessings  of  the 
gospel. 

This  building  program  hasn't  been 
confined  to  the  stakes  and  wards  but 
has  spread  out  into  the  mission  fields, 
in  all  parts  of  the  foreign  lands, 
except  behind  the  "iron  curtain,"  and 
the  isles  of  the  sea.  I  know  that  every 
mission  president  present  here  today 
and  those  still  out  in  the  foreign  fields 
can  testify  that  these  new  places,  and 
those  that  have  been  purchased,  pro- 
viding lovely  places  in  which  to  meet, 
have  been  a  great  help  to  them  in  the 
proselyting  work.  You  have  no  idea 
how  wonderful  it  is  for  a  missionary 
after  working  with  certain  investigators 
to  be  able  to  invite  them  into  a  suitable 
place  in  which  to  worship. 

I  was  asked  by  the  president  of  the 


Western  Canadian  Mission  as  I  met 
him  the  other  day  to  please  tell  my 
brother  that  the  prophecy  which  he 
made  at  the  time  he  dedicated  the  beau- 
tiful chapel  up  in  Edmonton,  Alberta, 
Canada,  in  which  he  stated,  "This 
building  will  be  a  missionary  of  the 
Church,"  has  been  literally  fulfilled, 
and  that  many  prominent  people  of  that 
rapidly  growing  city  are  becoming  in- 
terested in  the  Church. 

Over  in  the  British  Mission  a  number 
of  years  ago,  I  understand  that  con- 
sideration was  given  to  the  closing  of 
the  Scottish  District  because  there  were 
only  a  very  few  converts  being  made 
there.  During  the  last  three  years  there 
has  been  an  average  of  seventy-five  to 
a  hundred  baptisms,  and  I  think  to  a 
great  extent  it  is  because  of  the  fine, 
suitable  places  of  worship  owned  by 
the  Church  now  in  the  cities  of  Glas- 
gow, Edinburgh,  Dundee,  and  Aberdeen. 
Just  a  short  time  ago  I  had  the  privilege 
of  interviewing  a  returned  missionary 
from  France,  and  he  told  me  that  he  at- 
tended the  last  baptismal  service  held 
in  that  mission  and  that  a  number  of 
those  that  were  baptized  first  got  their 
interest  in  the  Church  because  of  the 
fine  building  that  the  Church  now 
owns  in  Paris. 

It  has  been  stated  that  each  fine  build- 
ing is  equal  to  ten  missionaries.  If  this 
is  the  case,  then  there  have  been  added 
9,000  or  more  silent  but  effective 
"preachers  of  righteousness"  to  the  force. 

These  buildings,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  are  all  made  possible  by  the 
payment  of  tithes  and  contributions  of 
cash  and  labor  by  the  membership  of 
the  Church,  and  I  say  unto  you,  God 
bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for 
your  faith  and  for  your  generosity.  Also 
I  am  sure  that  we're  all  grateful  and 
often  go  to  our  knees  in  prayer  in  ap- 
preciation to  the  Lord  for  the  First 
Presidency  of  our  Church,  for  their 
foresight  and  their  wisdom  in  inaugurat- 
ing this  great  building  program  of  the 
Church.  We  have  been  growing  rapid- 
ly, spiritually,  and  it  became  necessary 


130 

Monday,  April  6 

to  grow  in  a  physical  way  to  take  care 
of  the  membership  of  the  Church. 

Possibly  it  may  not  be  considered 
inappropriate  to  say  a  word  about  the 
building  department  of  the  Church  un- 
der the  direction  of  Elder  Howard  J. 
McKean  and  his  associates.  They  have 
caused  these  monuments  to  spirituality 
and  faith  to  be  erected  with  good  de- 
signs, excellent  materials,  and  fine  work- 
manship. Because  they  are  practical 
builders,  they  have  been  able  to  effect 
substantial  savings  to  the  Church  and 
to  the  wards  and  stakes.  Great  faith 
has  been  manifested  by  the  bishops, 
stake  presidents,  and  local  building 
committees  in  undertaking  the  con- 
struction of  these  lovely  buildings.  A 
faith-promoting  volume  could  be  written 
about  the  rich  experiences  that  have 
come  to  them.  The  blessings  of  the 
Lord  have  known  no  bounds.  It  would 
seem  that  the  spirit  of  the  pioneer 
builders  had  returned,  for  they  built  by 
faith.  As  an  outstanding  example,  may 
I  mention  about  this  Tabernacle  in 
which  we  are  now  worshiping.  It  is 
150  feet  wide  by  250  feet  long  and  70 
feet  high.  It  was  built  between  1863 
and  1867  when  no  finished  materials  or 
bolts  or  steel  nails  or  modern  tools 
were  available.  They  had  only  the 
timbers  of  the  nearby  canyons  and 
very  crude  tools  and  machinery.  Under 
these  conditions,  it  took  strong  faith 
to  undertake  the  erection  of  this  unusual 
elliptical  roof.  The  lattice  trusses  fitted 
together  with  wooden  pegs  and  cow- 
hide must  span  150  feet.  The  least 
spreading  of  the  trusses  would  kick  out 
the  stone  piers  below.  A  prominent 
engineer  of  the  east,  after  examining 
this  roof  on  the  inside,  stated  that  it 
constituted  the  greatest  demonstration 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

of  faith  that  he  had  seen  in  any  con- 
struction. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and 
especially  you  bishops  and  stake  and 
mission  presidents,  we  now  rejoice  in 
and  are  grateful  for  these  beautiful 
buildings.  May  I  make  just  a  few  sug- 
gestions to  you?  In  the  first  place,  let 
us  keep  them  all  clean  and  in  order 
and  maintain  them  in  good  condition. 
Then  let's  encourage  all  of  our  people 
to  show  respect  and  reverence  to  them 
as  houses  of  the  Lord.  Above  every- 
thing else,  let  us  follow  the  advice  just 
given  by  Elder  Moyle:  Let  us  serve  as 
leaders  in  the  wards,  and  stakes,  and 
missions  in  these  buildings,  in  the  spirit 
of  love  and  kindness.  Let  us  carry  on 
our  work  as  the  Master  says,  "Serve  each 
other  in  love,"  in  such  a  way  that  no 
offenses  can  be  taken  by  anyone.  Final- 
ly, though  it  may  not  be  possible  to 
have  neon  signs  at  the  top  of  all  of 
these  spires  as  I  would  like  to  see,  with 
these  words:  "Jesus  is  the  Christ,"  let 
us  hope  that  the  testimonies  of  the 
leaders  and  members  alike  bear  witness 
of  this  great  truth  and  this  work  is  of 
God,  and  that  the  gospel  as  established 
in  the  last  days  is  for  the  salvation  of 
all  honest  people  throughout  the  world. 
And  then  again,  let  us  invite  all  visitors 
to  come  to  these  places  and  assure  them 
that  they  will  never  be  embarrassed  by 
having  a  collection  plate  passed  before 
them.  Freely  we  have  received,  and 
freely  we  give  unto  the  world.  God 
bless  you  all,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Richard  L.  Evans  of  the 
First  Council  of  the  Seventy  will  be  our 
next  speaker. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


First  of  all,  I  should  like  to  thank 
Brother  Marion  G.  Romney  for  his 
thoughtfulness  for  some  great  men, 
for  whom  I  have  deep  affection,  some 


present  here,  and  some  absent.  At  the 
risk  of  some  seeming  repetition,  I  do 
not  feel  that  I  can  proceed  without 
acknowledging  how  much  I  miss  Dr. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


131 


John  A.  Widtsoe,  scientist,  educator, 
author,  public-servant,  personal  coun- 
selor, friend,  and  man  of  God.  May 
his  memory  be  blessed,  his  family  be 
blessed  and  comforted,  and  the  purposes 
and  principles  for  which  he  gave  his 
life  be  prospered. 

And  to  President  Richards,  and  to 
Brother  Bowen  likewise,  my  sincere  af- 
fection and  appreciation  and  blessing. 
Likewise  to  President  McKay,  and  Presi- 
dent Clark,  and  President  Smith,  and 
these  other  brethren  with  whom  we  have 
the  privilege  of  associating  among  the 
General  Authorities.  It  is  a  choice  and 
rich  friendship  and  fellowship. 

And  to  Dr.  Adam  S.  Bennion,  a  word 
of  welcome  from  me:  presumptuous 
though  it  may  be,  I  feel  that  I  must 
speak  it.  I  have  been  privileged  to  have 
many  satisfying  associations  with  him. 
I  recall  when  he  was  Church  commis- 
sioner of  education,  and  I  was  a  student 
in  high  school:  How  wise  and  mature 
and  old  he  looked  to  me  when  I  was 
sixteen,  and  how  able  and  mature  and 
young  he  appears  to  me  now  that  I  am 
somewhat  past  sixteen.  I  am  sure  that 
I  have  changed  much  more  than  he  has. 

I  am  convinced  that  thoughts  are 
contagious.  The  evidence  of  it  is  that 
many  if  not  most  of  those  subjects  that 
any  of  us  might  have  spoken  on  at  this 
conference  have  already  been  so  won- 
derfully well  covered,  and  we  have  been 
the  beneficiaries  of  a  marvelous  outpour- 
ing of  the  Spirit  of  our  Father  in  heaven. 
But  I  could  not  help  thinking  as  I  heard 
the  opening  report  and  message  of 
President  McKay,  and  the  statistical 
data  concerning  the  progress  of  the 
Church  at  the  same  session,  of  some 
of  the  experiences  and  hardships  and 
contrasts  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
and  his  associates.  I  went  to  the  office 
following  that  session  and  sought  out 
some  things  that  I  had  read  some  time 
ago,  including  two  comments  concern- 
ing the  Prophet  and  the  dire  circum- 
stances in  which  he  found  himself  dur- 
ing the  difficult  Kirtland  days.  One  is 
from  April  17,  1834: 


I  attended  a  meeting  agreeable  to  ap- 
pointment, at  which  time  the  important  sub- 
jects of  the  deliverance  of  Zion  and  the 
building  of  the  Lord's  House  in  Kirtland 
were  discussed  by  Elder  Rigdon.  After 
the  lecture,  I  requested  the  brethren  and 
sisters  to  contribute  all  the  money  they 
could  for  the  deliverance  of  Zion  and  re- 
ceived twenty-nine  dollars  and  sixty-eight 
cents.  (D.H.C.  11:50.) 

About  a  year  and  a  half  later,  ap- 
proaching the  Christmas  season,  Decem- 
ber 9,  1835,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
writes  again: 

At  home.  Wind  south,  strong,  and  chilly. 
Elder  Packard  came  in  this  morning,  and 
made  me  a  present  of  twelve  dollars,  which 
he  held  in  a  note  against  me.  May  God 
bless  him  for  his  liberality.  Also,  James 
Aldrich  sent  me  my  note  by  hand  of  Jesse 
Hitchcock,  on  which  there  was  twelve 
dollars  due,  and  may  God  bless  him  for 
his  kindness  to  me.  Also  the  brethren 
whose  names  are  written  below  opened  their 
hearts  in  great  liberality,  and  paid  me  at 
the  committee's  store,  the  sums  set  opposite 
their  respective  names.  (Jbid.,  11:326-27.) 

There  follow  twenty  names  with  con- 
tributions ranging  from  fifty  cents  to 
$5.25,  totaling  $40.50,  for  which  the 
Prophet  says, 

My  heart  swells  with  gratitude  inex- 
pressible, when  I  realize  the  great  con- 
descension of  my  Heavenly  Father,  in  open- 
ing the  hearts  of  these  my  beloved  brethren 
to  administer  so  liberally  to  my  wants. 
(Ibid.,  11:327.) 

May  God  help  us  to  do  as  well  with 
what  we  have  as  they  did  with  what 
they  had. 

I  think  we  shall  go  from  here  today 
with  an  awareness  in  our  hearts  that 
we  have  been  taught  well.  I  hope  that 
we  shall  go  from  here  with  an  awareness 
that  we  must  be  doers  of  the  word  and 
not  hearers  only,  that  we  must  not 
stand  by  and  listen  only.  I  think  it  was 
Emerson  who  said,  "'Tis  man's  perdi- 
tion to  be  safe,  when  for  the  truth  he 
ought  to  die."  I  should  like  to  para- 
phrase this  sentence  and  say,  "  'Tis 
man's  perdition  to  be  complacent  and 
inactive,  when  for  the  truth  he  ought  to 


132 

Monday,  April  6 

live,  when  he  ought  to  be  doing  what 
he  knows  he  ought  to  be  doing."  I 
return  to  a  favorite  theme  of  mine:  As 
we  stand  before  the  Great  Judge  of  all 
of  us,  I  think  it  shall  not  be  what  we 
don't  know  that  will  get  us  into  trouble 
or  that  will  cause  penalties  to  come 
upon  us.  I  think  we  know  enough  for 
our  salvation  and  exaltation  in  the 
highest  that  the  Father  can  give  us.  I 
think  our  difficulties  will  come  rather 
from  what  we  do  know  and  ignore  and 
fail  to  live  up  to;  and  merciful  as  our 
Father  may  be,  kind  and  indulgent  and 
gracious  as  he  may  be,  there  are  some 
things  he  cannot  give  to  us,  as  there 
are  some  things  we  cannot  give  to  our 
own  children,  except  as  they  earn  them 
and  live  them  and  are  deserving  of  them 
and  make  them  a  part  of  themselves. 

I  recall  from  the  tenth  chapter  of 
Mark  the  request  of  James  and  John, 
the  sons  of  Zebedee,  that  they  be  per- 
mitted to  sit  on  the  right  hand  and  the 
left  hand  of  the  Savior,  and  how  he 
said  unto  them,  "Ye  know  not  what  ye 
ask:  ...  to  sit  on  my  right  hand  and 
on  my  left  hand  is  not  mine  to  give. . . ." 
(Mark  10:38,  40.)  No  matter  how  much 
he  may  love  us,  there  are  some  things 
the  Father  cannot  give  us  except  as  we 
learn  them,  except  as  we  live  as  well 
as  we  know  how  to  live,  except  as  we 
keep  his  commandments,  and  do  what 
we  know  we  should  be  doing. 

Now,  I  should  like  to  close  with  a 
thought  that  I  take  from  our  new  as- 
sociate, Dr.  Adam  S.  Bennion,  whom 
you  have  sustained  this  day.  I  have 
never  heard  a  finer  baccalaureate  ad- 
dress than  he  delivered  at  the  University 
of  Utah  a  year  or  two  ago  called  "The 
Candle  of  the  Lord,"  in  which  he  told, 
in  his  extemporaneous  remarks  (and  I 
think  perhaps  it  is  not  in  the  printed 
address  as  he  gave  it)  how  puzzled  he 
was  in  his  youth  upon  having  heard 
or  having  read  in  Sunday  School  the 
passage  of  scripture  in  II  Samuel  in 
which  it  recounts  that  "it  came  to  pass 
in  an  eveningtide,  that  David  arose 
from  off  his  bed,  and  walked  upon  the 
roof  of  the  king's  house.  ..."  (II  Samuel 
11:2.) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Dan 

I  was  much  impressed  when  I  heard 
Dr.  Bennion  say  how  that  passage 
puzzled  him  because  all  the  roofs  that 
he  had  known  in  his  youth  in  the 
area  in  which  he  lived  were  so  steeply 
constructed  that  the  king  could  not 
well  have  walked  upon  them.  And 
Brother  Bennion  told  how  he  inquired 
of  his  teacher  and  received  no  satis- 
factory answer,  but  as  soon  as  he  later 
learned  that  there  were  places  in  the 
world  in  which  there  were  not  only 
flat  roofs  but  where  people  also  made  a 
practice  of  living  a  part  of  their  lives 
upon  them,  walking  upon  them  and 
resting  upon  them,  the  question  was 
cleared  for  him. 

I  am  sure  that  many  of  the  unan- 
swered questions  that  confront  us  will 
be  answered  as  easily  as  this  one  was 
for  him,  when  he  couldn't  understand 
how  the  king  could  walk  on  a  roof  in 
the  evening  because  he  had  only  known 
steep,  sharply  constructed  roofs  that 
were  made  to  shed  the  snow. 

To  our  young  people:  Go  forth  and 
search  for  truth,  without  fear,  but  with 
faith.  Where  you  find  discrepancies,  or 
seeming  discrepancies,  reserve  judgment. 
There  is  time  ahead  of  us,  and  eternity 
also.  Theories  are  changing;  textbooks 
are  constantly  becoming  outdated;  new 
discoveries  are  being  made;  and  when 
all  the  pieces  are  put  in  place  and 
everything  is  added  up,  and  the  picture 
is  complete,  the  answers  will  seem  as 
simple  and  satisfying  as  the  answer  to 
this  lad,  who  was  puzzled  by  a  king 
walking  on  the  roof. 

Keep  to  a  life  well-balanced.  Keep 
some  of  your  time  and  means  for  the 
service  of  the  Lord.  Study  the  things 
of  God  as  well  as  the  other  things  that 
you  must  study  to  qualify  yourselves  for 
certain  activities,  and  go  forth  with 
faith,  with  trust.  I  think  the  world  is 
going  on  for  some  time.  There  is  great 
work  to  be  done.  Our  building  pro- 
gram, our  temple  in  Europe,  and  other 
things  seem  to  me  to  be  the  evidence 
that  this  Church  believes  in  the  future, 
and  I  say  to  you  young  people,  go 
forth  and  live  your  lives  with  faith, 
without  fear,  reserving  judgment  where 


ELDER  ]OHN  LONGDEN 


133 


you  need  to,  and  trusting  to  the  Lord 
God  to  lead  you  into  all  truth. 

May  I  leave  with  you  my  testimony. 
I  was  not  one  of  those  who  had  to  de- 
cide to  leave  father  and  mother  and 
family  and  friends  and  other  things  to 
become  identified  with  this  Church.  My 
grandparents  did  that  for  me,  and  in 
one  instance  my  great-grandparents.  My 
sons  represent  the  fifth  generation  in  the 
Church.  I  congratulate  those  of  you 
who  did  face  this  decision  and  who 
did  come  into  the  kingdom.  But  I 
have  faced  some  other  decisions.  I 
have  earnestly  considered  the  alterna- 
tives, and  I  should  not  know  where  to 
go  to  find  the  answers  to  the  ever  age- 
less questions  of  life  if  I  could  not  find 
them  here.  I  leave  you  the  witness  of 
my  conviction  of  the  divinity  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  of  the  divine  calling 


of  the  Prophet  Joseph,  and  after  him,  of 
the  like  calling  of  all  those  who  have 
succeeded  him.  May  God  bless  us,  every 
one,  I  pray  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Brother  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  will 
now  lead  the  congregation  and  combined 
choruses  in  singing  "How  Firm  a 
Foundation."  We  have  just  listened 
to  Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  of  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy.  After  singing 
we  shall  hear  Elder  John  Longden,  As- 
sistant to  the  Twelve. 


The  congregation  and  the  Combined 
Choruses  of  the  Brigham  Young  Univer- 
sity joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "How 
Firm  A  Foundation." 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


How  Firm  a  Foundation,  Ye  Saints 
of  the  Lord."— 
I  am  sure  I  gained  strength  from 
the  last  verse  of  that  song.  I  have 
prayed  for  each  one  who  has  occupied 
this  position  during  the  last  three  days, 
and  in  return  I  know  I  shall  receive  of 
their  faith  and  prayers  in  my  behalf 
as  I  stand  here  for  a  few  moments  this 
afternoon.  This  was  manifest  when 
my  associate,  Elder  Christiansen,  placed 
his  hand  on  my  arm  a  few  moments 
ago  and  said,  "Hold  on,  we're  with 
you." 

I,  too,  am  happy  to  sustain  Brother 
Bennion  who  was  chosen  here  this 
morning  as  an  Apostle  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  I  recall  along  with  Sister 
Longden,  how  about  twenty-four  years 
ago  he  brought  into  our  hearts  and 
our  souls  the  words  of  the  Savior  to 
help  comfort  us.  We  were  called  to 
undergo  a  serious  tragedy  in  having 
our  three-year-old  daughter,  our  first- 
born child,  taken  beyond  the  veil.  His 
words  at  that  time  have  rung  true 
through  the  years.  I  know  he  will  con- 
tribute much  with  his  talents  and  his 


leadership  to  stir  the  membership  of 
this  Church  as  he  visits  throughout  the 
stakes. 

As  I  returned  to  this  building  just  a 
while  ago  with  President  Ivins  and  his 
good  wife,  it  was  beginning  to  rain.  I 
heard  the  strains  from  the  organ  play- 
ing "God  Moves  in  a  Mysterious  Way 
His  Wonders  to  Perform."  The  words 
to  one  of  the  verses  come  to  me: 
"Ye  fearful  Saints,  fresh  courage  take; 
The  clouds  ye  so  much  dread  are  big 

with  mercy 
And  shall  break  in  blessing  on  your 
head." 

I  realize  that  we  have  had  great 
blessings  here  in  the  past  three  days 
in  the  sessions  of  this  conference; 
one  in  particular — that  we  have  been 
brought  out  of  the  darkness  of  the 
world  and  into  the  light  of  the  glories 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  cannot 
help  reflecting  upon  the  words  of  Peter, 
that  great  Apostle,  when  he  said  in  his 
day  to  that  generation, 

Ye  are  a  chosen  generation,  a  royal  priest- 
hood, an  holy  nation,  a  peculiar  people; 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  6 

that  ye  should  shew  forth  the  praises  of 
him  who  hath  called  you  out  of  darkness 
into  his  marvellous  light.    (I  Peter  2:9.) 

Yes,  we  have  been  made  partakers  of 
the  glorious  light  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  We  have  had  great  manifesta- 
tions of  the  inspiration  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  in  these  sessions  of  the  confer- 
ence. I  have  been  reflecting  as  I  have 
listened  to  the  speakers  that  there  has 
been  no  improvement  in  the  Ten  Com- 
mandments, and  it  is  reported  that  they 
are  some  thirty-five  hundred  years  old. 
There  has  been  no  greater  wisdom  given 
than  that  which  was  given  by  our  Lord 
and  Savior  Jesus  Christ  in  his  great 
Sermon  on  the  Mount,  almost  twenty 
centuries  ago.  And  there  has  been  no 
greater  teaching  than  that  which  was 
given  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  when 
he  was  asked  over  a  hundred  years  ago 
what  were  the  tenets  of  our  faith.  He 
gave  what  we  now  know  as  the  Articles 
of  Faith.  They  teach  the  world  that 
we  believe  in  God  and  in  his  son  Jesus 
Christ,  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost,  and 
they  also  confirm  those  principles  which 
were  taught  by  the  Savior  as  to  how 
we  might  gain  exaltation  and  eternal 
life.  These  truths  are  contained  in  the 
gospel  which  has  been  restored  for  us 
today.  Those  Articles  of  Faith  state 
that  men  should  have  authority  to  per- 
form the  ordinances  which  pertain  to 
the  salvation  and  the  exaltation  of  our 
Heavenly  Father's  children.  Also,  we 
believe  in  the  same  organization  that 
existed  in  the  primitive  church.  I  am 
grateful  that  in  those  Articles  of  Faith 
it  teaches  us  that  we  believe  the  Bible 
to  be  the  word  of  God  as  far  as  it  is 
translated  correctly.  I  am  further  grate- 
ful that  I  belong  to  a  Church  which 
enables  and  encourages  me  to  have  a 
Bible  in  my  home  and  to  peruse  it  and 
study  it  and  understand  its  teachings. 

And  then  the  thirteenth  article  of  our 
faith, 

We  believe  in  being  honest,  true,  chaste, 
benevolent,  and  in  doing  good  to  all  men,  in- 
deed we  may  say  that  we  follow  the  ad- 
monition of  Paul— We  believe  all  things, 


Third  Day 

we  hope  all  things,  we  have  endured  many 
things,  and  hope  to  be  able  to  endure  all 
things.  If  there  is  anything  virtuous,  lovely 
or  of  good  report  or  praiseworthy,  we  seek 
after  these  things. 

Obedience  to  the  Ten  Command- 
ments, the  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  and 
our  own  Articles  of  Faith  revealed  in 
this  day  will  bring  the  glorious  light  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  into  our  lives. 
We  have  partaken  of  a  real  spiritual 
feast  these  past  three  days.  We  have 
exercised  some  of  our  God-given  senses. 
We  have  come,  and  those  of  the  listen- 
ing audience  on  radio,  and  the  viewing 
audience  on  TV,  have  also  seen  and 
heard.  I  hope  we  will  take  these  things 
into  our  hearts  that  they  might  register 
deep  into  our  souls,  that  we  might  carry 
these  messages  back  into'  our  wards  and 
our  stakes,  that  there  might  be  truly 
an  upsurge  of  spirituality. 

There  has  been  reference  made  here 
to  the  powers  which  are  manifest  in 
the  earth:  the  power  of  Jesus  Christ 
on  the  one  hand,  and  on  the  other,  the 
power  of  the  adversary.  Everything 
that  is  contrary  to  the  teachings  which 
we  have  heard  in  this  conference  is 
promulgated  and  taught  by  the  evil 
one,  and  I  testify  to  you  that  Satan  is 
real.  He  is  not  a  myth;  he  is  not  a 
superstition;  but  he  is  real,  endeavoring 
to  thwart  the  work  of  our  Heavenly 
Father.  But  how  thankful  I  am  for 
the  precious  light  of  the  gospel  which 
shines  upon  us  and  gives  us  the  strength 
to  hold  on  to  the  truth.  Power  will 
be  given  us  to  overcome  evil  if  we  live 
close  to  the  teachings  of  this  confer- 
ence. We  have  no  greater  example  than 
that  given  by  the  Savior  himself  as  he 
had  been  tempted  and  tested,  if  you 
please,  for  forty  days  and  forty  nights. 
He  was  able  to  subdue  Satan  in  several 
instances  as  recorded  in  the  fourth 
chapter  of  Luke.  You  will  find  there 
it  states  that  Satan  departed  for  a  season, 
giving  evidence  to  me  and  to  all  of  us 
that  there  is  never  a  time  when  we 
won't  be  subject  to  the  temptations  of 
the  adversary  as  long  as  we  live  in  the 
mortal  flesh.    I  call  your  attention  to 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


135 


the  other  scripture  which  says  that  the 
Savior  returned  to  Galilee  in  the  power 
of  the  Spirit. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I'm  sure  we 
have  been  filled  with  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  by  the  truths  and 
light  which  have  been  given  to  us  in 
this  conference.  May  we  go  back  to 
our  homes  in  the  power  of  that  Spirit, 
for  I  bear  witness  to  you  that  these 
things  are  true,  that  God  lives,  that 


Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  we  have 
a  prophet,  seer,  and  revelator,  a  mouth- 
piece of  our  Heavenly  Father  direct- 
ing the  affairs  of  this  Church  in  the 
earth  today,  and  these  men  whom  we 
have  sustained  as  Apostles  are  literally 
the  true  servants  and  special  witnesses 
of  the  Master.  This  testimony  I  bear 
to  you  in  all  humility  and  sincerity  and 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


The  hour  that  marks  the  close  of  this 
great  conference  is  here. 
As  you  know,  four  members  of  our 
General  Authorities  have  been  disabled 
recently,  and  are  unable  to  carry  on 
their  regular  duties.  We  are  thankful 
to  say,  however,  that  two  of  them  have 
been  with  us  during  the  sessions  that 
mark  the  inspiration  and  uplift  of  this 
gathering. 

Elder  Thomas  E.  McKay  has  been 
incapacitated  for  several  months.  He 
and  the  others  have  had  to  pay  the 
penalty  of  overwork,  over  exertion. 
When  he  collapsed  several  months 
ago,  his  heartbeats  went  down,  accord- 
ing to  the  doctor,  to  sixteen.  We  are 
told  that  when  they  get  below  thirty 
life  is  precarious,  but  from  that  time, 
when  Thomas  E.  called  his  family  to- 
gether to  say  good-bye,  up  to  the  present, 
he  has  shown  gradual  improvement, 
and  now  he  counts  his  heartbeats  at 
thirty-six,  thirty-eight,  occasionally  they 
reach  forty.  He  acknowledges,  and 
we  acknowledge,  the  hand  of  the  Lord 
in  the  preservation  of  his  life,  and 
we  appreciate,  and  he  appreciates  your 
faith  and  prayers  in  his  behalf. 

Elder  Clifford  E.  Young  recently  met 
with  an  accident,  but  he,  as  you  know, 
is  sufficiently  restored  to  be  enabled  to 
take  his  part  as  one  of  the  speakers  in 
this  conference,  and  has  given  you  his 
message,  as  has  also  Elder  Thomas  E. 
McKay. 

Elder  Albert  E.  Bowen,  also  stricken, 
has  been  confined  to  the  hospital  for 


several  months.  It  is  said  that  one 
element  of  true  greatness  is  to  choose 
the  right  with  invincible  resolution. 
That,  our  Brother  Bowen  has  always 
done,  and  expounded  the  principles  of 
the  gospel  with  a  clarity  so  characteris- 
tic of  him.  Our  hearts  ache  as  we 
note  that  some  of  his  muscles  are  not 
responding.  However,  we  want  him 
to  know  as  we  close  this  great  confer- 
ence, that  he  still  has  and  will  continue 
to  have  our  faith  and  prayers  for  his 
restoration  to  health;  and  we  pray  that 
the  Lord  will  give  him  a  desire,  and 
increased  faith,  to  receive  the  blessings 
which  we  hope  the  Lord  will  give  him. 
With  all  our  hearts  we  say  God  bless 
you,  Brother  Bowen. 

President  Richards,  another  great 
leader,  has  been  putting  forth  too  much 
effort  also,  and  his  physical  condition 
requires  rest.  I  am  pleased  to  report 
to  you  he  is  sufficiently  recovered  to  meet 
occasionally  in  meetings  of  the  First 
Presidency.  President  Clark  and  I  have 
had  three  meetings  with  him  during 
the  three  days  that  we  have  been  as- 
sembled in  this  conference,  to  all  the 
proceedings  of  which  he  has  been  listen- 
ing over  the  radio  and  television. 

At  the  conclusion  now  he  sends  this 
message:  "President  McKay:  I  should  be 
very  pleased  if  you  would  express  to 
the  people  my  deep  gratitude  for  the 
inspiration  of  the  conference,  and  also 
extend  to  my  brethren  and  sisters  my 
love  and  my  prayers  that  the  united 
efforts  of  all  the  Saints  may  bring  great 


136 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  6 

advancement  to  the  cause  we  love.  Af- 
fectionately, Stephen  L  Richards." 

Brother  Stephen  L:  Let  me  assure  you 
that  there  is  but  one  heart  in  this  great 
audience  today,  and  it  responds  in  re- 
ciprocation of  your  love  and  blessing. 
God  bless  you! 

Now,  may  we  take  a  few  moments 
to  express  our  gratitude  to  all  who  have 
contributed  to  the  inspiration  of  the 
sessions  held  since  last  Saturday  morn- 
ing. 

First,  you  who  were  here  yesterday 
morning  listened  to  an  inspiring  an- 
them, entitled  "Out  of  the  Silence," 
written  by  Elder  Cyril  Jenkins,  one  of 
our  members  and  a  holder  of  the  priest- 
hood in  Australia,  who  has  rendered 
great  service  to  the  Church  in  having 
the  excellent  selections  of  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  put  on  the  radio  stations 
in  that  far-off  land,  and  who  is  now  in 
Great  Britain,  arranging  with  the 
British  broadcasting  stations  to  have  the 
people  in  that  land  have  the  privilege 
of  hearing  the  excellent  music  rendered 
by  this  organization.  We  thank  you, 
Brother  Jenkins,  and  say  God  bless  you, 
that  you  may  achieve  the  noble  pur- 
poses you  have  in  mind. 

We  express  gratitude  and  commenda- 
tion for  the  responsiveness  and  atten- 
tiveness  of  the  audiences.  I  wish  par- 
ticularly to  commend  you  for  your 
reverential  attitude.  This  is  a  sacred 
building,  used  for  many  purposes,  it 
is  true,  until  we  get  an  auditorium  that 
will  take  care  of  some  secular  assemblies 
of  the  sessions.  It  is  sacred,  and  we 
have  noted  that  you  have  governed 
yourselves  accordingly.  From  the  mo- 
ment that  the  clock  marked  the  be- 
ginning of  a  session,  perfect  order  has 
prevailed.  We  ask  that  this  example 
be  followed  by  all  the  Saints  in  their 
ward  chapels  and  in  halls  in  which 
you  meet  to  worship. 

We  express  appreciation  for  the  co- 
operation of  city  officials.  Their  ready 
and  efficient  service  has  been  noted. 
The  traffic  officers  have  rendered  valu- 
able service  in  handling  increased  traf- 
fic.  We  have  already  expressed  appre- 


Thiid  Day 

ciation  to  the  Berkeley  Stake  for  the 
calla  lilies  that  have  beautified  the 
building. 

Our  ushers  have  done  excellent  serv- 
ice! They  volunteered  last  evening  to 
put  up  a  platform.  They  had  it  removed 
early  this  morning.  They  have  been 
ready  and  willing  to  look  after  the 
people  who  had  need  of  the  emergency 
hospital,  which  has  been  on  the  grounds, 
and  in  every  way  have  rendered  serv- 
ice to  add  to  the  convenience  of  the 
many  visitors  who  are  here. 

Especially  we  mention  appreciation 
to  the  various  radio  stations:  here  in 
our  own  city,  KSL,  and  others  in  the 
state  of  Utah,  in  Idaho,  in  Colorado, 
Nevada,  Arizona,  California,  Hawaii. 
Managers  of  these  stations,  no  one  can 
tell  how  many  people  have  been  blessed 
by  your  magnanimity  and  co-operation. 
We  thank  you! 

We  express  appreciation  to  our  singers. 
I  do  not  know  that  we  have  ever  had 
for  every  session  such  inspiring  music 
rendered  by  the  combined  Scandinavian 
choirs  Saturday,  the  Men's  Chorus  of 
the  Tabernacle  Choir  Saturday  night, 
by  our  own  Tabernacle  Choir  Sunday, 
and  by  the  combined  choruses  of  Brig- 
ham  Young  University  today.  I  can 
scarcely  refrain  from  commenting  on 
the  inspiration  that  the  presence  of  these 
young  men  and  young  women  gives  to 
us. 

"How  beautiful  is  youth!  how  bright  it 
gleams 

With  its  illusions,  aspirations,  dreams! 
Book  of  Beginnings,  story  without  end, 
Every  maid  a  heroine,  and  each  man 
a  friend!" 

How  glorious  is  youth,  and  here  are 
several  hundred  of  them  in  our  presence, 
contributing  their  talents  to  the  inspira- 
tion of  our  conference.  Again,  thank 
you. 

To  all  others  who  have  in  any  way 
contributed  to  the  excellency  and  the 
inspiration  of  this,  the  123rd  confer- 
ence, we  express  our  gratitude. 

Now,  may  I  trespass  upon  your  time 
a  few  moments  to  say  a  final  word  to 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


137 


you  mission  presidents,  to  you  presi- 
dencies of  stakes,  bishoprics  of  wards, 
to  you  officers,  stake  and  local,  to  you 
mothers  who  are  doing  so  much  to  make 
these  new  buildings  to  which  refer- 
ence has  been  made,  so  attractive,  and 
in  other  ways  contributing  to  the  -ad- 
vancement of  the  work. 

Much  of  what  you  brethren  and  sis- 
ters do  we  never  hear  about,  and  it 
seems  as  though  you  are  working  with- 
out any  visible  results,  but  no  good 
deed,  no  kind  word  can  be  spoken  with- 
out its  effect  being  felt  for  good  upon 
all.  Sometimes  the  good  may  be  in- 
finitesimal, but  as  a  rock  that  is  thrown 
in  a  pool  starts  a  wave  from  the  center 
which  continues  to  enlarge  until  every 
part  of  the  shore  is  touched,  so  your 
deeds,  silent,  many  of  them,  unknown, 
unspoken,  unheralded,  continue  to  radi- 
ate and  touch  many  hearts. 

We  are  not  unappreciative  of  what 
you  are  doing.  Nobody  can  go  out  to 
a  dedicatory  service  of  one  of  these 
meetinghouses,  hear  incidents,  details, 
illustrations  of  what  seem  to  be  sacri- 
fices of  the  hours  and  hours  of  work, 
given  freely,  without  being  deeply  im- 
pressed with  the  integrity  and  sincer- 
ity of  the  members  of  this  Church. 

Thursday  morning  this  building  was 
crowded  to  capacity  by  Primary  workers, 
representatives  of  one  organization.  That 
night,  the  hotel  ballroom  was  crowded 
with  former  workers,  general  board 
workers  of  the  Primary,  present  work- 
ers, present  officers  from  stakes.  I  wish 
the  ten  thousand  people  here  could 
have  seen  the  illustration  and  the  ex- 
amples they  gave  showing  the  growth 
of  the  Primary  during  the  last  seventy- 
five  years. 

Friday  night  this  building  was 
crowded  to  overflowing  by  the  bishop- 
rics of  the  Church,  under  the  direction 
of  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 

Saturday,  seventeen  thousand  mem- 
bers of  the  priesthood  filled  this  house, 
the  Assembly  Hall,  Barratt  Hall,  Field 
House  at  BYU,  representing  the  priest- 
hood of  the  Church. 

We  have  had  a  meeting  of  the  patri- 


archs, another  of  mission  presidents, 
another  of  welfare  workers,  and  one 
of  stake  missionaries. 

Why  all  these,  and  all  other  meetings 
in  the  Church?  Tell  me!  They  are 
held  for  the  good  of  the  individual — ■ 
for  your  son  and  my  son,  your  daughter 
and  mine.  The  Lord  has  said,  "...  If 
it  so  be  that  you  should  labor  all  your 
days  in  crying  repentance  unto  this 
people,  and  bring,  save  it  be  one  soul 
unto  me,  how  great  shall  be  your  joy 
with  him  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father! 
And  now,  if  your  joy  will  be  great  with 
one  soul  that  you  have  brought  unto 
me  into  the  kingdom  of  my  Father, 
how  great  will  be  your  joy  if  you  should 
bring  many  souls  unto  me!"  (D.  &  C. 
18:15-16.) 

The  whole  purpose  of  the  organization 
of  this  great  Church,  so  complete,  so 
perfect,  is  to  bless  the  individual.  How 
that  stands  out  in  striking  contrast,  in 
opposition,  to  the  claim  of  the  com- 
munist who  says  that  the  individual  is 
but  a  spoke  in  the  wheel  of  the  state, 
that  the  state  is  all  in  all,  the  indi- 
vidual being  but  a  contributing  factor 
to  the  perpetuation  and  strength  of  the 
state. 

That  idea  is  diametrically  opposed 
to  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Jesus 
sought  for  a  perfect  society,  "not  by 
agitating  the  people  to  revolt  against 
political  or  social  organizations,  nor  by 
any  reorganization  of  existing  condi- 
tions, but  by  perfecting  the  individual. 
He  recognized  the  fallacy  in  the  dream 
of  those  who  hoped  to  make  a  perfect 
society  out  of  imperfect  individuals." 
In  all  these  labors  and  associations,  he 
sought  the  perfection  of  the  individual. 

His  goal  always  set  before  his  fol- 
lowers was  the  emancipation  of  men 
and  women  from  greed,  from  anger, 
from  jealousy,  from  hatred,  from  fear; 
and  in  their  place  he  hoped  to  bring 
about  a  complete  and  normal  develop- 
ment of  the  individual's  divine  powers 
through  right  thinking  and  unselfish 
efficient  service. 

He  promised  no  material  rewards, 
but  he  did  promise  perfected,  divine 


138 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  6 

manhood,  as  we  have  heard  in  this 
conference.  "Be  ye  perfect,  even  as 
your  Father  which  is  in  heaven  is  per- 
fect." (Matt.  5:48.)  And  with  that  di- 
vine manhood  comes  the  resultant  hap- 
piness, true  happiness. 

Final  Blessing 

God  bless  you,  my  dear  fellow 
workers,  you  General  Authorities,  stake 
presidencies,  bishoprics,  every  officer  and 
teacher  throughout  the  land,  every  mem- 
ber. May  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  abide 
in  your  hearts,  and  in  your  homes,  that 
people  partaking  of  your  radiation  of 
honesty,  integrity,  uprightness,  and  faith 
in  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  will  be  led 
to  glorify  our  Father  in  heaven. 

Many  years  ago — a  Chinese  philos- 
opher expressed  the  thought  that  I  am 
trying  to  give  you,  and  the  result  of 
individual  righteousness  as  follows: 

"If  there  is  righteousness  in  the  heart 

there  will  be  beauty  in  the  character. 
If  there  is  beauty  in  the  character 

there  will  be  harmony  in  the  home. 
If  there  is  harmony  in  the  home 

there  will  be  order  in  the  nation. 
If  there  is  order  in  the  nation 

there  will  be  peace  in  the  world." 

God  help  us  to  bring  about  that  peace 
in  the  only  way  that  it  can  come,  and 
that  through  obedience  to  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  I  pray  in  his  holy  name. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  will  now  sing  "Let  the 
Mountains  Shout  for  Joy,"  conducted  by 
Elder  John  R.  Halliday. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
President  Elvon  W.  Orme,  formerly 
president  of  the  Australian  Mission, 
after  which  this  conference  will  be 
adjourned  for  six  months. 


Third  Day 

The  Combined  Chorus  sang  the 
anthem,  "Let  The  Mountains  Shout  For 
Joy,"  after  which  Elder  Elvon  W.  Orme, 
formerly  President  of  the  Australian 
Mission,  offered  the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  sine  die. 


The  congregational  singing  of  the 
Conference  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall,  Conductor,  and  Richard  P. 
Condie,  Assistant  Conductor,  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  the 
choral  singing  for  the  Sunday  morning 
and  afternoon  sessions,  J.  Spencer  Corn- 
wall conducting. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  male  chorus 
provided  the  choral  music  for  the  Gen- 
eral Priesthood  meeting  Saturday  eve- 
ning, J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting. 

The  Combined  Scandinavian  Choirs, 
R.  Hulbert  Keddington  conductor,  fur- 
nished musical  numbers  for  the  Satur- 
day morning  and  afternoon  sessions. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses,  with  Don  L.  Earl  con- 
ducting, furnished  the  choral  numbers 
for  Monday  morning  session,  and  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Combined 
Choruses  (John  R.  Halliday  conducting) 
presented  choral  numbers  at  the  Monday 
afternoon  session. 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall  directed  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  and  Frank  W.  Asper 
was  at  the  organ,  in  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  and  Organ  broadcast. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on 
the  great  organ  were  played  by  Alex- 
ander W.  Schreiner,  Frank  W.  Asper 
and  Roy  A.  Darley. 


Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference 
were  taken  by  Frank  W.  Otterstrom  and 
Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson 


Index 


Page 

Anderson,  Elder  Joseph    4 

Authorities  and  Officers  Present    1 

Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained    102 

Bennion,  Elder  Adam  S   113 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft   :   39 

Bringhurst,  Elder  Samuel  E   44 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Buehner,  Bishop  Carl  W   114 

Changes  in  Church  Officers,  and  Stake,  Ward  and  Branch  Organizations   4 

Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast    60 

Christensen,  Elder  George  A.   46 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Christiansen,  Elder  EIRay  L   34 

Church  Auditing  Committee  Report    11 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   64 

Mary  Followed  64,  Appears  to  Peter  64,  Apostasy  Began  65. 
Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   52 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 
Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   102 

(Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers) 

Cowley,  Elder  Matthew    93 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   61 

(The  Spoken  Word) 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   131 

Financial  Report    9 

First  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    24 

First  Day — Morning  Meeting    3 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Present   1 

General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers  Sustained   102 

General  Priesthood  Meeting    43 

Hunter,  Elder  Milton  R   76 

Isaacson,  Bishop  Thorpe  B   90 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R   37 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W   105 

Kirkham,  Elder  Oscar  A   69 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B   24 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B   51 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 


140  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Page 

Longden,  Elder  John   133 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R  _   74 

McKay,  President  David  0   12 

Two  Functions  13,  Modern  View  of  Salvation  18. 
McKay,  President  David  0   58 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 
McKay,  President  David  O   135 

(Closing  Address) 

McKay,  President  David  0  3,  4,  11,  19,  21,  23,  24,  28,  34,  37,  38,  42, 

43,  44,  46,  50,  52,  56,  60,  62,  63,  66,  71,  74,  76,  80,  81,  85,  89, 
93,  100,  101,  104,  113,  117,  120,  121,  122,  126,  130,  133,  138 

McKay,  Elder  Thomas  E   21 

Morris,  Elder  George  Q   110 

Moyle,  Elder  Henry  D   126 

Obituaries    8 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E   81 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers    102 

Priesthood  Meeting,  General    43 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand    71 

Richards,  Elder  Stayner    128 

Robertson,  Elder  Hilton  A   56 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G   122 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    81 

Second  Day — Morning  Meeting    60 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G   29 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding   19 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma   85 

Spoken  Word,  The    61 

Stapley,  Elder  Delbert  L   117 

Statistical  Report    8 

Sustaining  of  General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers    102 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast    60 

Third  Day— Afternoon  Meeting    121 

Third  Day — Morning  Meeting    101 

Wirthlin,  Bishop  Joseph  L   95 

Young,  Elder  Clifford  E   66 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar   30 

Young,  Elder  S.  Dilworth    87 


Education  Lives  As  Long  As  You  Read 

GOOD  BOOKS 


The  Gospel  and  Man's  Relationship  to  Deity....$1.50 

B.  H.  Roberts 


New  Witness  for  Christ  in  America 

Francis  W.  Kirkham 

Volume  I  $2.75 

Evidence  of  Divine  Power  In  the  "Coming  Forth"  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon 

Volume  II   $2.75 

Attempts  to  prove  the  "Book  of  Mormon"  man-made 

Witnesses  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  $2.25 

Preston  Nibley 

Doctrine  and  Covenants  Commentary  $5.00 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Autobiography  of  Parley  P.  Pratt  $3.00 

Key  to  Theology   $1.50 

Parley  P.  Pratt 

J.  Golden  Kimball  $3.50 

Claude  Richards 

New  Witness  for  God-Vol  I,  II,  III  $2.50 

B.  H.  Roberts  Each 


ALL  PRICES  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OP  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 
44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


Some  Suggestions  for  your  Church  Library 

Books  of  lasting  inspiration  by  our  Church  leaders 
On  the  Way  to  Immortality  and  Eternal  Life..$3.50 


J.  Reuben  Clark 

Priesthood  and  Church  Government  $2.50 

John  A.  Widtsoe 

Teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  $3.50 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Essentials  in  Church  History  $4.00 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Jesus  the  Christ— Cloth  Edition  $3.00 

James  E.  Talmage 

Articles  of  Faith— Missionary  Edition  $1.50 

James  E.  Talmage 

Gospel  Standards  $2.25 

Heber  J.  Grant 


Sharing  the  Gospel  With  Others  $2.50 

George  Albert  Smith 

Word  of  Wisdom  $2.75 


John  A.  Widtsoe 

Discourses  of  Brigham  Young  $3.00 

Compiled  by  John  A.  Widtsoe 

The  Spoken  Word  $2.00 

Richard  L  Evans 

Unto  the  Hills  $2.00 

Richard  L  Evans 

This  Day  and  Always  $2.00 

Richard  L  Evans 

At  This  Same  Hour  $2.00 

Richard  L.  Evans 

Tonic  For  Our  Times  $2.50 

Richard  L.  Evans 


 ALL  PRICES  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE  

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 

44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


