OnsL  dhuidhsuL  Jwsniisdk. 
ANNUAL 

COOffRfOCf 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

OphiL  6,  8,  and.  9,  1950 

With  Report  of  Discourses 

Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Printed  in  the  United  States  of  America 


2(sl  Ldu  jccdkd . . . 

"THE  ENIGMA  OF  PALMYRA" 

For  more  than  100  years  vigorous,  but  futile  attempts  have 
been  made  to  explain  him  away,  only  to  be  rejected,  dis- 
credited or  abandoned. 

One  explanation  survives  the  tests  of  time  and  truth.  Read  it, 
and  its  many-sided  manifestations  in  these  books: 

JOSEPH  SMITH,  AN  AMERICAN  PROPHET....$3.25 


By  John  Henry  Evans 

JOSEPH  SMITH,  THE  PROPHET  $3.25 

By  Preston  Nibley 

TEACHINGS  OF  THE  PROPHET 

JOSEPH  SMITH   $2.75 

By  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

PROPHECIES  OF  JOSEPH  SMITH  AND 

THEffi  FULFILLMENT   $1.75 

By  Nephi  L.  Morris 


One  significant  and  impressive  fact  to  consider  about  him  is 
the  caliber  of  men  whose  love  and  loyalty  he  won,  and  what 
they  accomplished  under  the  motivation  and  enthusiasm  of 


their  testimonies: 

BRIGHAM  YOUNG,  THE  MAN  AND 

HIS  WORK   $2.75 

By  Preston  Nibley 

BRIGHAM  YOUNG,  THE  COLONIZER   $3.00 

By  Milton  R.  Hunter 

HEBER  C.  KIMBALL  $3.00 

By  Orson  F.  Whitney 

DANIEL  HANMER  WELLS  $2.50 

By  Bryant  S.  Hinckley 

EZRA  T.  BENSON  $3.00 


By  John  Henry  Evans  and  Minnie  Egan  Anderson 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 

44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


The  One  Hundred  Twentieth  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 

The  One  Hundred  Twentieth  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah,  Thursday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  April  6,  8,  and 
9,  1950. 

General  sessions  of  the  Conference  were  held  at  10:00  a.m.  and 
2:00  p.m.,  Thursday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  and  the  General 
Priesthood  meeting  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  Saturday  evening, 
April  8,  at  7:00. 

A  special  meeting  was  held  in  the  Salt  Lake  Temple  Friday 
morning,  April  7,  at  10:00,  to  which  were  invited  the  General 
Authorities,  Presidencies  of  Stakes,  Presidents  of  High  Priests  quo- 
rums, Bishops  of  Wards,  Presidents  of  Branches  in  Stakes,  and 
Presidents  of  Missions. 

The  full  services  of  the  General  sessions  were  broadcast  over 
Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL 
were  broadcast  over  the  following  stations: 

In  Utah:  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KJAM  at 
Vernal,  and  KVNU  at  Logan. 

In  Idaho:  KGEM  at  Boise,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at 
Pocatello,  KBIO  at  Burley. 

In  Oregon:  KBKR  at  Baker,  and  KSRV  at  Ontario. 

By  transcription  over  KTYL  at  Mesa,  Arizona  and  KEXO  at 
Grand  Junction,  Colorado. 

The  services  of  the  general  sessions  were  also  televised  over 
the  KSL  television  station,  channel  5. 

Provision  was  made  to  accommodate  in  the  Assembly  Hall, 
just  south  of  the  Tabernacle,  many  who  could  not  find  seats  in  the 
Tabernacle,  where  they  were  able  to  see  and  hear  the  speakers  and 
those  who  presented  musical  numbers  in  the  Conference  sessions. 
Many  others  who  could  not  find  accommodation  in  either  of  these 
two  buildings  assembled  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds  and  listened 
to  the  services  by  means  of  amplifying  equipment. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  was  present  and  presided  at 
each  of  the  general  sessions.  He  conducted  the  services  at  the 
Thursday  morning  and  Sunday  afternoon  sessions  and  also  at  the 
General  Priesthood  meeting.  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First 
Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency,  conducted  at  the  Thursday  after- 
noon and  Saturday  afternoon  meetings;  President  David  O.  McKay, 
Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency,  at  the  Saturday  morning 
and  Sunday  morning  meetings. 


2  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday.  April  6  F"tt  Dag 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  Present 

The  First  Presidency:  George  Albert  Smith,  J.  Reuben  Clark, 
Jr.,  and  David  O.  McKay. 

The  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  George  F.  Richards, 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Stephen  L  Richards,  John  A.  Widtsoe,  Joseph 
F.  Merrill,  Albert  E.  Bowen,  Harold  B.  Lee,  Spencer  W.  Kimball, 
Ezra  Taft  Benson,  Mark  E.  Petersen,  Matthew  Cowley,  and  Henry 
D.  Moyle. 

Patriarch  to  the  Church:  Eldred  G.  Smith. 

Assistants  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve:  Marion  G.  Romney, 
Thomas  E.  McKay,*  Clifford  E.  Young,  and  Alma  Sonne. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy:  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine 
R.  Ivins,  Richard  L.  Evans,  Oscar  A.  Kirkham,  S.  Dilworth  Young, 
Milton  R.  Hunter,  and  Bruce  R.  McConkie. 

The  Presiding  Bishopric:  LeGrand  Richards,  Joseph  L.  Wirth- 
lin,  and  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson. 

General  Officers  and  Other  Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  A. 
William  Lund,  Assistant. 

Members  of  General  Welfare  Committee,  Church  Welfare 
Program. 

Members  of  the  General  Board  of  Education,  Commissioner  of 
Education,  Directors  and  associate  Directors  of  Institutes,  and 
Seminary  supervisors. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Counselors,  Bishops  of  Wards 
and  their  Counselors,  Presidents  of  Temples,  Patriarchs,  High 
Priests,  Seventies,  Elders;  General,  Stake,  and  Ward  officers  of 
Auxiliary  Associations,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  began  Thursday  morning,  April  6,  at  10  o'clock. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  presided  and  conducted  the 
services.  All  of  the  brethren  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church  were  present. 

The  Choir  singing  for  this  session  was  furnished  by  the  Brigham 
Young  University  Choir,  Elder  John  R.  Halliday  conducting,  and 
Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  was  at  the  organ. 


v  *EJder  Thomas  E.  McKay,  who  was  convalescing  from  illness, 
was  present  at  the  opening  session. 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  3 


President  George  Albert  Smith: 

This  is  the  opening  session  of  the  One  Hundred  Twentieth 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  We  are  convened  in  the  tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in 
Salt  Lake  City. 

All  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  are  present. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  is  the  clerk  of  the  conference. 

These  services  will  be  broadcast  in  the  assembly  hall  over  a 
loud  speaking  system  and  by  television.  All  of  the  general  sessions 
of  the  conference  will  be  heard  and  seen  in  the  assembly  hall  in 
the  same  way. 

This  service  will  be  broadcast  over  station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 
City,  as  will  also  the  services  this  afternoon  at  2:00  p.m.,  Saturday 
and  Sunday  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00  p.m.;  and  by  arrangements 
through  KSL,  over  the  following  stations: 

In  Utah:  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KJAM  at 
Vernal. 

In  Idaho:  KGEM  at  Boise,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at 
Pocatello,  KBIO  at  Burley. 

In  Oregon:  KBKR  at  Baker,  KSRV  at  Ontario. 

By  transcription,  over  KTYL  at  Mesa,  Arizona,  and  KEXO  at 
Grand  Junction,  Colorado. 

These  services  will  also  be  televised  over  the  KSL  television 
station,  channel  5. 

The  calla  lillies  that  you  see  here  have  been  sent  by  the 
Berkeley  Stake.   We  appreciate  them  very  much. 

The  choir  singing  for  this  morning's  session  will  be  by  the 
Brigham  Young  University  choir  with  Elder  John  R.  Halliday  con- 
ducting, Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  the  morning  services  by  the  Brigham  Young 
University  choir  singing:  "Let  The  Mountains  Shout  For  Joy. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Glen  M. 
Bennion  of  the  South  Box  Elder  Stake,  Brigham  City,  Utah. 


The  Brigham  Young  University  Choir  sang  the  hymn  "Let 
The  Mountains  Shout  For  Joy." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Brother  Glen  M.  Bennion, 
President  of  the  South  Box  Elder  Stake. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Choir  sang  "Allelujah,  Christ 
Is  Risen." 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

One  hundred  twenty  years  ago  today  six  members  constituted 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Today  more  than 
a  million  souls  claim  membership  in  the  Church,  and  this  morning 
the  Tabernacle  is  filled  to  overflowing,  and  many  hundreds  more  are 


4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday.  April  6  First  Dag 

in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  on  the  grounds.  It  does  not  seem  possible 
that  so  many  people  could  be  here  this  morning. 

George  B.  Margetts 

But  there  is  one  man  missing,  and  I  think  you  will  all  remember 
him.  He  always  has  been  here;  he  has  not  failed,  since  I  can  remem- 
ber, to  be  in  a  conference.  He  always  has  had  a  boutonniere  in  his 
coat.  He  came  in  from  the  north  side  of  the  stand  to  see  that  every- 
body was  seated.  In  the  providence  of  our  Heavenly  Father  that 
good  man  has  been  summoned  home.  He  has  gone  back  to  the  God 
that  gave  him  life.    I  refer  to  our  faithful  usher,  George  B.  Margetts. 

One  by  one  we  are  going.  The  years  are  passing.  A  year  ago 
I  was  only  seventy-nine  years  old  myself.  Now  I  am  eighty.  There 
are  those  on  the  stand  who  are  older  than  I.  The  Church  is  getting 
older,  but  fortunately,  to  take  our  places  in  the  ranks  are  the  younger 
people,  not  only  of  the  Church,  but  who  are  coming  out  of  the  world 
into  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  in  the  various 
nations  of  the  earth. 

Blessings  of  Conference 

It  is  wonderful  to  be  here  this  morning.  It  hardly  seems  possible 
that  there  would  not  be  room  for  everybody  on  a  busy  weekday,  but 
the  Tabernacle  is  filled  to  capacity,  and  the  thing  that  impresses  me 
most  is  that  our  Heavenly  Father  is  keeping  his  word  when  he  said, 
if  even  two  or  three  shall  meet  together  in  his  name,  he  will  be  there 
to  bless  them. 

But  this  morning  we  are  here  in  great  numbers,  and  this  morn- 
ing the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  here,  and  all  of  us  who  have  come  pre- 
pared to  be  edified  under  the  influence  of  it  will  not  go  away  disap- 
pointed. 

Calling  of  Joseph  Smith 

Conditions  in  the  world  remind  us  of  the  fact  that  our  Heavenly 
Father,  knowing  what  would  occur — realizing  that  the  people  of  the 
world  were  not  paying  attention  to  him,  and  that  those  who  were 
in  charge  of  religious  worship  in  the  various  natons  of  the  earth  had 
disregarded  his  teachings — a  little  over  a  hundred  and  twenty  years 
ago  called  a  boy,  not  yet  fifteen  years  of  age,  one  who  had  not  been 
spoiled  by  the  philosophies  of  men,  but  one  who  believed  in  God 
sufficiently  to  go  out  in  the  woods  and  ask  the  Lord  which  of  all  the 
churches  he  should  join.  He  was  no  doubt  astonished  when  the 
Father  and  the  Son  appeared  to  him  and  told  him  to  join  none  of 
them,  that  they  were  all  astray. 

As  a  result  of  that  remarkable  experience  of  Joseph  Smith  as 
a  boy,  we  see  in  the  world  today  hundreds  of  thousands  of  men  and 
women  who  have  turned  to  our  Heavenly  Father,  who  have  under- 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  5 


stood  the  purpose  of  life,  and  who  have  accepted  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Lord.  Today  we  have  more  than  five  thousand  of  our 
brothers  and  sisters  of  this  Church  scattered  throughout  the  world 
as  missionaries,  urging  the  people  of  the  world  not  merely  to  be 
satisfied  with  what  they  now  have,  but  to  seek  the  Lord  and  go  on, 
with  the  promise  that  if  they  will  do  that,  they  may  know  the  truth. 
The  Lord  himself  has  said, 

If  any  man  will  do  his  [God's]  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine, 
whether  it  be  of  God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself.  (John  7:17.) 

Our  work  in  the  world,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  to  reach  out 
after  all  of  our  Heavenly  Father's  children  at  home  and  abroad;  and 
if  we  will  do  that,  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  will  dwell  in  our  souls;  and 
we  will  be  happy;  and  our  homes  will  be  the  abiding  place  of  his 
Holy  Spirit. 

Need  for  Repentance 

When  we  realize  the  uncertainty  that  exists  in  the  world  today, 
realize  that  the  strongest  nations  of  the  earth  as  well  as  the  weaker 
ones  are  arming  to  the  teeth  preparing  for  war,  we  may  know  that 
it  is  only  a  question  of  time,  unless  they  repent  of  their  sins  and  turn 
to  God,  that  war  will  come,  and  not  only  war,  but  pestilence  and 
other  destruction,  until  the  human  family  will  disappear  from  the 
earth. 

The  world  does  not  know  that  brothers  and  sisters.  Our 
Father's  other  children  who  are  in  different  parts  of  the  earth  do 
not  understand  that — those  who  are  not  members  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  They  have  an  idea  that 
they  can  legislate  and  fight  it  out,  but  there  is  only  one  way  to 
enjoy  peace  and  happiness  in  this  world,  and  that  is  for  the  children 
of  men  to  repent  of  their  sins,  turn  to  the  Lord,  honor  him  and 
keep  his  commandments.  That  is  the  only  way. 

Because  the  Lord  knew  that,  one  hundred  and  twenty  years 
ago  he  established  his  Church,  and  from  that  time  until  now  his 
sons  and  daughters  have  been  going  through  the  world  pleading 
for  the  opportunity  to  share  with  their  fellows  the  joy  and  happi- 
ness that  results  from  keeping  the  commandments  of  God. 

I  am  very  grateful  indeed  to  be  here  this  morning.  Since  I 
was  here  with  you  last,  I  have  not  been  in  many  parts  of  the  world, 
but  I  have  traveled,  and  I  have  found  faithful  members  of  the 
Church,  found  the  wards  and  branches  of  the  Church  increasing 
in  some  sections  to  the  point  that  their  meetinghouses  will  not  hold 
them.  The  result  is  that  two  wards,  and  in  some  cases  three  wards 
have  to  meet  in  the  same  house. 

Growth  of  Church 

Since  world  War  II  closed,  we  have  built  more  than  two 
hundred  meetinghouses  and  dedicated  them,  and  we  are  still  build- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Dag 


ing  and  are  short  of  places  in  which  our  people  may  worship.  The 
Church  has  increased  during  the  past  year  more  than  any  other 
year  since  it  was  organized.  It  is  not  our  Church.  It  is  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ.  God  gave  it  the  name,  and  it  is  flourishing.  How 
happy  we  should  be,  not  that  we  have  increased  in  numbers  in  the 
organization  that  we  belong  to,  but  that  more  of  our  Father's 
children,  more  of  his  sons  and  daughters,  have  been  brought  to 
an  understanding  of  the  truth,  and  are  coming  into  his  organiza- 
tion that  he  prepared  to  teach  us  the  way  of  life  and  lead  us  along 
the  pathway  of  eternal  happiness. 


I  want  to  take  this  occasion  personally  to  thank  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  for  your  kindness  to  me.  I  have  received  a 
host  of  birthday  congratulations  and  cards  that  it  will  not  be 
possible  for  me  to  acknowledge,  and  if  any  of  you  do  not  receive 
any  word  of  acknowledgment,  I  want  you  to  know  that  I  ap- 
preciate just  the  same  your  kind  remembrance  of  me  in  my  ad- 
vancing years. 


This  is  the  work  of  the  Lord.  This  is  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  we  have  all  the  blessings  that  may  be  enjoyed  by 
anybody  anywhere  in  the  world.  That  is  what  the  Lord  promised. 

But  seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  his  righteousness;  and  all 
these  things  shall  be  added  unto  you.  (Matthew  6:33.) 

As  we  sit  here  in  comfort  in  this  marvelous  auditorium  today, 
listening  to  the  sweet  strains  of  music  of  the  sons  and  daughters 
of  our  Heavenly  Father,  listening  to  the  voices  of  those  who  are 
called  to  address  us,  we  do  so  in  peace  and  quiet,  not  in  anxiety, 
as  is  the  case  in  so  many  places  in  the  world.  Here  we  are  in  the 
land  of  Zion,  and  in  this  part  of  it  that  our  Heavenly  Father  set 
apart  for  the  gathering  of  his  people  more  than  a  hundred  years 
ago.  Ought  we  not  to  be  grateful? 


I  cannot  understand  how  people  can  be  other  than  happy 
under  all  these  circumstances.  Think  of  our  opportunities.  There 
is  not  a  desirable  blessing,  and  all  blessings  are  desirable,  that 
we  may  wish  to  have  that  we  may  not  enjoy  if  we  are  faithful  to 
God  and  honor  our  membership  in  his  Church.  He  has  promised 
us  that  all  things  will  come  to  us  if  we  are  righteous. 

This  morning  among  the  many  things  that  we  enjoy,  we  are 
meeting  in  this  house,  built  during  the  poverty  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  erected  for  the  worship  of  our  Heavenly  Father;  and  as  I 
look  over  this  audience,  I  see  people  from  nearly  every  section  of 


Appreciation  for  Remembrances 


Work  of  the  Lord 


Blessings  to  Faithful 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  7 


the  country  and  from  parts  of  other  nations  of  the  world.  We 
have  the  mission  presidents  who  are  here  from  their  various  fields 
of  labor,  as  well  as  presidencies  of  stakes,  bishops  of  wards,  and 
presidents  of  branches.  This  audience  is  an  example  of  a  gathering 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  am  sure  that  as  we  come  together  to  worship  we  will  go 
from  here  feeling  grateful  that  we  have  had  this  privilege.  Now 
again,  may  I  say  this  is  not  the  work  of  man.  This  is  not  the 
Church  of  Joseph  Smith  nor  any  of  those  who  have  succeeded 
him  in  the  presidency.  This  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  named  by  the  Lord  himself. 

I  bear  you  witness  of  it  in  love  and  with  a  desire  that  all  of 
our  Father's  children  may  learn  the  truth  and  accept  of  it,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference  read  the  fol- 
lowing report  of  changes  and  Statistical  data: 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 
MISSION,  STAKE,  WARD,  AND  BRANCH 
ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE  OCTOBER 
CONFERENCE  1949 

Mission  Changes  and  New  Presidents  Appointed  as  Follows: 

Matthew  Cowley  released  from  presiding  over  the  Pacific 
Missions. 

Alma  Sonne  released  from  presiding  over  the  European 
Mission. 

E.  Wesley  Smith  released  from  presiding  over  the  Hawaiian 
Mission. 

Melvin  A.  Weenig  released  from  presiding  over  the  Central 
Pacific  Mission. 

Great  Lakes  Mission  organized  by  division  of  Northern 
States  Mission. 

Hawaiian  Mission  and  Central  Pacific  Mission  consolidated 
to  form  the  Hawaii  Mission. 

Waldo  M.  Andersen  appointed  president  of  Northern  States 
Mission  to  succeed  W.  Creed  Haymond. 

Benjamin  L.  Bowring  appointed  president  of  Texas-Louisiana 
Mission  to  succeed  Glenn  G.  Smith. 

Lucian  M.  Mecham,  Jr.,  appointed  president  of  Mexican  Mis- 
sion to  succeed  Arwell  L.  Pierce. 

John  P.  Lillywhite  appointed  president  of  the  Netherlands 
Mission  to  succeed  Cornelius  Zappey. 

Carl  C.  Burton  appointed  president  of  the  Great  Lakes 
Mission. 

Golden  L.  Woolf  appointed  president  of  the  French  Mission 
to  succeed  James  L.  Barker. 


8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Day 

Stayner  Richards  appointed  president  of  the  British  Mission 
to  succeed  Selvoy  J.  Boyer. 

J.  Orval  Ellsworth  appointed  president  of  the  Central  States 
Mission  to  succeed  Francis  W.  Brown. 

Edward  L.  Clissold  appointed  president  of  the  Hawaii 
Mission. 

John  B.  Matheson  appointed  president  of  the  East  Central 
States  Mission  to  succeed  Thomas  W.  Richards. 

George  A.  Christensen  appointed  president  of  the  Australian 
Mission  to  succeed  Charles  B.  Richmond. 

New  Stakes  Organized: 

East  Long  Beach  Stake  organized  by  division  of  Long  Beach 
Stake. 

East  Los  Angeles  Stake  organized  by  division  of  Pasadena 
Stake. 

Glendale  Stake  organized  by  division  of  San  Fernando  Stake. 
Nyssa  Stake  organized  by  division  of  Weiser  Stake. 
University  Stake  organized  by  division  of  Emigration  Stake. 

Stake  Presidents  Chosen: 

Alldridge  N.  Evans,  president  of  Ensign  Stake  to  succeed 
Edwin  Q.  Cannon. 

Lester  H.  Belliston,  president  of  Juab  Stake  to  succeed  James 
H.  Ockey. 

Henry  C.  Jorgensen,  president  of  Palo  Alto  Stake  to  succeed 
Claude  B.  Petersen. 

Jared  Trejo,  president  of  Southern  Arizona  Stake  to  succeed 
Alando  B.  Ballantyne. 

Edwin  S.  Dibble,  president  of  the  Glendale  Stake. 

Vernal  Willis,  president  of  North  Box  Elder  Stake  to  suc- 
ceed John  P.  Lillywhite. 

Hugh  C.  Smith,  president  of  San  Fernando  Stake  to  succeed 
David  H.  Cannon. 

Martin  Elmer  Christensen,  president  of  Cottonwood  Stake 
to  succeed  J.  Ephraim  Wahlquist. 

Ariel  S.  Ballif,  president  of  East  Provo  Stake  to  succeed 
Golden  L.  Woolf. 

D.  Edward  Judd,  president  of  Ensign  Stake  to  succeed  All- 
dridge N.  Evans. 

Arvel  L.  Child,  president  of  Nyssa  Stake. 

William  H.  Bennett,  president  of  St.  George  stake  to  succeed 
Harold  S.  Snow. 

J.  Raymond  Dewey,  president  of  Weiser  Stake  to  succeed 
Arvel  L.  Child. 

John  C.  Dalton,  president  of  East  Long  Beach  Stake. 


CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS  9 

J.  Quayle  Ward,  president  of  the  University  Stake. 

Joseph  R.  Bagnall,  president  of  North  Sanpete  Stake  to  suc- 
ceed Golden  D.  Carlston. 

Fauntleroy  Hunsaker,  president  of  East  Los  Angeles  Stake. 

Howard  W,  Hunter,  president  of  Pasadena  Stake  to  succeed 
William  A.  Pettit. 

Franklin  }.  Murdock,  president  of  Highland  Stake  to  suc- 
ceed Stayner  Richards. 

Donald  Ellsworth,  president  of  Mesa  Stake  to  succeed  Lucian 
M.  Mecham,  Jr. 

J.  Frank  Peel,  president  of  Oquirrh  Stake  to  succeed  Vivian 
B.  Coon. 

New  Wards  Organized: 

Highland  View  Ward,  East  Mill  Creek  Stake,  formed  by 
division  of  Rosecrest  Ward. 

Kenwood  Ward,  East  Mill  Creek  Stake,  formed  by  division 
of  Grandview  Ward. 

Buhl  2nd  Ward,  Twin  Falls  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
Buhl  1st  Ward. 

Highland  Park  Ward,  Glendale  Stake,  formed  by  divison  of 
Garvanza  Ward. 

Lincoln  Ward,  Sharon  Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Timp- 
anogos  Ward. 

Milford  2nd  Ward,  Beaver  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
Milford  1st  Ward. 

Las  Vegas  3rd  Ward,  Moapa  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
Las  Vegas  2nd  Ward. 

American  Fork  8th  Ward,  Alpine  Stake,  formed  by  division 
of  American  Fork  3rd  Ward. 

West  Dale  Ward,  Inglewood  Stake,  formed  by  divison  of 
Mar  Vista  Ward. 

Federal  Heights  Ward,  Emigration  Stake,  formed  by  division 
of  University  Ward. 

Westchester  Ward,  Inglewood  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
Lennox  Ward. 

Kaysville  3rd  Ward,  Davis  Stake,  formed  by  divison  of 
Kaysville  2nd  Ward. 

Provo  14th  Ward,  Utah  Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Provo 
6th  Ward. 

Pacific  Beach  Ward,  San  Diego  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
Ocean  Beach  Ward.  . 

Val  Verda  Ward,  South  Davis  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
Orchard  Ward. 

North  El  Monte  Ward,  Pasadena  Stake,  formed  by  division 
of  Baldwin  Park  Ward. 

East  Pasadena  Ward,  Pasadena  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
Pasadena  Ward. 


10  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  Pint  Dag 

Independent  Branches  Made  Wards: 

Alexandria  Ward,  Washington  Stake,  formerly  Alexandria 
Branch. 

College  Hill  Ward,  East  Cache  Stake,  formerly  Canyon 
Heights  Branch. 

Washington  Terrace  1st  Ward,  Weber  Stake,  formerly 
Washington  Terrace  Branch. 

Washington  Terrace  2nd  Ward,  Weber  Stake,  formerly 
Washington  Terrace  Branch. 

Independent  Branches  Organized: 

Upper  Green  River  Branch,  Woodruff  Stake,  formerly  de- 
pendent upon  Kemmerer  Ward. 

Rangely  Branch,  Uintah  Stake,  formerly  a  branch  of  West- 
ern States  Mission. 

Sun  Valley  Branch,  Blaine  Stake,  formerly  part  of  Hailey 
Branch. 

Rodeo  Branch,  Berkeley  Stake,  formerly  a  part  of  Carquinez, 
Martinez,  and  East  Richmond  Wards. 

Kearns  Branch,  North  Jordan  Stake,  formerly  part  of  Taylors- 
ville  and  Bennion  Wards. 

Victory  Acres  Branch,  Maricopa  Stake,  formerly  part  of 
Mesa  1st  Ward. 

Lakewood  Branch,  East  Long  Beach  Stake,  formerly  part  of 
Virginia  Ward. 

New  Hall  Branch,  San  Fernando  Stake,  formerly  part  of 
California  Mission. 

Independent  Branch  Discontinued: 

Strawberry  Branch,  Duchesne  Stake,  disorganized,  member- 
ship transferred  to  Duchesne  Ward. 

Deaths : 

William  E.  Ryberg,  member  of  the  Church  Welfare  Committee. 
Stringham  A.  Stevens,  former  member  of  Church  Welfare 
Committee. 

Alldridge  N.  Evans,  president  of  the  Ensign  Stake. 

Heber  Moon,  former  president  of  the  Duchesne  Stake. 

Joseph  E.  Williams,  former  president  of  Blackfoot  Stake. 

Fannie  VanCott  Young  Clayton,  a  daughter  of  President 
Brigham  Young. 

Verna  L.  Wright  Goddard,  formerly  counselor  in  General 
Presidency  of  Y.  W.  M.  I.  A. 


STATISTICAL  REPORT  1 1 

STATISTICAL  REPORT 

Number  of  Stakes  of  Zion   179 

Number  of  Wards    1,357 

Number  of  Independent  Branches    144 

Total  Wards  and  Independent  Branches    1,501 

Number  of  Missions   44 

Church  Membership 

Stakes    876,661 

Missions   -   202,010 


Total  Membership  .....1,078,671 

Church  Growth 

Children  blessed  in  stakes  and  missions   36,885 

Children  baptized  in  stakes  and  missions   20,534 

Converts  baptized  in  stakes  and  missions    16,261 

Social  Statistics 

Birth  rate  per  thousand    38.43 

Marriage  rate  per  thousand   8.89 

Death  rate  per  thousand    5.97 

Missionaries 

Number  of  missionaries  in  the  missions  of  the  Church  4,477 

Number  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  the  stakes ....  4,027 


Total  Missionaries   8,504 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  in  the 

missionary  home  in  1949    2,363 


12 

Thursday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


OS 

ON 


s 

o 
o 

a 
g 

u 

S5 

<s 
g 

E 
O 
Ctf 
3 
S 
<J 

!j 
3 


s 


ft 


o 
a 
m 


U 


r  o 


4) 

U  T3 
(8 
<U 
S-( 


a 

4) 

3 
41 


>> 

o 
c 

CI 

-  "5 

4) 

'35 

41 
U 


-  »■£ "I 

41  T1  p  H  o 
o  g  «J  41  u 

a  «  BO  .3 
o 


8 

r<S 
m 

OS 

in 
to 


8 


Cri 

CO 


«  u  ^3 

41  .5  4) 
tj  t- 
.~  Q,  41 

«=  o  > 

0J3  O 

*oS  41 


w  ■ 


a  a 


o  £> 


Is  8  8* 

*s  x  3 
a  0  «"< 

O    w          _  41 

2  '5  3  S  § 

W  .C       41  .9 

«  iiQ-S 

•5  DJ  C  S3 
4>  1j  3  ~ 


first  Day 

8 
g 


8 

d 
oo 
o 


5  a  S 

u  ra  g 
O  0"0 

4i  .a  5 
ra  o. 

O.  w 


41 

u  a 


°  Sfl 

w  u  y 
.Si  a  a 

■a  su 

«  a  4i 

^  .S  41  41 
32  0,0, 

u'3  fi  E 
.3  J5  u  £ 


D3  ra 

•3  «> 


•8 


>>  ra 


ra 

a  1 


41 

0.3  41  p 

41 

en  B  •»<  «j 

•3  g  0  S 

£S  S  2=2 

o  a  >  co 

o  a  -3 


1  S 

10  41 

S  •£ 

.9  * 

03  o 

.2  Bh 


FINANCIAL  REPORT 


13 


8 

i 

in 


8 


8 
S 


8 


8 

00 


8 

s 

on 
in 


8  « 

vo  >~ 
25  a 

CO  *cc 
U 


2 


8 


o 


8 


8 


8  d  «« 

B    Jo  *" 

a  s  S5  a 
u  C  c  o 

'ilJ5  S  « 
41  3  41  - 
o. 


n  a  S  o 
.2  m  co  >  ■ 


,.  o  S  t. 

8  S5  C  3  >~ 

5  2  a  «u 

S-S       -S  41 

cr  Si  co  OkJ 


T3 

C 

co 


««  u  • 
.3  > 

8  5  " 

IS* 

co.*  o 


g 


c  4>  "3 
>  -  2  cw 


41 

s  41 

.t!  ^ 

g  "» 


41  ^3 

§13  J 

'3  g  E  n 

41  41  •»  5 

■  ■     a  4< 


"  a  co  W  ~-5  ro-o  4i 


Si  a 

_  S  Co  *  41 

"»  1  "3  _Sj  o 

.3  S  fU  c 
2;^  5  a. 9 

5  O  ^  (0  w 


2  " 


5  a 


3"B 
TS  8 


a  2  15 


la's 


-C  J3 .2  B  C 
c  a  3  2 

CO  (0  41  41  -r; 
h  In   h  h  3 

cv5,a 


gl  a  o  o  I  j 


S  -  o 

■«  c  ^  .3 

O  o5 
(J  01 


41  ■ 


a 

u  o 
■OSS 
c  2  cfl 

w  Q 

.Si  M 

1 « 
Is8 

a 

o 


o  o 


Al  -G 

a  .s 


O 


W  (1)  . 

•1*1 

a  4i>3 
s  >z 

■c  COS 
OT3  SJ  J3  . 
&  a  cO  .2  25 
§  ro=  S  a 

laM^ 

(J  Co 

t-  C  *s  C3 

a  a>  g  w 

O       S  w 

cj|u  S 

C0_  41 


•  1    I     i     '    41  "O 

5"'S  S  S  B  c  b 

a  «2a 
-a  h    « -s  a 


□ 

.Oat's 


4>.y 
Is 


15  to  .  ^  4i  >.  : 

§S  s  ™  «  S«  «  fi-H-S  b  p. 


o 

i  CO  '5 


3  w 
S-n      Si>  Si  « 

3  «3,2  o -c  j;  - 
a|S  „'KO  8.8 

o  S~  o  41*3 

t,       «  "O  J3  O  .  cO 


.S-St!.  3>     S  Ho 


0<^'S  8  - 

^3  O.  °  w  b  " 
w  CO  «  ».  41  O  fc 

e<.  -  s  >■  • 

41 

SS  co  "<«T3.2 

oj  c  co  w  Ba  a  w 
"  §  &  4-  u3  n  g 

a-°  "3  5, 
co  j)  4i  ^co^a,,. 

4,_4i-S^  2  °2 
jiuls*a^S 

"  ti  l  "  v  n  x  •  t 

erf  a  33  si  a  co  -5 


2  3 


cm 


c  c  c 

I|| 
<u  3 
>  h  S 
O  w 

i  .of 

3  ■"■5  « 

"3    10  41  — 

a  S-S  ° 
C  CP 

&.3a 
"-T3  a 

3  3 


a 


3  ° 

w  g 

co  co 

2  -3  a 
g-o  o 
co  -a  *rt 

3  „  ~ 

a  3  8 

a  o*S 
•3  S2 


14 

Thursday,  April  6 

8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


8  8 


00 


58 

00 

tx 

CM 


8    8  8 


to 
in 
in 


Pint  Dap 


8 

0O 


8  8 


OO 

m 
as 


8 


8 


8 

So 
"i 
in 


© 
53 


8 


8 


8 


§  ■ 

era 

«  S 

O.  CO 
-  B 

05 -c 

■o  2 

a"8 


a 

=3  -3 
ffl  T3 
X 


s 

IB 


a 


.-a 

(0  c 

j  .a 
"3  o 
0.5 

»" 


v 


a  °> 

8  « 

a  .is  o 

"    jo  E 


»  5  X  2 

<  a  «  « 

^  W  O  C3 

re  2.S-S 

«i  a|  i 

Ti  &)  S  0 

2  ■5 -a  c 

£  cb  ra 

■s  o 

E- 


a 
o 

a< 

•a 
c 

5 


|  •S'8  5 

G    »  3  [3 

n§  a  §  I 

.y  ^.kIs 
s  u  "  c 
2  ,p,o  o 

s  a 


re 


13 

a 
re 

o 

CP 

re 
& 
re 


0  CO   0         I'  V 


-  m 


c  ,„  a  ^  ca  c 

Sag 


cn  O 


4J  —4 

2  8 

a 

I 
re 


=  a^-^  a  a-c 

Sen  _  as-o  & 

CO 


:  Srg  °re  g  P 

.  V  C  A  b 

U  re  2  y     re  05  - 


J3T3 

S  8 


b  w  H  4»  M 


.  3 

J-°  COT" 


0  tv  <u 

CO 


03  (A 


to 


a  .2 
«  1 

46 

a 


n  »j  o  b  w 

§     a  a-ol 

8*3.       §  §*§  "2 


<u  s 
•£  > 

o 


=g  *3  <--. 

L  0 

S  3  S 

3  0  a 

T3  a  x 

O  B  <u 

o 

J3  .a  « 

w  >  a 

jj  -n  <u 

B  g 

D.  n  « 

4^  CO 


Bo  a — 1  a 
<3  St?  m 


IL,  re'B^^  -  ■ 


o  re  re  o 


-  i  a 


3"  a  re 
*3  o 


FINANCIAL  REPORT  15 

PART  II— CASH  EXPENDITURES,  OTHER  THAN  TITHING,  FROM  CON- 
TRIBUTIONS  BY  MEMBERS  OF  THE  CHURCH,  FOR  THE  YEAR  1949 


The  expenditures  budgeted  from  Church  general  funds  and 
paid  principally  from  the  tithes  are  detailed  above.  The  fol- 
lowing expenditures  were  made  from  further  contributions  by 
members  of  the  Church: 

Paid  for  stake,  ward  and  mission  building  purposes   $  6,044,171.00 

Expended  for  stake,  ward  and  mission  maintenance  purposes; 

expenses  of  auxiliary  organizations  and  for  recreation   3,529,851.00 

Expended  from  ward  and  mission  fast  offerings    1,201,959.00 

Expended  from  welfare  contributions    1,095,695.00 

Assistance  rendered  missionaries    241,574.00 

Expended  from  dues  of  General  Boards;  children's  contribu- 
tions to  the  Primary  Hospital,  and  donation  to  temples    289,347.00 

Expended  by  educational  institutions  in  addition  to  amount  list- 
ed under  budget  expenditures,  from  funds  derived  from  tu- 
itions and  other  sources  (Estimated  1949-1950  fiscal  year)  1,749,644.00 


Total  Cash  Expenditures  from  Contributions  by  the  Church 

Membership,  other  than  tithing    14,152,241.00 

Expended  by  the  hospitals  for  the  care  of  the  sick,  in  addition  to 

the  amount  paid  from  the  tithes  and  included  in  Part  I    48,154.00 

Total  Budget  Cash  Expenditures  by  the  general  Church  offices, 

brought  forward  from  above    19,725,565.00 


Total  Cash  Expenditures  of  the  Church  for  the  year  1949.  ..  $33,925,960.00 
Part  III— THE  CHURCH  WELFARE  PROGRAM 

Fast  Offering  Data  ~% 

Number  of  Church  members  who  paid  voluntary  fast  offerings 
and  welfare  contributions: 

In  the  wards    173,483 

In  the  missions    48,775 


Total    222,258 

Amount  of  voluntary  fast  offerings  and  welfare  contributions: 
In  wards: 

Fast  Offerings    $  909,912.00 

Welfare  Contributions    1,127,335.00 

In  missions: 

Fast  Offerings   1 1 6, 1 87.00 

 .  ( 

Total  Fast  Offerings  and  Welfare  Contributions  $  2,153,434.00 

Percent  of  Church  membership  who  paid  fast  offerings—   22% 

Average  fast  offerings  per  capita  in  wards    $1.12 

Average  fast  offerings  per  capita  in  missions    .58 

Average  fast  offerings  per  capita,  wards  and  missions   $1.01 

Average  fast  offerings  and  welfare  contributions  per  capita 

in  wards   $2.51 


WELFARE  PROGRAM  CASH  EXPENDITURES,  ALL  INCLUDED  IN 
FIGURES  GIVEN  ABOVE  BUT  SEGREGATED  HERE 

Expended  from  ward  and  mission  fast  offerings  and  welfare 
contributions  for  the  care  of  the  needy,  consisting  of  food, 
clothing,  rents,  light,  heat,  hospitalization,  burials,  etc.,  and 
for  the  purchase  of  commodities  for  storehouses   $  2,297,654.00 


16  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday.  April  6  Pint  Day 

Disbursed  by  the  General  Church  Welfare  Committee  for  the 
operating  costs  of  storehouses;  for  the  overhead  expenses  of 
the  General  Committee,  and  for  the  shipment  of  relief  supplies 

to  Europe    419,427.00 

Disbursed  by  the  Corporations  of  the  President  and  Presiding 
Bishop  for  direct  assistance  and  for  contributions  to  civic,  de- 
nominational and  educational  institutions    642,655.00 

Expended  by  the  hospitals  for  the  care  of  the  sick   48,154.00 


Total  Relief  Cash  Expenditures  for  the  year  1949,  all  included 

in  above  grand  total  of  budget  and  other  cash  expenditures  ....      $  3,407,890.00 

This  is  an  increase  over  the  year  1948  of    $  240,004.00 


Welfare  Report 

The  General  Church  Welfare  Committee  makes  the  following  further  re- 
port, indicating  the  production  and  distribution  of  bishops'  storehouse  commodities 
during  the  year  1949  and  inventories  at  the  close  of  the  year: 

Production,  Distribution  and  Inventory  o[  Commodities 
For  Bishops'  Storehouses 

Production  during  the  year  1949  amounted  to  1,980,000  quarts  of  canned  pro- 
duce; 10,700,000  pounds  of  fresh  vegetables,  fruits,  grains  and  grain  products; 
1,220,000  pounds  of  animal  products  and  other  foods;  94,000  pounds  of  cotton  and 
wool;  13,500  tons  of  fuel;  236,500  articles  of  clothing,  household  supplies  and 
furniture.    The  production  in  1949  was  14%  higher  than  1948. 

The  distribution  amounted  to  1,300,000  quarts  of  canned  produce;  4,000,000 
pounds  of  vegetables,  fruits,  grain  and  grain  products;  1,800,000  pounds  of  animal 
products  and  other  foods;  12,500  tons  of  fuel  and  468,000  articles  of  clothing, 
household  supplies,  furniture,  etc.  The  value  of  the  articles  distributed  is 
$1,095,000.00,  which  is  an  increase  of  15%  over  1948. 

Present  inventories,  amounting  to  1,700,000  quarts  of  canned  produce;  5,600,000 
pounds  of  grain  and  fresh  vegetables;  3,800  tons  of  coal  and  635,000  other  items, 
having  a  total  value  of  $1,075,000.00  are  16%  higher  than  the  inventories  of  a 
year  ago. 

In  addition  to  distribution  in  the  United  States  and  Canada,  as  reported  above, 
there  have  been  sent  from  welfare  stocks  to  foreign  missions,  250,000  quarts  of 
canned  produce,  63,000  pounds  of  meat  and  lard,  570,000  pounds  of  grain  and 
grain  products,  and  100,000  pounds  of  beans  and  sugar.  The  total  relief  supplies 
sent  to  foreign  missions  to  December  31,  1949  (shipments  commenced  October  29, 
1945)  amount  to  41  freight  carloads  of  clothing  and  99  freight  carloads  of  food; 
a  total  of  140  cars.  The  value  of  these  commodities  is  $1,232,000.00.  They  were 
shipped  at  a  cost,  including  transportation,  cartons,  insurance,  etc.,  of  $504,000.00, 
a  total  of  $1,736,000.00.  They  were  sent  to  Austria,  Belgium,  Great  Britain, 
Czechoslovakia,  Denmark,  Finland,  France,  Germany,  Netherlands,  Norway,  Japan, 
China,  and  Tahiti. 

Assistance  Rendered 

There  have  been  from  17,913  to  55,460  persons  assisted  through  the  bishops' 
storehouse  program  each  year  since  1938.  In  1949,  there  were  38,280  persons  so 
assisted  in  the  United  States  and  Canada.  This  is  an  increase  over  1948  of  5,501 
persons.  We  also  sent  to  Europe  food  and  clothing  to  help  7,000  persons,  or  a 
total  of  about  45,000  persons  assisted  in  1949. 

From  1938  to  1949  more  than  1,970  families  have  been  helped  to  become  self- 
supporting,  and  14,824  families  have  been  assisted  in  other  ways.  During  this 
same  period,  $737,000.00  has  been  paid  in  wages  to  persons  working  at  Deseret 
Industries.  These  individuals,  most  of  whom  are  handicapped  or  aged  and  there- 
fore not  able  to  earn  a  livelihood  in  commercial  pursuits,  have  collected  and  pro- 


FINANCIAL  REPORT 


17 


cessed  salvage  materials  valued  at  $1,237,000.00  from  which  sales  have  been  made 
amounting  to  $1,158,000.00.  The  Deseret  Clothing  Factory,  another  branch  of 
the  Welfare  Plan,  has  paid  $296,000.00  in  wages  to  employees,  most  of  whom  are 
widows  and  elderly  persons. 

Budget  Production  and  Other  Projects 

To  produce  the  1949  budget,  646  crop  projects  and  290  livestock  projects 
were  operated,  on  which  81,000  man  days  of  work  were  donated.  For  purposes 
other  than  the  production  of  the  budget,  337  crop  projects,  144  livestock  projects 
were  operated  during  the  year  and  16,000  individuals  using  welfare  canneries  pro- 
cessed, for  their  own  use,  1,100,000  cans  of  food. 

About  twice  the  amount  of  food  on  the  accepted  1950  welfare  production 
budget  could  be  had  from  a  normal  yield  of  the  welfare  projects  now  owned  if 
the  entire  yield  were  turned  to  the  storehouses.  This  would  not  be  a  balanced 
diet  as  set  up  in  the  budget,  however,  because  the  production  would  be  short  in 
dairy  and  some  other  products  and  would  be  long  in  garden  and  row  crops. 

Persons  Relinquishing  Government  Relief 

Obedient  to  the  command  of  the  Lord  that  men  should  be  self-supporting, 
looking  to  the  Church  for  necessary  help,  3,184  persons  have,  during  the  past 
seven  years  relinquished  their  position  on  government  relief  rolls.  Of  this  number, 
1,418  have  been  rehabilitated  and  are  receiving  no  aid  from  the  Church  nor,  so  far 
as  known,  from  any  other  gratuitous  source;  1,121  are  yet  receiving  part  of  their 
support  from  the  Church;  and  645  are  receiving  all  their  needs  from  the  Church. 

Placement  and  Counseling  Service 

During  1949,  3,945  persons  were  given  occupational  counseling  resulting  in 
the  solution  of  their  employment  problems,  and  4,982  other  persons  were  placed 
in  remunerative  employment. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

President  Clark  did  not  call  attention  to  the  fact  that  the 
Church  is  still  solvent,  after  giving  away  all  that  money. 

Elder  Orval  W.  Adams  will  now  read  the  report  of  the  Church 
auditors,  after  which  President  David  O.  McKay  of  the  First 
Presidency  will  present  the  names  of  the  General  Authorities, 
general  officers,  and  general  auxiliary  officers  of  the  Church  for 
the  sustaining  vote  of  this  general  conference. 

REPORT  OF  CHURCH  AUDITING  COMMITTEE 
Elder  Orval  W.  Adams  read  the  following  report: 

April  3,  1950 
President  George  Albert  Smith  and  Counselors 
47  East  South  Temple 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
Dear  Brethren: 

The  Church  Auditing  Committee  has  reviewed  the  annual  financial 
report  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  for  the  year 
ending  December  31,  1949. 

The  accounting  system  and  records  were  found  to  be  adequate  and 
are  meticulously  maintained.  Disbursements  of  Church  funds  is  controlled 
through  a  comprehensive  budget  system,  which  includes  checks  and 
balances  to  properly  safeguard  expenditures.  The  funds  are  being  care- 


18  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  Firat  Dap 

fully  conserved,  and  are  being  expended  only  after  thoughtful  investi- 
gation and  consideration. 

Our  review  of  the  records  discloses  the  budget  to  be  in  balance. 
The  Church  is  in  strong  financial  position  and  free  from  debt. 

Respectfully  submitted, 
Orval  W.  Adams 
Albert  E.  Bowen 
George  S.  Spencer 
H.  H.  Bennett 

Church  Auditing  Committee 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

President  David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First 
Presidency,  presented  the  General  Authorities,  General  Officers 
and  General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church,  and  they  were 
unanimously  sustained  by  the  Conference,  as  follows: 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  First  Presidency 

George  Albert  Smith,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  Presi- 
dent of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

George  F.  Richards 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

George  F.  Richards  Harold  B.  Lee 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Spencer  W.  Kimball 

Stephen  L  Richards  Ezra  Taft  Benson 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Mark  E.  Petersen 

Joseph  F.  Merrill  Matthew  Cowley 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Henry  D.  Moyle 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 

Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  counselors  in  The  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles, 
and  the  Patriarch  to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Marion  G.  Romney  Clifford  E.  Young 

Thomas  E.  McKay  Alma  Sonne 

Trustee-in- Trust 

George  Albert  Smith 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


PRESENTATION  OF  THE  GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  19 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  Oscar  A.  Kirkham 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Seymour  Dilworth  Young 

Richard  L.  Evans  Milton  R.  Hunter 

Bruce  R.  McConkie 

Presiding  Bishopric 

LeGrand  Richards,  Presiding  Bishop 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  First  Counselor 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  Second  Counselor 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  as  Assistant 

Church  Board  of  Education 

George  Albert  Smith  John  A.  Widtsoe 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Adam  S.  Bennion 

David  O.  McKay  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Franklin  L.  West 

Stephen  L  Richards  Albert  E.  Bowen 

Frank  Evans,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

Commissioner  o[  Education 
Franklin  L.  West 

Seminary  Supervisors 

J.  Karl  Wood 
Joy  F.  Dunyon 

Auditing  and  Finance  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams  George  S.  Spencer 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Harold  H.  Bennett 

Tabernacle  Choir 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor 

Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner  Frank  W.  Asper 

Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant 


20  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday.  April  6  First  Dag 

CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 

Advisers 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Alma  Sonne 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Harold  B.  Lee  Oscar  A.  Kirkham 

Henry  D.  Moyle  LeGrand  Richards 

Marion  G.  Romney  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 

Thomas  E.  McKay  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 

Clifford  E.  Young 

General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 

General  Committee 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 
Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 
Marion  G.  Romney,  Assistant  Managing  Director 
Roscoe  W.  Eardley    Mark  B.  Garff  W.  T.  Lawrence 

Paul  C.  Child  Leonard  E.  Adams    Lorenzo  H.  Hatch 

T.  C.  Stayner  J.  Leonard  Love 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Relief  Society 
Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Velma  N.  Simonsen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 
George  R.  Hill,  General  Superintendent 
A.  Hamer  Reiser,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
David  Lawrence  McKay,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 
Elbert  R.  Curtis,  General  Superintendent 
A.  Walter  Stevenson,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
David  S.  King,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 
Bertha  S.  Reeder,  President 
Emily  H.  Bennett,  First  Counselor 
LeRue  C.  Longden,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

Primary  Association 
Adele  Cannon  Howells,  President 
LaVern  W.  Parmley,  First  Counselor 
Dessie  G.  Boyle,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS  21 


The  Brigham  Young  University  Choir  and  the  congregation 
joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Come,  Come  Ye  Saints." 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

The  following  is  a  quotation  from  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price, 
the  word  of  the  Lord  to  his  servant  Moses,  the  Prophet: 

For  behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my  glory — to  bring  to  pass  the 
immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man.  (Moses  1:39.) 

Man's  Salvation 

Hence  we  have  the  gospel  and  the  Church  of  the  Master  as 
enjoyed  by  the  Latter-day  Saints  of  today,  for  it  is  through  these 
sources  that  he  purposes  the  accomplishment  of  all  his  designs 
pertaining  to  man's  salvation. 

There  are  therefore  tremendous  responsibilities  resting  upon 
his  Church,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  per- 
taining to  the  salvation  of  the  children  of  men;  one  of  the  greatest 
of  which  is  to  preach  this  gospel  of  the  kingdom  in  all  the  world 
as  a  witness  unto  all  nations  before  the  end  shall  come. 

And  what  is  the  Church  doing  about  it?  It  is  keeping  about 
five  thousand  missionaries  in  the  mission  fields  and  stake  missions 
of  the  Church,  with  several  hundred  in  excess  of  that  number  at 
the  present  time  in  the  nations  of  the  earth  and  on  the  islands  of 
the  seas,  where  an  intensive  work  of  proselyting  is  being  carried 
on  and  a  wonderful  work  of  conversion  is  being  accomplished. 
There  is  also  a  condition  at  home,  in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  which 
calls  for  able  missionaries  who  are  zealous  for  the  cause  of  the 
Master,  and  for  the  welfare  and  salvation  of  their  fellow  men. 

Adult  Members  of  Aaronic  Priesthood 

According  to  the  latest  statistics  compiled  in  the  office  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric,  there  are  53,392  male  members  of  the  Church 
over  twenty-one  years  of  age  who  hold  some  office  in  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  who  have  not  received  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood. 
These  are  designated  as  adult  members  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood. 
There  are  17,643  male  members  of  the  Church  over  twenty-one 
years  of  age  who  hold  no  priesthood  at  all.  Taking  these  two  groups 
together,  we  have  71,035  male  members  over  twenty-one  years  of 
age  who  do  no  hold  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood;  a  sufficient  num- 
ber to  fill  this  Tabernacle  to  seating  capacity  seven  times  over, 
estimating  the  seating  capacity  at  ten  thousand. 

These  figures  are  appalling,  and  they  represent  only  those 
living  in  the  organized  stakes  of  the  Church.  The  missions  have 
their  quota  also. 

Worthy  boys  of  the  Church  at  twelve  years  of  age  are  sup- 


22  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday.  April  6  First  Day 

posed  to  receive  the  office  of  a  deacon  in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood; 
at  fifteen  years  the  office  of  teacher;  at  seventeen  years,  the  office 
of  priest,  and  at  nineteen  years  the  office  of  elder  in  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood. 

Importance  of  Priesthood 

Statistics  show  that  there  are  in  the  Church  3,648  male  mem- 
bers between  the  ages  of  twelve  and  twenty-one  years  who  hold 
no  office  in  the  priesthood. 

One  may  ask,  how  important  is  it  that  male  members  of  the 
Church  should  receive  the  priesthood;  and  how  serious  for  them 
not  to  do  so?  The  Lord  answers  this  question  on  this  wise: 

And  wo  unto  all  those  who  come  not  unto  this  priesthood.  (D.  &  C. 
84:42.) 

As  Latter-day  Saints,  the  goal  of  our  existence  and  purpose 
in  life  is  to  obtain  an  exaltation  in  the  kingdom  and  presence  of 
the  Father  and  the  Son;  and  a  man  may  not  attain  to  that  glory 
without  receiving  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood.  This  being  true, 
the  importance  of  receiving  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  by  the 
men  of  the  Church  is  as  important  as  is  salvation  itself. 

The  holy  endowments  administered  in  the  temples  of  the 
Lord  are  to  prepare  men  and  women  to  enter  into  the  celestial 
kingdom  and  presence  of  God  the  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ. 
But  to  receive  these  endowments  a  man  must  first  receive  the  Mel- 
chizedek Priesthood.  Marriage  for  time  and  eternity  as  ordained 
of  God  is  necessary  for  man's  salvation. 

.  .  .  neither  is  the  man  without  the  woman,  neither  the  woman  without 
the  man,  in  the  Lord.  (I  Cor.  11:11.) 

Eternal  Marriage 

But  a  man  must  receive  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  and  en- 
dowments before  he  can  go  to  the  temple  and  be  married  for  time 
and  eternity — hence,  the  importance  of  receiving  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood. 

Of  the  71,035  men  of  the  Church  over  twenty-one  years  of 
age  who  have  not  received  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  a  large 
percentage  of  them,  no  doubt,  are  married  and  rearing  families. 
Not  having  received  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  we  know  that 
their  marriages  are  not  for  eternity  as  ordained  of  God,  and  that 
their  children  are  not  being  born  under  the  new  and  everlasting 
covenant  of  marriage.  Men  of  the  Church  who  have  been  married 
for  time  only  are  in  danger  of  losing  their  wives  and  their  children 
if  they  do  not  take  the  necessary  steps  to  receive  the  priesthood 
and  sealing  ordinances  "...  my  Spirit  [the  Spirit  of  God]  will 
not  always  strive  with  man.  .  .  .'  (Ether  2:15).  Neither  will  the 
patience  of  a  good  woman.  For  example,  a  man  and  woman  came 
to  the  temple  recommended  for  marriage,  and  with  them  were  two 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS  23 


children  born  to  the  woman  by  a  former  husband.  The  mother 
desired  the  children  to  be  sealed  to  her  and  to  the  man  to  whom 
she  was  about  to  be  sealed.  But  how  about  the  father  of  those 
children  and  his  rights  in  the  matter? 

Rules  in  Temple  Work 

There  is  a  rule  (rule  30)  governing  in  temple  work  which  says: 

Children  should  not  be  sealed  to  other  than  their  own  parents,  except 
for  important  reasons,  and  then  only  by  special  authorization  of  the  temple 
president. 

Hence,  the  appeal  to  the  temple  president:  The  rights  of  the 
father  in  this  case  must  receive  consideration.  The  father  being 
dead,  the  mother  was  the  only  witness  available.  Her  story  was 
as  follows: 

The  father  and  mother  before  marriage  were  members  of  the 
Church,  and  when  contemplating  marriage,  she  desired  to  go  to 
the  temple  for  marriage,  but  he  had  not  been  living  his  religion 
so  as  to  be  counted  worthy  of  a  recommend  for  that  purpose.  She 
decided  to  marry  him  by  the  civil  law  with  the  understanding, 
and  his  promise,  that  he  would  make  himself  worthy,  and  they 
would  later  go  to  the  temple  and  be  sealed.  He  failed  to  keep  his 
promise.  Several  years  after  these  children  were  born,  he  was 
taken  ill  and  finally  passed  away.  She  said  she  nursed  him  through 
a  long  spell  of  sickness  before  his  death  and  felt  that  she  had  done 
her  full  duty  by  him  as  his  wife,  but  she  did  not  want  to  be  sealed 
to  him  for  eternity,  and  she  wanted  her  children  to  be  sealed  to 
her  and  the  man  of  her  choice. 

The  temple  rules  (rule  36)  provide  that  where  a  man  and 
woman  are  married  by  the  civil  law  and  have  children  and  are 
afterward  separated,  so  that  the  children  cannot  be  sealed  to 
both  parents,  if  one  has  been  altogether  worthy  and  the  other 
unworthy,  the  children  may  be  sealed  to  the  worthy  parent  and 
his  or  her  sealed  companion. 

Under  this  rule,  permission  was  given  for  the  children  to  be 
sealed  to  the  mother  and  the  man  to  whom  she  is  sealed;  thus  the 
father,  through  his  unworthiness  and  neglect,  has  lost  his  wife 
and  his  children.  This  is  but  one  case  in  a  class  which  is  far  too 
numerous. 

Loss  Through  Neglect 

There  is  another  class  of  members  who,  without  the  element 
of  unworthiness,  but  by  pure  neglect,  may  lose  their  wives  and 
children.  A  Latter-day  Saint  girl  and  boy  contemplating  marriage 
decided  that  they  would  marry  outside  of  the  temple  and  later 
go  to  the  temple  for  sealing.  Time  went  by  until  they  had  three 
children,  and  the  husband  became  ill  and  died.  Sometime  later  a 
Latter-day  Saint  man  came  along,  courted  and  married  the  young 
widow,  with  the  understanding  that  they  would  go  to  the  temple 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


later,  and  he  would  act  as  proxy  in  having  her  and  her  children 
sealed  to  her  dead  husband.  This  contemplated  work  was  de- 
layed until  she  had  three  children  by  her  second  husband,  who 
now  thinks  that  he  has  as  much  right  to  her  for  eternity  as  has  her 
dead  husband.  The  woman  desires  to  know  to  which  husband 
she  and  her  six  children  should  be  sealed.  She  was  told  that  she 
would  have  to  decide  to  which  husband  she  would  be  sealed,  and 
that  to  him  and  her  all  the  six  children  are  to  be  sealed.  She  is 
likely  to  take  the  living  husband,  in  which  event  the  first  husband 
loses  his  wife  and  his  children,  through  his  own  neglect.  This 
represents  another  class  of  cases,  and  they,  with  slight  variations, 
are  numerous  in  the  Church:  evidences  of  the  folly  of  neglect  of 
religious  opportunities. 


Another  unfortunate  class  consists  of  those  who  have  been 
married  for  time  and  eternity,  and  later  the  husband  becomes  luke- 
warm, inactive,  and  unworthy,  resulting  in  a  very  unhappy  mar- 
riage. The  husband  dies;  the  wife  obtains  a  cancellation  of  their 
sealing;  she  later  marries  a  man  for  time  and  eternity;  the  first 
husband  has  lost  his  wife,  and  possibly  his  children,  through  his 
unworthiness. 

For  the  benefit  of  these  men,  their  wives,  and  their  children, 
no  stone  should  be  left  unturned  in  an  effort  to  improve  these  con- 
ditions. For  the  Lord's  sake  and  that  of  his  Church,  also,  we  should 
try  to  love  these  people  into  activity  and  service.  He  needs  them 
in  the  leadership  and  organizations  of  the  Church,  in  quorums, 
wards,  stakes,  and  missions.  They  owe  it  to  the  Lord  that  they 
put  themselves  in  a  position  and  condition  to  be  used  in  his  service. 


Individual  missionary  work  on  the  part  of  active  members 
conforms  to  the  Lord's  way  with  indifferent  Church  members  and 
with  non-members  alike.  In  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  we  have 
the  word  of  the  Lord  as  follows: 

Behold,  I  sent  you  out  to  testify  and  warn  the  people,  and  it  becometh 
every  man  who  hath  been  warned  to  warn  his  neighbor. 

Therefore,  they  are  left  without  excuse,  and  their  sins  are  upon  their 
own  heads.  (D.  &  C.  88:81-82.) 

From  this  revelation,  I  understand  that  the  Lord  expects  every 
person  who  has  received  the  gospel  to  be  a  missionary  for  him 
throughout  his  life — not  necessarily  to  go  abroad  by  special  call 
only,  but  to  seek  opportunity  to  preach  the  gospel  to  his  non- 
member  neighbors  as  well.  We  should  not  be  afraid  to  offer  to 
our  neighbor  or  to  any  person  who  is  desirous  of  obtaining  salva- 
tion, that  which,  if  accepted,  and  its  precepts  followed,  will  be  to 
them  as  valuable  as  it  is  to  us,  which  is  of  more  value  than  any- 
thing else  in  life  or  than  life  itself. 


Loss  Through  Unworthiness 


Missionary  Work 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS  25 


That  there  are  living  among  us  many  people  who  need  what  we 
have  to  offer — the  gospel  message — there  can  be  no  question  from 
the  fact  that  they  are  being  converted  in  great  numbers  within  the 
stakes  and  wards  of  the  Church.  The  souls  of  these  inactive  mem- 
bers and  nonmembers  among  us  are  as  precious  as  the  souls  of 
people  in  foreign  countries  and  in  the  islands  of  the  seas  where 
our  missionaries  are  laboring.  In  conclusion  let  me  read  a  few 
lines  of  poetry. 

How  sweet  'twill  be  at  evening, 

If  you  and  I  can  say 
Good  Master,  we've  been  seeking 

The  lambs  that  went  astray — 
Heartsore  and  faint  from  hunger 

We  heard  them  making  moan, 
And  lo!  We've  come  at  nightfall 

Bringing  them  safely  home. 

May  the  Lord  add  his  blessings,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  hope,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  words  of  testimony  that 
I  shall  bear  to  you  today  may  be  prompted  by  the  Spirit  of  our 
Heavenly  Father,  that  I  may  carry  on  in  the  same  fine  spirit  that 
has  characterized  the  things  that  have  been  said  already. 

Conversions  to  the  Gospel 

I  am  extremely  happy  today  in  the  fact  that  I  am  here;  that 
I  am,  with  you,  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints;  that  with  you  I  have  a  testimony  as  to  the  truth  of  the 
gospel  and  the  authenticity  of  the  priesthood  which  we  bear. 

It  is  almost  a  hundred  years  since  a  missionary  in  New  Eng- 
land found  my  mother's  father  and  baptized  him  into  the  Church. 
He  became  one  of  the  Apostles  of  the  Church  and  was  sent  to  open 
the  missions  of  the  Church  in  the  Scandinavian  lands. 

Yesterday  Dr.  [John  A.]  Widtsoe  told  me  that  it  is  quite  likely 
that  nearly  half  of  the  people  who  are  in  the  Church  today  can 
trace  their  ancestry  to  Scandinavia.  About  the  same  time  a  mis- 
sionary in  New  Jersey  found  my  father  and  brought  him  into  the 
Church,  my  father  eventually  to  become  a  counselor  to  President 
Grant.  When  I  think  of  the  weight  of  the  responsibility  I  have  in 
representing  them,  it  is  almost  more  than  I  can  carry. 

Missionary  Body 

I  stand  before  you  this  morning  representing  the  seventies  of 
the  Church,  the  great  missionary  body  especially  set  apart  for 
that  purpose.   It  is  our  problem  to  see  that  the  work  initiated  by 


26  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday.  April  6  First  Day 

the  Twelve  is  properly  carried  into  the  world,  and  that  the  people 
who  are  susceptible  to  the  teaching  and  the  spirit  of  God  shall 
have  the  opportunity  of  coming  into  the  Church  where  they  can 
receive  the  benefits  and  the  blessings  which  President  [George  F.] 
Richards  has  indicated  in  his  remarks  this  morning. 

We  are  not  all  in  the  mission  field,  but  we  still  have  that  duty. 
The  presidents  of  our  priesthood  quorums,  all  of  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  quorums,  and  especially  the  members  of  the  seventies' 
quorums  and  their  presidencies  have  the  responsibility  of  pre- 
paring men  for  this  priesthood,  the  purpose  of  which,  I  believe,  is 
to  perfect  men — bring  them  to  a  state  as  near  perfection  as  possible 
so  that  they  may  be  worthy  of  the  heavy  duties  imposed  by  the 
receipt  of  the  priesthood. 

I  fear  that  many  of  us  who  have  those  responsible  positions 
of  presidency  in  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  don't  realize  the 
weight  of  the  responsibility  that  we  have.  What  are  we  expected 
to  do  for  the  members  of  our  quorums?  Are  we  to  sit  and  preside 
over  them,  assuming  that  all  of  them  are  firm  in  the  faith  and 
know  the  whys  and  wherefores  of  all  these  things,  or  is  it  our 
duty  to  look  after  the  members  of  our  quorums  and  implant  in 
their  hearts  the  principles  of  righteous  living,  as  well  as  to  preside 
over  their  meetings  and  keep  the  quorums  moving  along  nicely? 

Perfecting  of  Quorum  Members 

I  believe  the  great  weight  of  their  responsibilities  is  in  the 
perfecting  of  the  members  of  their  quorums,  and  since  this  great 
body  of  people  to  whom  President  Richards  referred  is  not  in  any 
of  these  Melchizedek  Priesthood  quorums,  I  believe  it  the  duty  of 
the  seventies  of  the  Church  to  reach  out  and  find  them.  When  they 
find  them,  it  is  their  duty  to  teach  them,  to  lead  them  back  into 
activity.  And,  of  course,  in  order  best  to  do  that,  they  should  all 
be  exemplary  bearers  of  the  priesthood.  They  should  live  the 
principles  of  the  gospel  as  nearly  perfectly  as  possible  so  that 
when  they  go  to  these  men  they  may  have  influence  with  them 
which  comes  from  the  presence  of  the  Spirit  of  God. 

There  are  in  some  of  the  stakes  as  many  as  two  hundred  and 
fifty  to  three  hundred  men  outside  of  the  priesthood  over  twenty- 
one  years  of  age,  and  when  I  think  of  the  responsibility  of  this 
group  of  seventies  toward  that  group  of  men,  I  am  appalled.  I 
wonder  how  I  am  going  to  teach  them  their  tasks,  for  it  devolves 
upon  the  Council  of  which  I  am  a  member  to  teach  the  leaders  of 
this  group  of  men  their  duty  and  how  to  perform  it. 

Full  Faith  Required 

What  should  they  be,  these  men  in  the  priesthood,  in  order 
to  be  worthy  of  it?  They  should  not  only  have  full  faith  in  the 
principles  of  the  gospel,  know  that  God  lives,  and  that  he  insti- 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


27 


tuted  this  great  organization,  but  they  should  also  live  so  as  to 
be  exemplary  and  useful  men  in  their  communities. 

Every  man  in  the  quorums  of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  should 
be  an  honest  man,  a  man  who  would  not  deliberately  incur  an  obliga- 
tion when  he  had  a  fair  assurance  that  he  would  not  be  able  to 
complete  it  or  carry  it  through;  a  man  who  would  turn  every  re- 
source in  his  power  to  the  realization  and  fulfilment  of  a  promise 
he  had  made;  a  man  whose  verbal  promise,  without  witnesses  even, 
is  just  as  potent,  just  as  powerful  over  him  as  a  promise  before 
a  notary  public  and  witnesses.  An  honest  man,  in  other  words, 
should  be  every  man  who  bears  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood. 

He  should  likewise  be  a  diligent  man,  so  that  he  could  not 
only  carry  his  own  burdens  and  the  burdens  of  his  family,  but 
that  he  could  also  find  time  to  seek  out  these  other  people  and 
teach  them  the  gospel. 

Time  for  Service 

We  think,  many  of  us,  that  we  do  not  have  time  for  that, 
but  if  we  will  find  time  for  it,  we  will  be  surprised  how  much 
there  is  that  we  can  spend  in  the  interest  of  our  fellows,  much  of 
that  time  being  spent  now  to  no  worthy  purpose  and  to  no  really 
significant  accomplishment. 

I  remember  the  story  of  a  bishop  who  had  a  herd  of  sheep 
and  was  prospered;  then  he  bought  two  herds  of  sheep,  and  still 
he  prospered.  The  authorities  made  him  president  of  the  stake, 
and  he  became  so  well  off  that  he  bought  three  herds  of  sheep, 
and  then  he  couldn't  find  time  to  be  president  of  the  stake,  so  he 
asked  to  be  released.  Within  the  next  little  while  he  found  out 
that  he  didn't  have  any  sheep,  and  he  wasn't  president  of  his 
stake,  or  the  bishop  of  his  ward,  and  he  wasn't  even  happy. 

Dependability 

We  must  be  diligent  enough  and  sincere  enough  in  our  sense 
of  responsibility  to  our  brothers  that  we  will  find  time  to  seek 
them  out  and  help  them.  If  we  are  honest  and  diligent,  we  must 
also  be  dependable.  We  must  be  such  men  that  when  the  leaders 
of  the  Church  assign  us  a  responsibility  and  we  say  we  will  ac- 
cept it,  they  may  rest  assured  that  we  will  do  it,  and  the  leaders 
will  have  no  more  worry  about  it. 

Dependability  is  one  of  the  best  attributes  of  a  fine  man,  so 
we  must  develop  that,  and  if  we  will,  we  will  be  useful.  We  should 
all  of  us  strive  to  be  useful  in  our  community,  men  that  others  re- 
spect because  of  our  fine  qualities. 

If  we  can  develop  these  and  a  few  other  tendencies  so  that 
the  men  with  whom  we  labor  will  have  no  cause  to  find  fault 
with  us  when  we  go  to  them,  we  will  have  an  influence  with  them 
that  we  should  have. 


28  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday.  April  6  First  Dag 

Duty  Between  Meetings 

Now,  how  many  of  us  who  are  presidents  of  the  priesthood 
quorums,  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  quorums,  feel  that  we  have 
a  duty  to  our  fellows  between  meetings?  How  many  of  us  ever 
go  to  them  and  sit  down  by  the  haystack  or  on  the  ditch  bank, 
or  take  an  automobile  ride  with  them  and  talk  over  their  responsi- 
bilities, especially  with  those  who  are  not  up  to  the  full  perfor- 
mance of  their  duty? 

It  is  not  the  duty  of  the  president  of  a  priesthood  quorum  to 
work  only  with  the  members  who  come  out  to  meeting  every  meeting 
day.  That  is  the  least  of  his  responsibilities.  His  responsibility  is  to 
the  lame  and  the  halt,  the  indecisive  and  the  inactive  members 
of  his  quorum,  and  if  and  when  he  can  so  discharge  his  duty  as 
to  bring  one  or  two  or  three  or  more  of  those  inactive  men  into 
full  activity,  then  he  is  a  worthy  president  of  a  quorum. 

Now,  can  we  do  it?  Can  we  who  have  this  responsibility 
first  come  to  know  actually  and  deep  down  in  our  hearts  that 
Christ  lives  and  that  we  hold  the  right  to  represent  him  in  the 
ordinances  that  will  save  men?  Let's  not  make  it  a  parrot-like 
thing  to  bear  testimony  to  these  truths,  but  let's  know  deep  down 
in  our  hearts. 

After  one  of  the  general  conferences,  one  of  our  prominent 
brethren  received  a  letter  from  another  prominent  man  who  had 
listened  to  the  testimonies  of  the  conference,  and  he  indicated  that 
he  was  a  bit  fearful  that  these  testimonies  become  routine  with  us. 
Now  that  just  must  not  be.  We  must  have  in  our  hearts  a  testi- 
mony that  is  actual  and  true,  to  know  the  truth  of  these  things, 
and  then  we  must  feel  our  responsibility  if  we  are  to  preside  over 
the  quorums  of  the  priesthood. 

We  should  go  out  and  seek  the  lost  among  us,  and  we  have 
heard  this  morning  how  numerous  they  are.  If  we  can't  do  that 
as  presidents  of  priesthood  quorums  and  as  members  of  priesthood 
quorums,  the  quorums  serve  us  to  little  purpose;  for,  after  all, 
those  quorums  exist  for  us,  their  members.  They  are  supposed  to 
offer  the  means  of  bringing  us  as  near  as  possible  to  a  state  of 
perfection  so  that  we  can  always  be  worthy  to  go  into  the  temple 
of  God  and  receive  there  the  wonderful  ordinances  which  are  the 
gifts  of  the  priesthood  of  God. 

I  pray  that  we  may  have  that  type  of  testimony  in  our  hearts 
as  leaders  of  the  priesthood  and  as  members  of  it,  for  it  is  the 
greatest  and  grandest  power  under  heaven  that  has  ever  been 
given  to  man. 

I  bear  you  this  testimony  as  it  comes  from  the  bottom  of  my 
heart,  brothers  and  sisters.  God  bless  you.  Amen. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

President  Antoine  R.  Ivins  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  has 
just  spoken. 


ELDER  JUNE  B.  SHARP 


29 


Brother  June  B.  Sharp,  past  president  of  the  South  African 
Mission — and  I  may  say  that  he  has  been  home  for  some  time  past, 
and  this  is  the  first  opportunity  we  have  had  of  hearing  from  him — 
Will  talk  to  us  now. 

ELDER  JUNE  B.  SHARP 

Former  President  of  the  South  African  Mission 

I  can  assure  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  it  is  with  fear  and 
trembling  I  stand  before  you  and  in  the  spirit  of  deep  humility. 
Yesterday  I  attended  a  meeting  of  the  presidents  of  the  missions  in 
the  Temple.  It  was  a  day  of  feasting  and  a  day  of  testimony  bearing, 
the  like  of  which  I  have  never  enjoyed  before. 

I  want  to  assure  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  I  have  most 
thoroughly  enjoyed  my  experience  in  the  South  African  Mission. 
I  have  spent  eight  years  there  and  I  have  learned  to  love  the  people 
of  that  land,  to  know  their  ways,  and  to  appreciate  their  fineness. 
Many  of  you  think  of  Africa  as  being  the  dark  continent  and  of  the 
animals  and  of  the  natives,  but  for  three  hundred  years  the  white 
people  have  been  settling  in  that  land  and  they  have  been  doing  a 
wonderful  work.  Many  of  our  relatives  are  there  who  fled  to  that 
land  for  religious  freedom,  even  as  many  of  our  ancestors  fled  to 
this  land  that  they  might  be  able  to  worship  God  according  to  the 
dictates  of  their  own  conscience.  And  when  I  think  of  mingling  with 
fine  men  like  Brother  Thomas  Wilson,  and  fine  women  like  Sister 
Johanna  Fouire  and  her  husband,  who  some  day  will  become  a  mem- 
ber of  this  Church,  I  rejoice,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  in  the  choice  men 
and  women,  sons  and  daughters  of  God,  who  have  accepted  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  that  land. 

Generally  speaking,  the  missionaries  there  are  well.  They  are 
doing  a  fine  work.  They  are  searching  out  the  honest  in  heart,  and 
the  Lord  is  blessing  them  richly,  accordingly  as  they  serve  him  and 
are  diligent  in  the  work  that  is  theirs  to  do. 

I  am  grateful  and  happy  in  the  testimony  of  the  gospel  that  I 
bear,  for  I  know  with  every  fiber  of  my  being  that  it  is  true,  and  I 
feel  something  like  David  of  old  when  he  stood  before  the  giant.  The 
giant  told  him:  'Am  I  a  dog  that  thou  comest  to  me  with  a  staff 
and  a  stave?" 

And  David  said  to  him:  "I  come  to  thee  in  the  name  of  Israel's 
God."  And  in  that  power  and  in  that  strength  David  was  blessed 
that  he  could  accomplish  the  purpose  and  the  mission  that  was  given 
to  him. 

When  I  went  into  the  South  African  Mission  I  went  there 
feeling  that  certainly  unless  the  Lord  blessed  me  as  he  did  Nephi  of 
old  I  could  never  accomplish  the  work  that  was  mine  to  do.  And 
as  experiences  came  and  as  responsibilities  came,  I  bear  witness  to 


30  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Dag 

you,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that  so  also  came  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
to  guide  and  direct  and  assist  in  the  work  that  was  ours  to  do. 

All  the  days  of  my  life  I  shall  be  grateful  for  that  experience. 
All  the  days  of  my  life  I  shall  never  be  able  to  repay  this  great 
Church  for  the  blessings  I  have  received  in  the  callings  that  have  been 
mine,  and  I  hope  and  pray  that  I  shall  always  express  my  gratitude 
and  show  by  my  actions  the  gratitude  that  I  bear  for  the  privileges 
and  the  opportunities  that  have  been  mine. 

I  honor  and  sustain  these  my  brethren  with  all  my  heart  and  soul, 
and  I  honor  them  in  their  great  and  high  calling,  and  I  do  it  humbly, 
and  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Choir  sang  "How  Lovely  Is 
Thy  Dwelling  Place." 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  William  F. 
Edwards  of  the  New  York  Stake,  after  which  this  conference 
will  stand  adjourned  until  two  o'clock  this  afternoon.  The  pro- 
ceedings of  that  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL  of  Salt  Lake 
City,  and  by  arrangement  with  KSL  over  the  other  stations  that 
you  are  now  listening  to.  The  conference  will  also  be  broadcast 
over  television  station,  KSL,  channel  5. 

Any  important  messages  and  calls  that  have  come  to  us  for 
persons  supposed  to  be  in  attendance  at  the  conference  will  be  an- 
announced  at  the  dismissal  of  the  meeting  over  the  loud  speaking 
system  on  the  grounds.  Everyone  will  do  well  to  listen  carefully 
to  such  announcements. 

The  choir  music  for  this  session  has  been  furnished  by  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Choir,  with  Elder  John  R.  Halliday 
conducting  and  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

The  benediction  will  be  pronounced  by  President  William  F. 
Edwards  of  the  New  York  Stake. 


President  William  F.  Edwards  of  the  New  York  Stake  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 

FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  second  session  of  the  Conference  convened  in  the  Taber- 
nacle at  2:00  p.m.,  April  6. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

This  is  the  second  session  of  the  One  Hundred  Twentieth  An- 
nual Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 


/ 


PRESIDENT  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  31 

We  are  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah. 

President  Smith  is  presiding  and  he  has  asked  the  one  speak- 
ing, President  Clark,  to  conduct  the  services. 

These  services  will  be  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  over  a 
loud  speaking  system  and  by  television.  All  general  sessions  of 
the  Conference  will  be  seen  and  heard  in  the  Assembly  Hall  in 
the  same  way. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  Station 
KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the 
following  stations: 

In  Utah:  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KJAM  at 
Vernal,  KVNU  at  Logan. 

In  Idaho:  KGEM  at  Boise,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at  Poca- 
tello,  KBIO  at  Burley. 

In  Oregon:  KBKR  at  Baker,  KSRV  at  Ontario. 

And  by  transcription:  KTYL  at  Mesa,  Arizona,  and  KEXO  at 
Grand  Junction,  Colorado. 

This  session  will  also  be  televised  over  the  KSL  television  sta- 
tion, channel  5. 

The  choir  singing  for  this  session  will  be  by  the  Brigham 
Young  University  Choir,  with  Elder  Newell  Weight  conducting, 
and  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper,  at  the  organ. 

We  will  begin  the  services  by  the  Brigham  Young  University 
Choir  rendering  "Christ,  the  Lord,  Is  Risen  Today." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  A.  Lewis 
Elggren  of  the  Liberty  Stake,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 


Singing  by  the  Brigham  Young  University  Choir,  "Christ, 
the  Lord,  Is  Risen  Today." 

President  A.  Lewis  Elggren  of  the  Liberty  Stake  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Choir  sang,  "The  Heavens 
Resound." 

President  Clark: 

President  David  O.  McKay  of  the  First  Presidency  will  be 
the  first  speaker  this  afternoon. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Most  sincerely  I  join  President  George  Albert  Smith  in  ex- 
pressing appreciation  for  the  inspirational  singing  furnished  us 
this  day  by  the  Brigham  Young  University  students,  and  equally 
inspirational  is  their  presence  here — three  hundred  and  twenty 
young  men  and  young  women  devoting  their  service  willingly. 


32  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Day 

gladly,  to  the  inspiring  and  upbuilding  of  the  members  of  the 
Church  in  attendance  at  this  conference. 

Anchored  to  the  Truth 

I  feel  impressed  to  say  to  you  young  folks  that  I  know  of  no 
greater  blessing  you  can  receive  than  to  be  anchored  to  the  truth, 
and  by  that  I  mean  three  things:  First,  always  to  feel  a  surety 
that  this  Church  is  divinely  guided.  Second,  that  the  Lord  has 
authorized  his  servants  and  placed  upon  them  the  duty  to  pro- 
claim to  the  world  the  restoration  and  truth  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Third,  and  most  applicable  to  us  all,  that  inspiration  from 
the  Lord  is  a  reality,  just  as  real  as  the  love  each  one  of  us  has 
for  his  loved  ones.  Young  men  and  young  women,  God  bless  you 
that  this  testimony  may  be  yours  as  it  is  mine  this  day! 

Individual  Liberty 

.  .  .  Remember,  my  brethren,  ...  ye  are  free;  ye  are  permitted  to  act 
for  yourselves;  for  behold,  God  hath  given  unto  you  a  knowledge  and  he 
hath  made  you  free.  (Helaman  14:30.) 

These  words  taken  from  the  Book  of  Helaman  indicate  the 
purport  of  what  I  should  like  to  say  this  afternoon.  I  pray  for  his 
inspiration  and  your  sympathy  and  prayers  that  I  may  give  this 
message  in  accordance  with  his  will. 

Next  to  the  bestowal  of  life  itself,  the  right  to  direct  that  life 
is  God's  greatest  gift  to  man.  Among  the  immediate  obligations 
and  duties  resting  upon  members  of  the  Church  today,  and  one  of 
the  most  urgent  and  pressing  for  attention  and  action  of  all  liberty- 
loving  people,  is  the  preservation  of  individual  liberty.  Freedom 
of  choice  is  more  to  be  treasured  than  any  possession  earth  can 
give.  It  is  inherent  in  the  spirit  of  man.  It  is  a  divine  gift  to  every 
normal  being.  Whether  born  in  abject  poverty  or  shackled  at 
birth  by  inherited  riches,  everyone  has  this  most  precious  of  all 
life's  endowments — the  gift  of  free  agency;  man's  inherited  and 
inalienable  right. 

Free  agency  is  the  impelling  source  of  the  soul's  progress.  It 
is  the  purpose  of  the  Lord  that  man  become  like  him.  In  order  for 
man  to  achieve  this  it  was  necessary  for  the  Creator  first  to  make 
him  free.  "Personal  liberty,"  says  Bulwer-Lytton,  "is  the  para- 
mount essential  to  human  dignity  and  human  happiness." 

The  poet  summarizes  the  value  of  this  principle  as  follows: 

Know  this,  that  every  soul  is  free 
To  choose  his  life  and  what  he'll  be, 
For  this  eternal  truth  is  given, 
That  God  will  force  no  man  to  heaven. 

He'll  call,  persuade,  direct  aright — ■ 
And  bless  with  wisdom,  love  and  light — 
In  nameless  ways  be  good  and  kind, 
But  never  force  the  human  mind. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  MCKAY 


33 


Freedom  and  reason  make  us  men; 
Take  these  away,  what  are  we  then? 
Mere  animals,  and  just  as  well 
The  beasts  may  think  of  heav'n  or  hell. 

— William  C.  Gregg 

With  free  agency  there  comes  responsibility.  If  a  man  is  to 
be  rewarded  for  righteousness  and  punished  for  evil,  then  com- 
mon justice  demands  that  he  be  given  the  power  of  independent 
action.  A  knowledge  of  good  and  evil  is  essential  to  man's  prog- 
ress on  earth.  If  he  were  coerced  to  do  right  at  all  times,  or  were 
helplessly  enticed  to  commit  sin,  he  would  merit  neither  a  blessing 
for  the  first  nor  punishment  for  the  second. 

Says  the  Prophet  Lehi, 

Wherefore,  the  Lord  God  gave  unto  man  that  he  should  act  for  him- 
self. Wherefore,  man  could  not  act  for  himself  save  it  should  be  that  he 
was  enticed  by  the  one  or  the  other.  .  .  . 

Wherefore,  men  are  free  according  to  the  flesh;  and  all  things  are 
given  them  which  are  expedient  unto  man.  And  they  are  free  to  choose 
liberty  and  eternal  life,  through  the  great  mediation  of  all  men,  or  to 
choose  captivity  and  death,  according  to  the  captivity  and  power  of  the 
devil;  for  he  seeketh  that  all  men  might  be  miserable  like  unto  himself. 
(II  Nephi  2:16-27.) 

Man's  Responsibility 

There  is  more  of  that  in  II  Nephi  to  which  I  call  your  attention. 

Thus  we  see  that  man's  responsibility  is  correspondingly  op- 
erative with  his  free  agency.  Actions  in  harmony  with  divine  law 
and  the  laws  of  nature  will  bring  happiness,  and  those  in  opposi- 
tion to  divine  truth,  misery.  Man  is  responsible  not  only  for  every 
deed,  but  also  for  every  idle  word  and  thought.  Said  the  Savior: 

.  .  .  every  idle  word  that  men  shall  speak  they  shall  give  account 
thereof  in  the  day  of  judgment.  (Matthew  12:36.) 

As  a  boy  I  questioned  that  truth  when  I  first  heard  it  ex- 
pressed by  my  father.  I  remember  saying  to  myself,  "Not  even  the 
Lord  knows  what  I  am  thinking  now."  I  was  very  much  surprised, 
therefore,  when  later  as  a  student  in  the  university,  I  read  the 
following  in  [William]  James'  psychology  about  the  effect  of 
thought  and  action  on  human  character.  I  am  giving  it  today  for 
the  young  people  particularly: 

SPINNING  OUR  OWN  FATES 

We  are  spinning  our  own  fates  good  or  evil,  and  never  to  be  un- 
done. Every  smallest  stroke  of  virtue  or  of  vice  leaves  its  ever  so  little 
scar.  The  drunken  Rip  Van  Winkle,  in  Jefferson's  play,  excuses  him- 
self for  every  fresh  dereliction  by  saying,  "I  won't  count  this  time." 
Well!  he  may  not  count  it,  and  a  kind  Heaven  may  not  count  it;  but  it  is 
being  counted  none  the  less.  Down  among  his  nerve-cells  and  fibers  the 
molecules  are  counting  it,  registering  and  storing  it  up  to  be  used  against 
-  him  when  the  next  temptation  comes.  Nothing  we  ever  do  is,  in  strict 
scientific  literalness,  wiped  out.  Of  course,  this  has  its  good  side  as 
well  as  its  bad  one.    As  we  become  permanent  drunkards  by  so  many 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Dag 


separate  drinks,  so  we  become  saints  in  the  moral,  and  authorities  and 
experts  in  the  practical  and  scientific  spheres,  by  so  many  separate  acts  and 
hours  of  work.  Let  no  youth  have  any  anxiety  about  the  upshot  of  his 
education,  whatever  the  line  of  it  may  be.  If  he  keep  faithfully  busy  each 
hour  of  the  working  day,  he  may  safely  leave  the  final  result  to  itself. 
He  can  with  perfect  certainty  count  on  waking  up  some  fine  morning,  to 
find  himself  one  of  the  competent  ones  of  his  generation,  in  whatever  pur- 
suit he  may  have  singled  out.  Silently,  between  all  the  details  of  his 
business,  the  power  of  judging  in  all  that  class  of  matter  will  have  built 
ttself  up  within  him  as  a  possession  that  will  never  pass  away.  Young 
people  should  know  this  truth  in  advance.  The  ignorance  of  it  has  prob- 
ably engendered  more  discouragement  and  faint-heartedness  in  youths 
embarking  on  arduous  careers  than  all  other  causes  put  together.* 


There  is  another  responsibility  correlated  and  even  coexistent 
with  free  agency,  which  is  too  infrequently  emphasized,  and  that 
is  the  effect  not  only  of  a  person's  actions  but  also  of  his  thoughts 
upon  others.  Man  radiates  what  he  is,  and  that  radiation  affects 
to  a  greater  or  less  degree  every  person  who  comes  within  that 
radiation. 

Of  the  power  of  this  personal  influence  William  George 
Jordan  impressively  writes: 

Into  the  hands  of  every  individual  is  given  a  marvelous  power  for 
good  or  evil — the  silent,  unconscious,  unseen  influence  of  his  life.  This 
is  simply  the  constant  radiation  of  what  man  really  is,  not  what  he  pre- 
tends to  be.  Every  man,  by  his  mere  living,  is  radiating  sympathy,  or 
sorrow,  or  morbidness,  or  cynicism,  or  happiness,  or  hope,  or  any  of  a 
hundred  other  qualities.  Life  is  a  state  of  constant  radiation  and  ab- 
sorption; to  exist  is  to  radiate;  to  exist  is  to  be  the  recipient  of  radiation. 

Man  cannot  escape  for  one  moment  from  this  radiation  of  his  charac- 
ter, this  constantly  weakening  or  strengthening  of  others.  He  cannot 
evade  the  responsibility  by  saying  it  is  an  unconscious  influence.  He  can 
select  the  qualities  that  he  will  permit  to  be  radiated.  He  can  cultivate 
sweetness,  calmness,  trust,  generosity,  truth,  justice,  loyalty,  nobility — - 
make  them  vitally  active  in  his  character — and  by  these  qualities  he  will 
constantly  affect  the  world. 


Freedom  of  the  will  and  the  responsibility  associated  with  it 
are  fundamental  aspects  of  Jesus'  teachings.  Throughout  his  min- 
istry he  emphasized  the  worth  of  the  individual,  and  exemplified 
what  is  now  expressed  in  modern  revelation  as  the  work  and  glory 
of  God — "To  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man." 
Only  through  the  divine  gift  of  soul  freedom  is  such  progress 
possible. 

Force,  on  the  other  hand,  emanates  from  Lucifer  himself.  Even 
in  man's  pre-existent  state,  Satan  sought  power  to  compel  the 
human  family  to  do  his  will  by  suggesting  that  the  free  agency  of 
man  be  inoperative.  If  his  plan  had  been  accepted,  human  beings 
would  have  become  mere  puppets  in  the  hands  of  a  dictator,  and 


Personal  Influence 


Progress  Through  Freedom 


"Psychology,  Henry  Holt  &  Co.,  N.  Y.  1892,  p.  150. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  MCKAY  35 


the  purpose  of  man's  coming  to  earth  would  have  been  frustrated. 
Satan's  proposed  system  of  government,  therefore,  was  rejected, 
and  the  principle  of  free  agency  established  in  its  place. 

Force  Rules  Today 

Force  rules  in  the  world  today;  consequently,  our  government 
must  keep  armies  abroad,  build  navies  and  air  squadrons,  create 
atom  bombs  to  protect  itself  from  threatened  aggression  of  a  na- 
tion which  seems  to  listen  to  no  other  appeal  but  compulsion. 

Individual  freedom  is  threatened  by  international  rivalries, 
inter-racial  animosities,  and  false  political  ideals.  Unwise  legisla- 
tion, too  often  prompted  by  political  expediency,  is  periodically 
being  enacted  that  seductively  undermines  man's  right  of  free 
agency,  robs  him  of  his  rightful  liberties,  and  makes  him  but  a 
cog  in  the  crushing  wheel  of  a  regimentation  which,  if  persisted 
in,  will  end  in  dictatorship. 

The  Magna  Carta,  signed  by  King  John  at  Runnymeade,  June 
15,  1215,  was  an  expression  of  freedom-loving  men  against  a 
usurping  king.  It  was  a  guarantee  of  civil  and  personal  liberty. 
These  guarantees  later  found  fuller  and  complete  expression  in 
the  Constitution  of  the  United  States.  Today,  seven  hundred 
years  later,  consider  what  is  happening  in  Great  Britain!  With 
nationalization  of  industries,  planned  economy,  control  of  all  pro- 
ductive power,  including  persons  and  property,  that  country  of 
liberty-loving  people  is  on  the  verge  of  a  totalitarian  state  as  dic- 
tatorial as  that  which  the  feudal  barons  and  the  people  wrested 
from  King  John.  People  are  bargaining  their  liberty  for  a  chimera 
of  equality  and  security,  not  realizing  that  the  more  power  you 
give  the  central  government,  the  more  you  curtail  your  individual 
freedom. 

Governments  the  Servants 

Governments  are  the  servants,  not  the  masters  of  the  people. 
All  who  love  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  can  vow  with 
Thomas  Jefferson,  who,  when  he  was  president,  said, 

I  have  sworn  upon  the  altar  of  God  eternal  hostility  against  every 
form  of  tyranny  over  the  mind  of  man. 

He  later  said: 

To  preserve  our  independence,  we  must  not  let  our  rulers  load  us  with 
perpetual  debt.  We  must  take  our  choice  between  economy  and  liberty, 
or  profusion  and  servitude.  If  we  run  into  such  debts,  we  must  be  taxed 
in  our  meat  and  drink,  in  our  necessities  and  in  our  comforts,  in  our  labors 
and  in  our  amusements.  '  ' 

If  we  can  prevent  the  government  from  wasting  the  labors  of  the 
people  under  pretense  of  caring  for  them,  they  will  be  happy.  The  same 
prudence  which  in  private  life  would  forbid  our  paying  our  money  for 
unexplained  projects,  forbids  it  in  the  disposition  of  public  money.  We 
are  endeavoring  to  reduce  the  government  to  the  practice  of  rigid  economy 
to  avoid  burdening  the  people  and  arming  the  magistrate  with  a  patron- 


36  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  Pitst  Day 

age  of  money  which  might  be  used  to  corrupt  the  principles  of  our  gov- 
ernment. 

Freedom  of  Worship 

This  principle  of  free  agency  and  the  right  of  each  individual 
to  be  free  not  only  to  think  but  also  to  act  within  bounds  that 
grant  to  every  one  else  the  same  privilege,  are  sometimes  violated 
even  by  churches  that  claim  to  teach  the  doctrine  of  Jesus  Christ. 
The  attitude  of  any  organization  toward  this  principle  of  freedom 
is  a  pretty  good  index  to  its  nearness  to  the  teachings  of  Christ 
or  to  those  of  the  Evil  One.  For  example,  I  read  recently  the 
statement  of  a  leading  clergyman  who  claimed  the  divine  right  of 
his  church,  wherever  it  was  in  power,  to  prohibit  any  other  church 
from  promulgating  its  doctrine.  .  .  .  And,  "if  religious  minorities 
actually  exist,  they  shall  have  only  a  de  facto  existence  without 
opportunity  to  spread  their  beliefs." 

He  who  thus  tramples  underfoot  one  of  God's  greatest  gifts 
to  man,  who  would  deny  another  the  right  to  think  and  worship 
as  he  pleases,  propagates  error  and  makes  his  own  church  in  that 
regard  as  far  as  he  represents  it  a  propagator  of  evil. 

Contrast  this  unchristian-like  stand  with  the  statement  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith: 

We  claim  the  privilege  of  worshiping  Almighty  God  according  to 
the  dictates  of  our  own  conscience,  and  allow  all  men  the  same  privilege, 
let  them  worship  how,  where,  or  what  they  may.  (Eleventh  Article  of 
Faith.) 

Revelation  on  Government 

And,  again,  in  one  of  the  greatest  revelations  on  government 
ever  given,  we  read  the  following: 

That  the  rights  of  the  priesthood  are  inseparably  connected  with  the 
powers  of  heaven,  and  that  the  powers  of  heaven  cannot  be  controlled 
nor  handled  only  upon  the  principles  of  righteousness. 

That  they  may  be  conferred  upon  us,  it  is  true;  but  when  we  under- 
take to  cover  our  sins,  or  to  gratify  our  pride,  our  vain  ambition,  or  to 
exercise  control  or  dominion  or  compulsion  upon  the  souls  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men,  in  any  degree  of  unrighteousness,  behold,  the  heavens  with- 
draw themselves;  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  grieved;  and  when  it  is  with- 
drawn. Amen  to  the  priesthood  or  the  authority  of  that  man. 

No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of 
the  priesthood,  only  by  persuasion,  by  long-suffering,  by  gentleness  and 
meekness,  and  by  love  unfeigned; 

By  kindness,  and  pure  knowledge,  which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the  soul 
without  hypocrisy,  and  without  guile — 

Reproving  betimes  with  sharpness,  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy 
Ghost;  and  then  showing  forth  afterwards  an  increase  of  love  toward 
him  whom  thou  hast  reproved,  lest  he  esteem  thee  to  be  his  enemy; 

That  he  may  know  that  thy  faithfulness  is  stronger  than  the  cords 
of  death. 

Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  charity  towards  all  men,  and  to  the 
household  of  faith,  and  let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts  unceasingly;  then 
shall  thy  confidence  wax  strong  in  the  presence  of  God;  and  the  doctrine 
of  the  priesthood  shall  distil  upon  thy  soul  as  the  dews  from  heaven. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  MCKAY  37 

The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  constant  companion,  and  thy  scepter 
an  unchanging  scepter  of  righteousness  and  truth;  and  thy  dominion  shall 
be  an  everlasting  dominion,  and  without  compulsory  means  it  shall  flow 
unto  thee  forever  and  ever.  (D.  &  C.  121:36-37;  41-46.) 

If  you  can  find  more  sublime  thoughts  anywhere  in  literature 
than  expressed  in  that  great  revelation,  please  let  me  know  where 
they  are. 

Preservation  of  Freedom 

In  conclusion,  I  repeat  that  no  greater  immediate  responsi- 
bility rests  upon  members  of  the  Church,  upon  all  citizens  of  this 
Republic  and  of  neighboring  Republics  than  to  protect  the  freedom 
vouchsafed  by  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States. 

Let  us,  by  exercising  our  privileges  under  the  Constitution — 

(1)  Preserve  our  right  to  worship  God  according  to  the  dic- 
tates of  our  conscience, 

(2)  Preserve  the  right  to  work  when  and  where  we  choose. 
No  free  man  should  be  compelled  to  pay  tribute  in  order  to  realize 
this  God-given  privilege.  Read  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
this  statement: 

...  it  is  not  right  that  any  man  should  be  in  bondage  one  to  another. 
(Ibid.,  101:79.) 

(3)  Feel  free  to  plan  and  to  reap  without  the  handicap  of 
bureaucratic  interference. 

(4)  Devote  our  time,  means,  and  life  if  necessary,  to  hold 
inviolate  those  laws  which  will  secure  to  each  individual  the  free 
exercise  of  conscience,  the  right  and  control  of  property,  and  the 
protection  of  life. 

To  sum  up  this  whole  question:  In  these  days  of  uncertainty 
and  unrest,  liberty-loving  people's  greatest  responsibility  and 
paramount  duty  is  to  preserve  and  proclaim  the  freedom  of  the 
individual,  his  relationship  to  Deity,  and,  (repeating  the  message  of 
our  President,  to  which  I  subscribe  with  all  my  soul)  the  necessity 
of  obedience  to  the  principles  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ — only 
thus  will  mankind  find  peace  and  happiness: 

...  If  ye  continue  in  my  word,  then  are  ye  my  disciples  indeed; 
And  ye  shall  know  the  truth,  and  the  truth  shall  make  you  free. 
(John  8:31-32.) 

God  enlighten  our  minds  to  comprehend  our  responsibility, 
to  proclaim  the  truth  and  maintain  freedom  throughout  the  world, 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

President  Smith,  President  Clark,  President  McKay,  my  dear 
brothers  and  sisters,  friends  of  the  radio  and  television  audience,  I 


38  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday.  April  6  Fit't  Dtp 

sincerely  ask  you  for  an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers,  because 
I  need  that  sustaining  power. 

I  confess  to  you,  and  I  confess  to  all  of  the  young  people  of 
the  Church  that  I  have  humbly  prayed  and  fasted  for  the  blessings  of 
the  Lord  while  I  should  speak  to  you.  I  want  to  bear  testimony  to 
you,  humbly  and  sincerely,  that  I  couldn't  say  anything  worth  while, 
I  am  sure,  without  the  blessings  of  the  Lord. 

I  know  that  God  hears  and  answers  prayers.  I  know  that  he 
sustains  us  in  righteousness  and  in  humility.  Without  him  we  cannot 
succeed,  and  with  him  we  cannot  fail. 

Purpose  of  Conference 

We  have  met  here  as  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  to  worship  God,  our  Eternal  Father,  and  to  bear 
testimony  as  to  the  truth  of  this  work.  We  have  assembled  to  re- 
ceive counsel  and  advice,  given  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord. 
We  come  here  to  this  great  Tabernacle  conference  after  con- 
ference because  we  know  that  God  lives,  and  we  are  anxious  and 
happy  to  bear  that  testimony  to  the  world. 

Many  who  cannot  attend  this  conference  listen  to  the  radio, 
others  see  on  television,  and  thousands  of  others  will  read  the  pro- 
ceedings of  the  conference.  We  come  here  not  for  any  selfish 
reason;  we  come  here  in  humility;  we  come  here  and  assemble  in 
the  name  of  our  Lord,  Jesus  Christ,  and  the  Lord  has  said  to  us,  as 
President  Smith  reported  this  morning,  and  quoted, 

For  where  two  or  three  are  gathered  together  in  my  name,  there 
am  I  in  the  midst  of  them,  (Matthew  18:20.) 

and  his  Spirit  is  here  with  us,  and  it  has  been  with  us  today  in  rich 
abundance. 

There  isn't  anyone  who  attends  these  conferences  or  any  con- 
ferences of  the  Church  in  the  stakes  of  Zion  but  who  can  partake  of 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  if  he  will  come  to  those  conferences  humbly. 
We  come  here  together  in  prayer,  extending  thanksgiving  to  God, 
our  Father.  We  come  here  to  thank  him  for  the  blessings  that  we 
enjoy  as  a  Church,  and  I  am  referring  to  the  entire  membership  of 
the  Church.  We  should  try  to  be  truly  grateful  and  loyal  to  the 
Church,  first  and  always. 

We  come  here  to  unite  our  faith.  We  come  here  to  pray  to 
God  our  Father  for  the  blessings  of  the  world  at  large.  We  pray 
for  the  sick  and  the  needy  and  the  poor,  for  those  who  are  dis- 
couraged. We  pray  for  the  inactive.  We  love  all  men,  and  we  love 
God  our  Eternal  Father. 

Testimonies 

I  have  enjoyed  so  much  visiting  the  stakes  of  the  Church,  listen- 
ing to  the  testimonies  given  at  these  stake  conferences,  and  my  testi- 
mony has  been  strengthened.    My  faith  has  been  made  strong  be- 


ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON  39 


cause  I  have  listened  to  men  bear  testimony  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord,  Jesus  Christ. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  privilege  of  coming  among  you  in  the 
stakes,  for  your  kindnesses  and  your  tolerance  and  your  courtesies 
extended  to  us.   As  Nephi  said, 

...  I  will  go  and  do  the  things  which  the  Lord  hath  commanded,  for 
I  know  that  the  Lord  giveth  no  commandments  unto  the  children  of  men, 
save  he  shall  prepare  a  way  for  them  that  they  may  accomplish  the  things 
that  he  has  commanded  them.  (I  Nephi  3:7.) 

Yesterday  we  had  the  privilege  of  going  to  the  temple  and 
listening  to  the  reports  of  the  mission  presidents,  and  oh,  how  I  wish 
the  world  could  listen  to  those  testimonies.  How  I  wish  all  of  the 
membership  of  the  Church  could  have  heard  their  testimonies,  and 
seen  their  great  faith,  their  love  for  the  Church,  and  their  love  for 
the  service,  and  their  great  affection  for  your  boys  and  girls,  their 
missionaries.  Truly  they  are  servants  of  God,  and  he  has  blessed 
them  and  magnified  them.  They  live  very  close  to  the  Lord.  You 
can't  listen  to  them  but  what  you  know  that  they  are  partaking  of 
his  Spirit  very  richly  each  day  of  their  lives.  The  spirit  and  the 
power  they  possess  could  come  only  to  those  serving  God  and  their 
Eternal  Father  with  all  their  heart,  might,  mind,  and  strength. 

Miracles  Today 

Miracles  are  performed  today.  The  power  of  healing  is  in  the 
priesthood  and  in  the  Church.  Some  wonder  whether  or  not  mira- 
cles are  performed  today.  If  they  could  hear  the  testimonies  of 
these  missionaries  in  the  stakes  and  these  mission  presidents,  they 
would  have  no  reason  ever  to  wonder  about  miracles.  But  some- 
times our  faith  is  not  strong  enough.  Sometimes  we  are  too  weak 
to  accept  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  as  miracles.  Sometimes  we  are 
inclined  to  call  them  just  a  coincidence.  Sometimes  we  say,  "Oh, 
it's  just  one  of  those  things."  That's  because  our  faith  is  not  strong 
enough  to  recognize  the  hand  of  the  Lord  in  these  miracles  and  the 
healing  power  of  the  priesthood  that  is  in  the  world  today. 

Magnified  in  Service 

I  want  to  bear  testimony  that  when  men  are  called  to  work  in 
the  ministry  of  the  Lord,  if  they  will  accept  these  calls  in  humility, 
they  will  have  no  need  to  worry.  I  am  very  deeply  impressed  when 
I  see  professional  men  and  businessmen  giving  of  their  time  and 
talent  in  the  service  of  the  Lord,  and  I  have  watched  them  magni- 
fied, and  I  have  seen  the  Lord  bless  them.  I  feel  sorry  for  the  man 
who  takes  upon  himself  the  feeling  that  he  hasn't  the  time  to  work 
in  the  service  when  he  is  called. 

There  are  many  men  who  may  be  inclined  not  to  accept  a  call 
when  it  comes  to  them.  There  are  men  who  feel  that  perhaps  they 
are  not  qualified,  but  I  want  to  bear  testimony  to  you  that  if  you 
will  accept  those  calls  in  humility  and  pray  to  God  your  Father 


40  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Day 

for  help  and  guidance  and  comfort,  he  will  not  forsake  you,  but 
he  will  make  you  capable  for  the  responsibilities  that  are  assigned 
to  you. 

Testimony  inspires  testimony,  and  faith  promotes  faith,  and 
most  of  us  gain  our  testimonies  through  prayer  and  through  work 
and  study,  and  I  think  that  is  as  it  should  be,  but  we  can  increase 
that  testimony  if  we  will  try  to  draw  close  to  God  our  Eternal 
Father,  and  have  faith  in  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ.  Faith  is  so  es- 
sential to  the  souls  of  men.  Sometimes  we  are  inclined  to  be  dis- 
couraged. Sometimes  we  are  inclined  to  feel  as  though  it  is  no  use, 
and  oh,  if  we  could  just  then  call  upon  the  Lord  for  his  help. 

Inactive  Members 

I  would  like  to  say  a  word  to  the  inactive  members  of  the 
Church  and  the  adult  members  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  It  is 
never  too  late  to  start  over  again.  When  men  are  discouraged, 
when  men  have  made  mistakes,  that's  the  time  they  should  go  to 
God  their  Eternal  Father  and  pray  to  him  with  all  their  hearts,  but 
sometimes  in  our  weak  moments,  we  may  feel  that  it's  no  use,  and 
then  we  just  draw  a  little  farther  away  from  the  Lord,  and  then 
perhaps  we  fail  to  feel  his  influence. 

It  is  not  always  easy  to  be  humble.  We  are  living  in  a  very 
busy  world,  in  a  world  where  there  are  so  many  things  that  may 
tend  to  take  our  minds  and  our  attention  away  from  the  things  that 
are  really  worth  while.  If  we  can  draw  close  to  the  Lord  and 
not  let  those  things  come  first,  I  am  sure  that  when  we  are  dis- 
couraged and  our  hearts  are  heavy,  we  will  have  the  strength  to 
feel  that  that's  the  time  we  should  go  to  the  Lord  and  ask  for 
his  blessings. 

Now  there  are  men  who  feel  that  they  have  perhaps  drawn  so 
far  away  from  the  Lord  that  they  can't  pray.  Sometimes  we  are 
careless  in  our  praying,  and  yet  we  have  been  designated  as  being 
a  praying  people,  and  we  want  always  to  stay  a  praying  people. 
I  would  like  to  encourage  those  men  who  are  not  as  prayerful  as 
they  might  be,  that  we  should  not  consider  prayer  as  a  duty.  We 
can  consider  prayer  as  a  privilege.  We  can  consider  prayer  as  a 
blessing.    We  can  consider  prayer  as  a  comfort. 

You  mean  to  tell  me  that  it  is  a  duty  to  commune  with  God, 
your  Eternal  Father?  If  that  isn't  a  comfort  and  if  that  isn't  a 
blessing  and  a  power  to  the  souls  of  men,  then  I  don't  know  where 
they  will  ever  receive  that  comfort  and  power. 

Yes,  "God  so  loved  the  world,"  and  that  love  is  so  sweet  and 
so  powerful,  so  comforting,  that  if  we  can  partake  of  it,  we  will 
receive  the  happiness  and  joy  we  never  receive  in  any  other  activity. 
I  would  say  to  men  who  perhaps  have  not  become  as  active  as 
they  might  be,  that  it  is  not  too  late  to  start  over  again.  You  can 
overcome  the  things  that  are  keeping  you  inactive  if  you  will  supply 
your  soul  with  that  spirit  that  comes  from  God  your  Eternal  Father, 


ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON  41 


and  he  will  give  you  the  power  and  the  desire  and  the  strength  to 
put  those  things  aside  that  perhaps  have  taken  you  from  activity  in 
the  Church,  when  perhaps  you  are  not  quite  so  close  to  the  Lord 
as  you  should  be. 

A  Way  of  Life 

Accepting  the  gospel,  and  accepting  the  Church,  and  living  the 
gospel  is  a  daily  way  of  life.  It  affords  man  that  something  that 
he  can't  get  anywhere  else.  It  is  not  alone  a  plan  of  eternal  salva- 
tion. It  is  the  comfort  and  the  happiness  that  every  man  loves  and 
craves. 

Let  us  live  so  that  the  Lord  will  not  leave  us  alone.  Let  us 
stay  so  close  to  him  that  we  can  go  to  him  with  all  our  problems.  I 
think  it  isn't  wrong  to  take  our  problems  to  the  Lord,  because  Presi- 
dent McKay  just  told  us  there  isn't  any  thought  or  any  act  that 
He  is  not  well  acquainted  with.  And  so  let's  humble  ourselves.  Let 
us  put  away  that  false  pride,  and  let  us  try  to  live  so  that  we  can 
have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  with  us  each  day  of  our  lives,  and  when 
our  day  is  over,  if  we've  made  mistakes,  and  probably  most  of  us 
will  make  mistakes  every  day,  we  can  go  to  the  Lord  and  acknowl- 
edge those  mistakes,  and  he  will  forgive  us,  and  he  will  help  us  to 
overcome  them. 

There  is  a  statement  that  has  given  me  some  happiness,  and 
I'd  like  to  repeat  it  to  you: 

O  may  we  empty  our  soul  to  God  our  Eternal  Father  so  he  will 
fill  it  again. 

Testimony 

I  want  to  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I  know  God  lives.  He 
has  blessed  me  so  abundantly,  I  can  never  repay  him  for  the  com- 
fort and  the  strength  that  I  have  received  from  him.  I  hope  that 
I  can  stay  humble  and  become  even  more  humble,  that  he  will  not 
leave  me,  but  that  he  will  stay  with  me  each  day  in  all  the  efforts  in 
righteousness  that  I  undertake  to  do. 

God  bless  each  of  you,  that  the  things  that  are  here  and  the 
things  that  you  will  read  and  every  talk  that  you  will  hear  may 
lodge  in  your  hearts  so  deeply  that  they  will  stay  with  you  the  rest 
of  your  lives.  God  bless  each  of  us  that  we  may  comfort  one  an- 
other, that  we  may  stay  close  to  God  our  Eternal  Father,  that  he 
will  magnify  us  in  our  callings,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brothers  and  sisters:  You  have  already  heard  much  today 
about  certain  trends  that  would  engulf  us  and  destroy  us.  As  Presi- 
dent McKay  was  talking  about  the  freedoms  which  we  seem  ever 
more  eager  to  exchange  for  bread,  my  thoughts  went  back  to  old 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Dag 


Israel,  who,  becoming  hungry,  went  south  to  Egypt  and  found  corn. 
That  corn  tasted  so  good  to  them  that  they  continued  eating  the  corn 
of  another  people.  Eventually  they  accepted  the  grain  and  the  security 
it  symbolized  in  full  payment  for  their  liberty.  Chains  and  abject 
slavery  came  to  them  and  to  their  children  and  their  children's  children. 
Their  suffering  accelerated  in  intensity  until  a  great  Moses,  under 
God,  came  to  emancipate  them.  Thank  the  Lord  for  a  deliverer! 
But  how  much  nobler  if  people  could  accept  the  advice  of  God's 
leaders  before  the  bondage  comes! 


Some  of  these  destructive  trends  remind  me  of  the  river  which 
drops  from  Niagara's  precipice.  Time  and  again  I  have  stood  on  the 
banks  of  this  river  far  above  the  falls  and  watched  its  waters  flow- 
ing normally  toward  the  sea.  At  this  point  a  small  craft,  manned 
by  strong  oarsmen,  could  be  controlled  and  sent  up  or  down  or  across 
the  stream.  I  watched  the  river  farther  downstream.  Having  started 
downward  there  is  no  stopping.  Faster  and  faster  it  goes,  splashing, 
boiling,  frothing.  The  boat  in  full  control  on  the  upper  reaches 
would  now  be  at  the  merciless  fury  of  the  lashing  stream.  Even 
strong  men  who  a  few  miles  above  could  control  their  movements, 
would  now,  at  the  nearing  of  the  falls,  lose  power  to  guide  their  boat 
to  safety.  Suffering,  sorrow,  and  destruction  are  inevitable  after  a 
certain  point  has  been  reached. 

Not  only  the  Israelites  but  more  modern  people  have  also  fallen 
victim  to  this  evil.  Our  pioneers  came  across  the  plains  and  developed 
a  great  commonwealth  here  by  their  toil  and  industry,  frugality, 
savings.  They  were  independent  of  all  agencies  except  the  Lord 
and  their  own  hands  and  efforts,  but  many  of  their  descendants  have 
embraced,  against  counsel,  the  destructive  philosophy  that  involved 
and  well-nigh  destroyed  the  ancients. 

In  the  figures  that  were  given  to  us  this  morning,  it  appeared  that 
many  people  had  relinquished  public  agency  assistance  and  had 
returned  to  their  own  efforts  and  to  the  Church  for  their  support. 
But  it  was  a  comparatively  small  number,  and  there  are  many  in  this 
Church  who,  even  yet,  join  the  hordes  outside  of  the  Church  to 
accept  gratuities  from  public  agencies. 


Some  Lamanites,  in  whom  I  am  greatly  interested,  have  fallen 
victim  to  the  same  enslaving  principle.  The  Lamanite  did  not,  like 
the  Israelite,  go  into  another  country  for  food.  He  remained  in  his 
own  country,  but  he  was  dispossessed  of  his  food.  His  conquerors 
took  from  him  his  means  of  livelihood  and  his  country  and  liberty; 
and  in  exchange  for  his  very  freedom  they  gave  to  him  reservations 
of  some  millions  of  acres,  generally  of  little  value.  In  a  hundred  years 
or  more  the  Indian  has  learned  quite  well  the  lesson  that  his  Israelitish 
brothers  taught  him  of  accepting  whatever  was  offered. 


Destructive  Trends 


Lamanites  Enslaved 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL  43 

He  is,  like  many  of  his  white  contemporaries,  dependent  and 
grasping.  But  he  was  not  ever  thus.  He,  like  our  pioneers,  in  the 
great  yesterday,  before  contaminated  by  these  influences  of  destruc- 
tion, was  quite  independent.  Read  his  scripture,  and  you  will  find 
that  for  hundreds  of  years  he  tilled  the  soil,  made  his  way,  and  lived 
in  peace  and  prosperity. 

Up  north  in  Canada,  about  a  half-century  ago,  Chief  Yellow 
Face  of  the  Crees  called  his  people  together  and  said,  "Don't  accept 
the  reservations  from  your  government,  for  when  you  accept  a  favor, 
you  always  pay,  and  you  pay  heavily." 

Independence  of  Mayas 

Down  in  the  far  south,  in  Maya  land,  the  Indian  was  self-sustain- 
ing. Dr.  Sylvanus  Morley  in  his  book,  The  Ancient  Mayas,  gives  us 
this  paragraph: 

Nor  are  the  Mayas  given  to  begging.  During  the  seventeen  years 
the  Carnegie  Institution  carried  on  archaeological  investigations  at  Chichen 
Itza,  a  free  medical  clinic  was  maintained  for  Indians  of  the  surrounding 
region,  medicines  being  distributed  among  them  without  charge.  Although 
the  Indians,  from  long  experience,  came  to  know  that  this  service  was 
free,  invariably  after  receiving  treatment  and  medicines  at  the  clinic,  they 
offered  to  pay  for  the  same,  and  when  payment  was  refused,  the  next 
time  they  visited  Chichen  Itza  they  would  bring  gifts  of  food — chickens, 
eggs,  deer  meat,  and  native  embroidery.  There  seemed  to  be  a  deepfelt 
desire  not  to  accept  something  for  nothing,  but  rather  to  repay  an  obliga- 
tion in  some  way. 

Loss  of  Liberties 

Down  along  the  Mexican  border  in  the  yesterdays,  even  the 
notorious  Apaches  were  quite  self-reliant.  They,  like  almost  all  the 
rest  of  their  countrymen,  have  become  dependent  now.  But  I  want 
to  quote  from  another  author.  Cochise,  the  great  warrior  and  man 
of  peace,  continued  his  lamentation  and  said: 

"Look  at  my  people."  This  was  after  he  had  been  placed  on  the 
reservation  given  to  them  in  exchange  for  all  that  they  possessed, 
including  their  liberty. 

Look  at  my  people.  Do  you  think  they  were  made  to  live  this  way,  on 
charity,  like  women?  No,  this  is  wrong.  My  warriors  have  hunted  their 
own  deer,  built  their  own  wickiups,  and  fed  their  own  children.  We  were 
like  the  animals  of  the  forest,  doing  all  for  ourselves,  but  now  we  wait 
for  our  food  to  be  given  to  us,  and  when  it  does  not  come  in  time,  we 
go  hungry.  Look,  look  at  my  people.  They  are  without  blankets.  We 
sit  like  rabbits  and  wait  until  the  white  man  gets  ready  to  feed  us. 

Hopi  Indians 

And  then  the  Hopi  in  northern  Arizona  is  an  example  to  us  all, 
and  we  can  learn  many  things  from  the  Indian.  Just  one  or  two  quota- 
tions from  an  author  and  a  great  student  of  the  Hopi  Indian,  Oliver 
LaFarge.*  He  says  that  the  orthodox  Hopi  also  resists  the  encroach - 

*  Quoted  from  a  letter  to  U.  S.  Government 


44 

Thursday.  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


ment  of  governmental  agencies  who  give  security  in  exchange  for 
liberties.  The  Indian  who  is  not  of  the  conservative  group,  it  is  held, 

can  no  longer  take  part  in  the  ceremonies  carried  on  by  the  "pure" 
members  of  the  tribe.  He  must  leave  the  religion  entirely.  Thus,  those 
members  of  the  Moenkopi  Village  who  accepted  allotments  of  fertile  land 
offered  them  by  the  government  many  years  ago,  were  immediately  con- 
sidered to  be  excommunicated,  and  they  themselves  accepted  this  be- 
lief. 

Later,  being  a  sizable  body,  they  took  up  the  practice  of  their  re- 
ligion again,  but  in  the  eyes  of  the  conservatives  they  are  still  excom- 
municated. Their  practice  of  ceremonies  is  considered  blasphemous,  and 
they  remain  cut  off  from  participation  in  the  common  efforts  of  the  com- 
munities nearest  to  them. 

And  I  quote  a  little  further: 

Indians  holding  this  belief  may  trade  with  the  white  man,  may  work 
for  him  and  earn  money,  (but  not  for  the  government),  may  use  the  white 
man's  material  and  goods,  but  they  may  not  take  relief  or  other  govern- 
mental handouts.  They  are  consistent  in  this.  The  Hotevilla  conservatives 
and  others  of  their  belief  have  not  accepted  relief,  have  always  insisted 
on  paying  for  clothing  issued  to  school  children,  and  so  forth.  Normal 
trade  is  one  thing;  any  action  indicating  acceptance  of  the  government's, 
to  them,  blasphemous  and  irreligious  plans  for  Indians,  is  entirely  different. 

This  whole  concept  seems  ridiculous  to  us,  but  it  is  vital  to  them. 
It  should  be  emphasized  that  it  is  not  a  self-serving  concept.  On  the  con- 
trary, it  is  a  belief  which  has  caused  them  to  endure  many  hardships  and 
for  which  they  are  prepared  to  endure  many  more.  Be  it  noted  that  under 
this  belief  the  extreme  conservatives  have  remained  the  most  self-re- 
specting, industrious  Indians  on  the  reservation,  denying  themselves  many 
assistances  offered  by  the  government,  determined  to  get  by  solely  on 
their  own  efforts.  They  are  orderly,  notably  industrious,  even  in  that 
industrious  tribe,  and  self-supporting. 

The  Lord  bless  the  Indians.  And,  brothers  and  sisters,  may  God 
bless  you  and  me  that  we  may  go  back  to  our  stakes  and  our  missions 
with  the  determination  to  pray  for  the  red  man  and  then  to  do  some- 
thing about  it  to  see  that  he  is  trained  in  the  ways  of  God;  that  he 
is  educated,  that  he  is  given  the  opportunities  he  so  richly  deserves 
after  this  long  period  of  suffering. 

This  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Choir  and  the  congregation 
sang  the  hymn,  "How  Firm  A  Foundation. 


If  one  were  not  disposed  to  have  humility  and  a  desire  for  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  I  think  that  climbing  the  eight  or  nine  steps  be- 
tween the  place  where  I  usually  sit  and  this  pulpit  would  soon  put 
it  into  him. 

I  desire  more  than  I  can  ever  express  to  have  an  interest  in  your 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy  and 
President  of  the  New  England  Mission 


ELDER  S.  DILWARTH  YOUNG  45 


prayers.  I  have  learned  from  experience  that  I  might  speak  to  you  of 
myself,  but  I  cannot  instruct  or  edify  you  or  myself  without  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord.  That  Spirit  I  desire.  Your  faith  in  my  behalf 
will  help. 

Missionary  Principles 

It  would  appear  to  me,  after  some  experience  in  the  mission  field, 
that  there  are  certain  principles  that  add  to  missionary  work,  without 
which  very  little  is  accomplished.  I  think  these  apply  to  all  missions, 
whether  a  missionary  be  walking  along  under  the  arches  of  the 
lovely  birches  of  New  England,  or  shelters  his  tired  body  in  the 
shadows  of  the  mesas  of  Arizona  on  a  visit  to  the  hogans  or  crosses 
the  South  Pacific  and  finds  housing  and  shelter  in  the  palm-fronded 
houses  of  the  Maoris  and  the  Hawaiians,  or  in  the  paper  homes  of 
the  Japanese. 

Because,  however,  I  am  connected  with  one  mission,  I  shall  apply 
it  to  my  own  mission  and  let  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  apply  it 
to  yourselves  and  to  those  places  which  you  serve. 

Love  of  Country 

One  must  feel  and  absorb  in  his  heart  the  country  to  which  he 
goes.  Not  only  must  he  know  the  oaks,  the  beeches,  the  birches,  and 
the  hills  of  the  White  Mountains  and  the  Green  Mountains,  not  only 
must  he  find  the  homes  and  the  hearthstones  of  the  inhabitants,  but 
he  must  also  learn  these  so  well  that  in  his  heart  he  substitutes  his 
love  for  his  own  home  temporarily,  for  a  devotion  to  the  land 
of  his  adoption,  even  though  it  be  for  only  a  year  or  two. 

I  love  these  native  hills  where  I  was  born.  The  tapestry  which 
the  Lord  God  hangs  upon  the  sides  of  these  mountains  in  the  fall 
thrills  me,  but  I  must  not  let  that  thrill  surmount  that  which  I  shall 
feel  when  I  walk  among  the  threads  of  another  tapestry  in  the  land 
to  which  I  am  called.  Not  only  must  I  love  and  enjoy  the  country  in 
which  I  labor,  but  I  must  also  learn  to  love  and  enjoy  the  people.  I 
cannot  have  one  feeling  of  ill-will  toward  any  man  in  the  New  England 
Mission  if  I  am  to  be  a  missionary  in  that  mission. 

Love  of  People 

I  must  even  develop  a  personal  love  for  the  people,  rich  or  poor. 
I  think  I  have  seen  about  as  much  of  poverty  there  as  anywhere.  I 
thought  one  time  when  I  went  into  a  poor  cabin  in  Louisiana  and  lived 
with  a  member  of  the  Church  on  corn  pone  and  milk  so  sour  that  one 
couldn't  pour  it  out  of  the  glass  that  I  had  found  the  ultimate.  That  is 
not  true.  There  are  homes  in  Maine,  New  Hampshire,  Vermont, 
which  are  even  poorer  than  that.  And  our  job  is  to  teach  those 
people  when  they  invite  us  in,  to  lift  them  up,  and  to  make  them  know 
that  the  gospel  saves  men. 

I  would  like  to  express  my  feelings  in  the  words  of  poetess 


46  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Dag 

Elizabeth  Hanly  Danforth,  who  has  written  about  these  people  and 
your  people  with  feeling.  May  I  quote: 

FIREWOOD 

The  second  crop  of  clover  is  mown, 

Grass  grown  tall  in  the  old  woods  road, 

Goldenrod  faded  in  every  rut. 

Haying  is  over  and  the  harvest  done, 

Barns  are  filled  and  the  swallows  flown, 

Gentians  blue  in  the  marshes  still. 

Brush  for  the  banking  must  be  cut. 

And  apples  go  to  the  cider  mill. 

Haying  is  over  and  harvest  done 

In  Hope  and  Union  and  Appleton, 

Little  and  lovely  and  honest  places 

( I  name  you  over,  one  by  one ) , 

St.  George,  Liberty,  Thomaston. 

In  a  world  grown  timid  I  think  of  you, 

Your  small  white  houses,  your  mighty  barns, 

Your  berry  pastures  that  once  I  knew, 

Your  stony  fields  with  their  browsing  sheep, 

Your  strong  old  men  with  their  quiet  faces, 

And  the  green  graveyards  where  my  people  sleep. 

Kingdoms  waver,  empires  fall, 

Summers  blossom,  and  summers  pass. 

Apples  gleam  in  the  orchard  grass, 

And  the  year  grows  tragic  and  tired  and  old. 

But  the  men  that  I  know  the  best  of  all, 

Old  Maine  men  with  patient  faces, 

Their  wood  stands  heaped  like  a  fortress  wall, 

Their  children  sleep  in  quiet  chambers, 

Their  fires  burn  against  the  cold, 

Their  rooms  are  sweet  with  the  smell  of  birch 

Rough  to  the  touch  with  its  curling  bark. 

Their  sheds  are  stacked  with  maple  and  oak, 

Their  windows  are  ruddy  in  the  dark. 

Blow  by  blow  and  stroke  by  stroke, 

Gnarled  and  deft  and  tireless  hands 

Have  raised  these  roof-trees,  walled  these  lands, 

Have  shaped  the  destiny  to  their  will 

Till  it  stands  four-square  to  every  shock. 

There  is  flame  at  the  heart  of  the  granite  rock, 

They  are  strong  with  the  strength  beyond  our  ken. 

God  be  praised  for  New  England  men.* 

You  may  apply  that  to  the  world.  Unless  the  missionaries  and 
you  and  I  feel  that  way  about  the  world,  we  cannot  succeed  in  teach- 
ing them  to  love  us. 

Attitude 

•The  second  thing  I  shall  briefly  mention  is  about  the  attitudes 
of  boys  and  girls  after  they  have  come  into  the  mission  field.  I  think 
I  can  best  tell  you  by  reading  to  you  extracts  from  two  letters  I  re- 


*  "Firewood,"  by  Elizabeth  Hanly  Danforth.  Courtesy  of  the  author  and 
Christian  Science  Monitor,  Feb.  4,  1950. 


ELDER  S.  DILWARTH  YOUNG 


47 


ceived.  Two  missionaries  found  one  truth,  and  reported  it  in  this 
way.  "We  are  experiencing  that  'one-mind-and-one-spirit'  feeling 
in  our  tracting  as  to  where  to  go  and  also  to  present  our  message. 
This  is  surely  a  more  efficient  way  of  missionary  work  than  before 
when  we  pu  lied  our  different  ways."  Two  boys  living  in  a  room, 
the  snow  piled  deep  outside,  the  thermometer  hovering  around  zero 
or  lower,  discover  that  in  unity  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  dwells  in  their 
hearts,  and  having  made  that  discovery  they  now  go  forth  and  do 
missionary  work  with  sufficient  power  not  to  be  refused. 

I  have  a  boy  in  a  far-off  place.  He  and  five  others  labor  there 
alone.  In  each  three-month  period  I  have  written  a  letter  to  this 
young  presiding  elder  and  said  to  him,  "Will  you  send  me  a  list  of 
the  names  of  the  missionaries  as  to  how  we  should  pair  them  off 
for  the  next  three  months?"  This  time  his  reply  was  (and  I  liked  it), 
"I  have  tried  pairing  the  names  of  my  brethren  and  myself  several 
times  in  various  ways.  The  list  I  now  enclose  is  the  best  that  I  believe 
that  I  can  do.  I  send  it  to  you  simply  because  the  Spirit  whispers 
peace." 

"The  Spirit  whispers  peace."  That  boy  has  found  the  key  to 
work  in  this  Church.  If  he  can  keep  it  all  of  his  life,  he  will  be  a 
power  for  good  wherever  he  goes. 

When  you  have  a  problem  facing  you,  and  you  can  pray  to  the 
Lord  God  about  it,  and  the  comforting  influence  of  the  Holy  Spirit 
comes  to  you,  and  the  Spirit  whispers  peace,  then  you  know  that  you 
are  on  the  right  track. 

May  all  missionaries  find  quickly  that  Spirit  that  whispers  peace. 

The  Folks  at  Home 

The  last  thing  that  I  would  talk  about  has  to  do  with  the  numbers 
we  have.  It  was  reported  this  morning  that  our  foreign  missionaries, 
that  is  the  missionaries  that  go  out  and  spend  full  time,  number 
between  four  and  five  thousand.  I'd  like  to  report  to  you  folk  that 
these  men  and  women  are  each  a  part  of  a  team  of  three.  If  there 
are  five  thousand  boys  in  the  mission  field,  there  are  nearly  ten 
thousand  others  who  are  one  with  them  in  their  rights  and  their 
privileges.  I  refer  to  the  folk  at  home,  those  patient  and  splendid 
mothers  and  fathers  who,  without  argument,  without  question,  send 
their  boys  the  wherewithal  to  do  whatsoever  the  mission  president 
asks  of  them.  Now  I  make  mistakes.  I  have  erred  in  judgment.  But 
I  have  never  yet  had  a  parent  write  and  tell  me  that  I  made  a  mistake. 
Each  has  always  said  "We'll  back  our  boy  to  the  limit." 

A  remarkable  thing  takes  place  when  a  boy  goes  into  the  mission 
field.  Not  only  does  he  become  sanctified  and  glorified  in  the  presence 
of  his  Father's  Spirit,  but  the  peace  of  our  Father  comes  also  upon 
his  parents'  home.  They  enjoy  the  sacrifice  as  much  as  does  he.  Is  he 
out  without  money?  Does  he  go  without  food?  Yea,  so  do  they,  and 
without  clothing,  too,  as  they  make  the  savings  bank  ring  with  the 
quarters  and  the  dollars  which  keep  him  in  the  field. 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  want  every  parent  to  know  that  so  far  as  I  am  concerned,  I 
would  do  nothing  to  hurt  their  boys,  and  I  shall  do  everything  I  can 
to  make  their  missionary  experiences  as  full  of  spirit  and  as  cheap 
financially  as  I  possibly  can  do.  I  would  court  their  letters  to  me 
expressing  their  feelings  and  letting  me  know  something  of  their 
situations  so  that  I  can  more  profitably  advise  their  boys  and  girls.  My 
colleagues  feel  the  same  way. 

Letter  from  Missionary 

May  I  read  you  a  part  of  a  letter?  I  believe  I  am  not  violating 
any  confidence  in  so  doing,  for  I  shall  not  tell  you  whose  it  is.  He 
will  recognize  it,  of  course,  when  he  reads  about  it  in  the  conference 
report,  but  he  won't  tell,  and  you'll  never  know. 

I  received  a  note  from  my  folks  yesterday,  and  in  answer  to  a  ques- 
tion I  had  asked  them  they  said  if  I  was  asked  to  stay  out  longer  they 
would  be  very  happy  to  keep  me  there.  I  thought  it  was  pretty  wonder- 
ful of  them  because  we  have  had  sort  of  a  struggle,  you  know.  The  Lord 
has  always  opened  an  effectual  door  just  at  the  right  time.  The  going 
hasn't  always  been  easy;  for  instance,  when  I  was  waiting  for  my  pass- 
port to  come  through  so  I  could  come  up  here  I  was  down  to  rock  bot- 
tom.   I  had  about  six  dollars. 

I  talked  to  that  boy  face  to  face  when  I  invited  him  to  go  to  this 
place,  quite  an  expensive  trip,  and  he  didn't  mention  that  he  had 
only  six  dollars.  He  said,  "You  want  me  to  go?"  I  said,  "Yes,  I  do." 
"Well,  then,  I'll  go." 

The  letter  continued: 

And  I  was  supposed  to  have  about  $180.00.  The  winter  had  been  pretty 
rough,  and  the  folks'  bank  account  was  nil.  The  only  way  they  could  raise  the 
money  was  to  sell  a  steer.  And  they  were  snowed  in.  I  guess  you'd  have  torn 
your  hair  if  you'd  known,  and  I  guess  I  did  wrong  by  not  telling  you,  but  you 
called  me  to  come  up  here,  and  I  thought  it  was  the  Lord's  will,  for  I  knew  he 
would  provide  a  way;  so  a  thaw  came,  the  steer  was  sold,  and  I  received  the 
required  amount  on  the  first  of  March,  two  days  before  I  left  Massachusetts. 
You'll  never  know  how  happy  I  was  to  get  that  letter  along  with  the  check 
telling  me  that  everything  was  all  right. 

God  bless  those  parents. 

The  harvest  is  truly  ripe  here,  the  laborers  certainly  few,  so  I  want 
you  to  know  I  will  be  happy  to  stay  as  long  as  you  think  I  should. 
This  mission  means  more  to  my  parents  and  me  than  we  can  express. 
We  have  grown  closer  in  every  way  and  gained  much  more  than  we  can 
ever  hope  to  repay.  When  I  think  of  all  the  elders  who  have  been  in  the 
service,  and  almost  as  soon  as  they  returned  home  left  again  to  come  on 
missions,  while  I  have  never  been  away  from  home  myself  much  longer 
than  three  weeks,  it  certainly  wouldn't  be  a  sacrifice  on  my  part  to  stay 
out  longer.-  Also,  Mother  and  Dad  raised  turkeys  for  the  first  time  last 
summer,  and  while  quite  a  few  of  the  turkeys  owned  by  our  surround- 
ing neighbors  died  from  various  causes,  ours  thrived,  so  the  finances  are 
on  a  more  even  keel,  and  since  country  work  is  coming  up  soon,  the  only 
hardship  on  them  is  my  absence.  Whatever  you  do  will  be  the  will  of 
the  Lord,  and  I  won't  be  looking  for  my  release. 


ELDER  S.  DILWARTH  YOUNG  49 


Support  of  Missionaries 

May  the  Lord  bless  the  missionaries,  you  folk,  you  parents.  I'd 
like  to  say  to  you  folk  that  most  of  the  boys  and  girls  who  go  on 
missions  come  from  homes  where  parents  can't  afford  financially  to 
send  their  children,  but  they  send  them.  There  are  many  men  here 
in  this  audience,  I  take  it,  and  all  over  the  Church  for  that  matter,  who 
have  never  been  on  missions,  never  had  opportunity  to  go.  I'll  tell 
you  how  you  can  go.  If  you  can  find  the  way  to  do  it,  send  a  boy 
and  enjoy  vicariously  that  mission  as  you  never  had  hoped  you  could 
enjoy  one.  Couples  having  no  children,  who  oftentimes  are  both 
working,  can  go  to  a  widow  and  say,  "You  have  a  boy;  let  us  send 
him  on  a  mission,"  and  you'll  be  blessed  for  it. 

The  New  England  Mission  has  approximately  one  hundred 
twenty  missionaries.  Five  hundred  would  not  be  nearly  enough  to 
touch  the  hearts  of  the  ten  million  people  of  that  area,  and  ten  thou- 
sand would  not  be  enough  to  take  care  of  all  the  people  over  the 
world  who  need  the  gospel.  We  can  send  more  than  five  thousand 
if  we  buckle  down  to  it.  I  pray  that  we  may  do  so,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

If  I  can  manage  it,  I  should  like  today  to  make  a  little  comparison. 

Something  more  than  nineteen  hundred  years  ago,  twelve  obscure 
men  with  conviction  and  a  message  entered  upon  an  undertaking 
which  turned  the  world  over  and  shaped  the  course  of  history. 

Commission  of  the  Lord 

They  were  acting  under  a  commission  given  them  by  the  risen 
Lord  as  the  final  injunction  of  his  early  ministry.  Coming  to  them 
at  an  appointed  place  on  the  occasion  of  his  last  appearance,  he  made 
this  epoch  marking  announcement,  "All  power  is  given  unto  me  in 
heaven  and  in  earth."  ( Matt.  28:18.)  That  was  a  monumental  asser- 
tion of  authority.  It  was  the  premise  upon  which  he  based  his  solemn 
charge: 

Go  ye  therefore,  and  teach  all  nations,  baptizing  them  in  the  name 
of  the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost: 

Teaching  them  to  observe  all  things  whatsoever  I  have  commanded 
you.  (Ibid.,  28:19-20.) 

As  Mark  narrates  the  incident,  the  commission  was  accompanied, 
by  a  promise  of  equally  positive  and  sobering  import:  "He  that  be- 
lieveth  .  .  .  shall  be  saved."  (Mark  16:16.)  To  be  sure,  certain  re- 
quirements were  enjoined  upon  believers  as  a  condition  to  the  ful- 
filment of  the  promise,  but  they  would  follow  as  a  consequence  of 
genuine,  sincere  belief — the  kind  of  belief  that  Jesus  was  talking 
about.  A  tremendously  arresting  quality  of  this  whole  matter  is  the 
tone  of  finality  of  it  all.  There  is  no  uncertainty,  no  qualification,  no 


50  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Dag 

temporizing.  It  is  the  voice  of  complete  assurance,  supreme  con- 
fidence, final  authority  such  as  is  not  to  be  matched  in  the  words  of 
any  other  man  who  has  lived  in  mortality.  It  is  in  keeping  with  the 
character  of  one  who  had  declared  himself  to  be  the  Son  of  God,  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world. 

During  the  period  of  his  mortal  ministry,  the  crowd  had  per- 
ceived this  quality  in  his  utterances  and  said  in  wonderment  one  to 
another  that  "he  taught  them  as  one  having  authority."  (Matt.  7:29. ) 
Neither  does  one  get  the  sense  that  there  is  any  bombast  or  vanity 
or  pretentious  arrogation  of  power.  Straight  and  clear  in  the  calm 
authoritative  tones  of  one  who  had  conquered  death  and  thus  re- 
deemed the  race  from  its  power  came  the  words,  "All  power  is  given 
unto  me  in  heaven  and  in  earth."  (Ibid.,  28:18.)  It  is  the  bedrock 
upon  which  the  foundation  of  all  his  teachings  rests.  No  one  else  in 
all  the  world  has  ever  spoken  like  that,  and  no  one  can  disprove  the 
assertion.  On  the  contrary,  there  have  been  and  are  vast  multitudes 
who  for  nearly  two  thousand  years  have  proclaimed  and  now  proclaim 
assurance  of  its  truth. 

Awesome  Assignment 

It  would  be  difficult  to  conceive  of  an  assignment  more  awesome 
than  that  one  just  referred  to  as  being  given  by  the  Lord  to  his  chosen 
disciples.  Consider  for  a  moment  their  station.  They  were  humble 
men — fishermen  and  peasants — without  wealth  or  social  position  or 
high-placed  friends.  They  had  neither  political  prestige  nor  armed 
might.  They  lived  in  a  remote  province  of  the  haughtiest  and  mightiest 
empire  of  the  earth,  whose  proud  legions  had  carried  its  banners  to 
remote  corners.  Members  of  a  turbulent,  troublesome,  and  therefore 
unpopular  race,  they  were  directed  to  carry  an  unknown  and  hitherto 
unheard-of  message  to  all  the  world,  calling  upon  its  inhabitants  to 
observe  all  things  whatsoever  the  crucified  Lord  had  commanded, 
promising  salvation  to  all  who  believed  and  complied.  Before  the 
magnitude  of  that  task,  the  stoutest  heart  might  well  have  quailed. 

What  their  personal  feelings  were  we  are  not  told.  The  record 
is  silent.  We  are  left  to  inference  from  what  they  did  about  it.  They 
seem  not  to  have  been  overwhelmed  or  weighted  down  with  appre- 
hension. Perhaps  they  were  not  too  much  startled  because  they  had 
previously  been  sent  out  as  emissaries  under  the  personal  direction  of 
the  Master  and  had  had  personal  experience  of  his  sustaining  power. 
During  the  period  of  his  mortal  ministry  they  had  been  under  his 
personal  tutelage  and  had  heard  him  with  unwavering  assurance 
declare: 

...  I  am  the  resurrection,  and  the  life:  he  that  believeth  in  me,  though 
he  were  dead,  yet  shall  he  live.  (John  11:25.) 

And  again:  • 

For  I  came  down  from  heaven,  not  to  do  mine  own  will,  but  the  will 
of  him  that  sent  me. 

And  this  is  the  will  of  him  that  sent  me  that  every  one  which  seeth 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN  51 

the  Son,  and  believeth  on  him,  may  have  everlasting  life:  and  I  will  raise 
him  up  at  the  last  day.  (John  6:38,  40.) 

With  like  definiteness  they  had  heard  him  declare: 

I  am  the  door:  by  me  if  any  man  enter  in,  he  shall  be  saved,  and  shall 
go  in  and  out,  and  find  pasture. 

Therefore  doth  my  Father  love  me,  because  I  lay  down  my  life,  that  I 
might  take  it  again. 

.  .  .  This  commandment  have  I  received  of  my  Father.  (John 
10:9,  17,  18.) 

They  had  seen  him  crucified  and,  in  fulfilment  of  his  words,  rise 
from  the  dead.  All  this  must  have  given  them  an  immensely  fortifying 
trust  in  his  promise.  At  any  rate  they  went  unhesitatingly  to  their 
work. 

Faith  Put  to  Test 

The  quality  of  their  faith  and  their  courage  was  soon  enough  put 
to  the  test.  When  Peter  and  John,  going  up  to  the  temple,  healed 
the  crippled  man,  they  got  themselves  hailed  before  the  rulers  who 
demanded  of  them  by  what  power  or  by  what  name  they  had  done 
this  thing.  Peter  boldly  answered. 

Be  it  known  unto  you  all,  and  to  all  the  people  of  Israel,  that  by  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Nazareth,  whom  ye  crucified,  whom  God  raised 
from  the  dead,  even  by  him  doth  this  man  stand  here  before  you  whole. 
(Acts  4:10.) 

They  were  forbidden  further  to  teach  in  that  name,  and  ignoring 
the  warning,  were  thrown  into  prison.  Being  liberated,  they  con- 
tinued their  teachings  and  were  beaten  and  enjoined  from  teaching; 
but  still  they  persisted,  saying, 

.  .  .  Whether  it  be  right  in  the  sight  of  God  to  hearken  unto  you  more 
than  unto  God,  judge  ye. 

For  we  cannot  but  speak  the  things  which  we  have  seen  and  heard. 
(Ibid.,  4:19-20.) 

Peter  told  his  inquisitors  to  their  teeth: 

The  God  of  our  fathers  raised  up  Jesus,  whom  ye  slew  and  hanged 
on  a  tree. 

Him  hath  God  exalted  with  his  right  hand  to  be  a  Prince  and  a 
Saviour,  for  to  give  repentance  to  Israel,  and  forgiveness  of  sins. 
(Ibid.  5:30-31.) 

That  was  the  power  of  their  message,  and  the  basis  of  their 
strength. 

Persecutions 

Their  numbers  multiplied  with  amazing  rapidity,  and  so  did  the 
persecution.  They  were  hunted  down,  driven  into  hiding,  beaten, 
and  stoned.  From  the  account  of  Saul  of  Tarsus  something  of  the 
bitterness  of  their  suffering  may  be  learned,  but  still  they  pressed  on, 
their  multiplied  number  spreading  throughout  the  empire  and  to  the 
very  capital  itself.  An  edict  of  extermination  was  decreed  against  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  D«j 


sect.  They  were  driven  into  hiding,  cruelly  tortured,  thrown  to  the 
beasts  in  the  circus  for  the  amusement  of  the  populace,  where  they 
were  torn  limb  from  limb.  But  still  the  work  spread,  a  triumph  of 
fidelity  to  a  cause  and  sincerity  in  its  advocacy. 

These  men  believed.  Men  do  not  endure  that  kind  of  persecu- 
tion without  deep  conviction.  Here  was  no  lip-service  or  sham  or 
apologetics  or  denaturing  to  suit  the  doctrines  to  the  tastes  or 
practice  of  listeners.  That  is  the  kind  of  belief  and  these  were  the 
kind  of  men  who  perpetuated  the  teachings  of  Jesus  in  the  earth, 
rescued  them  from  fading  into  forgetfulness,  and  carried  the  Christian 
faith  triumphantly  to  its  establishment  as  the  worship  of  the  majority 
of  the  people  of  the  empire  which  once  had  proscribed  it  and  decreed 
the  extermination  of  its  adherents.  That  is  the  kind  of  belief  of 
which  Jesus  spoke  when  he  said,  "He  that  believeth  shall  be  saved." 


In  the  execution  of  their  commission,  the  disciples  clearly  per- 
ceived that  it  was  their  first  task  to  get  him  accepted,  to  get  men  to 
believe  that  he  was  the  Son  of  God,  the  resurrected  Lord  who  had 
redeemed  the  race  from  the  bondage  of  death.  All  their  teaching 
accordingly  revolved  around  that  central  theme.  Without  that,  there 
could  be  no  hope  of  inducing  the  world  to  accept  his  moral  and  re- 
ligious doctrines. 

The  pattern  of  their  discourse  was  foreshadowed  by  Peter's  bold 
declaration  to  the  rulers:  "Be  it  known  to  you  all  and  to  all  the  people 
of  Israel,  that  by  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Nazareth,  whom  ye 
crucified,  whom  God  raised  from  the  dead,  even  by  him  doth  this 
man  stand  here  before  you  whole."  That  is  what  gave  authoritative 
sanction  to  their  teachings  about  the  way  of  life  which  Jesus  taught, 
and  which  so  profoundly  influenced  the  whole  world. 


It  was  clearly  the  intent  and  purpose  of  the  Savior  that  men  and 
peoples  and  nations  should  come  to  order  their  lives  on  the  basis  of 
principles  he  laid  down,  and  it  is  something  to  marvel  at  how  deep 
those  teachings  finally  penetrated  into  those  nations  that  espoused 
the  Christian  faith  and  furnished  the  standards  of  values  and  judg- 
ments to  which  they  profess  to  cling.  The  nations  formed  from  the 
breakup  of  the  Roman  Empire,  as  well  as  new  nations  which  sprang 
or  were  peopled  from  them,  in  general  fell  under  the  influence  of  the 
Christian  teachings  and  were  called  the  Christian  nations.  The  very 
frameworks  of  their  governments  were  colored  and  shaped  by  these 
principles,  and  their  Christian  convictions  have  made  these  nations 
dominant  in  the  world  for  fifteen  hundred  years. 

Various  Greek  philosophies,  and  Roman  too,  taught  rules  of 
life,  but  such  of  them  as  have  survived  have  done  so  by  penetrating 
into  the  Christian  faith  which  overshadowed  them  as  the  dominant 
spiritual  power  of  the  western  world.  In  the  Christian  nations  when 


The  Son  of  God 


Influence  of  Christian  Teachings 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BO  WEN 


53 


men  have  judged  conduct  or  the  validity  of  principles,  they  have 
evaluated  them  as  good  or  bad  according  to  their  conformance  or 
nonconformance  to  the  standards  laid  down  in  the  Christian  code. 
Before  Mussolini  and  Hitler  could  corrupt  the  youth  of  their  countries 
they  had  to  undermine  and  break  down  and  destroy  belief  in  the 
principles  taught  by  Christ  which  for  centuries  their  countries  had 
been  taught  to  revere  as  ideals,  howsoever  short  they  may  have  fallen 
in:  practice.  While  the  Christian  church  compromised  many  of  its 
vital  principles  and  in  that  degree  weakened  itself  and  subverted  its 
initial  purpose,  it  nevertheless  still  gave  lip-service  to  the  Christ  and 
a  certain  veneration  for  him  and  his  precepts,  which  gave  controlling 
color  to  the  institutions  and  practices  of  the  Christian  world  . 

Disquieting  Signs 

But  something  ominous  is  happening  now.  There  are  disquieting 
signs  that  all  over  Christendom  the  underpinnings  of  the  Christian 
faith  are  being  knocked  down.  The  crumbling  of  the  Christian  pattern 
is  of  grave  portent.  Ancient  supports  may  be  torn  away,  but  what 
shall  buttress  us  then?  It  begins  to  look  as  though  the  world  is  slipping 
back  to  the  position  it  held  when  the  Lord  commissioned  his  disciples 
to  carry  his  message  to  all  the  nations.  The  task  again  seems  to  be  to 
get  men  to  believe  in  him — to  get  him  accepted.  There  is  something 
highly  suggestive  about  the  fact  that  the  upheavals  which  are  threaten- 
ing the  destruction  of  the  civilized  world  follow  so  closely  on  the 
heels  of  open  denial  by  professed  Christians  of  belief  in  Christ  as  the 
Son  of  God  and  of  the  divinity  of  his  teachings. 

I  suppose  it  has  always  been  true  that  individual  persons  have 
disavowed  belief  in  Jesus  as  the  Messiah,  but  generally  this  has  not 
been  true  on  a  mass  scale.  Where  such  unbelief  has  been  declared, 
it  has  generally  been  professed  that  nevertheless  the  moral  and 
ethical  teachings  of  Christ  were  still  recognized  as  of  the  highest  value 
and  valid  without  acceptance  of  the  claim  of  his  Messiahship  or  his 
resurrection.  But  repudiation  cannot  go  halfway  and  stop.  Denial 
of  his  divinity  is  only  the  first  step  in  the  process  of  complete  denial 
to  which  the  logic  of  the  position  inevitably  drives.  And  now  we 
seem  to  be  experiencing  on  a  scale  never  before  thought  of  the  dis- 
avowal of  any  superior  validity  to  the  whole  Christian  creed.  In  other 
words,  we  are  now  driven  by  the  logic  of  events  to  recognize  that 
you  can't  have  Christianity  without  Christ,  and  those  who  have 
decided  to  get  along  without  him  are  driven  to  choose  whether  to 
compromise  on  their  principles,  too.  This  is  of  almost  worldwide 
consequence  because  Christianity  has  penetrated  into  non-Christan 
nations  far  more  than  their  creeds  have  penetrated  into  the  Christian 
world. 

Criticism  of  Christianity 

It  is  only  two  or  three  years  ago  that  the  president  of  a  wor- 
shiping body  in  our  country,  which  formerly  was  assumed  to  call 
itself  Christian,  said: 


54  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday.  April  6  First  Day 

Christianity  has  been  guilty  of  spiritual  arrogance  on  a  world-wide 
scale,  labeling  all  other  religions  false,  and  asserting  that  only  when  all 
mankind  accepts  the  one  true  religion  will  there  be  any  hope  for  world- 
wide cooperation  and  peace.  That  amounts  to  spiritual  imperialism  and 
is  as  out  of  date  in  our  world  today  as  any  other  form  of  imperialism. 

In  a  recent  writing,  an  ordained  minister  who  had  held  many 
pastorates  proposes  and  argues  the  necessity  for  a  new  religion  for 
a  new  age.  He  begins  by  demolishing  the  Christian  God,  and  tear- 
ing to  bits  the  Christian  church,  Protestant  and  Catholic  alike.  He 
tells  us  that  Christianity  is  a  minority  group  even  in  America,  and 
ridicules  the  idea  that  the  great  majority  are  going  to  surrender  their 
own  beliefs  to  accept  "the  Christian  God." 

But  that  is  precisely  what  Christ  directed  his  disciples  to  teach 
the  world  to  do.  Moreover,  that  is  what  the  great  body  of  the  Roman 
world  professedly  did  in  its  conversion  from  paganism  to  Christianity. 

The  writer  of  the  article  dogmatically  asserts,  "God  doesn't  talk 
to  you."  All  forms  of  religion  as  known  today,  he  says,  and  all  ideas 
of  God  are  man-made.  They  are  not  eternal;  they  grew  out  of  the 
feeling  of  man  that  he  was  impotent  to  achieve  his  ideals  and  turned 
the  job  of  carrying  through  to  a  supernatural  power.  He  proposes 
as  a  religion  for  the  modern  age  one  that  is  secular,  presided  over 
not  by  a  ministry  or  a  clergy  or  anyone  acting  under  an  ordination 
but  managed  by  professional  and  businessmen  and  workers  and 
artists.  He  depicts  the  organization  of  a  brave  new  world  where  every 
man  who  has  a  talent  will  be  expected  to  use  it.  It  will  be  noted  on 
careful  perusal  that  in  this  scheme  of  things  there  is  no  place  for  God. 
The  writer  makes  it  abundantly  clear  that  He  does  not  exist,  nor  is 
there  any  future  estate  for  man.  It  would  appear  that  man  himself, 
and  certainly  religion,  is  to  be  but  a  tool  of  the  state. 

Alternate  Proposals 

It  is  possible  to  agree  with  much  of  what  the  writer  says  about 
the  failure  of  the  Christian  Church  to  bring  about  the  desired  condi- 
tion of  peace  and  good  order  in  the  world  and  harmonious  living 
among  men.  He  points  to  war  and  frustration  and  the  disappoint- 
ments of  human  hopes  through  lapses  in  human  behavior.  But  in  all 
the  principles  and  practices  which  he  sets  forth  as  those  to  be  em- 
bodied in  his  new  religion,  there  is  not  one  that  is  not  already  laid 
down  in  the  teachings  of  Jesus  Christ.  He  proposes  no  new  virtues. 
Just  how  the  ideal  of  the  good  life  for  all  is  to  be  implemented  by 
supplanting  the  gospel  taught  by  Jesus  with  a  secular-political- 
economic-sociological  regime  is  not  made  clear,  though  there  is 
some  indication  that  this  is  to  be  managed  through  the  authoritarian 
powers  of  an  omnipotent  state,  which  is  a  concept  in  direct  variance 
from  what  Jesus  taught.  Right  here  I  should  like  to  interpolate  with- 
out using  more  words  the  stirring  discourse  we  have  just  listened  to 
from  President  [David  O.J  McKay  relating  to  human  dignity  and 
the  right  of  all  men  to  be  free. 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BO  WEN 


55 


A  Revelation  of  God 

So  we  come  at  the  end  to  the  simple  question  whether  religion  is 
a  revelation  of  God  with  enduring  validity  in  all  times,  and  through 
the  practice  of  which  man  may  work  his  way  up  to  perfection,  or  is  it 
a  human  creation  with  no  higher  sanction  than  the  wisdom  of  man 
and  subject  to  change  with  the  passing  moods  of  changing  times? 
The  one  gives  stability  and  constancy  and  purpose  to  life,  the  reason 
for  being,  with  freedom  to  choose  one's  course;  the  other  sets  man 
adrift  with  nothing  enduring  to  hold  on  to  and  little  hope  to  inspire 
noble  living. 

In  the  brief  time  at  my  disposal,  I  have  known  that  I  could  not 
make  a  complete  portrayal  of  the  idea  that  is  lying  in  the  back  of  my 
mind.  I  had  dared  hope  that  I  might  advance  something  suggestive 
enough  to  set  your  minds  working  on  the  idea  sufficiently  so  that  you 
might  fill  in  what  of  necessity  I  have  left  incomplete. 

I  have  had  more  particularly  in  mind  those  who  by  their  daily 
pursuits  or  association  or  environmental  influence  might  be  confused 
or  even  disturbed  by  the  godless  humanism  that  is  so  prevalent  in  the 
thought  of  the  day.  If  you  want  to  meet  scholasticism  with  schol- 
asticism to  bolster  up  your  trust  in  the  teachings  and  promises  of  the 
Master,  you  may  take  comfort  in  the  knowledge  that  many  of  the 
profoundest  scholars  of  this  and  of  other  times  still  place  trust  in 
God,  who  may  be  communed  with  through  prayer. 

I  recall  here  the  words  of  Henry  George,  the  economist  and 
political  scientist,  many  of  whose  political  and  economic  and  sociologi- 
cal views  are  in  greater  favor  today  than  when  he  first  propounded 
them:  "Political  economy  and  social  science,"  George  said,  "cannot 
teach  any  lessons  that  are  not  embraced  in  the  simple  truths  that  were 
taught  to  poor  fishermen  and  Jewish  peasants  by  one  who  1800  years 
ago  was  crucified." 

May  all  men  learn  to  revere  the  teachings  of  the  Lord  and 
Savior.  May  they  come  to  know  that  in  them  is  saving  power  and  that 
outside  of  them  within  the  realm  of  human  wisdom  there  is  nothing 
that  can  save,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Choir  will  now  sing  "Glorious 
Is  Thy  Name." 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Thaddeus  M. 
Evans  of  the  East  Riverside  Stake,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  after 
which  this  conference  will  stand  adjourned  until  10:00  o'clock 
Saturday  morning.  The  proceedings  of  that  session  will  be  broad- 
cast over  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  and  by  arrangement  through 
KSL,  over  the  other  stations  to  which  you  are  now  listening,  and 
will  be  televised  over  the  KSL  television  station,  channel  5. 

At  10:00  oclock  tomorrow  morning,  a  meeting  will  be  held  in  the 
Temple.    Those  invited  should  assemble  in  the  Tabernacle  not 


56  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday.  April  6  First  Dag 

later  than  9:00  o'clock.  Only  those  especially  invited  will  attend 
the  meeting. 

At  7:00  o'clock  tomorrow  evening,  the  Presiding  Bishopric 
will  conduct  a  special  meeting  in  the  Tabernacle.  Those  invited 
to  attend  include  bishops  and  counselors,  members  of  Stake  Aaronic 
Priesthood  Committees  for  Aaronic  Priesthood,  Stake  Presidencies 
and  High  Council  advisers  to  the  L.D.S.  Girls  Program,  ward 
clerks,  and  general  secretaries  of  Ward  Aaronic  Priesthood  Com- 
mittees. 

Any  important  calls  and  messages  that  may  come  to  us  for 
persons  supposed  to  be  in  attendance  at  Conference,  will  be  an- 
nounced at  the  dismissal  of  this  meeting  oyer  the  loud  speaking 
system  on  the  grounds.  Every  one  would  do  well  to  listen  care- 
fully to  such  announcements. 

I  should  like  to  express  my  own  gratitude  and  congratulations 
to  the  Brigham  Young  University  Choir  which  has  sung  today 
under  the  direction  of  Elder  John  R.  Halliday,  Elder  Newell  Weight 
conducting,  and  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 


Singing  by  the  choir,  "Glorious  Is  Thy  Name." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  President  Thaddeus  M. 
Evans  of  the  East  Riverside  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10:00  a.m.,  Saturday  morning, 
April  18. 

SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  Saturday  morning,  April  8,  at  10:00, 
this  being  the  third  session,  no  general  sessions  having  been  held  on 
Friday,  April  7. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  the  third  session  of  the  One  Hundred  Twentieth 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  We  are  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in 
Salt  Lake  City.  President  George  Albert  Smith  is  presiding.  He 
has  asked  that  his  second  counselor  conduct  the  service. 

These  services  will  be  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  over  a 
loud  speaking  system  and  by  television.  All  general  sessions  of 
the  Conference  will  be  heard  and  seen  in  the  Assembly  Hall  in  the 
same  way. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  Station 
KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the 
following  stations: 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY  57 

In  Utah:  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KJAM  at 
Vernal,  KVNU  at  Logan. 

In  Idaho:  KGEM  at  Boise,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at 
Pocatello,  KBIO  at  Burley. 

In  Oregon :   KBXR  at  Baker,  KSRV  at  Ontario. 

And  by  transcription,  over  KTYL  at  Mesa,  Arizona,"  and  KEXO 
at  Grand  Junction,  Colorado. 

This  session  will  also  be  televised  over  KSL  television  station, 
channel  5. 

The  singing  of  this  session  will  be  by  the  congregation,  Elder 
Richard  P.  Condie  conducting,  and  Elder  Roy  M.  Darley  at  the  organ. 

We  will  begin  the  services  by  the  congregation  singing  "High 
On  the  Mountain  Top." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  W.  Clair 
Rowley  of  the  Parowan  Stake. 


Singing  by  the  congregation,  "High  On  the  Mountain  Top." 
The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  President  W.  Clair  Rowley 
of  the  Parowan  Stake. 

The  congregation  sang  "Prayer  Is  The  Soul's  Sincere  Desire." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
Brethren  and  sisters: 

It  is  trite  to  say  we  are  living  in  perilous  times.  There  are 
numberless  troubles,  disputes,  dissensions,  dangers,  complexities, 
everywhere.  People  in  every  land  want  and  earnestly  pray  for 
peace,  and  yet  the  outlook  for  peace  is  seemingly  becoming  darker 
and  more  gloomy.  Talk  of  war  is  getting  louder;  and  war  prepara- 
tions are  being  accelerated,  particularly  in  means  so  destructive 
that  if  generally  and  widely  used,  nearly  total  extinction  of  human 
life  would  result.  The  recent  world  war  was  so  expensive  and 
destructive  that  everywhere  the  feeling  was  prevalent  at  its  close 
that  nations  never  again  would  engage  in  such  a  foolish  and  disa- 
strous conflict.  But  what  do  we  now  see?  Notwithstanding,  no 
treaties  of  peace  with  major  nations  have  yet  been  made,  rearma- 
ment programs  are  going  forward  as  rapidly' as  is  feasible. 

Disturbed  Conditions 

Why  do  the  conditions  here  indicated  exist?  There  are  many 
reasons,  some  of  which  have  been  stated  many  times  from  this 
pulpit.  These  may  all  be  summed  up  in  a  single  sentence — failure 
to  live  as  the  Lord  has  indicated  we,  his  children,  should  live.  Some 
fundamentals  of  this  way  are  given  to  us  by  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  in  articles  11,  12,  13,  of  our  faith,  which  are  as  follows: 


58  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  8  Second  Day 

11.  We  claim  the  privilege  of  worshiping  Almighty  God  according 
to  the  dictates  of  our  own  conscience,  and  allow  all  men  the  same  privi- 
lege, let  them  worship  how,  where,  or  what  they  may. 

12.  We  believe  in  being  subject  to  kings,  presidents,  rulers,  and 
magistrates,  in  obeying,  honoring  and  sustaining  the  law. 

13.  We  believe  in  being  honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous, 
and  in  doing  good  to  all  men.  .  .  . 

Article  11  is  an  ideal  statement  of  religious  tolerance,  a  condi- 
tion sadly  lacking  in  the  world  today,  as  indicated  in  so  many  places, 
examples  of  which  are  the  bloody  conflict  that  has  recently  cost  the 
lives  of  thousands  in  the  deadly  fight  between  Moslems  and  Hindus 
in  Pakistan,  and  the  expulsion  from  Czechoslovakia  of  mission- 
aries of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Religious 
tolerance  is  perhaps  the  most  difficult  of  all  types  of  tolerance  for 
devout  people  to  grant,  giving  which  they  could  also  be  tolerant 
in  other  matters  related  to  moral  standards. 

The  Golden  Rule 

Speaking  of  how  the  Lord  would  have  us  live  in  all  our  re- 
lations with  human  beings,  there  is  another  sentence  that  beautifully 
expresses  the  way.  It  is:  "Do  unto  others  as  you  would  have  others 
do  unto  you."  This  is  known  as  the  Golden  Rule.  The  second 
great  commandment  requires  us  to  love  our  neighbor  as  ourselves. 
To  do  this,  must  one  not  comply  with  the  requirements  of  the  Golden 
Rule? —  not  always  an  easy  thing  to  do,  but  a  divine  requirement, 
nonetheless.  If  all  individuals,  peoples,  and  nations  would  do  this, 
peace  would  come  at  once  to  every  part  of  the  currently  disturbed 
world.  The  measure  of  peace  that  we  have  or  shall  have  will  be 
proportionate  to  the  degree  of  fullness  to  which  the  aggressor  ob- 
serves the  Golden  Rule. 

But  as  to  aggressors,  they  are  found  everywhere — locally,  na- 
tionally, and  internationally;  and  wherever  found  they  all  have  in 
common  at  least  one  fault — excessive  and  inordinate  selfishness. 
They  want,  and  usually  insist  on  having,  more  of  something  that 
does  not  rightfully  belong  to  them  and,  if  necessary,  will  fight  to 
get  it.  As  a  rule,  however,  they  prefer  to  satisfy  their  unrighteous 
desires  and  wicked  cravings  by  other  means  than  physically  fight- 
ing for  them.  Bloodshedding  is  not  as  general,  therefore,  as  it 
might  otherwise  be;  for  example,  does  Russia  want  war?  Why 
should  she?  Has  not  communism  made  rapid  progress  in  the  con- 
trol of  peoples  and  nations  since  fighting  ceased  in  World  War  II? 

But  the  fear  of  a  war,  of  appalling  bloodshed,  is  so  great  in  this 
country  that  our  government  is  spending  many  billions  of  dollars 
annually  to  ward  it  off,  seemingly  believing  that  an  up-to-date 
readiness  to  fight  is  the  surest  preventive  of  war.  The  people  of  the 
United  States  most  certainly  do  not  want  another  war  of  nations, 
and  the  majority  of  them  are  willing  to  do  everything  feasible  to 
prevent  it.  How  far  it  is  necessary  to  go  to  attain  this  objective 
is  a  debatable  question. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


59 


Dangers  Within 

But  it  is  not  of  war  between  nations  and  the  danger  of  it  that 
I  desire  to  speak  further,  for  I  feel  that  an  immediate  greater 
danger  of  destruction  of  the  best  interests  of  the  people  in  the 
United  States  lies  within  our  borders  rather  than  beyond  them.  And 
these  dangers  are  rooted  in  the  unreasonable  and  damnable  selfish- 
ness that  is  manifest  on  every  level  of  our  society  by  individuals, 
groups,  and  organizations. 

For  many  years  this  country  has  had  anti-monopoly  laws  to 
govern  business  corporations.  The  federal  government  and  the 
states  have  set  up  controls  and  boards  and  commissions  to  admini- 
ster these  laws,  the  purpose  being  to  protect  the  public  against 
unfair  commercial  practices  and  unreasonable  charges  for  the  goods 
and  services  of  corporations.  The  intent  of  these  laws  has  met 
with  overwhelming  public  approval.  But  during  recent  years  an- 
other form  of  monopoly  has  been  developing  that,  if  not  controlled, 
imposes  a  type  of  slavery  on  the  country  unknown  and  undreamed 
of  by  the  founders  of  our  glorious  republic,  which,  from  its  be- 
ginning, has  served  as  a  cherished  ensign  to  all  the  world  of  per- 
sonal liberty  and  free  enterprise. 

But  these  two  essentials  of  a  free  people  are  being  more  and 
more  restricted  in  this  country.  They  have  been  practically  de- 
stroyed in  Russia  and  some  other  communistic  controlled  countries 
where  it  is  claimed  a  people's  democracy  rules — a  highly  absurd 
claim  in  the  light  of  the  facts. 

Free  Enterprise 

What  do  I  mean  by  the  words  "free  enterprise"?  I  mean 
individual  freedom  of  action  and  of  opportunity.  Everyone  born 
in  mortality,  according  to  our  teachings,  comes  from  God,  our 
Father,  with  the  priceless  gift  of  "free  agency"  and  will  be  held 
accountable  for  its  use.  Naturally,  in  the  exercise  of  this  gift 
one  may  not,  without  sinning  against  God  and  man,  do  anything 
knowingly  to  hurt,  or  injure  a  fellow  human  being.  Further,  our 
Church  teaches  that  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  as  given  to 
us  by  the  founding  fathers  of  our  republic  is  a  divinely  inspired 
document,  designed  to  protect  the  citizens  in  the  enjoyment  of 
their  inalienable  rights  among  which  are  "life,  liberty,  and  the  pur- 
suit of  happiness."  Hence,  are  not  restrictions  to  our  freedom  of 
action,  insofar  as  we  do  not  harmfully  interfere  with  others,  viola- 
tive of  the  spirit  of  the  Constitution  and  our  Bill  of  Rights? 

America  has  become  great  in  many  lines  of  human  endeavor, 
in  fact  the  greatest  nation  on  earth,  due  unquestionably  to  its  free 
enterprise  or  capitalistic  system.  This  system  is  our  pride  and  the 
envy  of  some  other  peoples.  Because  of  our  great  corporations, 
industrial  and  financial,  America  astonished  the  world,  particularly 
Adolf  Hitler,  by  the  speed  of  her  preparations  and  participation 
in  the  recent  world  war. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Dag 


Developing  Tendencies 


But  there  are  developing  tendencies,  sponsored  by  selfishness, 
greed,  and  ambition  that,  if  unchecked,  will  soon  or  late  bring  sor- 
row and  ruin  to  our  country.  Among  these  tendencies  is  that  of 
"something  for  nothing,"  at  least  "more  and  more  for  less  and  less" 
— more  pay  for  less  work.  And  as  I  see  it,  in  whatever  words  these 
tendencies  are  expressed,  they  all  lead  to  some  type  of  national 
socialism.  And  generally,  socialism  is  an  enemy  of  free  enterprise  in 
the  development  of  which,  I  repeat,  this  country  has  become  the 
greatest  on  earth.  Then  why  does  any  honest,  patriotic,  intelligent 
citizen  of  America  prefer  socialism  to  free  enterprise?  Is  it  not 
in  free  enterprise  that  free  agency,  a  divine  gift  to  every  human 
being,  finds  an  environment  favorable  to  growth  and  development  and 
to  living  in  harmony  with  our  beautiful  doctrine  of  eternal  progres- 
sion? 


Now  to  give  point  to  what  I  have  said,  let  me  give  a  few 
illustrations. 

Recent  experiences  have  convinced  us  that  some  labor  unions 
have  a  monopolistic  power  that,  if  fully  exercised,  would  spell  ruin 
to  industrial  America.  The  exercise  of  this  power  employs  a 
method  that  is  a  twin  brother  to  that  used  by  the  bank  robber.  The 
corporation  hands  over  just  as  the  cashier  does.  In  the  case  of  the 
corporation,  you  and  I — that  is,  the  public — pays  the  bill.  The  re- 
cent settlements  between  coal-and-labor  and  steel-and-labor  are 
good  illustrations  of  this  fact.  Immediately  following  the  announce- 
ments of  the  settlement  of  the  disputes,  up  went  the  price  of  steel 
and  of  coal.  Yes,  when  costs  go  up,  the  public  pays  and  almost 
always  does  so  if  the  corporation  is  to  remain  solvent. 

After  fighting  ceased  in  the  last  war,  a  labor  union  operating 
in  the  automobile  field  demanded  an  increase  of  wages  of  thirty 
cents  an  hour  but  insisted  there  should  be  no  increase  of  prices — 
an  absurdity.  In  any  productive  enterprise,  labor  is  a  large  factor 
in  the  cost  of  operation.  In  our  competitive  free-enterprise  system 
how  can  labor  costs  materially  go  up  unless  prices  go  up,  if  the 
corporation  is  to  remain  solvent?  What  answer  does  recent  history 
give?  Beginning  in  the  autumn  of  1945,  wage  increases  occurred  in 
nearly  all  productive  industries.  A  rise  in  prices  followed.  Because 
of  this,  labor  demanded  and  got  a  second  wage  increase.  Prices 
again  rose,  followed  by  a  demand  for  and  receipt  of  a  third  wage 
increase.  More  recently,  steel  and  coal  workers  have  received  a 
fourth  raise  in  wages  and  other  money  benefits  resulting,  as  I  said 
a  moment  ago,  in  another  rise  in  prices. 

But  why  cannot  a  prosperous  corporation  raise  wages  without 
raising  prices,  is  a  question  that  many  ask.  I  have  already  given  an 
answer,  but  I  now  explain  a  bit  by  quoting  from  an  annual  report 
I  received  about  two  weeks  ago  from  a  large  corporation: 


Labor  Unions 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


61 


Costs  of  operation  in  1949  remained  high,  and  additional  expenses 
were  incurred  in  changing  models  and  in  preparing  for  the  introduction 
of  new  products.  At  the  same  time,  to  strengthen  the  business  and  to 
prepare  for  the  future,  the  company  intensified  its  marketing  efforts  to 
meet  more  competitive  conditions  and  expanded  its  research  and  engi- 
neering programs  to  provide  a  continuing  flow  of  new  and  improved 
products  on  a  long-range  basis.  The  expenses  resulting  from  these  ac- 
tivities had  a  marked  effect  on  the  company's  profits  for  1949,  which 
were  9  per  cent  of  revenue. 

Use  of  Profits 

Every  other  large  productive  corporation  could  make  similar 
statements.  Compare  1950  models  of  automobiles  with  those  of  1920. 
Have  not  huge  amounts  of  money  and  time  been  spent  to  perfect  and 
manufacture  the  modern  automobile?  Where  did  this  money  come 
from?  Of  course  from  profits,  stockholders,  and  borrowings.  How 
absurd  for  well-paid  workers  to  say  that  the  profits  belong  to  them! 
But  in  the  long  run,  who  gets  most  of  the  profits?  I  answer,  the  work- 
ers and  the  public,  not  the  stockholders:  the  workers,  in  jobs;  the 
public,  in  better  goods  and  services.  But  it  is  the  savings  of  these 
thrifty  stockholders  who  risk  their  money  and  are  satisfied  with 
relatively  small  returns  on  their  investment  that  make  it  possible 
for  corporations  to  come  into  existence  and  create  jobs  for  the 
workers  and  goods  for  the  public.  How  foolish  and  senseless  to 
contend  that  the  stockholders  should  get  no  returns  on  their  ven- 
tured money,  and  that  depreciation  reserves  should  not  be  set  up! 
Fourteen  years  ago  when  we  were  in  London,  we  came  to  know  that 
labor  leaders  in  Britain  were  agreed  that  working  invested  capital 
was  entitled  to  five  percent  annual  dividends  and  that  funds  for 
depreciatoin  should  be  provided.  But  in  these  respects  I  fear  that 
Britain  has  since  been  influenced  by  what  she  sees  in  America — sel- 
fish demands  of  unions,  irrespective  of  what  is  fair  and  just. 

Now,  in  view  of  the  eminent  leadership  position  American  in- 
dustry has  attained  in  the  world,  how  is  it  that  in  recent  years 
moves  have  been  made  that  ultimately  will  practically  destroy  our 
free-enterprise  system  and  end  in  socialism  or  statism  or  a  wel- 
fare state  (take  your  choice  of  terms)? — moves  that  are  substituting 
highly  inflationary  financial  policies  for  the  time-honored  soundness 
of  the  past  and  moves  tending  to  create  the  feeling  that  the  govern- 
ment offers  the  best  social  security  available  in  this  country,  etc. 

Office-Hungry  Politicians 

In  giving  answer  I  am  speaking  on  my  own  responsibility, 
expressing  my  personal  views  and  speaking  plainly,  using  homely, 
everyday  language.  As  I  see  it,  the  leaders  of  these  moves  are 
in  general  office-hungry  politicians,  longing  for  the  emoluments, 
influence,  and  power  of  public  office.  These  candidates  for  office 
have  courted,  and  are  courting,  the  support  of  selfish,  ambitious, 
and  powerful  leaders  of  labor  unions,  as  well  as  the  ne'er-do-well 


62  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  8  Second  Dag 

elements  in  our  population.  Through  the  abundant  and  widespread 
use  of  misleading  propaganda  in  which  they  have  indulged  and  do 
indulge,  the  minds  of  the  public  in  great  measure  have  become  con- 
fused and  multitudes  won  over.  Compare,  if  you  please,  half- 
century-old  platforms  of  political  parties  with  those  that  go  out 
today  under  the  same  party  names. 

Two  Alternatives 

Time  allotted  to  me  will  not  permit  of  further  elaboration,  but 
I  appeal  to  all  honest,  patriotic  people  and  lovers  of  freedom  to 
whom  my  words  may  come,  to  make  careful  study  of  the  matters 
of  which  I  have  spoken  with  the  view  of  determining  what  is  the 
wise  and  safe  thing  for  them  to  do  in  order  to  serve  unselfishly 
the  best  interests  of  the  people  of  this  country  and  of  other  countries 
who  accept  our  moral  standards.  In  every  case  let  us  beware,  of -the 
bearers  of  "Trojan  gifts." 

As  I  see  the  situation,  we  are  faced  in  this  country  with  two  al- 
ternatives, repentance  or  slavery- — turn  away  from  indulging  in  the 
unreasonable,  excessive,  and  wicked  selfishness  manifest  in  many 
of  the  things  we  do  or  lose  the  freedoms  that  have  been  our  pride 
and  glory,  the  freedoms  that  every  parent  should  desire  from  the 
depths  of  his  soul  to  pass  on  to  his  descendants.  Yes,  it  is  repent- 
ance or  industrial  slavery.   Which  will  you  choose? 

My  remarks  are  directed  particularly  to  Latter-day  Saints,  for 
they  believe,  as  I  do,  that  our  religion  is  so  broad  and  practical  that 
it  covers  every  phase  of  our  life's  activities,  material  as  well  as 
spiritual.  "Faith  without  works  is  dead."  Our  faith  in  a  real, 
personal,  Living  God  is  unquestioned  among  us.  Let  us  humbly, 
diligently,  and  persistently,  through  earnest  prayer  and  righteous 
living  try  to  keep  ourselves  in  tune  with  the  mind  and  will  of  God 
as  it  has  been  revealed  to  us,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  We  are  reminded  this  day  that  one 
hundred  years  ago  Latter-day  Saint  missionaries  were  called  to 
preach  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  Germany.  From  that  time  on, 
hundreds  of  the  people  of  that  land  and  Switzerland  have  accepted 
the  revealed  word  of  God,  and  have  migrated  to  Utah  and  have 
contributed  much  to^  our  culture  and  development.  The  German 
music  particularly  has  been  of  enduring  joy  to  us,  for  in  this  very 
Tabernacle  where  we  are  assembled,  the  creations  of  Bach,  Mozart, 
Wagner,  Haydn,  and  the  oratorios  and  operas  of  Handel  have  been 
heard  with  deep  appreciation  of  the  masters.  In  hundreds  of  homes 
the  writings  of  Goethe  and  Schiller  are  well-known.  I  believe  and 
have  faith  in  the  German  people  and  feel  that  they  will  emerge 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG  63 

from  their  days  of  sorrow  and  tragic  condition  and  will  come  back 
to  their  former  culture  in  days  to  come. 

Divine  Life  of  Jesus 

Tomorrow,  Sunday,  is  the  Easter  day.  Millions  of  Christians 
will  kneel  at  sacred  shrines  and  in  churches  and  pour  out  their  souls 
to  God  in  deep  gratitude  for  their  knowledge  that  God  lives  and  that 
death  is  but  the  entrance  into  immortal  life.  "How  blessed  is  the  king 
that  cometh  in  the  name  of  the  Lord."  Beautifully  does  the  prophet 
Nephi  write  of  the  divine  birth  of  the  Savior  Jesus  Christ: 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  looked  and  beheld  the  great  city  of 
Jerusalem,  and  also  other  cities.  And  I  beheld  the  city  of  Nazareth;  and 
in  the  city  of  Nazareth  I  beheld  a  virgin,  and  she  was  exceedingly  fair 
and  white.  .  .  . 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  beheld  that  she  was  carried  away  in  the 
Spirit;  and  after  she  had  been  carried  away  in  the  Spirit  for  the  space 
of  a  time  the  angel  spake  unto  me,  saying:  Look! 

And  I  looked  and  beheld  the  virgin  again,  bearing  a  child  in  her 
arms. 

And  the  angel  said  unto  me:  Behold  the  Lamb  of  God,  yea,  even 
the  Son  of  the  Eternal  Father.  (I  Nephi  11:13,  19-21.) 

It  was  in  the  hearts  of  the  humblest  and  most  faithful  poor 
people  that  his  words  found  lodgment.  Whenever  he  was  over- 
taken with  deep  sorrow,  he  left  his  disciples  and  went  into  the  woods 
to  pray.  The  words  of  Jesus  lived  in  the  fulness  of  their  truth.  The 
soul  of  man  was  to  be  unafraid  and  was  to  deal  direct  with  God. 
We  read  in  Mark  that  "All  things  are  possible  to  him  that  believ- 
eth."  He  had  been  baptised  by  his  beloved  John  who  declared 
that  "the  kingdom  of  God  is  at  hand.  Repent  and  believe  the  good 
news."  He  founded  his  Church,  and  his  disciples  were  dominated 
by  the  Spirit  of  the  Living  Christ.  They  came  to  know  the  power 
of  the  Holy  Ghost  and  the  ideal  life  of  the  kingdom.  Repentance 
and  faith  signified  attachment  to  God.  With  his  crucifixion,  his 
life  was  destined  to  change  the  history  of  mankind  more  deeply, 
more  widely,  and  more  permanently  than  any  other  from  the  be-, 
ginning  of  time  unto  the  present  hour.  It  was  the  resurrection  that 
gave  the  knowledge  of  eternal  life  to  all  the  children  of  God.  St. 
Luke  gives  us  a  sacred  description  of  the  resurrection: 

Now  upon  the  first  day  of  the  week,  very  early  in  the  morning,  they 
came  unto  the  sepulchre,  bringing  the  spices  which  they  had  prepared, 
and  certain  others  with  them. 

And  they  found  the  stone  rolled  away  from  the  sepulchre. 

And  they  entered  in,  and  found  not  the  body  of  the  Lord  Jesus. 

And  it  came  to  pass,  as  they  were  much  perplexed  thereabout,  behold, 
two  men  stood  by  them  in  shining  garments: 

And  as  they  were  afraid,  and  bowed  down  their  faces  to  the  earth, 
they  said  unto  them,  Why  seek  ye  the  living  among  the  dead?/ 

He  is  not  here,  but  is  risen:  remember  how  he  spake  unto  you  when 
he  was  yet  in  Galilee, 

Saying,  The  Son  of  man  must  be  delivered  into  the  hands  of  sinful 
men,  and  be  crucified,  and  the  third  day  rise  again. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


And  they  remembered  his  words. 

And  returned  from  the  sepulchre,  and  told  all  these  things  unto  the 
eleven,  and  to  all  the  rest. 

It  was  Mary  Magdalene,  and  Joanna,  and  Mary  the  mother  of  James, 
and  other  women  that  were  with  them,  which  told  these  things  unto  the 
apostles. 

And  their  words  seemed  to  them  as  idle  tales,  and  they  believed  them 
not. 

Then  arose  Peter,  and  ran  unto  the  sepulchre;  and  stooping  down,  he 
beheld  the  linen  clothes  laid  by  themselves,  and  departed,  wondering  in 
himself  at  that  which  was  come  to  pass.  (Luke  24:1-12.) 


In  after  ages  America  was  discovered  by  Christopher  Colum- 
bus, who  was  directed  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  cross  the  mighty 
deep.  His  prayer  on  landing  was  a  dedication  of  this  land  to  God. 
Then  came  the  people  from  England  and  other  countries  of  Europe 
to  America,  and  they  brought  in  their  little  ships  not  money,  not 
merchandise,  but  they  came  weighted  with  religion,  learning,  law, 
and  the  spirit  of  men.  Strong  in  God  and  their  own  heroic  patience, 
they  began  their  combat  with  danger  and  hardship.  They  built 
a  house  for  God,  then  for  themselves.  They  established  education 
and  a  stern  but  august  morality.  They  gave  their  sons  to  God; 
through  him  to  virtue,  and  through  virtue  to  the  state.  So  they  laid 
their  foundations  of  government  and  life. 

In  time  the  government  of  the  United  States  was  established 
with  its  Constitution,  which  we  believe  was  written  by  the  blessing 
and  power  of  God.  The  formation  of  the  republic  of  the  United 
States  was  an  event  ordered  of  God  for  the  bringing  of  his  king- 
dom upon  the  earth. 

De  Tocqueville  wrote, 

A  Republic  is  the  highest  form  of  political  institution,  and  the  high- 
est form  of  Republic  is  one  made  up  of  different  nationalities,  brought 
under  one  government  and  one  flag. 

Generations  before,  John  Winthrop,  one  of  the  pioneers  of 
Massachusetts,  wrote: 

It  will  be  a  great  service  to  the  Church  of  great  consequence  to 
carry  the  gospel  into  those  parts  of  the  world  to  help  on  the  coming  of 
the  Gentiles. 

And  generations  later,  George  Washington  uttered  the  prayer: 

Almighty  God,  we  make  our  earnest  prayer  that  Thou  wilt  keep  the 
United  States  in  Thy  holy  protection;  that  Thou  wilt  incline  the  hearts 
of  the  citizens  to  cultivate  a  spirit  of  subordination  and  obedience  to 
government;  to  entertain  a  brotherly  affection  and  love  for  one  another 
and  for  their  fellow  citizens  of  the  United  States  at  large. 


We  read  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  how  Lehi's  son  Jacob  taught 
the  people  the  sacredness  of  America  as  a  land  preserved  by  the 
hand  of  God  for  his  future  holy  work. 


America's  Destiny 


Land  of  Liberty 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


65 


But  behold,  this  land,  said  God,  shall  be  a  land  of  thine  inheritance, 
and  the  Gentiles  shall  be  blessed  upon  the  land. 

And  this  land  shall  be  a  land  of  liberty  unto  the  Gentiles,  and  there 
shall  be  no  kings  upon  the  land,  who  shall  raise  up  unto  the  Gentiles. 

And  I  will  fortify  this  land  against  all  other  nations. 

And  he  that  fighteth  against  Zion  shall  perish,  saith  God. 

For  he  that  raiseth  up  a  king  against  me  shall  perish,  for  I,  the  Lord, 
the  king  of  heaven,  will  be  their  king,  and  I  will  be  a  light  unto  them 
forever,  that  hear  my  words. 

Wherefore,  I  will  consecrate  this  land  unto  thy  seed,  and  them  who 
shall  be  numbered  among  thy  seed,  forever,  for  the  land  of  their  inherit- 
ance, for  it  is  a  choice  land,  saith  God  unto  me,  above  all  other  lands, 
wherefore  I  will  have  all  men  that  dwell  thereon  that  they  shall  worship 
me,  saith  God.  ((II  Nephi  10:10-14,  19.) 

The  nineteenth  century  saw  many  new  changes  in  economic, 
social,  and  religious  thought.  America  became  a  land  of  freedom, 
and  men  could  worship  God  as  they  pleased.  In  time,  America  be- 
came a  nation  of  different  churches.  Christianity  became  more 
divided.  Churches  began  to  dispute  with  one  another,  and  the  di- 
visions of  Christianity  became  an  affront  to  the  divine  teachings 
of  the  Redeemer.  "The  world  had  become  filled,"  says  Matthew 
Arnold,  "with  unprofitable  disputes.  The  Church  had  been  turned 
into  an  academy,  and  religion  into  wrangling.  It  had  fallen  into 
endless  schism."  The  simple  teachings  of  Christ  our  Redeemer 
had  been  lost. 

Church  Reestablished 

In  the  day  when  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  lived,  the  divisions 
of  Christendom  were  seen.  His  going  into  the  woods  to  pray  was  a 
divine  act,  for  through  the  deep  faith  of  the  boy,  God  spoke  to  him. 
We  all  know  the  story.  God  reestablished  his  Church,  the  priest- 
hood of  God  was  restored  by  John  the  Baptist,  and  Peter,  James, 
and  John.  They  came  again  to  earth  as  resurrected  beings.  Thus 
Joseph  Smith  came  to  understand  the  supreme  test  of  religion — rev- 
elation. Religion  as  a  purely  human  product,  valuable  at  it  is  to 
human  life  and  progress,  has  not  the  inner  vigor  to  retain  a  place 
of  commanding  power.  Religion  requires  revelation.  "The  com- 
pletest  carrier  of  revelation  can  be  no  other,  or  less,  than  a  chosen 
personality."  This  was  the  Christian  conception  in  the  beginning. 
So  we  have  the  restored  gospel  today.  The  Church  has  its  priest- 
hood with  its  Apostles,  seventies,  and  all  the  other  offices  in  the 
Holy  Priesthood  of  God.    Our  foundation  is  the  divine  truth: 

We  believe  in  God  the  Eternal  Father,  and  in  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ, 
and  in  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Dedicatory  Prayer 

I  commend  to  you  seventies  and  to  all  who  hold  the  priesthood 
of  God  the  dedicatory  prayer  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  as  given 
in  the  Kirtland  Temple  in  March  1832.  Among  the  many  thoughts 
he  expressed  was: 


66  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  8  Second  Day 

Thanks  be  to  thy  name,  O  Lord  God  of  Israel,  who  keepest  cove- 
nant and  showest  mercy  unto  thy  servants  who  walk  uprightly  before 
thee,  with  all  their  hearts — 

.  .  .  And  as  all  have  not  faith,  seek  ye  diligently,  and  teach  one  an- 
other words  of  wisdom;  yea,  seek  ye  out  of  the  best  books,  words  of  wis- 
dom, seek  learning  even  by  study,  and  also  by  faith;  .  .  . 

O  Lord,  we  delight  not  in  the  destruction  of  our  fellow  men.  Their 
souls  are  precious  before  thee;  .  .  . 

Have  mercy,  O  Lord,  .  .  .  upon  the  rulers  of  our  land,  may  those 
principles  which  were  so  honorably  and  nobly  defended,  viz.,  the  Con- 
stitution of  our  land,  by  our  fathers,  be  established  forever; 

Remember  the  kings,  the  princes,  the  nobles,  and  the  great  ones  of 
the  earth,  and  all  people,  and  the  churches,  all  the  poor,  the  needy,  and 
afflicted  ones  of  the  earth. 

And  may  all  the  scattered  remnants  of  Israel,  who  have  been  driven  to 
the  ends  of  the  earth,  come  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth,  believe  in  the 
Messiah,  and  be  redeemed  from  oppression,  and  rejoice  before  thee. 
(D.  &  C.  101:1,  7,  43,  54-55,  67.) 

My  Redeemer  Liveth 

What  a  divine  admonition  for  all  of  us  on  this  Easter  day!  We 
can  all  bear  testimony  to  these  truths  and  to  the  truthfulness  of  the 
words  of  Job: 

For  I  know  that  my  Redeemer  liveth,  and  that  he  shall  stand  at  the 
latter  day  upon  the  earth: 

And  though  after  my  skin  worms  destroy  this  body,  yet  in  my  flesh 
shall  I  see  God:  (Job.  19:25-26.) 

In  conclusion,  I  want  to. give  you  the  prayer  of  John  Drinkwater, 
the  English  writer: 

We  know  the  paths  wherein  our  feet  should  press, 
Across  our  hearts  are  written  Thy  decrees, 
Yet  now,  O  Lord,  be  merciful  to  bless 
With  more  than  these. 

Grant  us  the  will  to  fashion  as  we  feel, 
Grant  us  the  strength  to  labour  as  we  know. 
Grant  us  the  purpose,  ribbed  and  edged  with  steel, 
To  strike  the  blow. 

Knowledge  we  ask  not — knowledge  Thou  hast  lent, 
But,  Lord,  the  will — there  lies  our  bitter  need, 
Give  us  to  build  above  the  deep  intent 
The  deed,  the  deed. 

I  pray  that  we  may  all  be  blessed  this  Easter  day  with  the 
sacred  knowledge  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  lives  and  is  a  prophet  of  God. 
Amen. 

ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 

I  hope  the  Lord  will  bless  me  with  an  interest  in  your  faith 
and  prayers  while  I  stand  here  before  you.  I  appreciate  the  honor 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH  67 


and  privilege  that  is  mine  to  talk  to  you  at  this  time.  I  am  grateful 
for  the  many  blessings  given  to  me  and  mine,  and  above  all  I  am 
grateful  for  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

A  Blessed  People 

The  Latter-day  Saints  as  a  people  are  more  blessed  than  any 
others  on  the  face  of  the  earth  because  we  have  this  gospel  which 
offers  to  us  such  great  blessings,  both  for  this  life  and  for  all  eternity. 
Perhaps  the  very  magnitude  of  the  blessings  makes  it  difficult  for 
us  to  comprehend  them.  I  wonder  if  that  is  why  some  of  us  are  not 
taking  advantage  of  our  opportunities.  We  cannot  appreciate  what 
we  do  not  understand.  Perhaps  our  parents  or  our  teachers  neg- 
lected to  instil  in  our  minds  the  glorious  blessings  promised  for 
keeping  the  commandments  of  God. 

I  would  not  hesitate  to  say  that  many  of  our  failures  to  comply 
with  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  gospel  come  from  a  failure  to 
understand  completely  the  blessings  gained  therefrom.  No  one 
in  his  right  mind  would  knowingly  turn  down  such  gain  for  a 
fleeting  satisfaction.  How  great  is  our  responsibility  then  as  par- 
ents, teachers,  or  missionaries  to  try  to  instil  these  teachings  in  the 
minds  and  hearts  of  our  children,  neighbors,  and  fellow  men. 

We  might  do  well  to  look  to  the  methods  of  our  teachings.  We 
are  all  familiar  with  the  slogan,  "If  the  learner  hasn't  learned,  the 
teacher  hasn't  taught." 

Methods  of  Teaching 

In  our  schoolrooms,  teaching  has  become  an  art  instead  of  a 
mere  presentation  of  fact.  Material  that  used  to  be  dry  as  dust  to 
me  as  a  child  has  now  been  made  so  attractive  that  children  learn 
because  it  is  fun,  a  pleasant  experience.  Children  learn  because 
they  want  to.  It  has  been  said  that  the  only  satisfactory  way  to 
make  people  do  things  is  to  make  them  want  to  do  them. 

Truly,  my  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  this  is  an  age  of  adver- 
tising. Products  both  good  and  bad  are  made  so  enticing  that  we 
think  we  cannot  live  without  them.  The  art  of  salesmanship  must 
first  attract  interest,  and  then  create  a  desire.  Is  not  the  gospel  im- 
portant enough  that  we  use  this  proved  psychology  in  selling  it  to 
others?  I  do  not  mean  by  this  that  we  must  use  billboards  along 
the  highway  or  glamorous  ads  in  the  magazines,  etc.,  but  can  we 
not  present  the  blessings  promised  for  faithfulness  in  keeping  the 
commandments  of  the  gospel  in  such  a  way  that  the  desire  for  the 
blessings  will  be  far  greater  than  the  temptations  to  do  wrong? 

Strength  of  Gentleness 

We  have  found  in  teaching  children  that  each  child  responds 
differently.  When  we  are  teaching  our  own  children,  therefore,  we 
must  know  their  nature  and  appeal  to  them  accordingly. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Dag 


It  is  said  that  there  is  nothing  so  strong  as  gentleness,  and 
nothing  so  gentle  as  real  strength.  Be  careful,  you  parents  and 
teachers.  Explain  the  beauties  of  the  gospel,  play  up  the  blessings 
that  the  Lord  promised  as  a  reward  for  faithfulness.  Sheer  force 
rarely  accomplishes  anything. 

I  cannot  help  thinking  of  the  father  of  a  large  family,  who 
ruled  by  force.  Every  meeting  must  be  attended  by  every  child. 
Tithing  was  enforced,  departure  from  the  truth  was  punished  by 
physical  violence,  but  there  was  little  love  and  less  teaching  of  the 
principles  of  the  gospel  in  an  attractive  form  to  make  the  children 
want  to  do  right.  As  a  result,  when  each  child  grew  old  enough 
to  rebel,  it  left  home.  It  is  hard  for  others  to  penetrate  this  rebel- 
lious spirit  and  right  the  wrong  that  has  been  done.  If  we  cannot 
teach  by  love,  then  we  cannot  really  teach  at  all.  It  is  a  human 
failing  to  resent  being  told  we  must  do  thus  and  so  without  being 
given  a  reason.  Even  some  reasoning  does  not  produce  the  de- 
sired results. 


I  am  thinking  now  of  a  young  man  who  came  from  a  good 
family,  who  had  been  taught  that  tobacco  was  poisonous  to  the 
system  and  did  great  bodily  harm.  He  had  been  told  of  the  great 
waste  of  money  involved  in  the  use  of  tobacco.  (And,  by  the  way, 
may  I  say  that  eight  million,  four  hundred  seventy-two  thousand, 
nine  hundred  and  fifty-three  dollars  were  spent  in  Utah  for  cigar- 
ettes for  the  year  1949.  Compare  that  figure  with  some  of  the 
figures  President  Clark  gave  us  the  other  day.)  This  young  man 
resented  the  curtailing  of  his  actions.  He  said  it  was  his  own  busi- 
ness. The  Church  had  no  right  to  order  his  personal  actions.  Well, 
the  result  was  the  same  as  in  thousands  of  other  similar  cases.  He 
could  not  feel  comfortable  in  church  because  he  reeked  of  tobacco. 
He  forfeited  his  chances  to  increase  his  knowledge,  to  associate 
with  his  brethren  in  sacrament  and  priesthood  meetings,  and  to  ad- 
vance in  the  priesthood.  Not  permitted  to  enter  the  temple,  he  has 
given  up  eternal  blessings  in  exchange  for  the  fleeting  satisfac- 
tion of  a  little  tobacco.  Why?  I  cannot  think  that  he  knew  the 
blessings  he  was  passing  by. 


The  most  important  part  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  is  that 
which  we  so  often  fail  to  emphasize — the  blessings  promised.  Be- 
ginning with  the  eighteenth  verse  of  the  89th  Section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  the  Lord  said, 

And  all  saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  these  sayings, 

Now  I  believe  that  has  reference  to  what  is  given  in  the  89th 
Section.    And  then  he  continues, 


Blessings  Forfeited 


Treasures  of  Knowledge 


.  walking  in  obedience  to  the  commandments. 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


69 


I  think  that  means  more  than  just  the  89th  Section,  I  think  it 
means  to  keep  all  the  commandments  and  all  the  laws  and  ordi- 
nances of  the  gospel. 

.  .  .  walking  in  obedience  to  the  commandments,  shall  receive  health 
in  their  navel  and  marrow  to  their  bones; 

And  shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hid- 
den treasures. 

Those  treasures  of  knowledge,  I  think,  are  the  greatest  part 
of  the  promises  given  in  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 

And  shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and  shall  walk  and  not  faint. 
And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a  promise,  that  the  destroying 
angel  shall  pass  by  them,  as  the  Children  of  Israel,  and  not  slay  them. 

If  we  really  understood  these  blessings,  would  we  so  thought- 
lessly transgress  the  law? 

Improvement  in  Teaching 

I  do  not  intend  to  give  a  talk  on  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  It  is 
the  method  of  teaching  that  I  wish  to  stress,  that  we  make  the  re- 
ward for  the  blessings  for  obedience  stand  out  so  high  above  every- 
thing else  that  we  create  a  desire  to  do  right  to  obtain  these  blessings. 

I  think  our  teaching  methods  can  stand  improvement  when  we 
find  such  statistics  as  these.  As  I  stated,  nearly  eight  and  a  half 
million  dollars  were  spent  for  cigarettes  in  the  state  of  Utah  in  1949. 
A  total  of  $33,531,951.00  was  spent  for  cigarettes,  beer,  and  liquor 
for  the  same  period,  and  I  think  the  adjoining  states  surrounding  us 
don't  have  any  better  record.  That's  over  thirty-three  and  a  half 
million  dollars  in  the  state  of  Utah  in  one  year.  Compare  that  with 
the  figures  President  Clark  gave  us  the  other  day  on  expenditures 
of  the  Church.  The  total  expenditures  were  something  near  twenty 
million  dollars,  yet  in  the  state  of  Utah  we  spent  thirty-three  and 
a  half  million  dollars  for  liquor,  beer,  and  cigarettes. 

The  result  is  this:  over  thirty-five  percent  of  the  adult  male 
members  of  the  Church  do  not  hold  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood. 
That  is  the  total  to  which  President  Richards  referred  the  other  day: 
Those  male  adult  members  who  hold  no  priesthood  and  those  who 
are  adult  members  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  comprise  over  thirty- 
five  percent  of  the  male  population  of  the  Church. 

Also,  fifty-eight  and  one-half  percent  of  the  marriages  of  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  in  the  stakes  in  1949  were  outside  the  temple. 
It  sounds  to  me  like  we  need  to  check  up  on  our  teaching  methods. 
There  is  something  wrong  with  our  teaching.  It  is  my  opinion  that 
such  people  have  not  been  taught  the  valuable  blessings  and  full 
meaning  of  these  blessings,  or  no  one  could  keep  them  away  from 
the  temple. 

I  could  tell  you  of  a  number  of  experiences  where  I  know  that 
the  people  are  not  being  taught  what  temple  marriage  or  celestial 
marriage  means. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


We  are  all  familiar  with  the  methods  and  results  of  force  with 
which  the  past  generation  was  sometimes  ruled,  and  which  some- 
times still  continues.  Today  there  is  a  tendency  to  swing  to  the  other 
extreme.  The  child  is  encouraged  to  choose  for  himself.  Yet  if  he 
is  to  choose  for  himself  he  needs  to  be  taught  proper  values;  he  needs 
to  understand  above  all  else  the  blessings  promised  to  those  who 
would  adhere  to  the  gospel  principles. 


Not  long  ago  a  father  from  one  of  our  prominent  Latter-day 
Saint  families  proudly  told  me  of  his  son  who  was  achieving  a  great 
name  for  himself  in  the  scholastic  world.  He  had  turned  down  the 
opportunity  of  being  ordained  an  elder  for  fear  duties  in  the  priest- 
hood might  interfere  with  his  studies.  He  is  now  married — not  in 
the  temple.  Yes,  he  may  attain  great  heights  in  this  world,  but  at 
the  risk  of  losing  the  blessings  of  eternal  life. 

Contrast  that  with  what  I  heard  the  other  day.  One  of  our 
mission  presidents  said  that  he  valued  more  highly  his  ordination  as 
a  high  priest  than  his  doctor's  degree  from  Cornell  University.  That's 
the  kind  of  faith  that  the  priesthood  is  made  up  from;  that's  the 
kind  of  faith  that  I  thank  God  we  have  in  the  Church. 


I  tell  others,  many  of  them,  the  difference  between  civil  mar- 
riage and  celestial  or  temple  marriage  is  the  difference  between 
slavery  and  godhood  for  eternity.  The  Lord  makes  it  sound  a  little 
nicer  when  he  says  those  who  reject  the  law  of  celestial  marriage 
will  be  ministering  angels,  and  worlds  without  end  shall  have  no 
increase.  Waiting  on  others  with  no  further  progress  is  an  eternal 
existence  but  is  not  real  living.  Living  involves  progress.  Many 
people  are  just  existing  in  this  life,  but  not  really  living.  It  is  the 
inner  consciousness  of  righteousness  and  progress  that  makes  for 
happiness.  It  is  no  wonder  that  good  Latter-day  Saint  people  are 
often  said  to  be  the  happiest  people  on  earth.  We  have  more  to 
live  for. 

A  recent  convert  to  the  Church  was  telling  me  how  much  happier 
her  life  has  been  since  she  has  accepted  the  gospel.  Always  before 
she  had  lived  in  constant  fear  of  death,  and,  to  her,  the  unknown 
beyond.  Now  the  gospel  plan  and  the  knowledge  of  the  future  have 
taken  away  all  fear  and  put  in  its  place  a  happiness  and  joy  beyond 
description,  but  well  understood  by  true  Latter-day  Saints. 


Brothers  and  sisters,  let  us  familiarize  ourselves  with  the 
blessings  the  Lord  has  promised  and  stimulate  a  desire  in  others 
to  receive  them,  and  we  will  find  that  the  price  set  to  receive  them 
will  dwindle  into  insignificance  in  comparison  with  the  magnitude  of 
the  blessings  promised.    We  are  rewarded  for  obedience  in  attend- 


Appreciation  of  Priesthood 


Joyful  Living 


Rewards  for  Obedience 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH  71 

ing  meetings,  by  partaking  of  the  sacrament,  renewing  our  covenants 
that  we  may  have  his  Spirit  to  be  with  us.  For  paying  tithing  the 
Lord  has  said, 

.  .  .  Prove  me  now  herewith  ...  If  I  will  not  open  you  the  windows 
of  heaven  and  pour  you  out  a  blessing,  that  there  shall  not  be  room 
enough  to  receive  it.  (Mai.  3:10.) 

Further,  the  Lord  says  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  84th 
Section, 

And  also  all  they  who  receive  this  priesthood  receiveth  me  .  .  . 
For  he  that  receiveth  my  servants  receiveth  me; 
And  he  that  receiveth  me  receiveth  my  Father; 

And  he  that  receiveth  my  Father  receiveth  my  Father's  kingdom; 
therefore  all  that  my  Father  hath  shall  be  given  unto  him. 

And  this  is  according  to  the  oath  and  covenant  which  belongeth  to 
the  priesthood. 

Therefore,  all  those  who  receive  the  priesthod  receive  this  oath  and 
covenant  of  my  Father,  which  he  cannot  break,  neither  can  it  be  moved. 
(D.  &  C.  84:35-40.) 

The  gospel  is  full  of  many  such  glorious  blessings.  May  the 
Lord  bless  us  that  we  may  so  live  to  receive  them  and  teach  them 
to  others,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  radio  audience  undoubtedly  will  be  interested  to  know  that 
the  tabernacle  is  crowded  beyond  capacity,  men  and  women  standing 
in  the  aisles  of  the  main  body  of  the  hall  and  in  the  gallery.  The 
building  is  filled  with  eager  listeners.  We  are  informed  that  the 
Assembly  Hall  also  is  crowded  with  people  attending  these  services 
by  radio  and  television. 

All  will  now  join  in  singing  "Do  What  Is  Right."  Following  the 
congregational  singing  we  shall  be  favored  by  remarks  from  Elder 
Ezrt  Taft  Benson  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn  "Do  What  Is  Right." 

ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters:  If  I  may  have  an  interest  in 
your  faith  and  prayers  and  a  portion  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  I 
desire  to  give  expression  to  a  few  thoughts  which  I  have  had  in 
my  heart  since  returning  from  the  shores  of  war-torn  Europe  some 
three  years  ago. 

A  Miraculous  Drama 

I  should  like  to  speak  with  reference  to  a  rather  miraculous 
drama  that  is  taking  place  today  before  our  very  eyes.    In  large 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Dag 


measure  it  is  unobserved,  particularly  by  spiritual  leaders,  and  yet 
it  has  been  predicted  by  prophets  anciently  thousands  of  years  ago, 
and  in  modern  times  has  been  referred  to  frequently  by  Latter-day 
prophets  during  the  past  one  hundred  and  twenty  years. 

In  spiritual  matters  mankind  seems  inclined  to  worship  the  past 
and  ignore  new  revelation  of  the  present.  People  generally  revere 
prophets  dead  and  persecute  or  ignore  the  living  while  disregarding 
current  fulfilment  of  ancient  and  modern  prophecy.  This  condition 
was  evidenced  in  the  Meridian  of  Time  as  the  people  proclaimed 
Moses  and  Abraham  and  rejected  the  greatest  of  all  prophets —  yea, 
even  the  Redeemer  of  the  World.  In  large  measure  the  same  spirit 
characterizes  the  present. 

This  great  event  of  which  I  speak  is  one  of  the  signs  of  the 
times,  and  is  very  important,  it  seems  to  me,  particularly  to  all 
Christian  people.  It  is  transpiring  in  a  small  strip  of  country  about 
one  hundred  and  ten  miles  long  and  fifty  to  sixty  miles  wide,  in  an 
area  about  the  size  of  the  state  of  Vermont.  This  little  section  has 
a  population  of  approximately  three  million,  divided  as  follows: 
about  1,700,000  Arabs;  approximately  140,000  Christians  and  other 
relatively  minor  sects;  and  about  1,000,000  descendants  of  Judah, 
the  son  of  Jacob. 

The  number  of  Jews  has  multiplied  in  recent  years  in  this  area 
in  a  rather  remarkable  manner.  Plans  are  underway  for  the  in- 
corporation of  about  a  million  and  a  half  more  during  the  immediate 
months  ahead,  and  projected  plans  call  for  an  eventual  population  of 
some  four  million  in  this  small  area. 

,  This  one  and  a  half  million  to  be  added  during  the  next  few 
months  according  to  plans,  will  bring  approximately  two  hundred 
thousand  Jews  from  displaced  persons'  camps  throughout  war-torn 
Europe;  about  seven  hundred  thousand  other  European  Jews;  some 
six  hundred  thousand  now  living  in  Moslem  countries;  and  approxi- 
mately one  hundred  thousand  from  other  continents. 

In  connection  with  this  great  drama,  it  seems  to  me  that  the 
words  of  the  Lord  through  Isaiah  are  being  fulfilled  again,  namely 
that  in  the  last  days  the  Lord  would  proceed  to  do  a  marvelous  work 
and  a  wonder,  that  the  wisdom  of  their  wise  men  should  perish,  and 
the  understanding   of  their  prudent  men   should  be  hid.  (See 


While  in  Europe  in  1946,  when  mention  was  frequently  made 
in  the  European  papers  of  the  Jewish  problem,  I  received  a  comment 
from  one  of  our  great  industrial  leaders  in  this  country  who  is  a 
student  of  this  particular  problem,  in  which  he  said  the  only  sal- 
vation the  Jew  has  is  to  be  as  good  a  citizen  as  he  possibly  can  of 
whatever  country  he  is  a  resident. 

Then  later,  one  of  our  prominent  business  leaders  quoting  a 
high  church  authority  whose  church  numbers  into  many  millions  in 


Isa.  29:14). 


The  Jewish  Problem 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


73 


the  South  American  countries,  stated  that  the  Jewish  people  would 
do  their  cause  much  more  good  if  they  attempted  to  move  their 
people  from  places  where  they  are  not  wanted  to  places  where 
they  are  wanted,  for  example,  South  America,  where  there  is  ample 
room. 

As  Latter-day  Saints,  familiar  with  ancient  and  modern  pro- 
phecies, we  of  course  do  not  agree  that  some  other  more  suitable 
place  should  be  and  will  be  found  for  the  descendants  of  Judah. 
We  believe  in  the  over-ruling  power  of  Providence  in  the  affairs  of 
men  and  nations.  We  believe  that  the  Old  Testament  prophets 
clearly  predicted  the  dispersion  and  scattering  of  Israel  and  the 
eventual  gathering  of  Judah  in  the  land  given  to  their  fathers. 

Lack  of  Wisdom 

Some  of  our  magazines  have  commented  editorially  on  this 
same  problem.  I  have  before  me  a  quotation  made  in  1948  from  one 
of  our  most  popular  magazines  and  reprinted  in  the  New  York 
Herald  Tribune,  which  has  a  wide  circulation  through  their  European 
edition  printed  in  Paris,  in  which  the  author  states: 

What  the  Jews  really  need  is  not  a  national  state,  but  the  right  sort 
of  world.  "If  the  nations  carried  out  the  provision  in  the  United  Nations 
charter  for  universal  respect  for,  and  observance  of,  human  rights,  and 
fundamental  freedoms  for  all  without  distinction  as  to  race,  sex,  language 
or  religion,"  it  would  do  far  more  to  solve  the  Jewish  problem  than  any 
multiplication  of  the  Jewish  population  in  Palestine. 

In  1949,  about  a  year  ago,  the  United  States  News  and  World 
Report  commented  on  the  miscalculations  of  government  officials 
and  military  experts  with  reference  to  the  outcome  of  the  struggle 
then  being  waged  in  Palestine,  and  reported  that  the  "prophecies 
of  the  military  experts,  in  particular,  have  had  to  be  revised."  Then 
it  continued  by  outlining  the  predictions  of  military  authorities  in 
our  own  country  and  in  Great  Britain  particularly,  to  the  effect 
that  it  was  only  a  matter  of  a  very  brief  time  until  the  Jews  would  be 
overcome  and  be  wiped  out  and  "the  Arabs  would  win  quick  con- 
trol of  Palestine.  Now,"  the  article  continues,  "these  official  but 
private  forecasters  are  in  a  state  of  confusion,"  and  the  "U.  S.  and 
Britain,  as  a  result,  have  to  adjust  their  diplomacy,  their  military 
strategy  to  this  fact  of  a  strong  Israel  in  the  midst  of  Arab  weakness." 

It  seems  as  though  this  probably  is  one  more  evidence  of  the  fact 
that  the  wisdom  of  the  wise  shall  perish.  The  prophecies  of  econo- 
mists, wouldbe  statesmen,  and  military  experts  fail,  while  those 
of  the  Lord  through  his  prophets  are  vindicated. 

An  interesting  sidelight  on  this  recent  development  is  the  fact 
that  many  of  the  descendants  of  Judah  who  have  assembled  in 
Palestine  seem  to  look  upon  the  events  of  the  last  few  months  as 
being  nothing  short  of  miraculous.  It  is  a  common  comment  among 
them  that  victory,  in  their  eyes  at  least,  was  a  miracle  which  cannot 
be  explained  in  purely  military  terms.    Some  of  our  recently  returned 


74  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  April  8  Second  Day 

missionaries  from  Europe  who  have  visited  that  land  bring  back 
the  same  report. 

Prophecies  Clear 

Now  the  prophecies  are  very  clear  with  reference  to  the  dis- 
persion and  scattering  of  Israel  and  Judah.  Moses,  Ezekiel,  Amos, 
Jeremiah,  and  others  made  clear  predictions  that  Judah  would  be 
scattered.  The  Master  referred  to  it  when  asked  by  his  disciples 
for  a  sign  as  to  the  end  of  the  world.    The  Lord  said, 

And  they  [referring  to  the  Jews]  shall  fall  by  the  edge  of  the  sword, 
and  shall  be  led  away  captive  into  all  nations:  and  Jerusalem  shall  be 
trodden  down  of  the  Gentiles,  until  the  times  of  the  Gentiles  be  fulfilled. 
(Luke  21:24.) 

Jeremiah  made  it  clear  that  they,  the  Jews,  would  be  persecuted 
with  the  sword,  with  famine,  and  with  pestilence  and  that  the  Lord 
would 

deliver  them  to  be  removed  to  all  kingdoms  of  the  earth  to  be  a  curse, 
and  an  astonishment,  and  a  hissing,  and  a  reproach,  among  all  the  nations 
whither  I  have  driven  them: 

Because  they  have  not  hearkened  to  my  word,  saith  the  Lord. 
(Jer.  29:18-19.) 

Is  it  possible  that  the  times  of  the  Gentiles  are  nearing  their 
fulfillment,  that  the  time  is  approaching  when  the  gospel  will  be 
carried  to  the  descendants  of  Judah?  I  think  one  of  the  saddest 
chapters  in  history  is  the  account  of  the  dispersion  and  suffering  of 
Judah. 

Sufferings  of  Judah 

I  have  before  me  a  quotation  of  Will  Durant  in  his  book,  The 
Story  of  Civilization,  in  which  he  states  that  "no  people  in  history 
fought  so  tenaciously  for  liberty  as  the  Jews,  nor  any  other  people 
against  such  odds."  He  says  further,  "No  other  people  has  ever 
known  so  long  an  exile,  or  so  hard  a  fate." 

Then  referring  to  the  siege  of  Jerusalem  under  Titus,  lasting 
for  134  days,  during  which  1,110,000  Jews  perished  and  97,000 
were  taken  captive;  he  states  that  the  Romans  destroyed  987  towns 
in  Palestine  and  slew  580,000  men,  and  a  still  larger  number,  we 
are  told,  perished  through  starvation,  disease,  and  fire. 

Nearly  all  Judea  was  laid  waste.  So  many  Jews  were  sold  as  slaves 
that  their  price  fell  to  that  of  a  horse.  Thousands  hid  in  underground 
channels  rather  than  be  captured.  Surrounded  by  Romans  they  died  one 
by  one  of  hunger  while  the  living  ate  the  bodies  of  the  dead. 

Scarcely  eight  thousand  Jews  were  left  in  all  of  Palestine.  And 
even  their  banishment  and  scattering  didn't  end  their  persecution. 
Efforts  were  made  to  drive  them  from  various  countries.  Some 
nations  made  an  effort  to  banish  them  completely.  They  were  ac- 
cused of  causing  the  "Black  Death"  that  spread  through  Europe  in 
1348,  and  many  Jews  were  crucified  therefor. 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


75 


I  have  said  nothing  regarding  the  Crusades  and  the  dastardly 
deeds  perpetrated  in  the  name  of  Christianity  upon  the  remaining 
Jews  in  Palestine.  Yes,  the  prophecies  regarding  the  dispersion  and 
the  suffering  of  Judah  have  been  fulfilled.  But  the  gathering  and 
re-establishment  of  the  Jews  is  also  clearly  predicted. 

Gathering  of  Israel 

The  gathering  has  three  phases:  the  gathering  of  Israel  to 
the  land  of  Zion,  the  American  hemisphere;  the  return  of  the  Ten 
Tribes  from  the  countries  of  the  north;  and  the  re-establishment  of 
the  Jews  in  Palestine  as  God's  chosen  people. 

This  miracle  of  the  return  of  the  Jews  was  to  be  one  of  the 
events  to  precede  Christ's  second  coming,  and  the  scriptures  are 
very  clear  with  reference  to  this  fact.  Isaiah  said  that  they  shall 
gather  "the  dispersed  of  Judah  from  the  four  corners  of  the  earth" 
and  "set  them  in  their  own  land,"  that  they  will  "build  the  old  waste," 
and  "repair  the  waste  cities."     (See  Isa.  11:11-12.) 

Jeremiah,  who  predicted  so  clearly  their  dispersion,  also  states 
that  the  Lord  will  "cause  them  to  return  to  the  land  that  I  gave  to 
their  fathers,  and  they  shall  possess  it,"  and  "build  them,  as  at  the 
first."    (Jer.  30:3;  33:7.) 

The  prophets  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  even  more  clearly  pre- 
dict the  conditions  under  which  they  will  gather.  These  prophets 
also  foresaw  the  time  when  they  would  begin  to  believe  in  Jesus 
Christ,  that  the  kings  of  the  Gentiles  would  be  as  nursing  fathers 
and  their  queens  nursing  mothers  in  helping  to  bring  about  their 
return.  These  prophets  make  it  clear  that  eventually  the  fulness  of 
the  gospel  will  be  carried  to  Jerusalem  and  to  the  descendants  of 
Judah. 

In  our  day,  in  that  first  visit  of  Moroni  to  the  Prophet  Joseph, 
mention  was  made  that  the  "dispersed  of  Judah  would  be  gathered 
from  the  four  corners  of  the  earth."  Thirteen  years  later,  when 
Moses  delivered  the  keys  for  the  gathering  of  Israel  and  the  Kirtland 
Temple  was  dedicated,  the  Prophet  Joseph  made  further  reference 
to  the  promises  made  to  Judah  and  appealed  to  the  Lord  that  the 
time  may  soon  come  when  the  children  of  Judah  would  return  to 
the  land  promised  to  their  father,  Abraham. 

In  some  of  the  revelations  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  par- 
ticularly the  133rd  Section,  reference  is  also  made  to  the  fact  that 
the  elders  would  go  to  the  nations  of  the  earth,  to  the  Gentiles  first, 
and  also  to  the  Jews,  that  the  Jews  would  "flee  to  Jerusalem,"  and 
that  "Judah,  after  their  pain  shall  be  sanctified."  (D.  &  C.  133:8,  13, 
35.) 

Dedication  of  Palestine 

As  Latter-day  Saints,  from  the  very  inception  of  this  latter-day 
work,  we  have  had  a  deep  interest  in  this  group  of  our  Father's  chil- 
dren, the  descendants  of  Judah.    One  hundred  and  ten  years  ago, 


76  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  April  8  Second  Dag 

at  this  very  conference,  two  of  the  elders  of  the  Church,  Elders  Orson 
Hyde  and  John  E.  Page,  were  called  to  go  to  the  land  of  Palestine 
and  dedicate  it  for  the  return  of  the  descendants  of  Judah. 

Ten  years  before,  the  Prophet  Joseph  had  predicted  on  the 
head  of  Orson  Hyde  that  in  due  time  he  should  go  to  Jerusalem,  the 
land  of  his  fathers,  and  be  a  watchman  to  that  people.  History  tells 
us  that  Elder  Hyde  did  go  and  dedicate  the  land  in  1841,  and  in 
1873  Elder  George  A.  Smith  went  to  that  land  and  again  dedicated  it 
for  the  return  of  Judah. 

In  Elder  Hyde's  prayer  of  dedication  on  the  Mount  of  Olives, 
he  prayed  that  the  barrenness  and  sterility  of  the  land  would  be 
removed,  that  springs  of  water  would  burst  forth,  that  the  land 
would  become  fruitful  again,  that  the  Lord  would  subdue  their  un- 
belief and  "incline  them  to  gather  in  upon  this  land."  He  also 
prayed  that  God  would  inspire  the  kings  of  the  earth  to  help  bring 
about  the  promises  made  to  Judah. 

Other  prophecies  were  made  in  connection  with  this  event. 
Great  Britain  was  referred  to  particularly  as  one  of  the  nations 
which  would  play  a  very  prominent  part  in  helping  to  bring  this  about. 
And  almost  immediately  following  the  visit  of  George  A.  Smith  to 
this  land,  organizations  began  to  come  into  existence,  the  purpose  of 
which  was  to  sponsor  the  return  of  the  Jews  to  the  land  of  Palestine. 

Prophecy  of  Wilford  Woodruff 

At  about  this  same  time,  President  Wilford  Woodruff  uttered 
a  very  important  prophecy,  prayer,  and  testimony  with  reference 
to  this  people,  in  which  he  said, 

.  .  .  the  Lord  has  decreed  that  the  Jews  should  be  gathered  from  all 
the  Gentile  nations  where  they  have  been  driven,  into  their  own  land,  in 
fulfilment  of  the  words  of  Moses,  their  law-giver.  And  this  is  the  will 
of  your  great  Elohim,  O  house  of  Judah,  and  whenever  you  shall  be  called 
upon  to  perform  this  work,  the  God  of  Israel  will  help  you.  You  have  a 
great  future  and  destiny  before  you  and  you  cannot  avoid  fulfilling  it; 
you  are  the  royal,  chosen  seed,  and  the  God  of  your  father's  house  has 
kept  you  distinct  as  a  nation  for  eighteen  hundred  years,  under  all  the 
oppression  of  the  whole  Gentile  world.  You  may  not  wait  until  you 
believe  on  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  but  when  you  meet  with  Shiloh  your  king, 
you  will  know  him;  your  destiny  is  marked  out,  you  cannot  avoid  it. 
{Wilford  Woodruff,  Matthias  F.  Cowley,  p.  509.) 

Then  he  said  further  that  the  time  would  come  when  the  armies 
of  the  Gentiles  would  be  gathered  against  them,  but  he  promised 
further  that 

the  time  is  not  far  distant  when  the  rich  men  among  the  Jews  would  be 
called  upon  to  use  their  abundant  wealth  to  gather  the  dispersed  of  Judah 
and  purchase  the  ancient  dwelling  places  of  their  fathers  in  and  about 
Jerusalem,  and  rebuild  the  holy  city  and  temple.  (Ibid.) 

It  is  rather  significant  that  up  to  1 948  more  than  seven  hundred 
million  dollars  had  been  expended  by  American  Jews  alone  in 
helping  to  bring  about  the  fulfilment  of  this  prophecy  by  President 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


77 


Wilford  Woodruff.  The  part  that  Great  Britain  played  in  the 
liberating  of  Palestine  from  Turkish  rule  is  a  matter  of  history 
which  occurred  during  World  War  I  in  a  remarkable  manner.  Then 
Lord  Balfour,  secretary  of  foreign  affairs  for  the  British  government, 
made  a  very  significant  statement  of  policy  to  the  effect  that  his 
Majesty's  government  would  view  "with  favor  the  establishment  in 
Palestine  of  a  national  home  for  the  Jewish  people,  and  will  use  their 
best  endeavors  to  facilitate  the  achievement  of  this  object." 

This  statement  of  policy  was  later  supported  by  the  Congress  of 
the  United  States  and  was  endorsed  by  President  Wilson  and  all 
of  his  successors  that  it  is  the  policy  of  our  own  land  to  look  with 
favor  on  the  establishment  of  a  national  home  for  the  descendants 
of  Judah  in  Palestine. 

Return  of  the  Jews 

So  today,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  in  fulfilment  of  these  ancient 
and  modern  prophecies,  a  great  drama  is  being  enacted  in  Palestine. 
The  Jews  are  returning  as  one  of  the  events  of  the  last  days.  Re- 
sources are  being  built  up  through  reclamation,  rehabilitation,  and 
modernization. 

I  read  the  other  day  of  one  authority  who  stated  that  there 
is  more  scientific  "know-how"  concentrated  today  in  Palestine  than 
in  any  similar  area  upon  the  face  of  the  earth.  I  wonder  if  there 
isn't  purpose  behind  it.  I  noted,  too,  in  the  report  of  the  Anglo- 
American  Commission  which  was  made  of  their  study  in  1946,  that 
they  commented  that  considerable  numbers  of  the  Jews  are  being 
converted  to  Christianity  and  that  their  attitude  toward  the  Christ  as 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world  is  rapidly  changing.  There  has  been 
much  confusion  over  the  Palestine  question — much  talk  of  division 
of  the  land,  of  quotas,  import  restrictions — but  out  of  it  all  I  cannot 
help  feeling  that  we  will  see  a  complete  fulfilment  of  the  prophecies 
which  have  been  made  regarding  this  people.  These  prophecies 
are  in  rapid  course  of  fulfilment  before  our  very  eyes  today. 

Persecution  of  Jews 

While  in  Europe,  traveling  through  the  war-torn  countries,  I 
was  deeply  impressed  with  the  fact  that  the  Lord  had  used,  as  a 
means  of  prodding  the  Jews  and  bringing  about  a  fulfilment  of  his 
purposes,  legalized  persecution  under  the  great  and  terrible  Nazi 
program.  The  Jews  were  persecuted  and  driven,  I  presume,  like 
no  other  people  under  heaven. 

I  remember  standing  on  the  ruins  of  what  was  the  largest  Jewish 
ghetto  in  Europe,  in  the  Jewish  section  of  Warsaw,  Poland,  in  August 
1946.  There  we  were  given  a  description  of  what  had  transpired  as 
being  somewhat  typical  of  that  which  had  gone  on  in  various  parts 
of  Europe  through  the  establishment  of  the  medieval  ghetto. 

Here  250,000  descendants  of  Judah  had  lived  prior  to  the  war. 
Under   the  Nazi  rule,  through  forced  labor,  they  were  required  to 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


build  a  wall  around  the  ghetto.  Later  some  150,000  Jews  from  other 
parts  of  Europe  were  brought  into  that  area.  Then  finally  the 
entire  section  was  destroyed,  wiped  out  by  bombing  after  the  people 
had  been  robbed  and  ravaged. 

As  we  stood  on  the  crumbled  brick  and  mortar  and  the  rubble 
some  fifteen  feet  deep,  with  only  the  spire  of  one  burned  synagogue 
showing — no  other  building  in  that  vast  area — we  were  told  by  the 
guide  that  some  two  hundred  thousand  bodies,  it  was  estimated, 
still  remained  under  the  rubble  of  those  once  great  buildings  in  this 
section  of  Warsaw. 

We  visited  some  of  the  concentration  camps  and  the  crema- 
toriums where  it  is  estimated,  six  million  of  the  sons  and  daughters  of 
Judah  lost  their  lives,  reducing  their  world  population  from  seven- 
teen to  eleven  million. 


We  were  impressed  almost  to  tears  as  we  visited  some  of  these 
wanderers,  these  persecuted  and  driven  sons  of  our  Heavenly  Father, 
to  find  how  doggedly  they  were  determined  to  return  to  Palestine. 
Ofttimes,  as  they  would  come  into  relief  agencies  to  get  temporary 
help,  we  would  ask  them  why  they  did  not  settle  nearby.  Sometimes 
they  were  invited  to  stay.  But  they  had  one  desire,  and  that  was 
to  return  to  the  land  of  their  fathers. 

I  recall  that  a  survey  was  made  by  UNRRA,  United  Nations 
Relief  and  Rehabilitation  Administration,  in  which  they  interviewed 
3,629  Jews  in  displaced  persons'  camps  to  determine  what  they  would 
like  to  do  if  they  were  given  their  freedom  to  move  and  locate  as  they 
pleased.  Of  this  number,  3,619  indicated  that  they  would  like  to 
go  back  to  Palestine.  Nine  of  them  expressed  a  desire  to  come  to 
the  United  States,  and  one  to  Australia.  This  desire — which  is 
almost  a  passion — was  so  great  that  it  was  as  strong  as  life  itself. 

Of  course,  much  of  the  movement  then  was  done  through  the 
underground  and  by  smuggling.  I  hold  in  my  hand  a  short  clipping, 
one  of  many  we  took  from  the  papers  in  London.  This  one  is 
entitled,  "One  Hundred  Jew  Ships  Now."  It  is  taken  from  the 
London  Evening  News,  November  5,  1946.  It  is  an  Associated 
Press  dispatch  and  reads: 

British  Naval  Intelligence  Officers  in  Jerusalem  revealed  today  that 
Jewish  underground  has  bought  at  least  one  hundred  ships,  many  paid  for 
with  U.  S.  funds,  to  carry  refugees  to  Palestine  from  southern  European 
ports. 

Crews  are  promised  £10  a  head  for  each  refugee  smuggled  into  Pal- 
estine.— A.P. 


Determination  to  Return 


Future  Events 


Yes,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  this  great  drama  goes  on  before 
our  very  eyes,  in  large  measure  unnoticed  by  the  Christian  world. 
One  hardly  ever  hears  reference  to  the  prophecies  regarding  Judah's 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


79 


return.  Yet,  the  promises  are  clear  that  it  would  be  one  of  the  great 
events  of  the  last  days.  And,  of  course,  we  know  from  modern 
revelations  and  prophecies  that  much  more  is  yet  to  occur.  Read 
the  fourteenth  chapter  of  Zechariah  and  the  eleventh  chapter  of 
Revelations  with  reference  to  other  great  events  that  are  yet  to 
come,  affecting  directly  this  chosen  people,  the  House  of  Judah. 
Eventually  their  city  will  be  encompassed  by  Gentile  armies.  Yes, 
during  their  last  great  struggle,  the  Master  will  make  his  appearance 
as  the  Mount  of  Olives  cleaves  in  twain  for  their  protection. 

Then,  no  doubt,  will  be  realized  the  fulfilment  of  the  glorious 
statement  made  by  the  Lord  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  through 
the  Prophet  Joseph  with  reference  to  Judah,  which  I  read  in  con- 
clusion: 

And  then  shall  the  Jews  look  upon  me  and  say:  What  are  these 
wounds  in  thine  hands  and  in  thy  feet? 

Then  shall  they  know  that  I  am  the  Lord;  for  I  will  say  unto  them: 
These  wounds  are  the  wounds  with  which  I  was  wounded  in  the  house 
of  my  friends.  I  am  he  who  was  lifted  up.  I  am  Jesus  that  was  crucified. 
I  am  the  Son  of  God. 

And  then  shall  they  weep  because  of  their  iniquities;  then  shall  they 
lament  because  they  persecuted  their  king.  (D.  &  C.  45:51-53.) 

God  help  us,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  to  realize  the  importance 
of  these  great  and  stirring  events  as  signs  that  the  second  coming 
of  the  Master  is  approaching  rapidly,  and  may  they  be  the  means 
of  emphasizing  to  us  the  importance  of  putting  our  own  houses  in 
order,  maintaining  the  faith,  and  doing  all  in  our  power  to  help 
further  this  glorious  work  of  the  latter  day,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay; 

Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Counsil  of  the  Twelve  has  just 
concluded  speaking.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Alma  Sonne,  one 
of  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve,  who  has  but  recently  returned  from 
presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 

ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  seems  most  proper  and  fitting  that  I 
should  follow  Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  as  the  speaker  this  morning, 
for  I  followed  him  to  Europe,  and  I  followed  him  as  the  president 
of  the  European  Mission,  which  I  consider  was  a  great  privilege  and 
certainly  a  great  honor.  It  was  my  second  mission  to  Europe.  I 
went  there  first  in  the  year  1910. 

Kingdoms  Shaken 

At  that  time,  as  a  missionary  in  Great  Britain  I  delivered  a 
gospel  tract  which  had  been  written  by  President  Charles  W.  Pen- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Dag 


rose.  In  this  tract,  as  a  conclusion,  President  Penrose  wrote,  "The 
Lord  is  about  to  shake  terribly  the  kingdoms  of  this  world.  .  .  .  He 
will  break  in  pieces  the  nations  as  a  potter's  vessel;"  and  as  a  warn- 
ing to  the  readers  he  said,  "Salvation  has  come  unto  you;  reject  it 
not,  lest  ye  fall  and  perish."  I  have  seen  some  of  the  scenes  de- 
scribed so  well  by  President  Benson  this  morning,  and  here  in  this 
holy  place  I  feel  singularly  isolated  from  a  world  torn  asunder  by 
tumult,  contention,  and  misunderstanding.  This  place  is  like  an 
oasis  in  a  desert  land. 


Europe  is  faced  with  uncertainty  everywhere,  and  it  seems 
to  me  some  of  its  nations  are  floundering  spiritually,  economically, 
and  politically.  When  I  traveled  through  the  countries  of  Europe 
the  first  time  with  President  Benson,  I  saw  a  war-weary  world. 
The  people  were  sick  and  tired.  Some  of  them  were  cold  and 
hungry.  The  ravages  of  war  had  cut  deep  into  their  lives.  I  shall 
never  forget  the  grim  and  solemn  scenes  which  met  our  eyes.  Presi- 
dent Benson,  with  his  benign  and  reassuring  personality,  was  an 
inspiration  wherever  and  whenever  he  appeared.  The  people  need- 
ed to  be  reassured  and  strengthened.  Worldly  possessions  had  been 
lost.  Homes  had  been  destroyed.  Landmarks  had  disappeared. 
Hopes  and  aspirations  had  been  shattered.  Food,  clothing,  and 
shelter,  so  essential  to  humanity's  welfare,  were  scarcely  available. 
Fear  and  anxiety  haunted  the  lives  of  the  people. 

The  winter  of  1946-47  was  the  worst  in  a  century.  A  good 
meal  and  a  warm  room  were  luxuries.  I  shall  not  forget  the  supreme 
satisfaction  I  felt  when  I  saw  the  welfare  supplies  which  had  been 
shipped  from  Salt  Lake  City  safe  and  secure  in  the  warehouse  in 
Geneva,  Switzerland.  It  is  a  bold  undertaking,  this  welfare  pro- 
gram, for  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  now  scattered  throughout  the 
world.  No  Latter-day  Saint  in  Europe  then  doubted  the  prophetic 
inspiration  back  of  the  welfare  program.  Here  was  life;  here  was 
hope  for  the  starving  and  suffering  members  of  the  Church.  But 
proper  distribution  to  those  who  needed  it  was  a  problem.  President 
Benson  with  characteristic  energy  and  wise  supervision  had  already 
opened  the  door,  but  problems  continued  to  arise.  The  German 
relief  committees  in  Berlin,  Stuttgart,  and  other  places,  did  not 
fully  understand  our  welfare  program.  Many  explanations  were 
needed.   The  real  problem  was  to  reach  our  own  Church  members. 


Other  charitable  organizations  made  a  general  distribution 
through  agencies  which  had  been  set  up  for  that  purpose.  The 
Church  and  its  members  had  been  liberal  in  their  contributions, 
as  you  know,  for  that  purpose,  but  the  welfare  program  was  intend- 
ed primarily  to  assist  members  of  the  Church  who  had  suffered 
reverses  and  setbacks.    I  am  glad  to  report  to  you  today  that  most 


War- Weary  World 


Relief  Extended 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


81 


of  them  were  reached,  lives  were  saved,  distress  relieved,  and  the 
ordinary  comforts  restored. 

Expressions  of  gratitude  came  from  every  quarter.  News- 
papers and  magazines  recognized  and  praised  the  project  and 
pointed  to  it  as  a  great  Christian  endeavor.  I  would  be  derelict 
and  ungrateful  if  I  failed  to  mention  the  gigantic  task  which  rested 
upon  the  general  welfare  committee  of  the  Church.  Their  work 
was  well  and  efficiently  done.  Shipments  reached  their  destinations 
without  serious  losses  or  delays. 

God  at  the  Helm 

I  do  not  believe  the  Church  will  ever  fail  in  any  great  emer- 
gency. God  will  always  be  at  the  helm  to  inspire  and  direct  its 
leaders. 

The  pioneers  succeeded  under  such  inspiration.  They  laid  the 
foundation  of  a  great  commonwealth  and  did  whatever  was  neces- 
sary to  safeguard  the  work  established  by  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet. 
No  failure  was  anticipated  in  the  work  to  be  done.  "No  unhallowed 
hand,"  said  the  Prophet,  "can  stop  God's  work  from  progressing." 

Said  the  Lord  Jesus,  "Heaven  and  earth  shall  pass  away,  but 
my  words  shall  not  pass  away."  (Matt.  24:35.) 

Missionary  Enterprise 

The  missionary  enterprise  of  the  Church  has  gone  forward 
under  divine  inspiration  and  protection.  It  has  survived  bitter 
persecution,  misrepresentation,  scurrilous  falsehoods  waged  against 
it  by  opponents  who  would  not  and  could  not  understand.  It  has 
withstood  slander,  abuse,  and  mobocracy  when  the  Church  was 
young  and  its  members  few.  Today  it  is  more  firmly  established 
than  ever.  The  barriers  are  crumbling,  and  the  doors  are  being 
opened  by  an  unseen  power  for  the  proclamation  of  the  everlasting 
gospel.    It  will  not  fail. 

God's  purposes  are  ripening  in  the  earth,  and  the  predictions 
concerning  the  last  days  are  being  fulfilled.  The  gospel  is  being 
preached  without  fear  or  favor  wherever  religious  freedom  has 
been  established.  The  preservation  of  that  freedom  rests  upon  you 
and  me  and  all  free  men.  The  adversary  of  truth  and  light  is  organ- 
izing his  forces  in  the  world.  He  is  the  great  enemy  of  freedom 
and  human  rights,  both  of  which  are  God-given.  I  have  seen  the 
adversary's  system  in  operation  in  Europe.  It  stifles  all  progress 
and  destroys  happiness  and  independence.  It  makes  for  slavery 
and  paves  the  way  for  sorrow  and  disappointment.  It  is  the  exact 
opposite  of  Christ's  plan  of  life  and  salvation.  The  two  can  never 
be  blended. 

Book  of  Mormon 

I  want  to  testify  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  well-nigh  in- 
dispensable in  the  great  missionary  work  which  is  going  forward 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


in  the  world.  Its  importance  cannot  be  overstated.  In  some  of 
the  missions  of  Europe,  copies  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  have  not 
been  available,  and  the  demand  for  them  has  been  great.  The 
scriptural  productions  of  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet,  are  powerful 
and  irrefutable  testimonies  to  the  divinity  of  his  calling. 


It  was  my  privilege  to  meet  and  to  be  interviewed  by  many 
newspaper  representatives  in  Europe  during  my  stay  there.  One 
of  them,  after  a  lengthy  interview,  made  this  statement  to  me: 

God  will  give  the  British  people  a  chance.  That  chance  will  come 
from  your  Church.  You  can  save  England;  you  can  save  Europe;  you 
have  everything.  It  will  be  a  long,  tough  job;  it  will  take  a  generation. 
I  can  see  this,  but  I  haven't  the  genius  to  explain  it;  I  don't  know 
enough.  You  have  done  one  hundred  years  of  constructive  work  with- 
out a  slip  and  without  misrepresentation  and  you  have  not  found  it  neces- 
sary to  lie  and  deceive  as  have  some  other  churches. 

God's  work  is  going  forward  in  Europe,  and  it  is  the  gospel 
of  salvation.  May  we  appreciate  it,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  interesting  and  impressive  session  will  now  be  concluded  by 
the  congregation  singing  "O  Say,  What  is  Truth?"  and  the  benedic- 
tion will  be  offered  by  President  William  Noble  Waite  of  the  South 
Los  Angeles  Stake,  California,  after  which  this  conference  will  stand 
adjourned  until  2:00  o'clock  this  afternoon. 

The  proceedings  of  the  afternoon  session  will  be  broadcast  over 
KSL,  and  by  arrangement,  over  the  other  stations  to  which  you  are 
now  listening. 

Any  important  messages  and  calls  that  may  have  come,  and  a 
number  have,  will  be  announced  at  the  dismissal  of  this  meeting  over 
the  loud  speaking  system  on  the  grounds.  Every  one  will  do  well  to 
listen  carefully  to  such  announcements. 

Singing  by  the  congregation,  "O  Say,  What  Is  Truth?" 
The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  President  William  Noble 
Waite  of  the  South  Los  Angeles  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


The  fourth  session  of  the  Conference  convened  at  2:00  p.m., 
Saturday,  April  8. 

Again  the  building  was  crowded  to  capacity,  as  was  the  case  at 
the  previous  sessions,  and,  again  the  Assembly  Hall  was  filled  with 


Gospel  of  Salvation 


SECOND  DAY 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


83 


people  who  were  privileged  to  see  and  hear  the  proceedings  in  the 
Tabernacle  by  means  of  television. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

This  is  the  fourth  session  of  the  One  Hundred  Twentieth  An- 
nual Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
We  are  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  at  Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake 
City.    The  house  is  crowded  to  capacity. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  is  presiding  at  this  meeting. 
The  speaker,  President  Clark,  is  conducting  the  service  at  his 
direction. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL 
in  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the 
following  stations: 

In  Utah:  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KJAM  at 
Vernal,  KVNU  at  Logan. 

In  Idaho:  KGEM  at  Boise,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at 
Pocatello,  KBIO  at  Burley. 

In  Oregon:  KBKR  at  Baker,  KSRV  at  Ontario. 

And  by  transcription,  over  KTYL  at  Mesa,  Arizona,  and 
KEXO  at  Grand  Junction,  Colorado. 

The  services  will  also  be  televised  over  the  KSL  television 
station,  channel  5. 

The  choir  singing  for  this  session  will  be  furnished  by  the 
Swiss-German  Choir.  Elder  Heinz  Rimmasch,  conducting,  and 
Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

We  will  begin  the  services  by  the  choir  singing  "The  Heavens 
Resound." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  William  A. 
Strong  of  the  Teton  Stake,  Idaho. 


The  choir  sang,  "The  Heavens  Resound." 
President  William  A.  Strong  of  the  Teton  Stake  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

The  choir  sang,  "Great  Is  The  Lord." 

ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

"It  is  only  a  question  of  time,  unless  people  repent  of  their  sins, 
until  war  will  come,  not  only  war  but  pestilence  will  come,  until  the 
human  family  disappears  from  the  world.  There  is  only  one  way  to 
enjoy  peace  and  happiness  in  this  world, — repent  and  turn  to  the 
Lord.   That  is  the  only  way." 

In  these  words  President  Smith  introduced  the  theme  of  this 
conference  at  the  opening  session  last  Thursday.  This  statement 
went  down  into  my  heart  like  fire,  because  I  did  not  accept  it  as  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


statement  of  a  man  but  as  the  word  of  God  through  his  living 
prophet  to  this  living  generation.  I  desire  to  say  a  few  words  about 
this  theme.   It  reminds  me  of  the  eloquent  statement  of  Alma. 

O  that  I  were  an  angel,  and  could  have  the  wish  of  mine  heart,  that 
I  might  go  forth  and  speak  with  the  trump  of  God,  with  a  voice  to  shake 
the  earth,  and  cry  repentance  unto  every  people! 

Yea,  I  would  declare  unto  every  soul,  as  with  the  voice  of  thunder, 
repentance  and  the  plan  of  redemption  that  they  should  repent  and  come 
unto  our  God,  that  there  might  not  be  more  sorrow  upon  all  the  face  of 
the  earth.  (Alma  29:1-2.) 

Here  indeed  is  a  consummation  devoutly  to  be  wished. 


In  the  Prophet's  journal  under  date  of  March  1,  1842,  he  made 
the  following  entry: 

At  the  request  of  Mr.  John  Wentworth,  Editor  and  Proprietor  of 
the  Chicago  Democrat,  I  have  written  the  following  sketch  of  the  rise, 
progress,  persecution,  and  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  (History  of  the 
Church,  Vol.  IV,  p.  535.) 

The  sketch  thus  introduced,  he  concluded  with  the  Articles  of 
Faith,  the  fourth  one  of  which  reads: 

We  believe  that  the  first  principles  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  are: 
(First)  Faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  (Second)  Repentance;  (Third) 
Baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins;  (Fourth)  Laying  on  of 
hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

You  will  note  that  in  the  sequence  here  followed  by  the  Proph- 
et, repentance  as  a  principle  of  the  gospel  is  preceded  by  faith  in 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  clear  from  the  three  articles  preceding 
the  one  I  have  quoted  that  to  have  this  faith  requires  first,  belief 
in  God  as  our  Eternal  Father,  in  Jesus  Christ  as  his  beloved  Son, 
and  in  the  Holy  Ghost;  and  second,  acceptance  of  the  doctrines 
that  men  will  be  held  accountable  for  their  own  sins,  and  that 
through  the  atonement  of  Christ  they  may  be  saved  by  obedience 
to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  gospel. 


To  one  believing  these  truths  and,  in  the  light  of  them,  having 
faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  repentance  means  not  only  "a  turn- 
ing with  sorrow  from  a  past  sinful  course  of  action" — as  it  has 
been  defined — but,  in  addition  thereto,  that  through  repentance  he 
may  bring  himself  within  the  reach  of  the  atoning  blood  of  Jesus 
Christ,  so  that  thereby  he  may  be  cleansed  from  the  effects  of  his 
transgressions  and  obtain  forgiveness  of  them.  His  repentance  is 
a  preparation  for  baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  his 
sins  and  reception  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

While  turning  from  a  sinful  course  at  any  time  and  for  any 
cause  is  commendable  and  desirable,  the  repentance  which  "work- 


First  Principles 


Repentance  Leading  to  Salvation 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY  85 

eth  ...  to  salvation,"  as  Paul  puts  it,  is  inseparably  connected  with 
the  other  first  principles  of  the  gospel. 

True  Repentance 

Many  sober  and  earnest  people  are  recognizing  the  need  for 
men  to  repent  of  their  sinful  ways  and  are  advocating  that  they 
turn  to  God.  This  is  good  as  far  as  it  goes,  but  the  only  people 
who  can  call  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  to  true  repentance  are  the 
members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The 
reason  this  rather  sweeping  statement  is  true  is  because  such  a  call  to 
repentance  cannot  be  made  without  a  divine  commission. 

For  such  repentance  to  be  declared  under  divine  commission, 
as  President  Smith  declared  it  at  the  opening  of  this  conference, 
is  by  no  means  a  new  thing.  It  was  not  new  in  the  days  of  the 
Prophet.  It  is  as  old  as  this  world.  In  the  morning  of  earth's 
temporal  existence,  an  angel  commissioned  by  the  Lord  himself 
declared  repentance  unto  the  first  mortal  man,  saying, 

.  .  .  thou  shalt  repent  and  call  upon  God  in  the  name  of  the  Son 
forevermore  .  .  . 

And  the  Lord  God  called  upon  men  by  the  Holy  Ghost  everywhere 
and  commanded  them  that  they  should  repent; 

And  as  many  as  believed  in  the  Son,  and  repented  of  their  sins,  should 
be  saved;  and  as  many  as  believed  not  and  repented  not,  should  be  damned; 
and  the  words  went  forth  out  of  the  mouth  of  God  in  a  firm  decree.  ( Moses 
5:8,  14-15.) 

Need  of  the  Hour 

From  then  until  now,  men  have  lived  upon  the  earth,  and  par- 
ticularly in  the  land  of  America,  under  this  firm  decree.  As  it  has 
been  in  the  past,  so  must  it  continue  to  be,  for  the  Lord  Almighty 
has  spoken  it.  It  seems  to  me,  therefore,  that  the  most  desperate 
need  of  this  hour  is  repentance,  and  that  quickly,  for  it  is  later  than 
we  think.  As  long  ago  as  1829  the  Lord  said: 

Behold,  the  world  is  ripening  in  iniquity;  and  it  must  needs  be  that 
the  children  of  men  are  stirred  up  unto  repentance.  (D.  &  C.  18:6.) 

Time  and  time  again  in  the  past,  as  men  and  nations  have  faced 
destruction,  the  Lord  has  sent  his  commissioned  servants  to  declare 
unto  them  repentance  as  the  way  of  escape.  "Noah  called  upon 
the  children  of  men  that  they  should  repent,"  and  although  "they 
hearkened  not  unto  his  words,"  he  "continued  his  preaching  unto" 
them,  saying, 

Believe  and  repent  of  your  sins  and  be  baptized  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  .  .  .  and  ye  shall  receive  the  Holy  Ghost, 
.  .  .  and  if  ye  do  not  this,  the  floods  will  come  in  upon  you;  nevertheless 
they  hearkened  not.  (Moses  8:24.) 

Melchizedek,  king  of  Salem,  was  commissioned  by  the  Lord  and 
declared  repentance  unto  his  people.  He, 


86  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  April  8  Second  Dag 

.  .  .  having  exercised  mighty  faith,  and  received  the  office  of  the 
high  priesthood  according  to  the  holy  order  of  God,  did  preach  repent- 
ance unto  his  people.  And  behold,  they  did  repent;  and  Melchizedek  did 
establish  peace  in  the  land  in  his  days;  therefore  he  was  called  the  prince 
of  peace.  (Alma  13:18.) 

Repentance  in  America 

Upon  our  own  beloved  land  of  America,  God  has  repeatedly 
commissioned  his  servants  to  call  the  people  to  repentance  that  they 
might  escape  destruction.  The  Prophet  Ether  "...  came  forth  in 
the  days  of  Coriantumr,"  king  of  the  Jaredite  nation,  and  at  the 
Lord's  direction  sought  out  Coriantumr  personally  and  prophesied 
unto  him 

.  .  .  that,  if  he  would  repent,  and  all  his  household,  the  Lord  would 
give  unto  him  his  kirtgdom  and  spare  the  people — 

Otherwise  they  should  be  destroyed,  and  all  his  household  save  it 
were  himself. 

.  .  .  And  it  came  to  pass  that  Coriantumr  repented  not,  neither  his 
household,  neither  the  people;  and  the  wars  ceased  not.  (Ether  13:20-22.) 

Fifteen  and  a  half  centuries  ago,  because  of  their  unrighteous- 
ness, the  remnants  of  the  Nephite  race  were  in  a  death  grapple  upon 
this  land  with  their  brethren,  the  Lamanites.  Among  them  stood 
the  mighty  prophet-leader  Mormon,  to  whom  the  Lord  said, 

.  .  .  Cry  unto  this  people — Repent  ye,  and  come  unto  me,  and  be  ye 
baptized,  and  build  up  again  my  church,  and  ye  shall  be  spared. 

And  I  did  cry  unto  this  people,  but  it  was  in  vain;  and  they  did  not 
realize  that  it  was  the  Lord  that  had  spared  them,  and  granted  unto  them 
a  chance  for  repentance.  And  behold  they  did  harden  their  hearts 
against  the  Lord  their  God.  (Mormon  3:2-3.) 

Therefore,  they,  as  well  as  the  Jaredites,  were  wiped  off  this 
land.  This  was  true  notwithstanding  the  glorious  promises  made 
in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  some  of  which  were  quoted  this  morning 
by  President  Young.  All  those  promises  were  conditioned  upon 
repentance. 

Unrighteousness  Today 

The  world  in  which  we  live  today  is  sick  nigh  unto  death.  The 
disease  of  which  it  suffers  is  not  a  new  one.  It  is  as  old  as  history. 
Its  name  is  unrighteousness.  The  cure  for  it  is  repentance.  The  Lord 
foresaw  our  present  extremity  long  ago  and  prescribed  the  remedy. 
On  Novmber  1,  1831,  he  said: 

...  I  the  Lord,  knowing  the  calamity  which  should  come  upon  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth,  called  upon  my  servant  Joseph  Smith,  Jun.,  and 
spake  unto  him  from  heaven,  and  gave  him  commandments; 

And  also  gave  commandments  to  others,  that  they  should  proclaim 
these  things  unto  the  world.  (D.  &  C.  1:17-18.) 

Two  things  which  the  Lord  had  done  in  preparing  a  way  of 
escape  are  here  referred  to.  First,  he  had  given  commandments, 
and  second,  he  had  commissioned  men  to  proclaim  them. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


87 


One  of  the  commandments  was  this: 

Hearken,  O  ye  people  of  my  church,  saith  the  Lord  your  God,  .  .  . 

Hearken  and  hear,  O  ye  inhabitants  of  the  earth.  Listen,  ye  elders 
of  my  church  together,  and  hear  the  voice  of  the  Lord;  for  he  calleth  upon 
all  men,  and  he  commandeth  all  men  everywhere  to  repent.  (D.  &  C. 
133:1,  16.) 

And  surely  every  man  must  repent  or  suffer.  (D.  6  C.  19:4.) 

And  here  is  the  commission: 

Hearken,  O  ye  elders  of  my  church,  .  .  .  hearken  and  hear  and  obey: 

Behold,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  I  give  unto  you  this  first  command- 
ment that  ye  shall  go  forth  in  my  name,  .  .  . 

And  ye  shall  go  forth  in  the  power  of  my  Spirit,  ...  in  my  name, 
lifting  up  your  voices  as  with  the  sound  of  a  trump,  declaring  my  word 
like  unto  angels  of  God.  (D.  &  C.  42:1-2,  4,  6.) 

And  what  shall  we  declare? 

And  ye  shall  go  forth  baptizing  with  water,  saying:  Repent  ye, 
repent  ye,  for  the  kingdom  of  heaven  is  at  hand.  (D.  6  C.  42:7.) 

Our  Responsibility 

We  who  today  bear  the  priesthood  of  God  are  the  legal  heirs 
to  this  great  commission.  Ours  is  the  responsibility  of  officially 
declaring  repentance  unto  all  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth.  None 
are  exempt.  We  must  discharge  this  responsibility,  regardless  of 
the  manner  in  which  our  message  is  received.  With  respect  there- 
to, we  are  under  the  same  obligation  to  this  generation  as  was 
Ezekiel  to  the  house  of  Israel  in  his  day.  You  will  recall  that  the 
Lord  said  to  him. 

Son  of  man,  I  have  made  thee  a  watchman  unto  the  house  of  Israel: 
therefore  hear  the  word  at  my  mouth,  and  give  them  warning  from  me. 

When  I  say  unto  the  wicked,  thou  shalt  surely  die;  and  thou  givest 
him  not  warning,  nor  speakest  to  warn  the  wicked  from  his  wicked  way, 
to  save  his  life;  the  same  wicked  man  shall  die  in  his  iniquity;  but  his 
blood  will  I  require  at  thine  hand. 

Yet  if  thou  warn  the  wicked,  and  he  turn  not  from  his  wickedness, 
nor  from  his  wicked  way,  he  shall  die  in  his  iniquity;  but  thou  hast  de- 
livered thy  soul.  (Ez.  3:17-19.) 

I  regard  this  commission  to  declare  the  saving  principle  of 
repentance  as  a  great  blessing.  I  am  grateful  to  my  Father  in 
heaven  for  it,  for  there  are  few  things  more  tormenting  to  me  than 
to  be  faced  with  a  distressing  situation  about  which  I  can  do  noth- 
ing. The  commission  we  bear  gives  us  a  positive  course  to  follow 
in  meeting  the  problems  we  face.  It  is  a  sustaining  and  comforting 
feeling  to  know  that  the  course  we  are  trying  to  get  people  to  take 
is  the  course  the  Redeemer  would  have  them  take  if  he  were  here 
in  person. 

No  Other  Way 

To  those  who  contend  that  the  way  of  repentance  is  too  slow, 
I  can  but  reply  there  is  no  other  way.    Our  prophet  has  so  de- 


88  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  April  8  Second  Dag 

clared  in  this  conference.  If  we  do  not  come  to  ourselves  soon  and 
repent,  individually  and  as  nations,  of  our  light  regard  for  human 
life,  our  unchastity,  our  lying  and  deception,  our  pride  and  boast- 
fulness,  our  covetousness,  envying,  greed,  and  thirst  for  power,  our 
drunkenness,  our  lack  of  humility,  reverence,  and  prayer,  our 
desecration  of  the  Sabbath  day,  our  lack  of  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  and,  in  short,  of  all  our  unrighteousness,  we  shall  find  it  is 
too  late,  for  other  proposed  remedies  to  the  world's  present  predica- 
ment will  prove  futile.  There  are  no  armaments,  no  governmental 
schemes,  no  international  organizations,  and  no  mechanisms  for  the 
control  of  weapons  which  can  preserve  an  unrighteous  people. 
"Wickedness  never  was  happiness,"  declared  Alma  to  his  way- 
ward son  Corianton;  and  Samuel,  the  Lamanite  prophet,  said  to  an 
unrighteous  generation  of  his  day, 

...  ye  have  sought  all  the  days  of  your  lives  for  that  which  ye  could 
not  obtain;  and  ye  have  sought  for  happiness  in  doing  iniquity,  which  thing 
is  contrary  to  the  nature  of  that  righteousness  which  is  in  our  great  and 
Eternal  Head.  (Helaman  13:38.) 

Alma  has  given  us  compelling  evidence  of  his  conviction  that 
repentance  is  more  effectual  than  arms  in  maintaining  peace.  You 
will  recall  that  he  was  the  elected  chief  judge  of  the  Nephite  na- 
tion. As  such  he  was  the  governor  of  the  people  of  Nephi  and 
commander-in-chief  of  their  armies.  Seeing  many  of  them  dissent- 
ing and  conniving  with  the  enemy,  he,  notwithstanding  his  power 
to  strengthen  and  command  his  armies,  placed  the  affairs  of  state 
in  other  hands  that  he  himself  might  cry  repentance  unto  the  dis- 
senters. The  reasons  for  his  unusual  actions  are  given  in  the  fol- 
lowing quotation: 

And  now,  as  the  preaching  of  the  word  had  a  great  tendency  to  lead 
the  people  to  do  that  which  was  just — yea,  it  had  had  more  powerful 
effect  upon  the  minds  of  the  people  than  the  sword,  or  anything  else, 
which  had  happened  unto  them — therefore  Alma  thought  it  was  expedient 
that  they  should  try  the  virtue  of  the  word  of  God.  (Alma  31:5.) 

Message  of  Hope 

Now,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  there  is  nothing  vindictive  in  the 
message  of  repentance  which  we  bear.  It  is  a  message  of  salvation 
and  hope,  and  not  of  condemnation.  It  is  our  purpose  to  declare  it 
to  our  fellow  men  in  charity  and  love,  but  we  are  in  no  sense 
apologetic  for  it.  We  know  it  is  of  God.  We  bear  it  at  his  com- 
mand and,  we  trust,  in  the  power  of  his  spirit. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  keep  in  mind  the  place  of  repentance 
in  the  plan  of  redemption,  the  need  for  it  in  the  lives  of  men  and 
nations,  and  our  commission  to  proclaim  it.  May  he  help  us  to 
make  it  a  daily  practice  in  our  own  living  that,  when  we  do  pro- 
claim it,  we  may  effectively  hasten  the  great  day  envisioned  by  Alma 
when  there  shall  be  "no  more  sorrow  upon  all  the  face  of  the  earth," 
I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.  Amen. 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


89 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  would  like  to  acknowledge  my 
deep  appreciation  to  my  Father  in  heaven  this  afternoon  for  the 
privilege  I  have  of  belonging  to  the  true  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
along  with  you  good  people.  I  also  wish  to  express  to  each  of  you 
my  gratitude  for  your  kindness  to  us  when  we  come  out  to  your 
stake  conferences.  I  do  humbly  ask  our  Father  in  heaven  to  guide 
what  I  say  this  afternoon. 

Two  Great  Commandments 

When  the  Son  of  Man  was  upon  the  earth  some  two  thousand 
years  ago  teaching  the  gospel,  a  certain  lawyer  came  to  him  and 
asked  a  question.  He  asked:  "Master,  which  is  the  greatest  com- 
mandment in  the  law?"  The  Savior  answered  and  said: 

.  .  .  Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with 
all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind. 

This  is  the  first  and  great  commandment. 

And  the  second  is  like  unto  it.    Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbour  as 
thyself. 

On  these  two  commandments  hang  all  the  law  and  the  prophets. 
(Matthew  22:36-40.) 

The  Son  of  Man  on  that  occasion  declared  that  the  very 
foundation  of  all  religious  life,  the  very  foundation  and  the  heart 
of  the  worship  of  God  was  love — a  love  for  God  and  a  love  for  our 
fellow  men.  In  fact,  his  whole  message  throughout  his  three  years 
of  ministry  upon  this  earth  was  centered  in  the  great  law  of  love. 

The  Law  and  the  Prophets 

The  last  part  of  Jesus'  statement  to  the  lawyer,  "upon  these  two 
commandments  hang  all  the  law  and  the  prophets,"  can  be  ex- 
plained as  follows.  In  the  days  of  the  Savior,  the  Hebrew  scripture 
was  divided  into  three  main  divisions.  The  first  division  was  called 
the  "Torah"  or  "Law."  It  was  composed  of  the  five  books  of  Moses. 
The  second  division  was  called  the  "Prophets."  It  consisted  of  the 
teachings  of  the  major  and  minor  prophets  and  some  of  the  historical 
books.  The  third  division  was  called  the  "Writing."  It  was  com- 
posed of  the  remainder  of  the  Old  Testament  books  as  we  have 
them  today. 

The  Law  and  the  Prophets  were  very  highly  canonized,  or, 
in  other  words,  accepted  as  scripture  or  as  the  Word  of  God  in 
the  days  of  the  Savior.  The  Writings  were  in  the  process  of  be- 
ing canonized  at  that  time.  Therefore,  when  Jesus  Christ  said, 
"On  these  two  commandments  hang  all  the  law  and  the  prophets," 
he  was  saying,  "On  these  two  commandments  hang  all  the  teach- 
ings of  the  Holy  Scriptures."    In  fact,  in  answer  to  the  lawyer's 


90  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  8  Second  Day 

question,  "Which  is  the  greatest  commandment  in  the  law?"  Jesus 
quoted,  "Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  ..."  from  Deuteronomy 
6:5,  and,  "thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbour  as  thyself,"  from  Leviticus 
19:18. 

Commandment  of  Love 

In  the  very  beginning,  the  Only  Begotten  Son  of  God  gave  the 
commandment  of  love  to  Father  Adam  and  has  repeatedly  revealed 
throughout  the  generations  that  we  should  love  God  and  that  we 
should  love  our  fellow  men.  In  fact,  this  dispensation  we  are  living 
in  is  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times,  wherein  all  things 
are  to  be  restored;  therefore,  the  Lord  told  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 

Wherefore,  I  give  unto  them  a  commandment,  saying  thus:  Thou 
shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  with  all  thy  might 
mind,  and  strength;  and  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  thou  shalt  serve 
him. 

.Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself.  (D.  &  C.  59:5-6.) 

I  think  that  the  modern  revelation  is  even  more  beautifully  stated 
than  the  one  recorded  in  the  New  Testament. 

Criteria  of  Love 

How  do  we  know  when  we  love  God  with  all  of  our  hearts? 
What  criteria  do  we  have  by  which  we  can  judge?  The  Savior 
himself  gave  us  the  criteria.  He  said,  "If  ye  love  me,  keep  my 
commandments."  (John  14:15.)  Therefore,  only  to  the  extent 
that  we  keep  the  commandments  that  God  has  given  us  do  we  love 
the  Eternal  Father  and  his  Only  Begotten  Son. 

The  night  before  the  Savior's  crucifixion,  he  gave  his  great 
last  known  discourse  and  instructions  to  his  Apostles.  Some  of  the 
most  beautiful  sentiments  found  in  the  New  Testament  were  re- 
corded by  John  in  his  report  of  what  occurred  on  that  occasion.  I 
would  like  to  quote  just  a  few  lines  from  that  wonderful  discourse. 

As  the  Father  hath  loved  me,  so  have  I  loved  you:  continue  ye  in  my 
love. 

If  ye  keep  my  commandments,  ye  shall  abide  in  my  love;  even  as  I 
have  kept  my  Father's  commandments,  and  abide  in  his  love. 

These  things  have  I  spoken  unto  you,  that  my  joy  might  remain  in 
you,  and  that  your  joy  might  be  full. 

This  is  my  commandment,  That  ye  love  one  another,  as  I  have 
loved  you. 

Greater  love  hath  no  man  than  this,  that  a  man  lay  down  his  life 
for  his  friends. 

Ye  are  my  friends,  if  ye  do  whatsoever  I  command  you. 
These  things  I  command  you,  that  ye  love  one  another.  (John  15: 
9-14,  17.) 

The  Lord  has  also  re-revealed  in  modern  days  the  criteria  by 
which  we  can  tell  whether  we  love  God  or  not.  He  said  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith — and  of  course  that  commandment  is  to  us 
through  the  Prophet — 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


91 


If  thou  lovest  me  thou  shalt  serve  me  and  keep  all  my  commandments. 
(D.  6  C.  42:29.) 

Notice  the  phrase,  "keep  all  my  commandments."  Our  promise  of 
exaltation  in  the  presence  of  God  is  based  on  that  phrase. 

Commandments 

Now  the  commandments  are  very  numerous,  and  we  haven't 
time  to  discuss  them  in  detail  on  this  occasion.  You  know  them  as 
well  as  I  do.  But  I  would  just  like  to  call  to  mind  a  few  of  God's 
commandments  to  us.  We  have  the  great  law  of  tithing,  wherein 
the  Lord  has  declared  that  if  we  do  not  pay  one-tenth  of  all  that 
we  possess  to  him,  we  rob  God.  Among  the  other  great  command- 
ments are  the  law  of  chastity  and  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  These 
laws  pertain  to  keeping  our  bodies  clean  and  pure.  There  are  also 
the  laws  and  commandments  pertaining  to  honesty,  love,  charity, 
patience,  kindness,  reverence,  and  numerous  others.  In  fact,  the 
Lord  has  said  that  if  we  receive  exaltation  in  his  kingdom,  we  will 
do  so  only  on  condition  that  we  render  obedience  to  "every  word 
that  proceedeth  forth  from  the  mouth  of  God."  (Ibid.,  84:44.) 

I  should  like  to  emphasize  the  fact  that  today  is  the  day  for 
Latter-day  Saints  to  prepare  to  meet  God  by  keeping  all  of  his 
commandments,  lest  the  night  cometh  wherein  we  cannot  repent.  If 
we  do  not  render  obedience  now,  we  might  find  ourselves  at  the 
judgment  day  in  the  condition  that  the  lady  found  herself  in  a 
dream,  as  reported  by  one  of  the  stake  presidents  at  a  conference  I 
attended  in  Salt  Lake  City  about  a  year  ago.  I  do  not  recall  the 
stake,  and  so  I  don't  know  which  stake  president  to  give  credit  to 
for  this  story. 

Story  of  the  Teapot 

He  reported  that  there  was  a  certain  lady  living  in  his  ward 
who  had  joined  the  Church  over  in  Europe  when  she  was  a  girl; 
and  like  many  of  the  European  people  she  had  formed  the  habit 
of  drinking  tea.  After  she  joined  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  like 
quite  a  few  Mormons  (I  am  sorry  to  say)  she  continued  the  habit 
of  drinking  tea.  She  reared  a  large  family.  Her  children  married. 
Her  husband  died,  and  she  became  a  widow.  And  then  she  became 
a  temple  worker.  Day  after  day  she  went  to  the  temple,  and  no 
doubt  the  consciousness  of  the  tea-drinking  habit  she  had  bore 
rather  heavily  on  her  mind  or  on  her  conscience.  One  night  she 
had  a  dream.  She  dreamed  that  she  died  and  that  she  passed  on 
into  the  other  world.  There  she  came  into  the  presence  of  the 
Savior,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  many  other  great  and  good 
people  who  had  lived  on  this  earth  and  whose  lives  had  been  such 
that  they  were  now  worthy  to  become  celestial  beings.  Very  sweet, 
serene,  and  happy  were  the  feelings  that  she  experienced  there.  In 
fact,  there  were  no  words  to  describe  how  beautiful  the  conditions 
were  there,  until  she  looked  down  into  her  hand  and  saw  her  old 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


dirty,  black  teapot.  Then  her  happiness  turned  to  sorrow  and 
shame.  She  immediately  looked  all  around  in  the  heavenly  realm 
for  some  place  to  hide  that  teapot,  but  she  couldn't  find  any  place. 
She  had  to  hang  on  to  it.  Then  she  awoke.  Cold  drops  of  perspira- 
tion were  running  down  her  face.  She  got  out  of  bed,  turned  the 
light  on,  dressed,  and  went  in  the  other  room.  There  on  her  stove 
sat  her  old  dirty  teapot.  She  picked  it  up,  went  down  to  the  back  of 
the  lot  and  threw  it  into  the  Jordan  River,  and  she  said,  "There!  I 
am  not  going  to  take  you  to  heaven  with  me." 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  now  is  the  time  for  you  and  me  to  get 
rid  of  all  of  our  old  dirty,  black  teapots.  In  other  words,  we  should 
get  rid  of  all  our  sins.  We  should  repent,  as  Brother  Romney  just 
pointed  out  in  his  address,  and  show  God  that  we  love  him  with 
all  our  hearts,  with  all  our  mind,  and  with  all  our  strength. 


We  shall  now  devote  our  attention  to  the  second  great  com- 
mandment, "Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbour  as  thyself."  I  do  not 
know  whether  each  of  us  has  thought  of  this  idea  very  much  or  not. 
A  man  cannot  love  God  with  all  of  his  heart  unless  he  loves  all  of 
his  fellow  men  with  all  of  his  heart.  If  a  man  says  that  he  loves 
God  and  does  not  love  his  fellow  men,  according  to  the  teachings 
of  the  prophets,  that  man  is  a  liar.  He  is  not  telling  the  truth.  For 
example,  John  made  this  very  unusual  and  wonderful  statement: 

Beloved,  let  us  love  one  another;  for  love  is  of  God;  and  every  one 
that  loveth  is  born  of  God,  and  knoweth  God. 

He  that  loveth  not  knoweth  not  God;  for  God  is  love. 

If  a  man  say,  I  love  God,  and  hateth  his  brother,  he  is  a  liar:  for  he 
that  loveth  not  his  brother  whom  he  hath  seen,  how  can  he  love  God 
whom  he  hath  not  seen? 

And  this  commandment  have  we  from  him.  That  he  who  loveth 
God  love  his  brother  also.  (I  John  4:7-8,  20-21.) 


Now,  I  would  like  to  ask  everyone  of  us  this  afternoon  to 
analyze  his  or  her  heart  for  a  moment  or  two  and  see  if  we  really 
love  our  fellow  men.  If  we  do  love  them,  let  us  see  how  deep  our 
love  is  for  them.  The  commandment  is  to  love  our  neighbors  as 
much  as  we  love  ourselves.  I  know  that  is  most  difficult  to  do. 
The  first  law  of  nature  is  the  law  of  self  preservation,  and  people 
pretty  generally  follow  that  first  law.  In  fact,  I  think  the  most  im- 
portant person  to  almost  everybody  in  this  world  is  himself  or  her- 
self. 

A  good  Latter-day  Saint  husband  may  think  he  loves  his  wife 
with  all  his  heart.  He  may  think  he  loves  her  more  than  he  loves 
himself,  but  if  he  happens  to  express  an  idea  that  she  doesn't  agree 
with  and  she  voices  her  disagreement,  then  his  hair  immediately 
stands  on  end.    He  builds  up  all  sorts  of  arguments  against  her  in 


Love  of  Neighbor 


Analyze  the  Heart 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


93 


defending  his  own  position.  In  fact,  he  feels  a  resentment  in  his 
heart. 

Too  many  people — and  I  mean,  definitely,  too  many  Latter- 
day  Saints — gloat  over  the  sins  of  their  unfortunate  neighbors.  In 
fact,  it  seems  to  build  them  up  a  little  bit  to  learn  that  somebody 
else  has  made  worse  mistakes  than  they.  If  the  telephone  rings  and 
the  party  on  the  other  end  of  the  line  tells  the  story  that  he  has 
heard  about  a  sin  committed  the  previous  night  by  one  of  his  neigh- 
bors, the  one  who  received  the  telephone  call  immediately  goes  over 
to  his  next-door  neighbor  and  says,  "Did  you  hear  what  happened 
last  night?"  Then  he  repeats  the  account  of  the  unfortunate  hap- 
pening and  greatly  exaggerates  the  story.  Is  that  true  love?  Is 
that  charity?   It  is  not! 

True  and  pure  love  and  charity  are  found  where  a  mother 
and  father  are  concerned.  In  the  cases  where  parents  of  sinful 
children  are  concerned,  the  parents  don't  go  to  the  telephone  and 
tell  their  neighbors,  but  they  go  to  their  private  chambers.  There 
they  wet  their  pillows  with  their  tears,  and  they  pray  to  God  that 
he  will  save  their  son  or  their  daughter  from  sin  and  from  the  ways 
of  error  into  which  he  or  she  has  fallen. 

Letter  of  the  Law 

Ofttimes  you  and  I  have  met  members  of  our  Church  who 
seem  to  live  all  the  letter  of  the  law.  They  pay  their  tithes  and 
offerings,  they  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and  they  attend  Church 
regularly.  In  fact,  one  would  think  that  they  were  excellent  Latter- 
day  Saints.  Yet,  too  many  of  these  people  have  professional 
jealousy  cankering  their  hearts.  They  have  envy,  strife,  malice, 
and  even  hatred  in  their  hearts.  They  fail  to  treat  the  ones  with 
whom  they  associate  with  love  and  with  charity.  They  don't  ex- 
press the  Golden  Rule  in  the  way  they  treat  the  ones  with  whom 
they  work  and  associate.  Yet  they  claim  to  love  God.  John  de- 
clared that  such  individuals  are  liars  and  that  they  cannot  love 
God  and  at  the  same  time  hate  their  fellow  men.  Now  to  what 
extent  are  we  guilty? 

Love  of  Enemies 

The  Savior  not  only  taught  that  we  should  love  our  friends, 
but  he  also  taught  that  we  should  love  our  enemies.  To  quote: 

And  behold  it  is  written  also,  that  thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  and 
hate  thine  enemy; 

But  behold  I  say  unto  you,  love  your  enemies,  bless  them  that  curse 
you,  do  good  to  them  that  hate  you,  and  pray  for  them  who  despitefully 
use  you  and  persecute  you.  (Ill  Nephi  12:43-44.) 

Is  that  teaching  going  too  far?  Can  we  really  love  our  enemies? 
I  would  answer  that  if  we  get  that  godliness  in  our  hearts,  the  pure 
love  of  Jesus  Christ  that  we  should  have,  we  can  love  our  enemies. 

Many  of  the  great  prophets  have  demonstrated  that  they  could 


94  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  8  Second  Day 

love  their  enemies.  Jesus  Christ  demonstrated  far  beyond  the  shadow 
of  a  doubt  that  he  could  love  his  enemies.  For  example,  a  few  days 
prior  to  his  crucifixion,  you  recall  that  the  Son  of  God  and  his 
Apostles  were  in  Jerusalem.  He  knew  that  the  Jews  were  going  to 
betray  him  and  that  he  was  going  to  be  crucified.  On  that  oc- 
casion he  felt  greatly  concerned  about  what  was  going  to  happen 
to  the  Jews  because  they  had  rejected  him  and  the  gospel  which 
he  had  proclaimed.  He  prophesied  regarding  the  calamities  which 
would  come  upon  his  people,  and  then  he  lamented  as  follows: 

O  Jerusalem,  Jerusalem,  thou  that  killest  the  prophets,  and  stonest 
them  which  are  sent  unto  thee,  how  often  would  I  have  gathered  thy  chil- 
dren together,  even  as  a  hen  gathereth  her  chickens  under  her  wings,  and 
ye  would  not! 

Behold,  your  house  is  left  unto  you  desolate.  (Matthew  23:37-38.) 

Example  of  Jesus 

And  then  Jesus  told  his  Apostles  about  the  great  calamities 
that  would  come  upon  his  people  and  upon  the  remainder  of  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth  before  his  second  coming.  The  scriptures 
report  that  the  Son  of  God  was  touched  so  deeply  on  certain  oc- 
casions because  of  the  sins  of  the  people  and  the  calamities  that 
would  befall  them  that  "Jesus  wept." 

How  many  of  us  are  so  concerned  about  the  sins  of  the  people 
of  our  home  towns  that  after  we  have  done  all  we  can  to  teach  them 
the  way  of  eternal  life,  we  then  sit  upon  a  hill  overlooking  our  home 
town  and  weep?  I  am  afraid  that  very  few  of  us  do  that.  We  do 
not  have  that  much  charity;  we  do  not  have  that  much  feeling;  we 
do  not  have  that  much  love  in  our  hearts  for  those  who  fall  into 
transgression. 

I  firmly  believe  that  when  Jesus  Christ  was  hanging  on  the 
cross  he  showed  the  greatest  expression  of  love  that  has  ever  been 
shown  in  history.  He  was  suffering  the  terrific  pain  which  ac- 
companies crucifixion.  The  jeering  multitude  was  down  below 
the  cross,  saying,  "If  thou  be  the  Son  of  God,  come  down  from  the 
cross."  (Ibid.,  27:40.)  The  ordinary  man  would  have  cursed  the 
taunters  and  revilers,  but  the  Only  Begotten  Son  of  God  while 
suffering  such  excruciating  pain  and  revilings  merely  cast  his  eyes 
toward  heaven  and  prayed, 

.  .  .  Father,  forgive  them;  for  they  know  not  what  they  do.  (Luke 
23:34.) 

This  great  example  of  love  reminds  me  of  the  martyrdom  of 
Stephen.  While  the  Jews  were  stoning  him  to  death,  the  scripture 
reports: 

And  he  kneeled  down,  and  cried  with  a  loud  voice,  Lord,  lay  not  this 
sin  to  their  charge.  And  when  he  had  said  this,  he  fell  asleep.  (Acts 
7:60.) 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER  95 

Needed  Qualities 

All  Latter-day  Saints  who  work  in  the  Church  and  hold  any 
Church  position  must  love  God;  and  if  we  are  going  to  be  accept- 
able to  him,  we  must  love  our  fellow  men.  In  fact,  we  have  re- 
ceived a  divine  commission  in  our  day.  It  applies  to  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church,  to  all  the  stake  presidents,  bishops  of 
wards,  and  to  all  stake,  ward,  and  branch  officers  and  teachers. 
This  is  the  word  of  the  Lord: 

And  no  one  can  assist  in  this  work  except  he  shall  be  humble  and  full 
of  love,  having  faith,  hope,  charity,  being  temperate  in  all  things,  what- 
soever shall  be  entrusted  to  his  care.  (D.  6  C.  12:8.) 

The  greatest  poem  that  I  know  of  devoted  to  the  subject  of 
love  or  charity  was  written  by  Apostle  Paul.  It  is  found  in  First 
Corinthians,  chapter  thirteen.  Time  will  not  permit  a  discussion  of 
that  great  poem  here.  Suffice  it  to  say  that  Paul  mentioned  a  lot 
of  godly  attributes  that  we  might  possess.  And  then  he  summarized 
by  saying  that  if  we  possess  all  of  those  godly  attributes  and  have 
not  charity,  we  are  nothing.  He  put  charity  and  love  as  the  greatest 
of  all  attributes. 

Teachings  of  Mormon 

I  would  like  to  quote  from  Mormon  the  great  teachings  he  gave 
on  love  and  charity.   He  wrote. 

And  again,  behold  I  say  unto  you  that  he  cannot  have  faith  and  hope, 
save  he  shall  be  meek,  and  lowly  in  heart. 

If  so,  his  faith  and  hope  is  vain,  for  none  is  acceptable  before  God, 
save  the  meek  and  lowly  of  heart;  and  if  a  man  be  meek  and  lowly  in 
heart,  and  confesses  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  he  must  needs  have  charity;  and  if  he  hath  not  charity  he  is  noth- 
ing; wherefore  he  must  needs  have  charity. 

And  charity  suffereth  long,  and  is  kind,  and  envieth  not,  and  is  not 
puffed  up,  seeketh  not  her  own,  is  not  easily  provoked,  thinketh  no  evil, 
and  rejoiceth  not  in  iniquity  but  rejoiceth  in  the  truth,  beareth  all  things, 
believeth  all  things,  hopeth  all  things,  endureth  all  things. 

Wherefore,  my  beloved  brethren,  if  ye  have  not  charity,  ye  are 
nothing,  for  charity  never  faileth.  Wherefore,  cleave  unto  charity,  which 
is  the  greatest  of  all,  for  all  things  must  fail — 

But  charity  is  the  pure  love  of  Christ,  and  it  endureth  forever;  and 
whoso  is  found  possessed  of  it  at  the  last  day,  it  shall  be  well  with  him. 

Wherefore,  my  beloved  brethren,  pray  unto  the  Father  with  all  the 
energy  of  heart,  that  ye  may  be  filled  with  this  love,  which  he  hath  be- 
stowed upon  all  the  true  followers  of  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ;  that  ye  may 
become  the  sons  of  God;  that  when  he  shall  appear  we  shall  be  like  him, 
for  we  shall  see  him  as  he  is;  that  we  may  have  this  hope;  that  we  may 
be  purified  even  as  he  is  pure.  (Moroni  7:43-48.) 

In  conclusion,  my  beloved  brothers  and  sisters,  I  humbly  ask 
our  Father  in  heaven  that  he  will  let  a  rich  abundance  of  his  Holy 
Spirit  enter  our  hearts;  that  the  pure  love  of  Jesus  Christ  might  dwell 
in  our  hearts;  that  we  might  do  away  with  all  envy  and  strife;  that 
we  might  be  filled  with  love;  that  we  might  really  love  the  Lord  our 


96  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  April  8  Second  Dag 

God  with  all  our  hearts,  might,  mind,  and  strength;  that  we  might 
really  and  truly  serve  God  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  and  love 
our  neighbors  as  ourselves.  This  I  ask  in  the  name  of  our  Lord  and 
Savior  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

If  I  might  enjoy  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  direct  me  for  a  few 
moments  this  afternoon,  I  would  like  to  talk  about  a  subject  which 
has  been  discussed  in  all  the  general  conferences  of  this  Church  by 
members  of  the  First  Presidency —  in  every  conference,  so  far  as  I 
can  recall. 

Blessings  of  Unity 

I  refer  to  the  importance  of  unity  and  oneness  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints. 

As  I  have  pondered  the  importance  of  this  matter,  I  have  recalled 
some  of  the  blessings  we  could  enjoy  if  we  would  be  united  as  a 
people.  If  we  would  be  united  in  paying  our  fast  offerings  and  ob- 
serving the  law  of  the  fast  as  fully  as  the  Lord  has  taught  it,  and 
if  we  were  united  in  carrying  out  the  principles  of  the  welfare  pro- 
gram as  they  have  been  given  to  us  by  our  leaders  today,  we  would 
be  free  from  want  and  distress  and  would  be  able  fully  to  care  for 
our  own.  Our  failure  to  be  united  would  be  to  allow  our  needy  to 
become  the  pawns  of  politicians  in  the  public  mart. 

If  we  were  fully  united  as  a  people  in  our  missionary  work,  we 
would  rapidly  hasten  the  day  when  the  gospel  would  be  preached 
to  all  people  without  and  within  the  boundaries  of  the  organized 
stakes  of  Zion.  If  we  are  not  united,  we  will  lose  that  which  has 
been  the  lifeblood  and  which  has  fed  and  stimulated  this  Church 
for  a  generation. 

If  we  were  fully  united  in  keeping  the  law  of  sacrifice  and 
paying  our  tithes  as  we  have  been  schooled  today,  we  would  have 
sufficient  to  build  our  temples,  our  chapels,  our  schools  of  learning. 
If  we  fail  to  do  that,  we  will  be  in  the  bondage  of  mortgage  and  debt. 

If  we  were  united  as  a  people  in  electing  honorable  men  to  high 
places  in  our  civil  government,  regardless  of  the  political  party 
with  which  we  have  affiliation,  we  would  be  able  to  safeguard  our 
communities  and  to  preserve  law  and  order  among  us.  Our  failure 
to  be  united  means  that  we  permit  tyranny  and  oppression  and  tax- 
ation to-  the  extent  of  virtual  confiscation  of  our  own  property. 

If  we  are  united  in  supporting  our  own  official  newspapers  and 
magazines  which  are  owned  and  operated  by  the  Church  and  for 
Church  members,  there  will  always  be  in  this  Church  a  sure  voice 
to  the  people,  but  if  we  fail  to  be  united  in  giving  this  support,  we 
permit  ourselves  to  be  subject  to  abuse,  slander,  and  to  misrepresen- 
tation without  any  adequate  voice  of  defense. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


97 


If  we  were  united  in  safeguarding  our  youth  from  promiscuous 
associations  that  foster  marriages  out  of  the  Church  and  out  of  the 
temples,  by  having  socials  and  recreations  as  a  united  people,  as  has 
been  the  practice  from  our  pioneer  days,  we  would  be  building  all 
our  Latter-day  Saint  homes  on  a  sure  and  happy  foundation.  Our 
failure  to  be  united  in  these  things  will  be  our  failure  to  receive 
eternal  blessings  that  otherwise  could  be  ours. 

If  we  were  united  in  safeguarding  the  Church  from  false  doc- 
trines and  error  and  in  standing  as  watchmen  upon  the  tower  as 
teachers  and  leaders  in  watching  over  the  Church,  then  we  would 
be  free  from  these  things  that  cause  many  to  stumble  and  fall  and 
lose  their  faith.  If  we  are  not  thus  united,  the  wolves  among  us  will 
be  sowing  the  seeds  of  discord,  disharmony,  all  tending  to  the  de- 
struction of  the  flock. 

If  we  were  united  in  our  temple  work  and  in  our  genealogical 
research  work,  we  would  not  be  satisfied  with  the  present  temples 
only,  but  we  would  have  sufficient  work  for  temples  yet  to  come,  to 
the  unlocking  of  the  doors  of  opportunity  to  those  beyond  who  are 
our  own  kin,  and  thus  ourselves  become  saviors  on  Mount  Zion. 
Our  failure  to  be  united  will  be  our  failure  to  perpetuate  our  family 
homes  in  the  eternity.  So  we  might  multiply  the  blessings  that 
could  come  to  this  people  if  they  were  fully  united  in  the  purposes 
of  the  Lord. 

Master's  Prayer 

The  importance  of  unity  was  prayed  for  by  the  Master  of  us 
all.   In  that  last  great  prayer — you  will  recall  it — he  prayed: 

...  I  come  to  thee.  Holy  Father,  keep  through  thine  own  name  those 
whom  thou  hast  given  me,  that  they  may  be  one,  as  we  are.  .  .  . 

Neither  pray  I  for  these  alone,  but  for  them  also  which  shall  believe 
on  me  through  their  word; 

That  they  all  may  be  one;  as  thou,  Father,  art  in  me,  and  I  in  thee, 
that  they  also  may  be  one  in  us:  that  the  world  may  believe  that  thou 
hast  sent  me.  (John  17:11,  20-21.) 

The  purpose  of  unity  in  the  Church  has  been  expressed  by 
the  Lord  both  from  a  positive  standpoint  as  herein  expressed,  and 
also  in  a  negative  way  as  given  in  a  revelation  at  the  beginning  of 
this  dispensation.  The  positive  purpose  of  the  unity  of  Saints  here 
is  clearly  suggested:  "that  the  world  may  know."  May  know 
what?  That  this  is  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God  on  the  earth 
to  whom  Jesus,  the  Christ,  was  sent. 

"Ye  Are  Not  Mine" 

In  the  command  which  he  gave  in  this  dispensation,  the  Maste: 
again  expressed  this  same  thought  from  a  negative  view, 

...  be  one;  and  if  ye  are  not  one,  ye  are  not  mine.  (D.  &  C.  38:27.) 

If  we  are  not  united,  we  are  not  his.  Here  unity  is  the  test 
of  divine  ownership  as  thus  expressed.    If  we  would  be  united  in 


98  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  April  8  Second  Day 

love  and  fellowship  and  harmony,  this  Church  would  convert  the 
world,  who  would  see  in  us  the  shining  example  of  these  qualities 
which  evidence  that  divine  ownership.  Likewise,  if  in  that  Latter-day 
Saint  home  the  husband  and  wife  are  in  disharmony,  bickering,  and 
divorce  is  threatened,  there  is  an  evidence  that  one  or  both  are  not 
keeping  the  commandments  of  God. 

If  we,  in  our  wards  and  our  branches,  are  divided,  and  there 
are  factions  not  in  harmony,  it  is  but  an  evidence  that  there  is  some- 
thing wrong.  If  two  persons  are  at  variance,  arguing  on  different 
points  of  doctrine,  no  reasonable,  thinking  persons  would  say 
that  both  were  speaking  their  different  opinions  by  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord. 

In  the  writings  of  the  Apostle  Paul  to  the  Ephesian  saints,  after 
describing  the  nature  of  the  Church  as  it  was  organized  in  his  day, 
he  said  this  organization  was  given  for  the  purpose  of  the  "perfecting 
of  the  saints,  .  .  .  till  we  all  come  in  the  unity  of  the  faith."  When 
men  receive  the  Spirit  of  God  by  living  righteously,  truth  and  error 
begin  to  disappear. 

Command  to  "Be  One" 

One  of  our  early  Church  leaders  nearly  a  hundred  years  ago 
made  an  expression  with  reference  to  this  important  subject  in  these 
words: 

The  command  to  "Be  one"  embraces  all  other  commands.  There  is  no 
law,  statute,  ordinance,  covenant  nor  blessing,  but  what  was  instituted  to 
make  the  Saints  one.  This  is  the  ultimate  end  and  aim  of  the  great  plan 
of  salvation.  For  this,  Jesus  suffered  and  died;  for  this,  his  servants  have 
toiled  and  labored  day  and  night  in  our  fallen  world;  for  this,  all  the  pow- 
ers of  heaven  will  be  exerted,  until  Satan  shall  be  overcome,  and  the 
earth  be  redeemed,  and  all  the  glorified  inhabitants  thereof  become  one. 
(The  Seer,  p.  289,  1854.) 

If  it  is  so  important,  then,  that  this  people  be  a  united  people,  we 
might  well  expect  that  upon  this  principle  the  powers  of  Satan  would 
descend  for  their  greatest  attack.  We  might  well  expect,  also, 
that  if  there  be  those  of  apostate  mind  among  us,  they  would  be 
inclined  to  ridicule  and  to  scorn  this  principle  of  oneness  and  unity 
as  being  narrow-minded  or  as  being  unprogressive.  We  would  like- 
wise expect  that  those  who  are  enemies  would  also  seek  to  fight 
against  that  principle. 

There  were  handed  to  me  recently  some  arguments  which  were 
presented  before  a  congressional  committee  in  Washington,  D.  C, 
in  1888,  by  a  former  mayor  of  Salt  Lake  City,  in  which  he  said  this, 
about  this  same  matter.  "The  theocratic  tenet  of  the  Mormon 
Church  is  a  great  evil,  and  opposed  to  our  American  institutions. 
— "What  is  a  theocracy?"  (Then  he  gave  his  own  definition.)  "It 
is  government  by  the  priesthood  through  a  direct  authority  from 
God.  .  .  .  The  thing  I  wish  to  accomplish  is  to  pass  laws  which  will 
strike  at  the  foundation  of  the  theocratic  system."  To  put  his  words 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


99 


plainly,  the  thing  he  wished  to  strike  at  was  the  unity  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  who  believe  in  a  government  through  a  direct 
revelation  from  God  through  his  appointed  agents. 

Plan  for  Unity 

The  Lord  has  given  a  plan,  a  three- fold  plan,  by  which  this 
unity  might  be  fully  realized.  Unity  centers  in  heaven,  even  as  the 
Master  prayed,  "Father,  that  we  might  be  one."  The  Saints  might 
become  one  with  the  Father  and  the  Son,  spiritually  begotten  by  bap- 
tism and  through  the  Holy  Ghost  even  unto  the  renewing  of  their 
bodies  as  the  Lord  tells  us,  and  thus  "...  become  the  sons  of 
Moses  and  of  Aaron.  .  .  .  the  church  and  kingdom,  and  the  elect 
of  God,"  (D.  &  C.  84:34),  and  thus  become  adopted  into  the  holy 
family,  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God,  the  Church  of  the 
Firstborn. 

Then,  besides  those  ordinances  by  which  we  are  adopted 
into  that  oneness  with  the  Father  and  the  Son,  he  has  given  to  us 
principles  and  ordinances  all  intended  to  the  perfecting  of  his 
Saints,  that  this  same  unity  might  be  realized. 

Then,  finally,  the  Lord  has  given  this  generation  another 
principle,  that  through  his  appointed  Authorities  he  would  teach 
his  laws  and  administer  his  ordinances,  and  through  them  he  would 
reveal  his  will.  On  the  very  day  this  Church  was  organized,  he 
made  this  principle  clear  to  the  Saints  when  he  said. 

Wherefore,  meaning  the  church,  thou  shalt  give  heed  unto  all  his 
words  and  commandments  which  he  shall  give  unto  you  as  he  receiveth 
them,  walking  in  all  holiness  before  me; 

For  his  word  ye  shall  receive,  as  if  from  mine  own  mouth,  in  all 
patience  and  faith. 

For  by  doing  these  things  the  gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail  against 
you;  yea,  and  the  Lord  God  will  disperse  the  powers  of  darkness  from 
before  you,  and  cause  the  heavens  to  shake  for  your  good,  and  his  name's 
glory.  (D.  &  C.  21:4-6.) 

About  a  year  later  the  Lord  expressed  that  same  thing  in  these 
words, 

What  I  the  Lord  have  spoken,  I  have  spoken,  and  I  excuse  not 
myself;  .  .  .  whether  by  mine  own  voice  or  by  the  voice  of  my  servants, 
it  is  the  same.  (Ibid.,  1:38.) 

That  is  a  bold  doctrine,  those  who  are  not  members  of  the 
Church  and  those  who  are  members  of  the  Church  who  have  no 
faith  may  think,  but  I  would  remind  all  such  that  it  is  also  a  bold 
doctrine  when  we  declare  that  this  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ, 
the  only  true  Church  upon  the  earth.  This  could  not  be  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  except  for  that  other  defined  principle  of  revelation 
through  the  prophets  of  the  Lord. 

Test  of  Unity 


May  I  test  your  unity  as  Latter-day  Saints?  Have,  you  re- 
ceived a  witness  of  the  Spirit  to  your  souls  testifying  that  this  is 


100  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  8  Second  Day 

the  truth;  that  you  know  this  is  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God; 
that  you  have  received  by  baptism  and  by  the  laying  on  of  hands 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  which  that  unity  of  testimony 
might  be  accomplished?   Have  you  that  testimony  in  your  souls? 

May  I  ask  you  another  question?  Are  you  living  each  day 
so  to  improve  your  lives  by  living  the  principles  and  ordinances  of 
the  gospel  that  you  are  moving  toward  that  day  when  you  will 
overcome  all  things? 

Finally,  do  you  believe  that  these  men  whom  we  have  sus- 
tained in  this  conference  are  the  men  through  whom  the  channels 
of  communication  from  our  Heavenly  Father  are  open?  Do  you  be- 
lieve— as  Enos,  the  grandson  of  the  great  prophet  Lehi,  declared 
in  his  writing  when  he  said  he  went  into  the  mountain  and  prayed 
and  "...  the  voice  of  the  Lord  came  into  my  mind,  again  saying, 
(Enos  1 :10) — do  you  believe  that  the  voice  of  the  Lord  comes  into 
the  minds  of  these  men?  If  you  do,  then  you  believe  what  the  Lord 
said  that 

Whatsoever  they  shall  speak  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost 
shall  be  scripture,  shall  be  the  will  of  the  Lord,  shall  be  the  mind  of  the 
Lord,  shall  be  the  word  of  the  Lord,  shall  be  the  voice  of  the  Lord,  and 
the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  (D.  &  C.  68:4.) 

Counsel  in  Temporal  Affairs 

Some  there  are  who  are  prone  to  say,  "We  will  follow  their 
counsel  in  spiritual  matters  but  not  in  temporal  affairs.  If  they 
counsel  us  in  other  than  than  which  pertains  strictly  to  the  spiritual 
welfare  of  the  people,  we  will  not  follow  them."  Have  any  of  you 
ever  heard  such  comments? 

Brigham  Young  tells  us  that  this  subject  had  been  discussed 
early  in  the  history  of  this  Church,  and  there  were  some,  even  the 
early  bishops  of  the  Church,  who  held  out  that  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  should  not  direct  them  in  temporal  affairs.  He  said, 

In  all  ages  of  the  world  that  we  have  any  knowledge  of,  when  there 
was  a  people  on  the  earth  whom  God  acknowledged  as  his  people,  he 
has  invariably  dictated  them  in  spiritual  and  in  temporal  things.  This 
question  was  agitated  year  after  year  in  the  days  of  Joseph.  The  first 
two  bishops  in  the  Church — Edward  Partridge  was  the  first,  I  was 
well  acquainted  with  him,  and  Newel  K.  Whitney  was  the  second — 
questioned  the  propriety  of  Joseph  having  anything  to  do  with  temporal 
things.  Joseph  would  argue  the  case  with  them  a  little,  and  tell  them  how 
things  were,  and  bring  up  scripture  to  show  them  that  it  could  not  be 
otherwise — that  it  was  impossible  for  the  Lord  to  dictate  people  unless 
he  dictated  them  in  temporal  affairs.  .  .  . 

There  were  Wm.  E.  McLellin,  John  F.  Boynton,  and  Lyman  John- 
son, who  belonged  to  the  Twelve;  Frederick  G.  Williams,  second  counselor 
to  Joseph,  and  two-thirds  of  the  High  Council,  all  talking  about  this, 
and  I  went  to  the  Temple  and  just  challenged  them  to  show  wherein  the 
Lord  ever  conferred  upon  any  man  in  the  world  the  power  to  dictate 
in  spiritual  affairs,  that  he  did  not  in  temporal  affairs?  They  could  not 
do  it.  (Journal  of  Discourses,  Vol.  18,  p.  242-3.) 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


101 


Loyalty  to  Leadership 

As  I  have  labored  among  the  brethren  here  and  have  studied 
the  history  of  past  dispensations,  I  have  become  aware  that  the 
Lord  has  given  tests  all  down  through  time  as  to  this  matter  of 
loyalty  to  the  leadership  of  the  Church.  I  go  back  into  the  scriptures 
and  follow  along  in  such  stories  as  David's  loyalty  when  the  king 
was  trying  to  take  his  life.  He  wouldn't  defile  the  anointed  of  the 
Lord  even  when  he  could  have  taken  his  life.  I  have  listened  to  the 
classic  stories  in  this  dispensation  about  how  Brigham  Young  was 
tested,  how  Heber  C.  Kimball  was  tested,  John  Taylor  and  Wil- 
lard  Richards  in  Carthage  Jail,  Zion's  Camp  that  received  a  great 
test,  and  from  that  number  were  chosen  the  first  General  Authori- 
ties in  this  dispensation.  There  were  others  who  didn't  pass  the 
test  of  loyalty,  and  they  fell  from  their  places. 

I  have  been  in  a  position  since  I  came  into  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  to  observe  some  things  among  my  brethren,  and  I  want  to 
say  to  you:  Every  man  my  junior  in  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  I 
have  seen  submitted  as  though  by  Providence,  to  these  same  tests 
of  loyalty,  and  I  wondered  sometimes  whether  they  were  going 
to  pass  the  tests.  The  reason  they  are  here  today  is  because  they 
did,  and  our  Father  has  honored  them. 

I  have  that  same  witness  about  at  least  two  members  of  the 
assistants  to  the  Twelve,  Brother  Marion  G.  Romney  and  Brother 
Alma  Sonne,  for  I  saw  it,  and  I  know  the  nature  of  the  test,  and 
I  know  how  they  proved  themselves  to  be  the  sterling  men  that 
they  are.  And  so  God  has  honored  them,  and  it  is  my  conviction 
that  every  man  who  will  be  called  to  a  high  place  in  this  Church 
will  have  to  pass  these  tests  not  devised  by  human  hands,  by  which 
our  Father  numbers  them  as  a  united  group  of  leaders  willing  to 
follow  the  prophets  of  the  Living  God  and  be  loyal  and  true  as 
witnesses  and  exemplars  of  the  truths  they  teach. 

Brigham  Young's  Loyalty 

Brigham  Young  in  his  day  was  invited  into  a  group  of  some 
of  those  who  were  trying  to  argue  against  that  principle  of  unity. 
After  he  learned  that  they  were  trying  to  "depose"  as  they  said, 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  he  stood  before  them  and  said  some- 
thing like  this:  "You  cannot  destroy  the  appointment  of  a  prophet 
of  God,  but  you  can  cut  the  thread  which  binds  you  to  a  prophet 
of  God  and  sink  yourselves  to  hell." 

It  was  that  kind  of  fearlessness  which  was  manifest  in  him 
that  made  him  the  peerless  leader  he  was  to  become.  It  is  that 
same  kind  of  courage,  though  not  always  popular,  but  the  kind  that 
has  been  demanded  of  every  man  whom  our  Father  would  honor 
with  high  places  of  leadership. 

I  heard  President  Smith,  and  you  heard  him,  four  years  ago 
from  this  stand,  after  there  had  been  some  scurrilous  articles  writ- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Dmj 


ten  about  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  He  said  this,  and  to  me  it 
was  the  ringing  voice  of  a  prophet  speaking. 

Many  have  belittled  Joseph  Smith,  but  those  who  have  will  be  for- 
gotten in  the  remains  of  Mother  Earth,  and  the  odor  of  that  infamy  will 
ever  be  with  them;  but  honor,  majesty,  and  fidelity  to  God  exemplified 
by  Joseph  Smith  and  attached  to  his  name  will  never  die.  (April  Con- 
ference 1946.) 

I  paraphrase  those  words  today  and  make  them  meaningful 
to  us:  "Many  there  are  today  among  us  who  would  belittle  George 
Albert  Smith,  and  }.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  and  David  O.  McKay,  but 
those  who  do  will  be  forgotten  in  the  remains  of  Mother  Earth,  and 
the  odor  of  their  infamy  will  ever  remain  with  them;  but  honor, 
majesty,  and  fidelity  to  God  exemplified  by  the  First  Presidency 
and  attached  to  their  names  will  never  die." 

God  grant  us  the  strength  of  living  to  be  united  with  the 
Saints,  to  live  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  to  listen  to  these  men 
as  the  leaders  among  us  directed  by  our  Heavenly  Father,  all  to 
the  end  that  his  full  blessings  might  be  upon  his  Church,  I  pray 
humbly,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

The  Swiss-German  Choir  and  the  congregation  will  now  sing 
"O  Ye  Mountains  High."  At  the  conclusion  of  this  song  we  shall 
hear  from  President  Richard  L.  Evans,  First  Council  of  the  Seventy. 


Singing  by  the  choir  and  congregation,  "O  Ye  Mountains 


I  recall  President  Grant's  having  said  many  times,  "That 
which  we  persist  in  doing  becomes  easy."  I  have  presented  myself 
many  times  at  this  pulpit  these  past  years,  and  I  am  not  aware  that 
it  has  become  easy — or  even  any  easier. 

In  all  earnestness,  if  speaking  here  today  to  this  congregation, 
and  to  those  outside,  is  to  be  less  than  impossibly  difficult,  I  shall 
need  your  help  and  that  of  my  Father  in  heaven  and  I  earnestly 
hope  that  I  may  have  it. 


With  Brother  [Marion  G.]  Romney,  I  have  been  impressed 
that  the  theme  of  this  conference  has  been  repentance.  I  was  much 
impressed  with  the  statement  he  read  from  President  Smith's  open- 
ing message  of  two  days  ago;  and  I  remember  a  phrase  from  Dr. 
Merrill's  talk  of  this  morning:  that  we  shall  either  have  repentance 
or  slavery. 


High. 


tt 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


Privilege  of  Repentance 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


103 


I  remember  also  a  reassuring  sentence  from  President's  Smith's 
talk  of  two  days  ago  to  the  effect  that  every  blessing  may  be  ours 
on  condition  of  repentance  and  of  keeping  the  commandments  of 
God.  I  am  very  grateful  for  the  privilege  and  the  power  of  re- 
pentance, and  I  think  there  is  evidence  that  we  should  all  be  lost 
without  it. 

I  don't  know  what  the  Lord's  eternal  timetable  is,  but  I  am 
sure  that  he  is  happy  to  have  it  modified  by  the  acts  of  men  in  the 
use  of  their  free  agency  in  bringing  themselves  to  repentance.  I 
feel  sure  that  there  is  no  dire  prediction  of  any  of  his  prophets  that 
he  would  not  be  happy  to  have  set  aside  by  the  repentance  of  his 
people. 

Experience  of  Jonah 

On  this  point  I  have  heard  two  sermons  within  relatively 
recent  times  from  the  Book  of  Jonah,  both  of  which  have  impressed 
me:  one  by  Dr.  G.  Homer  Durham  in  which  he  used  the  phrase 
the  "Ninevah  Cure."  The  "Ninevah  Cure"  of  course  is  just  plain 
and  simple  repentance.  The  other  was  by  Brother  Marion  D. 
Hanks,  who  serves  us  so  well  on  Temple  Square.  He  used  the 
phrase  the  "Road  to  Tarshish" — which  is  the  road  of  running  from 
responsibility. 

You  recall  the  experience  of  Jonah,  that  after  trying  to  run 
from  his  responsibility  he  finally  did  what  the  Lord  asked  him  to 
do  and  proclaimed  that  destruction  should  come  upon  Ninevah  in 
forty  days;  and  from  the  king  to  the  lowest  of  his  subjects  there 
was  repentance  in  that  great  city,  and  it  was  not  destroyed.  But 
Jonah,  being  human  as  well  as  a  prophet,  was  somewhat  disap- 
pointed that  his  prediction  of  destruction  had  not  been  fulfilled. 
He  failed  to  understand,  apparently,  that  the  prediction  was  de- 
pendent upon  obedience  or  disobedience,  upon  perversity  or  re- 
pentance, and  that  the  Lord  is  happy  to  revise  his  timetable  con- 
cerning the  affairs  of  men  on  conditions  of  repentance. 

Cure  for  Ills  of  World 

Again  I  am  grateful  for  the  privilege  and  power  of  repentance 
and  am  convinced  that  there  is  nothing  wrong  with  this  world 
(much  as  there  is  to  worry  about)  that  couldn't  be  cured  by  re- 
pentance; and  I  find  this  hopeful  fact — and  Brother  Romney  sug- 
gested it  also — that  regardless  of  what  we  may  do  with  the  op- 
portunity, it  is  there.  For  a  man  to  have  a  disease  for  which  there 
is  no  known  cure  is  quite  a  different  matter  from  having  a  disease 
for  which  there  is  a  known  cure  if  he  will  only  avail  himself  of  it 
and  pay  the  price.  I  am  grateful  that  there  is  a  known  cure  for 
the  ills  of  this  world.  The  picture  would  be  one  of  darkest  despair, 
much  darker  than  any  yet  painted,  if  it  weren't  that  there  is  a  plan 
and  a  pattern  for  peace  in  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and 


104  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  8  Second  Day 

that  there  is  the  power  and  privilege  of  repentance  if  men  will 
only  avail  themselves  of  it. 

I  say  again,  I  do  not  know  the  Lord's  timetable,  and  I  think 
there  is  ample  evidence  that  it  is  not  for  us  to  know  it;  "the  day 
or  the  hour  no  man  knoweth."  (Matt.  25:13.)  We  read  in  the 
first  chapter  of  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles,  before  the  ascension  of 
the  Savior,  this  word  to  his  Apostles: 

It  is  not  for  you  to  know  the  times  or  the  seasons  which  the  Father 
has  put  in  his  own  power.  (Acts  1:7.) 

There  are  many  things  that  men  are  permitted  by  our  Father 
to  change  in  the  use  of  their  free  agency.  I  recall  a  comment  from 
President  Boyer  of  the  British  Mission,  made  a  day  or  two  ago 
when  we  met  with  the  mission  presidents,  to  the  effect  that  "so  long 
as  I  have  life,  I  shall  fight  for  the  privilege  of  having  enough  free- 
dom to  make  a  few  mistakes."  In  the  use  of  our  free  agency  we 
have  made  a  few  and  more  than  a  few  mistakes.  Some  of  them 
are  costly,  and  we  shouldn't  repeat  them,  and  we  should  avoid 
making  them  in  the  first  place,  if  possible.  But  the  contrary  plan 
was  the  plan  of  Lucifer,  the  plan  whereby  men  would  not  have 
been  permitted  to  have  freedom  to  make  mistakes,  and  being  able 
to  repent  are  great  privileges  which  our  Father  in  heaven  has 
given  us. 

Abraham's  Bargaining 

I  do  not  know  what  degree  of  repentance  would  be  required 
of  us  to  avert  some  of  the  things  that  might  be  imminent  or  at  least 
remote  possibilities.  You  recall  Abraham's  bargaining  concerning 
the  destruction  of  Sodom,  how  he  pleaded  that  the  city  would  be 
spared  if  there  were  fifty  righteous  souls,  then  forty-five,  and  so 
on  down  to  ten.  I  doubt  that  we  shall  realize  terms  as  favorable 
as  Abraham  was  able  to  secure  for  Sodom.  Apparently  he  was  an 
astute  bargainer,  but  the  ten  weren't  found,  and  Sodom  wasn't 
saved.  I  don't  know  that  ten  of  a  city  would  be  enough  to  save  us 
today,  but  I  am  sure  that  the  degree  of  our  repentance  will  be  taken 
into  consideration.  And  I  earnestly  hope  and  pray  that  we  may 
give  full  repentance,  and  others  with  us,  to  the  end  that  our  Father 
in  heaven  in  his  mercy  and  in  his  patience  and  in  his  love  for  his 
children,  which  he  has  declared,  and  in  whose  immortality  and 
eternal  life  he  has  stated  his  earnest  interest,  will  revise  his  time- 
tables, whatever  they  may  be,  according  to  the  degree  of  our  re- 
pentance. If  he  would  agree  to  save  a  city  for  ten  repentant  souls, 
think  what  he  would  do  for  a  whole  nation  or  people  who  repented! 

Faith  in  Future 

I  recall  some  five  years  ago  one  of  the  world's  eminent  phil- 
osophers and  historians — a  British  philosopher  and  historian — mak- 
ing some  dire  predictions  following  shortly  in  the  wake  of  the  war 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


105 


He  said,  "It  is  the  end,"  and  then  went  on  to  elaborate  that  state- 
ment. But  it  has  been  five  years  since  then,  and  I  believe  that  this 
is  a  Church  that  has  faith  in  the  future.  The  statement  of  President 
Smith  here  yesterday  is  to  me  evidence  of  it — the  statement  that 
some  two  hundred  or  more  places  of  worship  have  been  built  by  this 
Church  since  the  philosopher  said,  "It  is  the  end."  There  must  be 
many  more  than  this  number  in  the  building  or  in  prospect,  which 
is  another  evidence  of  our  faith  in  the  future.  It  seems  to  me  that 
our  building  program  alone,  and  all  our  other  plans  for  the  future, 
are  evidence  of  our  faith  in  the  future  of  this  Church. 

We  must  have  faith  in  the  future  regardless  of  the  ultimate 
eventualities.  One  of  the  greatest  calamities  in  this  world  would 
be  the  calamity  of  sitting  down  and  waiting  for  calamities.  We 
must  not  let  the  things  we  can't  do  keep  us  from  doing  the  things 
we  can  do.  We  must  not  let  remote  possibilities  or  even  imminent 
probabilities  keep  us  from  moving  forward  with  all  earnestness 
and  all  effort. 

I  should  like  to  say  to  the  young  people  of  this  generation 
that  they  too  must  have  faith  in  the  future.  In  spite  of  all  the  un- 
certainties, they  must  go  forward  and  prepare  themselves  as  best 
they  can  for  all  the  problems  and  opportunities  of  life.  Whatever 
may  come  here  or  hereafter,  the  future  will  always  be  better  for  those 
who  are  best  prepared. 

No  generation  has  ever  lived  without  facing  uncertainty.  If 
those  who  faced  the  uncertainties  of  ten  or  twenty-five  or  fifty  years 
ago  had  sat  by  and  waited  for  what  seemed  to  them  to  be  im- 
minent calamities,  we  should  not  have  had  the  able  and  ready  and 
well-qualified  men  that  we  have  today,  and  that  we  need  and  shall 
need  in  the  next  generation. 

So  I  say  to  these  youth  of  ours:  go  forth  and  live  your  lives 
with  humility,  with  gratitude,  with  repentance,  keeping  the  com- 
mandments of  God  and  having  faith  in  the  future  and  preparing 
yourselves  for  the  future,  as  the  Church  itself  continues  its  building. 
There  is  nothing  to  lose  by  having  faith  in  the  future,  but  there  is 
much  to  lose  by  not  preparing  for  the  future. 

I  was  grateful  to  hear  President  Smith  say  that  last  year  was 
the  year  of  greatest  growth  for  this  Church.  We  have  so  many 
things  to  be  grateful  for. 

Time  of  the  End 

I  recall  a  reported  statement,  attributed,  as  I  remember  it,  to 
President  Wilford  Woodruff.  Some  of  the  brethren  of  his  time 
are  said  to  have  approached  him  ( they  had  their  troubles  also )  and 
to  have  inquired  of  him  as  to  when  he  felt  the  end  would  be — 
when  would  be  the  coming  of  the  Master?  These,  I  think,  are 
not  his  exact  words,  but  they  convey  the  spirit  of  his  reported 
reply:  "I  would  live  as  if  it  were  to  be  tomorrow — but  I  am  still 
planting  cherry  trees!"  I  think  we  may  well  take  this  as  a  page 


106  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  8  Second  Day 

for  our  own  book  and  live  as  if  the  end  might  be  tomorrow — 
and  still  plant  cherry  trees!  In  worrying  about  things  that  are  be- 
yond our  reach,  we  should  not  overlook  our  opportunities  with 
our  own  families  and  friends;  in  worrying  about  possible  eventu- 
alities we  should  not  neglect  the  things  that  need  to  be  done  here 
and  now,  and  that  are  within  our  reach;  the  things  for  which  we 
are  immediately  responsible;  we  should  not  neglect  or  present  op- 
portunities and  obligations. 

I  should  like  to  close  with  a  statement  of  William  Allen 
White:  "I  am  not  afraid  of  tomorrow,  for  I  have  seen  yesterday, 
and  I  love  today." 

Assurance  of  Everlasting  Life 

I  am  grateful  to  my  Father  in  heaven  for  the  assurance  in  my 
soul  that  he  lives  and  that  he  is  mindful  of  his  children.  I  am 
grateful  for  his  assurance  of  everlasting  life.  It  has  sustained  my 
family  these  past  three  months  when  two  sudden  deaths  have  fallen 
upon  us,  and  we  would  not  have  been  sustained  except  for  this 
assurance.  And  I  would  leave  with  you  the  witness  of  my  soul 
that  God  does  live,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  these  things  to 
which  we  are  committed  here  in  this  conference  and  in  this  Church 
are  his  work  and  are  of  divine  origin,  and  that  it  is  our  responsi- 
bility to  carry  them  forward. 

May  his  peace  be  with  each  of  us,  and  with  our  children  in 
the  perplexing  problems  that  confront  them,  and  give  us  guidance 
and  give  them  guidance,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

BISHOP  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

I  feel  humble,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  as  I  stand  here  today. 
My  heart  is  full  of  gratitude  to  the  Lord  for  my  membership  in 
this  Church  and  for  my  fellowship  with  the  Saints  and  the  brethren. 
To  me,  the  conference  started  last  Wednesday  when  we  met  with 
these  grand  mission  presidents  for  two  sessions  in  the  temple  and 
heard  them  tell  of  the  fine  work  that  is  being  accomplished  in  the 
mission  fields  and  the  wonderful  spirit  they  have  in  their  work. 
One  who  had  just  been  released  said,  "I  find  it  difficult  to  become 
interested  in  my  business."  Another  of  the  presidents  said,  "I 
prayed  that  the  Lord  would  let  me  stay  a  few  months  longer,  and 
when  my  successor  arrived  and  apologized  for  being  late,  I  said, 
'You  don't  need  to  apologize.  You  just  answered  my  prayers.'  "  It 
is  wonderful  how  these  men  can  make  the  sacrifices  they  make  and 
then  feel  as  they  feel.  I  felt  the  same  when  I  returned  from  my  first 
mission.  I  went  into  Oregon  selling  bonds  for  a  company.  Every 
home  I  entered,  I  found  it  difficult  to  offer  them  bonds  to  purchase; 
I  wanted  to  offer  them  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 


BISHOP  LeGRAND  RICHARDS  107 


Earth  Crammed  With  Heaven 

I  couldn't  help  thinking  as  I  sat  through  these  meetings:  Isn't 
it  really  a  pity  that  it  is  so  hard  for  truth  to  get  its  boots  on  and  to 
be  able  to  reach  the  honest  in  heart  of  the  earth?  If  they  just 
knew  what  we  have — if  their  eyes  were  opened  to  see  and  under- 
stand! How  wonderful  it  would  be  for  all  of  our  Father's  children 
who  really  want  to  do  right,  if  they  could  know  the  truth,  instead 
of  having  to  wait,  many  of  them,  to  get  it,  possibly,  in  the  eternal 
worlds. 

I  thought  of  the  words  of  Elizabeth  Barrett  Browning,  when 
she  said, 

Earth's  crammed  with  heaven, 
And  every  common  bush  afire  with  God; 
And  only  he  who  sees  takes  off  his  shoes; 
The  rest  sit  round  it  and  pluck  blackberries. 

— from  "Aurora  Leigh" 

And  I  thought,  if  the  world  could  only  know  how  the  Lord 
has  crammed  the  earth  with  heaven,  and  how  every  common  bush 
is  afire  with  God,  through  the  restoration  of  the  gospel.  We  have 
heard  it  referred  to  here  today.  "A  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder," 
and  it  is  all  of  that,  far  beyond  the  ability  of  any  man  or  any  woman 
to  comprehend.  The  greatest  mission  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  is 
to  be  able  to  understand  and  appreciate  what  the  Lord  has  done, 
and  then  make  their  lives  conform  thereto.  The  Lord  said,  in  a 
revelation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  "against  none  is  his 
wrath  kindled,  save  those  who  confess  not  his  hand  in  all  things." 
(D.  6  C.  59:21.)  I  acknowledge  the  hand  of  God  in  all  things.  I 
believe  that  he  rules  in  the  heavens  above  and  that  he  rules  upon 
this  earth.  We  have  heard  the  brethren  today  speak  of  the  ful- 
filment of  prophecy,  and  Peter  of  Old  said, 

We  have  also  a  more  sure  word  of  prophecy;  whereunto  ye  do  well 
that  ye  take  heed,  as  unto  a  light  that  shineth  in  a  dark  place,  until  the 
day  dawn,  and  the  day  star  arise  in  your  hearts: 

Knowing  this  first,  that  no  prophecy  of  the  scripture  is  of  any  private 
interpretation. 

For  the  prophecy  came  not  in  old  time  by  the  will  of  man:  but  holy 
men  of  God  spake  as  they  were  moved  by  the  Holy  Ghost.  (II  Peter 
1:19-21.) 

Kingdom  of  God 

You  heard  Brother  Sonne  this  morning  read  from  one  of  the 
tracts  that  Brother  Penrose  wrote  of  how  the  kingdoms  of  this 
world  would  be  destroyed.  We  read  in  Daniel's  interpretation  of 
Nebuchadnezzar's  dream,  in  which  he  states  that  the  kingdoms  of 
this  world  should  become  as  the  chaff  of  the  summer  threshing 
floors;  and  the  wind  should  carry  them  away.  We  have  seen  them 
one  by  one  being  carried  away.    But  that  was  not  all  Daniel  saw. 


108  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  April  8  Second  Dag 

In  the  more  sure  word  of  prophecy  which  holy  men  of  old  gave  us 
under  the  inspiration  and  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  he  saw  that 
the  God  in  heaven  should  set  up  a  kingdom  in  the  last  days  which 
should  never  be  destroyed,  but  like  a  little  stone  cut  out  of  the 
mountains  without  hands,  should  roll  forth  until  it  should  become 
a  great  mountain  and  fill  the  whole  earth. 

One  of  our  missionary  boys  preached  on  that  theme  down  in 
Florida  while  I  was  president  of  the  Southern  States  Mission,  and  I 
think  that  boy  is  in  this  congregation  today.  At  the  close  of  the  meet- 
ing a  minister  who  was  present  at  that  meeting  met  me  at  the  door — I 
always  went  to  the  door  to  meet  those  who  had  honored  us  with 
their  presence — and  he  said,  "Mr.  Richards,  you  don't  mean  to 
tell  me  that  you  think  that  kingdom  is  the  Mormon  Church,  do  you?" 

I  said,  "Why  not?" 

He  said,  "It  couldn't  be." 

"And  why  couldn't  it?"  I  said. 

He  said,  "You  can't  have  a  kingdom  without  a  king,  and  we 
haven't  any  king,  and  so  haven't  a  kingdom." 

"Oh,"  I  said,  "my  friend,  you  did  not  read  quite  far  enough. 
You  just  read  the  seventh  chapter  of  Daniel,  and  you  will  see  that 
Daniel  saw  one  like  the  Son  of  Man  coming  in  the  clouds  of  heaven, 
and  unto  him  was  given  the  kingdom,  that  all  other  kingdoms, 
powers,  and  dominions  should  serve  and  obey  him.  Now,  how 
can  the  kingdom  be  given  to  him,"  I  asked,  "when  he  comes  in  the 
clouds  of  heaven,  if  there  is  no  kingdom  here  prepared  for  him? 
Maybe  you  would  like  to  know  what  is  going  to  become  of  that 
kingdom.    If  you  will  just  read  it,  you  will  see  that  Daniel  said, 

And  the  kingdom  and  dominion,  and  the  greatness  of  the  kingdom 
under  the  whole  heaven,  shall  be  given  to  the  people  of  the  saints  of  the 
most  High,  whose  kingdom  is  an  everlasting  kingdom,  and  all  dominions 
shall  serve  and  obey  him.  (Daniel  7:27.) 

The  Saints  of  the  most  High  shall  take  the  kingdom,  and  possess  the 
kingdom  for  ever,  and  as  if  that  were  not  quite  long  enough,  Daniel 
adds,  "even  for  ever  and  ever."  (Ibid.,  7:18.) 

Part  of  Kingdom 

Now,  brothers  and  sisters,  if  you  can  see  heaven  in  earth,  if 
you  have  eyes  that  see,  ears  that  hear,  hearts  that  understand,  you 
know  what  you  are  a  part  of  as  members  of  this  Church.  You  are 
a  part  of  that  great  kingdom  that  is  being  established  in  the  earth. 

President  John  Taylor  once  made  this  statement: 

We  are  gathered  here  for  the  express  purpose  of  carrying  out  the 
purposes  of  God.  The  world,  however,  do  not  understand  it.  But  I 
will  tell  you  what  they  will  do,  by  and  by.  You  will  see  them  flocking  to 
Zion  by  thousands  and  tens  of  thousands,  and  they  will  say,  "We  don't 
know  anything  about  your  religion,  we  don't  care  much  about  religious 
matters,  but  you  are  honest  and  you  are  honorable  and  you  are  upright, 
and  just  and  you  have  a  good,  just,  and  secure  government  [speaking 


BISHOP  LeGRAND  RICHARDS  109 


of  the  government  of  the  Church],  and  we  want  to  put  ourselves  under 
your  protection  for  we  cannot  feel  safe  anywhere  else."  {Gospel  King- 
dom, pp.  71-72.) 

Impressions  of  Visitors 

During  the  last  six  months  I  have  had  occasion  to  hear  peo- 
ple express  themselves  as  to  how  they  feel  about  this.  We  were 
in  the  Hotel  Utah  with  one  of  the  greatest  economists  in  the  world, 
and  after  President  Smith  had  spoken,  this  man  stood  up.  He  was 
overcome;  hehad  to  shed  a  few  tears;  then  he  told  us  that  never 
in  his  life  had  he  been  in  such  presence  or  in  such  influence.  Then 
he  paid  us  some  compliments  about  our  people  and  said  he  had  felt 
it  on  the  street  and  wherever  he  went. 

We  had  another  great  national  leader  here  not  long  ago  who 
made  a  similar  declaration.  He  said,  "I  have  to  come  out  here  in 
these  valleys  of  the  mountains  to  get  inspiration,"  but  he  did  not 
want  us  to  tell  what  he  had  said  because  he  has  to  live  with  those 
people  back  in  the  East,  but  he  said  it  just  the  same. 

A  few  weeks  ago  a  lady  from  Orlando,  Florida,  came  into  the 
office  of  the  Presidency.  The  receptionist  called  me  and  said  that 
this  lady  would  like  to  know  something  more  about  the  Church 
and  would  I  have  time  to  interview  her.  Well,  I  had  preached 
in  Orlando,  Florida,  many  times,  and  built  a  little  chapel  there,  so 
anyone  from  Orlando  looked  good  to  me.  I  said,  "Send  her  up." 
She  wanted  to  know  all  about  the  Church.  She  said,  "Mr.  Richards, 
I  have  traveled  all  over  the  United  States — I  just  came  from  Cali- 
fornia." (I  would  tell  you  what  she  said  about  California,  but  I 
used  to  be  president  of  a  stake  down  there,  and  so  my  interests  there 
forbid.)  But  she  said,  "I  don't  know  what  it  is,  but  I  feel  it  every- 
where I  go.  You  are  different  here;  you  have  something  different 
here  than  I  have  felt  anywhere  I  have  been." 

"Well,"  I  said,  "that  is  simple,  we  have  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ." 

Story  of  Minister 

If  we  just  had  eyes  that  could  see,  ears  that  could  hear;  if  we 
could  see  heaven  crammed  into  this  earth  in  this  great  work  that 
God  has  set  his  hand  to  do,  and  every  common  bush  afire  with 
God — we  could  understand  the  story  one  of  the  mission  presidents 
told  in  the  report  meeting  at  the  temple,  of  the  missionary  who 
called  at  the  home  of  a  minister.  This  missionary  offered  to  leave 
a  tract,  and  the  minister  would  not  accept  it;  so,  as  he  left  the  door 
he  put  the  tract  in  the  mailbox,  and  when  he  came  back  the  next 
time  the  minister  invited  him  in.  Now,  to  make  the  story  short, 
what  that  man  read  impressed  him,  and  finally  he  paid  for  the  publi- 
cation of  a  thousand  copies  of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  He  gave  nine 
hundred  of  them  to  the  missionaries  and  kept  the  other  hundred  for 
his  family.    When  the  mission  president  invited  him  to  speak  at 


110  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  8  Second  Day 

one  of  our  conferences,  he  said,  "Well,  if  you  call  me,  I  will  preach 
what  I  have  always  preached." 

The  mission  president  said,  "You  preach  anything  you  want 
to  as  long  as  you  preach  the  truth." 

Then  he  said,  "Hand  me  your  Book  of  Mormon."  He  stood 
up,  held  up  that  Book  of  Mormon  before  them  and  said,  "Here  is 
the  greatest  book  I  have  ever  read."  Then  he  pledged  his  loyalty 
to  the  Bible,  but  he  said,  "I've  got  something  out  of  this  book  that 
I  haven't  got  out  of  any  other  book,  including  the  Bible."  That  was 
a  minister  speaking. 

If  every  minister  in  all  the  world  professedly  of  the  Christian 
Church  could  only  humble  himself  enough  to  put  that  book  to  the 
test,  we  might  have  a  great  army  of  men  all  over  the  world  bear- 
ing to  their  faithful  people  the  witness  of  the  great  and  mighty  work 
the  Lord  has  set  his  hand  to  do  in  this  day,  the  new  witness  for 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  the  earth. 

Message  from  God 

Speaking  of  these  marvelous  things,  I  heard  Brother  Ballard 
make  this  statement  when  he  visited  our  mission.  He  said  that 
one  of  our  greatest  national  commentators,  and  he  told  the  name 
but  I  will  not  give  it  here  today  as  it  will  serve  the  purpose  without, 
said  he  was  asked  what  message  could  be  broadcast  to  the  world 
that  would  be  considered  more  valuable  than  any  other  message 
that  could  possibly  be  broadcast.  After  giving  the  matter  some 
thought  and  consideration,  he  decided  that  to  be  able  to  say  to 
the  world  over  the  radio  that  a  man  who  had  lived  upon  the  earth 
and  had  died  had  returned  again  with  a  message  from  God  would 
be  the  greatest  message  that  could  be  broadcast  to  the  world.  Well, 
that  being  true,  we  have  the  greatest  message,  for  we  announce 
to  the  world  that  not  only  one  man,  but  many  men,  prophets  of 
the  living  God  who  have  lived  upon  the  earth  have  returned  again 
with  messages  from  God;  not  only  messages,  but  also  keys  and 
power  in  order  that  the  kingdom  of  God  might  again  be  established 
in  the  earth  as  promised  by  Peter  when  he  said,  that  the  heavens 
must  receive  the  Christ  until  the  restitution  of  all  things  spoken  by 
the  mouth  of  all  the  holy  prophets  since  the  world  began.  Do  you 
mean  to  tell  me  that  if  we  believe  in  the  words  of  the  holy  prophets 
as  I  have  referred  to  today,  that  we  have  any  right  to  expect  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  ever  to  come  in  fulfilment  of  this  promise  made 
except  there  first  be  a  restitution  of  all  things?  There  isn't  time 
for  me  to  go  into  the  restitution  of  all  things  here  today.  We  have 
built  a  monument  in  the  state  of  New  York  to  just  such  an  individual, 
to  Moroni,  who  lived  upon  this  continent  four  hundred  years  fol- 
lowing the  crucifixion  of  the  Savior  and  returned  again  to  deliver 
the  plates  from  which  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  translated  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  There  stands  that  majestic  monument  to 
his  honor,  the  only  one  like  it  in  all  the  world. 


BISHOP  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 


111 


Think  also  of  what  John  the  Baptist  brought — the  Aaronic 
Priesthood;  Peter,  James,  and  John,  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood;  the 
prophets  Moses,  Elijah,  and  Elias  came  with  the  keys  of  their 
dispensations. 

Holy  Priesthood 

Then  I  am  reminded  of  another  story  one  of  the  mission  presi- 
dents told  in  the  temple  last  Wednesday.  He  took  out  of  his  pocket 
a  letter  from  a  minister  and  read  it  to  us,  in  which  he  stated  that 
he  never  believed  that  he  did  not  have  as  much  authority  as  any 
other  man  in  the  world  to  administer  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  until  he  met  the  Mormon  missionaries  and 
read  the  Book  of  Mormon.  Now  he  admitted  that  he  had  to  accept 
baptism  at  the  hands  of  the  missionaries  of  this  Church. 

We  have  been  told  in  this  conference  that  we  have  to  have 
the  Priesthood,  and  I  want  to  tell  you  that  if  the  world  understood 
and  knew  the  value  of  the  sealing  power  and  ordinances  of  the 
Holy  Priesthood  that  God  has  sent  to  us  in  this  dispensation,  it 
would  revolutionize  this  whole  world. 

Temple  Work 

I  have  one  more  thought  I  want  to  leave  with  you  in  the  next 
few  minutes,  and  that  is  about  this  temple  here,  and  the  rest  of  our 
temples.  When  the  corner  stone  of  this  temple  was  laid,  Brigham 
Young  said  something  like  this, 

We  are  gathered  here  today  upon  one  of  the  most  momentous  oc- 
casions that  this  world  has  ever  known  since  the  foundations  thereof  were 
laid,  an  occasion  that  has  caused  the  tongues  of  prophets  to  speak  and 
their  pens  to  write. 

You  read  the  words  of  Isaiah,  where  he  saw  the  mountain  of 
the  house  of  the  God  of  Jacob  established  in  the  tops  of  the  moun- 
tains in  these  latter  days,  and  he  added, 

All  nations  shall  flow  unto  it.  And  many  people  shall  go  and  say, 
Come  ye,  and  let  us  go  up  to  the  mountain  of  the  Lord,  to  the  house  of 
the  God  of  Jacob;  and  he  will  teach  us  of  his  ways,  and  we  will  walk  in 
his  paths.  (Isaiah  2:2-3.) 

I  want  to  tell  you,  outside  of  these  holy  temples  and  the  sealing 
ordinances  therein,  men  cannot  learn  fully  of  his  ways,  nor  can 
they  walk  in  his  paths. 

I  have  some  wonderful  testimonies  in  regard  to  this  matter, 
but  I  will  only  take  time  to  read  a  few  words  from  a  sermon  Presi- 
dent Woodruff  delivered  from  this  pulpit  in  1898,  as  recorded  in 
the  conference  pamphlet. 

I  am  going  to  bear  my  testimony  to  this  assembly,  if  I  never  do  it 
again  in  my  life,  that  those  men  who  laid  the  foundation  of  this  American 
government,  and  signed  the  Declaration  of  Independence,  were  the  best 
spirits  the  God  of  heaven  could  find  on  the  face  of  the  earth.   They  were 


112  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  8  Second  Day 

choice  spirits,  not  wicked  men.   General  Washington  and  all  the  men  that 
labored  for  the  purpose  were  inspired  of  the  Lord. 

Another  thing  I  am  going  to  say  here,  because  I  have  a  right  to  say 
it.  Every  one  of  those  men  that  signed  the  Declaration  of  Independence, 
with  General  Washington,  called  upon  me  as  an  Apostle  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  in  the  Temple  at  St.  George,  two  consecutive  nights,  and 
demanded  at  my  hands  that  I  should  go  forth  and  attend  to  the  ordi- 
nances of  the  House  of  God  for  them.  {Conference  Report  1898,  pp. 
89,  90.) 

I  wonder  what  the  ministers  of  the  world  would  say  if  they 
only  knew  that  this  were  true,  and  it  is  true.  When  these  great 
men  who  framed  the  Constitution  of  our  nation  came  back  they 
were  not  interested  in  the  future  destiny  and  the  development  of 
this  great  land  of  America.  They  came  back  to  request  that  the 
ordinances  of  the  house  of  God  be  administered  for  them. 

So  I  say, 

Earth's  crammed  with  heaven 
And  every  common  bush  afire  with  God; 
And  only  he  who  sees  takes  off  his  shoes. 
The  rest  sit  round  it  and  pluck  blackberries. 

May  God  help  us  to  see  and  understand  his  marvelous  work, 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

We  will  bring  this  great  session  of  this  Conference  to  a  close 
by  the  Swiss-German  Choir  singing,  "Daughter  of  Zion,"  after 
which  the  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  John  M. 
Russon  of  the  Los  Angeles  Stake,  California,  and  this  Conference 
will  stand  adjourned  until  7:00  o'clock  this  evening,  when  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  custom  of  the  Church,  the  general  meeting  of 
the  priesthood  of  the  Church  will  be  held  here  in  the  Tabernacle. 

Only  the  priesthood  are  invited  to  be  present.  Persons  not 
holding  the  priesthood  will  kindly  refrain  from  attempting  to  enter 
the  building. 

That  session  will  not  be  broadcast. 

The  session  at  10:00  o'clock  tomorrow  morning,  Sunday,  will 
be  broadcast  over  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement  through 
KSL  over  the  other  stations  to  which  you  are  listening.  That  ses- 
sion will  also  be  televised  over  the  KSL  television  station,  channel  5. 

Because  the  Tabernacle  Choir  broadcast  comes  from  9:30  to 
10:00  o'clock  tomorrow  morning,  those  desiring  to  attend  the 
broadcast  must  be  in  their  seats  by  9:15.  As  the  choir  may  be  re- 
hearsing during  the  time  the  audience  is  gathering,  it  is  necessary 
to  request  that  the  audience  come  in  and  take  their  seats  quietly 
and  refrain  from  making  any  disturbing  noise  of  any  kind  during 
the  broadcast. 

The  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast,  on  which  President  J.  Reuben 
Clark,  Jr.,  of  the  First  Presidency,  will  be  the  speaker,  will  begin 


PRESIDENT  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


113 


at  8:00  a.m.  in  this  building.  Those  desiring  to  attend  this  broad- 
cast must  be  in  their  seats  by  7:50  a.m. 

The  regular  session  of  the  Conference  will  begin  at  10:00  a.m. 

Any  messages  that  have  come  for  those  supposed  to  be  in  at- 
tendance at  this  session  will  be  read  as  usual. 

The  choir  singing  for  this  afternoon  session  of  the  Conference 
has  been  by  the  Swiss-German  Choir,  with  Elder  Heinz  Rimmasch 
conducting,  and  Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

I  should  like  to  say  a  word  of  congratulation  and  appreciation 
to  this  choir.  I  am  sure  they  come  to  us  with  the  feeling  that  they 
want  you  to  know  how  much  they  love  the  truth  and  how  much 
they  love  us.  Casual,  uncautious  remarks  are  often  made  about 
their  people  which  are  not  justified,  and  I  want  to  say  to  them  that 
my  heart  goes  out  to  them  in  their  tribulation,  and  I  want  to  say 
to  them  that  in  their  singing  this  afternoon  they  have  preserved 
the  standard  and  the  achievements  of  their  people  in  the  art  of 
music  in  which  they  have  excelled. 

They  will  now  sing  "Daughter  of  Zion,"  and  then  President 
Russon  will  offer  the  benediction. 


Singing  by  the  choir,  "Daughter  of  Zion." 
The  benediction  was  offered  by  President  John  M.  Russon  of 
the  Los  Angeles  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Sunday  morning  at  9:30. 

CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 

The  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast  was  presented  Sunday  morn- 
ing, April  9,  from  8:30  to  9:30  over  radio  station  KSL  and  the 
Columbia  Broadcasting  System. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  direction  of  J.  Spencer  Corn- 
wall, furnished  the  music  for  this  service,  with  Dr.  Frank  W.  Asper 
at  the  organ.  Richard  L.  Evans  was  the  announcer. 

Announcer:  The  Church  of  the  Air  was  established  by  CBS  so 
that  clergymen  of  the  major  faiths  might  bring  their  messages  to 
a  nationwide  congregation  of  worshippers.  Today's  Easter  service 
comes  to  you  through  the  facilities  of  station  KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah.  The  speaker  will  be  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First 
Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  President  Clark  has  titled  his  address:  "He  is 
Risen."  .  .  . 

The  Choir  turns  first  to  the  music  of  the  "Messiah"  to  sing  a 
text  from  the  15th  chapter  of  First  Corinthians:  "For  since  by  man 
came  death,  by  man  came  also  the  resurrection  of  the  dead.  For 
as  in  Adam  all  die,  even  so  in  Christ  shall  all  be  made  alive." 

Selection  by  the  Choir:  "Since  by  man  came  death" — Handel — 
from  the  "Messiah." 


114  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  9  Third  Dag 

The  Choir  then  sang:  "Christ,  the  Redeemer" — Schubert — ar- 
ranged by  Allen  S.  Cornwall. 

Announcer:  We  shall  now  hear  on  this  Church  of  the  Air 
Service,  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
President  Clark  was  formerly  United  States  Ambassador  to  Mexico, 
and  former  Under-secretary  of  State.  He  has  titled  his  Easter  talk: 
"He  is  Risen." 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

On  the  second  morning  after  the  day  of  the  crucifixion,  Mary 
Magdalene,  Mary  the  mother  of  James,  Salome,  Joanna,  and  other 
women,  came  early  to  the  tomb  where  Jesus  had  been  laid  on  the 
evening  of  the  crucifixion,  "and  entering  into  the  sepulchre,  they 
saw  a  young  man  sitting  on  the  right  side,  clothed  in  a  long  white 
garment;  and  they  were  affrighted.  And  he  saith  unto  them,  "Be 
not  affrighted:  Ye  seek  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  which  was  crucified." 
"He  is  not  here:  behold  the  place  where  they  laid  him."  "He  is 
risen."  "Remember  how  he  spake  unto  you  when  he  was  yet  in 
Galilee."      (Mark  16;  Luke  24.) 

The  crafty  plan  of  the  fearsome  chief  priests  and  Pharisees,  to 
guard  the  tomb  lest  his  disciples  should  come  and  steal  him  away;  the 
mighty  power  of  Rome  witnessed  by  the  Roman  watch  set  to 
prevent  the  theft  of  the  body,  the  sealing  of  the  tomb  to  make 
certain  no  one  could  enter, — all  came  to  naught.  The  Christ 
that  died  to  atone  for  the  Fall  of  Adam,  had  risen  from  the  dead 
to  make  secure  the  resurrection  of  all  men  from  the  grave. 
For  had  he  not  said  months  before,  speaking  to  the  Jews  in 
Jerusalem:  "I  am  the  good  shepherd.  ...  I  lay  down  my  life 
for  the  sheep.  .  .  .  Therefore  doth  my  Father  love  me,  because  I 
lay  down  my  life,  that  I  might  take  it  again.  No  man  taketh  it  from 
me,  but  I  lay  it  down  of  myself.  I  have  power  to  lay  it  down,  and 
I  have  power  to  take  it  again.  This  commandment  have  I  received 
of  my  Father."  (John  10:14-18.) 

As  he  came  out  from  the  tomb  that  early  morning,  the  darkness 
that  had  covered  the  earth  since  the  day  Adam  fell,  rolled  back 
before  the  divine  light  of  the  risen  Lord,  and  then  was  come  to  pass 
the  fruition  of  the  divine  plan  that  as  in  Adam  all  had  died,  so  in 
Christ  had  all  been  made  alive. 

Appearances  of  Risen  Lord 

In  the  morning  of  the  resurrection  he  came  forth  a  being  of  flesh 
and  bone,  even  as  he  laid  himself  down.  Though  he  forbade  Mary 
Magdalene  to  touch  him,  the  other  women  who  came  to  the  tomb 
"held  him  by  the  feet,  and  worshipped  him."  (Matt.  28:9.)  Some- 
time during  this  first  day,  he  showed  himself  to  Peter,  and,  in  the 
late  afternoon,  to  the  two  on  their  way  to  Emmaus.  "And  beginning 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


115 


at  Moses  and  all  the  prophets,  he  expounded  unto  them  in  all  the 
scriptures  the  things  concerning  himself."  As  he  sat  at  meat  with 
them,  "he  took  bread,  and  blessed  it,  and  brake,  and  gave  to  them." 
(Luke  24:27,  30.)  Their  eyes  were  opened,  they  knew  him,  and 
he  vanished  from  their  sight.  They  returned  to  Jerusalem,  met  with 
the  Twelve,  except  Thomas.  The  doors  were  shut.  They  told  of 
their  visit  with  the  risen  Lord.  Even  as  they  spoke,  Jesus  stood 
amongst  them.  He  reproved  and  calmed  their  fears.  "Behold  my 
hands  and  my  feet,  that  it  is  I  myself:  handle  me,  and  see;  for  a 
spirit  hath  not  flesh  and  bones,  as  ye  see  me  have."  He  asked  for 
food.  They  gave  him  and  he  ate  a  piece  of  boiled  fish  and  honey- 
comb. (Luke  24:39-42.) 

Eight  days  later,  the  Twelve  being  again  in  a  room  with  the 
doors  shut,  Thomas  now  being  with  them,  Jesus  again  suddenly  stood 
in  their  midst.  He  bade  Thomas  to  look  at  and  touch  his  hands; 
to  thrust  his  finger  into  the  spear  wound  in  his  side,  and  then,  said 
he,  "be  not  faithless,  but  believing."  (John  20:27.) 

On  the  shores  of  the  sea  of  Galilee,  he  appeared  to  Peter,  and 
Thomas  and  Nathanael  of  Cana,  to  the  sons  of  Zebedee  and  two 
others,  who  had  gone  fishing.  (John  21.) 

"After  that,  he  was  seen  of  above  five  hundred  brethren  at  once," 
and  of  James."  (I  Cor.  15:6-7.) 

Eleven  of  the  disciples  visited  him  on  a  mountain  in  Galilee, 
where  he  had  appointed  them  to  come.  (Matt.  28:16-20;  Mark 
16:14-18.) 

Ascension 

Finally,  after  forty  days,  he  assembled  them  together  in  Jerusa- 
lem, and  then  leading  them  out  as  far  as  Bethany,  where  Mary  and 
Martha  and  Lazarus  lived,  and  while  they  still  beheld  him,  "a  cloud 
received  him  out  of  their  sight."  Two  men  stood  before  them  in 
white  apparel,  and  said  to  them:  "Ye  men  of  Galilee,  why  stand 
ye  gazing  up  into  heaven?  this  same  Jesus,  which  is  taken  up 
from  you  into  heaven,  shall  so  come  in  like  manner  as  ye  have  seen 
him  go  into  heaven." 

There  is  no  word  in  the  record  that  does  not  bear  witness 
that  the  actual  body  that  Joseph  and  Nicodemus  had  laid  in  the 
tomb  (John  19:  38-42)  had  come  forth  out  of  it,  a  resurrected, 
glorified  being,  a  body  of  flesh  and  bone,  as  he  himself  said. 

Sometime  after  his  resurrection,  he  came  to  this  continent, 
set  up  his  Church  and  did  mighty  works. 

From  the  beginning  of  his  ministry  he  had  foretold  this  mighty 
miracle  of  death  and  resurrection.  To  the  multitudes  in  the  temple 
courts,  challenging  his  first  cleansing  of  the  temple  and  demanding 
a  sign  of  his  authority,  Jesus  said:  "Destroy  this  temple,  and  in 
three  days  I  will  raise  it  up."  They  thought  he  spoke  of  the  marbled 
courts,  the  holy  place,  the  holy  of  holies,  "but  he  spake  of  the  temple 
of  his  body."  (John  2:13-22.) 


116  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  9  Third  Dag 

Messiahship  Affirmed 

Declaring  to  the  Jews  his  relationship  to  the  Father,  he  said: 
"When  ye  have  lifted  up  the  Son  of  man,  then  shall  ye  know  that  I 
am  he,  and  that  I  do  nothing  of  myself."  (John  8:28.) 

To  the  Jews  in  the  temple,  Jesus  declared:  "And  I,  if  I  be 
lifted  up  from  the  earth,  will  draw  all  men  unto  me.  This  he  said, 
signifying  what  death  he  should  die."  (John  12:32-33.) 

Time  and  again  he  declared  his  Messiahship.  First  by  im- 
plication when,  in  the  Temple  at  twelve  years  with  the  doctors, 
"both  hearing  them,  and  asking  them  questions,"  he  asked,  on  Mary's 
reproof,  "Wist  ye  not  that  I  must  be  about  my  Father's  business?" 
(Luke  2:46-49.) 

To  the  woman  of  Samaria  who  said  that  when  the  Messiah  came 
he  would  tell  them  the  truth,  "Jesus  saith  unto  her,  I  that  speak  unto 
thee  am  he."  (John  4:16-26.) 

At  Caesarea  Philippi,  Peter,  replying  to  his  question:  "But  whom 
say  ye  that  I  am,"  declared:  "Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the 
living  God,"  Jesus  blessed  him,  saying,  "Blessed  art  thou,  Simon 
Barjona:  for  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  revealed  it  unto  thee,  but  my 
Father  which  is  in  heaven."  (Matt.  16:13-17.) 

When  the  Jews,  lifted  up  in  the  pride  of  their  hearts,  pro- 
claimed Abraham  their  father,  Jesus  said:  "Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto 
you,  Before  Abraham  was,  I  am."  (John  8:58.) 

To  the  impudent  demand  of  Caiaphas,  "Art  thou  the  Christ, 
the  Son  of  the  Blessed?"  Jesus  replied:  "I  am:  and  ye  shall  see  the 
Son  of  man  sitting  on  the  right  hand  of  power,  and  coming  in  the 
clouds  of  heaven."  (Mark  14:61-62.) 

Thus  did  Jesus  testify  again  and  again  to  his  own  Messiah- 
ship;  thus  did  those  touched  by  a  divine  testimony,  likewise  testify. 

The  Redemption 

The  central  point  in  the  great  plan  framed  in  the  Grand  Council 
of  Heaven  before  the  world  was  formed,  was  the  redemption  from 
the  mortal  death  brought  by  the  Fall,  and  this  mortality  was  neces- 
sary that  the  spirits  of  men  might  be  tabernacled  in  the  flesh.  ( Moses 
5:11.)  His  whole  earthly  career  was  pivoted  about  his  atoning 
sacrifice,  his  crucifixion  and  resurrection.  He,  himself,  had  pro- 
posed the  plan.  Yet,  so  tutored,  so  led,  so  destined,  so  knowing, 
as  the  hour  of  his  sacrifice  drew  near,  his  mortal  heart  grew  fearsome. 

In  the  temple,  after  saying,  "Except  a  corn  of  wheat  fall  into  the 
ground  and  die,  it  abideth  alone:  but  if  it  die,  it  bringeth  forth  much 
fruit,"  he  added,  sensing  the  approaching  sacrifice,  "Now  is  my 
soul  troubled;  and  what  shall  I  say?  Father,  save  me  from  this  hour: 
but  for  this  cause  came  I  unto  this  hour."  (John  12:24-27.) 

In  Gethsemane,  he  prayed:  "Abba,  Father,  all  things  are 
possible  unto  thee;  take  away  this  cup  from  me,"  but  then,  im- 
mediately, the  divinity  in  him  rising  and  taking  command,  he  said, 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


117 


"neverthelss  not  what  I  will,  but  what  thou  wilt."  (Mark  14:36; 
Matt.  26:42.) 

As  they  met  the  Judas-led  multitude  coming  to  arrest  him, 
Peter  cut  off  the  right  ear  of  Malchus.  Jesus  said  unto  Peter:  "Put 
up  thy  sword  into  the  sheath:  the  cup  which  my  Father  hath  given 
me,  shall  I  not  drink  it?"  (John  18:10-11.) 

On  the  cross,  in  the  agony  of  expiring  mortality,  he  cried 
aloud  to  the  Father:  "My  God,  my  God,  why  hast  thou  forsaken 
me?"  (Matt.  27:46.) 

The  Messiah's  Place 

Of  the  Messiah's  place  in  the  divine  economy  of  God's  uni- 
verse, John  declared:  "In  the  beginning  was  the  Word,  and  the 
Word  was  with  God,  and  the  Word  was  God.  The  same  was  in 
the  beginning  with  God.  All  things  were  made  by  him;  and  without 
him  was  not  any  thing  made  that  was  made.  In  him  was  life; 
and  the  life  was  the  light  of  men.  And  the  light  shineth  in  dark- 
ness; and  the  darkness  comprehended  it  not."  (John  1:1-5.) 

To  the  woman  of  Samaria,  of  whom  Jesus  asked  a  drink  of  water 
drawn  from  the  well  of  Jacob,  Jesus  said  about  himself:  "If  thou 
knewest  the  gift  of  God,  and  who  it  is  that  saith  to  thee,  Give  me 
to  drink;  thou  wouldest  have  asked  of  him,  and  he  would  have  given 
thee  living  water  .  .  .  whosoever  drinketh  of  the  water  that  I  shall 
give  him  shall  never  thirst;  but  the  water  that  I  shall  give  him  shall 
be  in  him  a  well  of  water  springing  up  into  everlasting  life."  (John 
4:10,  14.) 

To  the  multitude,  5,000  strong,  which  he  had  fed  with  the 
five  loaves  and  two  fishes,  he  declared  his  place:  "I  am  the  bread  of 
life:  he  that  cometh  to  me  shall  never  hunger;  and  he  that  believeth 
on  me  shall  never  thirst."  (John  6:26-35) 

Again  as  he  taught  in  the  treasury  of  the  temple,  he  spoke  to 
the  Pharisees  concerning  himself:  "I  am  the  light  of  the  world: 
he  that  followeth  me  shall  not  walk  in  darkness,  but  shall  have 
the  light  of  life."  ( John  8:12) 

To  the  people  in  the  temple  courts,  he  declared:  "I  am  come 
a  light  into  the  world,  that  whosoever  believeth  on  me  should  not 
abide  in  darkness."  (John  12:46) 

And  in  the  upper  chamber  on  the  night  of  the  last  supper, 
discoursing  to  his  disciples,  he  said:  "I  am  the  way,  the  truth,  and 
the  life:  no  man  cometh  unto  the  Father,  but  by  me."  (John  14:6) 
He  told  them  of  his  going  away,  saying,  "Whither  I  go,  thou  canst 
not  follow  me  now;  but  thou  shalt  follow  me  afterwards."  (John 
13:33,  36.)  On  the  Mount  of  Olives,  he  said:  "And  this  is  life 
eternal,  that  they  might  know  thee  the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus 
Christ,  whom  thou  hast  sent."  (John  17:1-3) 

Out  near  Bethany,  at  the  ascension,  as  a  cloud  enfolding  him, 
hid  him  from  sight  of  his  disciples,  an  angel  declared:    "This  same 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


Jesus,  which  is  taken  up  from  you  into  heaven,  shall  so  come  in  like 
manner  as  ye  have  seen  him  go  into  heaven."  (Acts  1:11) 

Stephen,  before  he  "fell  asleep,"  battered  to  death  with  stones, 
"being  full  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  looked  up  steadfastly  into  heaven, 
and  saw  the  glory  of  God,  and  Jesus  standing  on  the  right  hand  of 
God.  And  said,  Behold,  I  see  the  heavens  opened,  and  the  Son 
of  man  standing  on  the  right  hand  of  God."  (Acts  7:55-56) 


Even  as  the  angel  said  to  the  women  at  the  tomb  in  the  early 
morning  of  the  resurrection : 

"He  is  risen,"  and  "the  people  which  sat  in  darkness  saw  great 
light;  and  to  them  which  sat  in  the  region  and  shadow  of  death  light 
is  sprung  up."  (Matt.  4:16) 

"He  is  risen,"  leaving  with  us  the  word  that  salvation  is  in 
him  alone,  "for  there  is  none  other  name  under  heaven  given  among 
men,  whereby  we  must  be  saved."  ( Acts  4:12) 

"He  is  risen,"  with  the  glorious  promise  to  us  that  if  we  seek 
first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteousness,  the  things  of  this 
world  will  be  added.  (Matt.  6:33) 

"He  is  risen,"  trailing  death  his  captive. 

"He  is  risen,"  the  "first-fruits  of  them  that  slept."  (I.  Cor.  15:20) 
"He  is  risen,"  that  all  men  may  likewise  rise,  each  to  the 
station  and  glory  to  which  his  life  and  works  and  testimony  entitle 
him,  and  when  we  are  risen,  "shall  be  brought  to  pass  the  saying 
that  is  written,  Death  is  swallowed  up  in  victory.  O  death,  where 
is  thy  sting?  O  grave,  where  is  thy  victory?"  (I  Cor.  15:54-5) 

"He  is  risen,"  that  as  in  Adam  all  died,  so  in  Christ  shall  all  be 
made  alive;  for  even  "the  dead  shall  hear  the  voice  of  the  Son  of  God: 
and  they  that  hear  shall  live,"  (John  5:25)  and  hearing,  shall  be 
"judged  according  to  men  in  the  flesh,  but  live  according  to  God  in 


For  well  nigh  two  full  millenniums  since  he  walked  and  talked 
with  men  and  from  today  till  time  merges  into  the  eternities  to  come, 
the  divine  message  vouchsafed  to  the  humble  Martha,  "cumbered 
about  much  serving,"  (Luke  10:40)  shall  bring  joy  to  God's  children: 
"I  am  the  resurrection,  and  the  life:  he  that  believeth  in  me,  though 
he  were  dead,  yet  shall  he  live:  and  whosoever  liveth  and  believeth 
in  me  shall  never  die.    Believest  thou  this?"  (John  11:24-26) 

Then  from  this  household  drudge  came  the  glorious  testimony, 
unequalled,  among  the  sayings  of  all  others  with  whom  the  Christ 
mingled  in  Palestine,  save  alone  by  the  words  of  the  fisherman, 
Peter:  "Yea,  Lord:  I  believe  that  thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  God, 
which  should  come  into  the  world."  (John  11:27) 

May  this  testimony,  which  is  also  mine,  grow  in  the  hearts 


He  Is  Risen 


the  spirit."  (I  Pet.  4:5-6) 


Testimony  of  Divinity 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


119 


of  all  who  now  have  it,  and  may  it  come  to  all  who  yet  seek  till  they 
find  it,  that  they  may  have  eternal  life,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of 
him  who  died  that  men  might  live,  and  who  is  now  risen.  Amen. 

The  Choir  sang:  "Christ  is  Risen" — 17th  century  German  air, 
arranged  by  Deis. 

Singing  by  the  Choir,  "O  My  Father." 

The  Choir  also  sang  "Hosanna" — Leinbach-Pfohl,  after  which 
the  Organ  and  humming  choir  presented  "Sweet  is  the  Work." 

THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Sunday,  April  9,  1950 

Preliminary  to  the  commencement  of  the  Sunday  morning  ses- 
sion of  the  Conference,  which  convened  at  10:00  a.m.,  the  regular 
Sunday  morning  nationwide  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broadcast 
was  presented  from  9:30  to  10:00  a.m. 

The  great  Tabernacle  was  crowded  to  capacity  long  in  advance 
of  the  time  for  presenting  this  broadcast  with  people  who  had  as- 
sembled to  listen  to  this  radio  program  and  the  Conference  session 
which  was  to  follow.  The  Assembly  Hall  just  south  of  the  Taber- 
nacle was  filled  with  people  who  could  not  get  into  the  Taber- 
nacle, who  listened  to  and  watched  the  proceedings  in  the  Tab- 
ernacle, by  means  of  television.  Hundreds,  if  not  thousands  of  others 
gathered  on  the  grounds  and  listened  to  the  services  by  means  of 
amplifiers  that  had  been  installed. 

CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

Preliminary  to  the  commencement  of  the  Sunday  morning  ses- 
sion of  the  General  Conference,  which  convened  at  10  o'clock 
a.m.,  the  regular  Sunday  morning  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ 
broadcast  was  presented  from  9:30  to  10:00. 

This  broadcast,  which  was  presented  through  the  courtesy  and 
facilities  of  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  System's  coast-to-coast  net- 
work, throughout  the  United  States,  was  written  and  announced 
by  Richard  L.  Evans  and  originated  with  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 
City.  It  was  as  follows: 

(Organ  began  playing  "As  the  Dew"  and  on  signal  the 
organ  and  choir  broke  into  "Gently  Raise,"  singing  words  to  end 
of  second  line,  and  humming  to  end  of  verse  for  announcer's  back- 
ground. ) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome  you  within  these  walls 
with  music  and  the  spoken  word  from  the  Crossroads  of  the  West. 

The  Columbia  Broadcasting  System  and  its  affiliated  stations 
bring  you  at  this  hour  another  presentation  from  Temple  Square 


120  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Day 

in  Salt  Lake  City,  with  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir,  Frank  W.  Asper,  Tabernacle  Organist,  and  the 
spoken  word  by  Richard  Evans. 

The  choir  first  sings  a  sacred  song  by  Franz  Joseph  Haydn, 
with  an  Easter  text  taken  from  the  scriptures:  "Hereby  perceive 
we  the  love  of  God,  that  He  laid  down  his  life  for  us  .  .  .  He  died 
for  us  .  .  .  that  we  should  live." 

(Choir  sang,  "He  Died  for  Us" — Haydn) 

Announcer:  Dr.  Frank  W.  Asper  turns  to  an  album  of  de- 
votional organ  offerings  to  present  the  thoughtful  phrases  of  a 
"Prayer." 

(Organ  presented  "Prayer" — Asper) 

Announcer:  The  Tabernacle  Choir  now  sings  two  songs  of 
the  Easter  season:  first,  "Easter  Joy,"  from  the  15th  Century,  to 
be  followed  by  a  "Galilean  Easter  Carol"  with  these  words:  "Joy 
dawned  again  on  Easter  day  .  .  .  when  to  their  longing  eyes  re- 
stored .  .  .  the  Apostles  saw  their  risen  Lord." 

(Choir  sang,  "Easter  Joy" — Arr.  Deis) 

(Organ  modulated  into — and  choir  sang — "Galilean  Easter 
Carol" — Shure) 

Announcer:  "And  seeing  the  multitudes,  he  went  up  into  a 
mountain:  and  when  ...  his  disciples  came  unto  him:  .  .  .  he  .  .  . 
taught  them,  saying,  Blessed  are  the  poor  in  spirit:  for  theirs  is 
the  kingdom  of  heaven.  Blessed  are  they  that  mourn:  for  they 
shall  be  comforted.  Blessed  are  the  meek:  for  they  shall  inherit 
the  earth.  Blessed  are  they  which  do  hunger  and  thirst  after  right- 
eousness: for  they  shall  be  filled.  Blessed  are  the  merciful:  for 
they  shall  obtain  mercy.  Blessed  are  the  pure  in  heart:  for  they 
shall  see  God."  The  truth  and  beauty  of  the  Beatitudes  and  of 
all  the  other  ethical  and  doctrinal  teachings  of  Jesus  the  Christ 
would  be  more  than  reason  enough  for  His  mission  among  men. 
But  His  mission  meant  much  more  than  moral  teaching,  and  His 
was  much  more  than  a  great  mortal  mind.  By  his  own  utterance, 
and  by  all  other  evidence,  He  was  the  Son  of  God,  the  Savior  of 
mankind — in  a  manner  which  admittedly  we  mortals  do  not  alto- 
gether understand — but  then  there  are  so  many  things  that  are 
real  and  undeniable  which  are  beyond  the  present  limits  of  the 
minds  of  men.  But  this  was  His  mission  in  mortality:  to  give 
unto  men  a  pattern  of  principles  that  would  lead  to  peace  and 
progress  and  and  highest  happiness  here  and  hereafter — and  to  die 
that  men  might  be  redeemed  from  death.  To  say  that  we  fully 
understand  the  necessity  for  this  sacrifice  would  not  be  wholly 
true.  But  somehow,  in  the  plan  and  purpose  of  our  Father,  it 
was  and  is  essential  to  man's  eternal  march.  And  somehow,  the 
way  to  life  without  limit,  the  path  to  eternal  progress,  was  opened 
up  for  all  men  by  Him  who  did  for  us  what  we  could  not  do  for 
ourselves.  And,  so  we  accept  the  reality  of  resurrection  with  settled 
assurance;  and  we  accept  as  part  of  our  Father's  plan  and  pur- 


CHOIR  ANR  ORGAN  BROADCAST  121 


pose  .  .  .  the  renewal  of  association  with  those  we  love — for  "men 
are,  that  they  might  have  joy."  And  to  you  who  have  lost  those 
you  love,  take  this  comfort  to  your  hearts  this  Easter  day.  If 
there  be  those  who  doubt,  let  them  doubt  no  more.  If  there  be 
those  who  mourn,  let  them  be  comforted.  If  there  be  those  who 
love  life,  let  them  prepare  to  live  it — always. 

(Without  announcement  organ  presented  "In  Paradisum" 
— Dubois ) 

Announcer:  With  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ  we  have 
heard  a  theme  fitting  to  the  music  and  message  of  this  day:  "In 
Paradise"  by  Dubois. 

"And  when  he  had  spoken  these  things  ...  he  was  taken  up; 
and  a  cloud  received  him  out  of  their  sight.  And  while  they  looked 
steadfastly  toward  heaven  .  .  .  behold,  two  men  stood  by  them  in 
white  apparel;  which  also  said,  Ye  men  of  Galilee,  why  stand  ye 
gazing  up  into  heaven?  this  same  Jesus,  which  is  taken  up  from 
you  into  heaven,  shall  so  come  in  like  manner  as  ye  have  seen 
him  go  .  .  ."  (Acts  1:9-11 ) 

"...  I  know  that  my  Redeemer  liveth,  and  that  he  shall  stand 
at  the  latter  day  upon  the  earth."  (Job  19:25) 

With  the  earnest  conviction  of  these  words  from  the  New  and 
from  the  Old  Testament,  the  choir  recalls  a  worshipful  chorus 
from  Handel's  "Messiah":  "Worthy  is  the  Lamb  that  was  slain, 
and  hath  redeemed  us  to  God  .  .  .  Blessing  and  honour,  glory  and 
pow'r,  be  unto  Him,  that  sitteth  upon  the  throne,  and  unto  the 
Lamb  for  ever  and  ever." 

(Choir  sang  "Worthy  is  the  Lamb" — Handel) 

(Without  announcement  organ  presented  "How  Great  the 
Wisdom  and  the  Love" — Mclntyre) 

Announcer:  And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies  which  have 
been  given  of  him,  this  is  the  testimony  last  of  all  which  we  give 
of  him:  That  he  lives! — "Christ  the  Lord  is  Risen  Today." 

(Without  announcement  choir  sang  "Christ,  the  Lord,  is  Risen 
Today" — Carey ) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  leave  you  within  the  shadows  of 
the  everlasting  hills.  May  peace  be  with  you,  this  day — and  always. 

This  concludes  the  one  thousand  and  seventy-seventh  presen- 
tation continuing  the  21st  year  of  this  traditional  broadcast  from 
the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  brought  to  you  by 
the  Columbia  Network  and  its  affiliated  stations,  originating  with 
Radio  Station  KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducted  the  singing  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir.  Frank  W.  Asper  was  at  the  organ.  The  spoken  word  by 
Richard  Evans. 


Immediately  following  the  conclusion  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
and  Organ  Broadcast,  the  regular  session  of  the  Conference  com- 
menced. 


122  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sundag.  April  9  Third  Dag 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Though  the  weather  is  somewhat  cloudy  there  is  sunshine  and 
gladness  and  reverence  in  the  hearts  of  thousands  here  assembled. 
Twelve  beautiful  bouquets  of  Easter  lilies  adorn  the  pulpit  and  the 
rostrum.  The  spirit  is  Easter;  the  spirit  of  the  risen  Lord  is  present 
in  this  vast  congregation. 

This  is  the  sixth  session  of  the  One  Hundred  Twentieth 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

These  services  will  be  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  over  a 
loud  speaking  system  and  by  television. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL,  Salt 
Lake  City,  and,  as  heretofore  announced,  by  arrangement  through 
KSL  over  the  following  stations: 

In  Utah:  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KJAM  at 
Vernal,  KVNU  at  Logan. 

In  Idaho:  KGEM  at  Boise,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at 
Pocatello,  KBIO  at  Burley. 

In  Oregon:    KBKR  at  Baker,  KSRV  at  Ontario. 

And  by  transcription  over  KTYL  at  Mesa,  Arizona,  and  KEXO 
at  Grand  Junction,  Colorado. 

The  session  will  also  be  televised  over  the  KSL  television 
station  channel  5. 

The  choir  singing  will  be  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  Elder  J. 
Spencer  Cornwall  conducting,  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  the  services  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the 
congregation  singing  "Praise  to  the  Man." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Herbert  K. 
Whitworth  of  the  Idaho  Stake. 


The  congregation  and  choir  sang  the  hymn  "Praise  To  the  Man." 
The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  President  Herbert  K. 
Whitworth  of  the  Idaho  Stake. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  radio  audience  will  be  pleased  to  know,  and  you  should 
know,  that  President  George  Albert  Smith  is  present  this  morning 
and  presiding  at  this  Easter  service. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing  "Easter  Morning,"  after 
which  Elder  Matthew  Cowley  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will 
speak  to  us. 


Singing  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  "Easter  Morning." 


ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY 


123 


ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  think  by  now  we  are  convinced,  brothers  and  sisters,  that 
the  theme  of  this  conference  is  repentance.  We  have  been  called 
to  repentance  in  sermon  and  in  prayer.  For  thirteen  years  I  have 
spent  much  of  my  time  among  people  who  know  how  to  repent. 
I  have  never  seen  such  beautiful  repentance  in  all  my  experiences 
as  I  have  seen  among  the  people  of  the  South  Pacific. 

Speedy  Repentance 

And  while  I  have  been  thinking  about  this  principle  of  re- 
pentance, there  has  come  to  my  mind  one  experience  I  had  during 
the  war  years  when  our  young  men  were  going  from  New  Zealand 
to  the  war.  There  came  into  my  office  one  day  two  young  Maori 
brothers.  They  were  in  uniform.  They  had  volunteered.  Natives 
of  New  Zealand  are  not  drafted  or  conscripted  in  the  military 
service;  they  have  to  volunteer.  These  two  young  men  were  about 
to  embark  for  the  Near  East  and  when  they  came  into  my  office,  I 
detected  the  odor  of  liquor.  But  I  was  not  surprised  when  they 
asked  for  a  blessing,  for  I  knew  them  well;  I  had  lived  at  the  home 
of  their  mother  on  my  first  mission.  I  said  to  them,  "Do  you  de- 
serve a  blessing?"  They  knew  what  I  meant,  and  they  said,  "We 
think  we  do  now;  we  repented  a  few  minutes  ago."  That's  the 
speed  with  which  a  Polynesian  repents. 

Under  ordinary  conditions  I  think  I  wouldn't  have  given  them 
a  blessing  at  that  time,  but  as  I  looked  at  them  in  the  uniform  of 
soldiers  who  had  voluntered  to  give  their  lives  that  I  might  enjoy 
liberty,  religious  freedom,  and  all  the  other  freedoms,  the  Spirit 
prompted  me  to  bless  them.  In  my  blessing  I  called  them  to  re- 
pentance and  told  them  that  the  blessings  were  conditioned  entirely 
upon  repentance.  I  promised  them  that  through  their  repentance 
and  their  righteous  examples  as  soldiers  in  the  theater  of  war  to 
which  they  were  going,  they  would  return  home.  And  how  proud 
one  of  those  young  men  was  just  a  year  ago  when  he  came  to  me 
and  said  that  he  was  counselor  to  the  president  of  one  of  the 
branches  in  New  Zealand,  and  that  his  brother  was  very  active  in 
the  Church.  From  the  minute  they  repented,  coming  to  my  office, 
up  Queen  Street  in  Auckland,  New  Zealand,  they  had  not  broken 
the  Word  of  Wisdom. 

Discernment  Needed 

I  think  one  of  the  great  responsibilities  we  have,  we  who  hold 
the  priesthood,  is  the  responsibility  of  acquiring  a  discernment,  a 
spirit  of  discernment,  so  that  we  may  really  know  when  a  man  has 
repented. 

I  was  walking  along  the  street  in  one  of  our  towns  in  New 
Zealand  one  day  with  my  mission  president  during  my  first  mission. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Dag 


I  had  been  staying  at  the  home  of  one  of  our  Church  members,  and 
that's  all  he  was,  just  a  member.  He  had  been  a  heavy  drinker  for 
years,  and  I  had  seldom  seen  him  without  his  pipe  in  his  mouth.  The 
president  and  I  met  him  on  the  street.  We  walked  up  to  him,  and 
the  president  said,  calling  him  by  name,  "I  want  you  to  get  ready 
to  take  your  wife  and  go  to  the  temple  of  God  and  be  sealed  to 
each  other."  When  I  went  back  to  New  Zealand  on  my  second 
mission,  that  man  was  the  president  of  the  best  district  we  had  in 
the  New  Zealand  mission,  and  how  I  thrilled  when  I  heard  his 
testimony  that  from  the  minute  he  was  asked  to  repent  by  the  priest- 
hood of  God  he  had  never  broken  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  And  he 
not  only  came  to  the  Hawaiian  Temple,  but  he  also  came  to  this 
temple  and  received  the  blessings  which  God  gives  to  all  who 
properly  repent. 


I  love  the  spirit  of  repentance  in  those  people.  And  I  am  re- 
minded now  that  this  is  the  centennial  year  of  the  Hawaiian  Mis- 
sion, a  mission  made  great  by  such  missionaries  as  President  George 
Q.  Cannon.  President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Lorenzo  Snow,  and  many 
others.  And  as  I  have  been  laboring  among  those  people,  and  as 
it  has  come  to  me  to  judge  them  even  when  their  membership  in 
the  Church  was  involved,  I  have  always  said  to  myself,  "What 
would  Joseph  F.  Smith  have  done  in  this  case?  What  would  Presi- 
dent George  Q.  Cannon  have  done  in  this  particular  instance?"  I 
have  spent  much  of  my  time  in  finding  out  or  trying  to  find  out 
what  the  attitude  of  those  grand  and  noble  men  was  toward  the 
Polynesian  Islanders,  and  I  have  yet  to  hear  that  President  George 
Q.  Cannon  or  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  ever  uttered  anything  but 
words  of  love  to  those  people,  whether  they  were  active  or  inactive 
in  the  Church.  So  also  my  heart  has  always  gone  out  to  them  in 
great  love. 

They  are  different  from  us.  They  have  to  be  treated  different- 
ly. We  have  to  understand  them,  but  don't  we  have  to  understand 
ourselves,  as  well?  And  in  this  business  of  repenting  and  forgiv- 
ing men  and  women  of  their  sins,  we  must  understand  one  another. 
We  must  try  to  see  them  as  much  from  their  own  eyes  and  get 
their  own  viewpoint  as  we  do  from  our  own. 

How  we  need  to  pray  to  God  for  the  spirit  of  discernment! 
How  we  need  to  know  that  God  is  love,  and  that  he  forgives  those 
who  repent! 


Just  yesterday  I  had  copied  from  one  of  the  sermons  of  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith  a  few  words  which  he  delivered  from  this 
pulpit  at  one  of  the  general  conferences.  It  was  on  the  last  day 
of  the  conference,  and  they  were  his  last  words  to  that  great  as- 
sembly.   I  would  like  to  read  them  here.    I  think  you  will  read 


Understanding  Polynesians 


Spirit  of  Forgiveness 


ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY 


125 


into  these  words  the  spirit  of  love,  of  forgiveness,  which  I  know 
President  Smith  acquired  from  his  association  with  those  wonder- 
ful people  in  the  Polynesian  Islands.  "Brethern  and  sisters,  we 
want  you  to  be  united."  We  have  heard  that  theme  also  in  this 
conference,  and  many  of  us  need  to  repent  because  we  are  not 
one;  we  are  not  as  loyal  as  we  should  be. 

We  hope  and  pray  that  you  will  go  from  this  conference  to  your 
homes  feeling  in  your  hearts  and  from  the  depths  of  your  souls  to  forgive 
one  another  and  never  from  this  time  forth  to  bear  malice  toward  another 
fellow  creature.  I  do  not  care  whether  he  is  a  member  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  or  not,  whether  he  is  a  friend  or  a  foe, 
whether  he  is  good  or  bad.  It  is  extremely  hurtful  for  any  man  holding 
the  priesthood  and  enjoying  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  to  harbor  a  spirit 
of  envy,  or  malice,  or  retaliation,  or  intolerance  toward  or  against  his  fel- 
low man.  We  ought  to  say  in  our  hearts,  "Let  God  judge  between  me 
and  thee,  but  as  for  me,  I  will  forgive."  I  want  to  say  to  you  that 
Latter-day  Saints  who  harbor  a  feeling  of  unforgiveness  in  their  souls 
are  more  censurable  than  the  one  who  has  sinned  against  them.  Go 
home  and  dismiss  envy  and  hatred  from  your  hearts;  dismiss  the  feeling 
of  unforgiveness;  and  cultivate  in  your  souls  that  spirit  of  Christ  which 
cried  out  upon  the  cross,  "Father,  forgive  them;  for  they  know  not  what 
they  do.  This  is  the  spirit  that  Latter-day  Saints  ought  to  possess  all  the 
day  long.  The  man  who  has  that  spirit  in  his  heart  and  keeps  it  there 
will  never  have  any  trouble  with  his  neighbor;  .  .  .  but  he  will  always 
be  at  peace  with  God.  It  is  a  good  thing  to  be  at  peace  with  God. 
(Conference  Report,  October  1902,  pp.  86-87.) 

"With  malice  toward  none,  with  charity  for  all,  with  firmness 
in  the  right  as  God  gives  us  to  see  the  right,"  let  us  strive,  brothers 
and  sisters,  to  finish  this  great  work  we  are  in,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Of  the  Council  o/  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  very  happy  to  have  this 
opportunity  of  mingling  my  testimony  with  yours  concerning  the 
truth  of  this  great  latter-day  work. 

I  always  marvel  at  conference  time  to  see  these  great  throngs 
assemble  in  the  Tabernacle,  and  on  the  grounds  surrounding  it. 
Yet  I  have  no  real  reason  to  marvel.  Truth  is  always  alive  and 
vital.    We  have  the  truth.    God  be  thanked  for  the  gift  of  truth! 

European  Mission  Centennial 

One  hundred  years  ago  at  this  conference,  the  brethren  then 
in  authority,  Brigham  Young  and  those  who  assisted  him,  sent  out 
a  small  army  of  men  into  the  world  to  preach  the  gospel.  These 
were  scattered  far  and  wide.  Some  went  into  the  non-English 
speaking  parts  of  Europe  and  there  founded  missions  which  are 
celebrating  this  year  the  hundredth  anniversary  of  their  beginning. 

Rich  harvests  were  gathered.    Through  the  years  since  that 


126  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  9  Third  D»» 

time  a  stream  of  men  and  women,  lovers  of  truth,  have  flowed  from 
those  countries  to  us  here.  Even  today  hundreds  and  thousands 
come  from  those  countries  to  share  with  us  in  the  blessings  of  this 
land  and  our  associations.  The  fruits  that  came  from  the  work 
were  further  illustrated  yesterday,  when  we  had  the  pleasure  and 
enjoyment  of  listening  to  the  splendid  singing  of  the  Swiss-German 
Choir.  The  Church  maintains  in  Salt  Lake  City  and  beyond  the 
borders  of  the  city  organizations  which  conduct  meetings  in  several 
languages.  In  fact  there  are  seven  different  language  organizations 
in  Salt  Lake  City.  They  are  maintained  to  assist  these  newcomers 
from  foreign  lands. 

It  is  not  easy,  brethren  and  sisters,  for  men  and  women,  no 
matter  how  much  they  love  the  gospel,  to  come  at  a  mature  age, 
and  most  of  them  are  mature,  into  a  new  land,  to  learn  a  new  lan- 
guage, and  to  become  used  to  new  customs.  But  it  does  not  take 
long  for  them  to  adapt  themselves  to  conditions  here.  They  become 
very  valuable  citizens,  both  of  the  Church  and  of  the  land  which 
has  adopted  them. 

Our  hearts  go  out  to  these  brethren  and  sisters.  We  want 
to  help  them  all  we  can.  Their  response  is  tremendously  generous. 
My  heart  frequently  overflows  with  emotion  when  I  read  the  letters 
that  come  from  these  newcomers,  not  only  from  the  foreign  speak- 
ing countries,  but  also  from  England — letters  that  bear  testimony 
of  their  gladness  in  the  possession  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  and  gladness  to  be  with  a  group  of  Saints  larger  than  they 
can  find  in  their  native  lands. 

The  Resurrection 

In  this  conference  we  have  talked  a  great  deal  about  Jesus 
Christ  and  his  resurrection.  Jesus  the  Christ  is  the  central  figure 
of  the  gospel.  His  resurrection  from  the  grave  is  an  integral  part 
of  the  Father's  plan  for  man's  eternal  progression. 

We  can  never  say  too  much  about  Jesus  the  Christ  and  his 
work.  It  is  always  refreshing  to  hear  the  old  story  told,  as  it  was 
told  this  morning  by  President  Clark,  and  the  words  of  Jesus  later 
repeated  to  us  by  President  Evans.  It  is  always  a  delight  to  hear 
this  old  sacred  story.  It  is  the  most  important  story  upon  the  face 
of  the  earth  for  the  blessing  of  the  children  of  men. 

The  resurrection  is  a  certainty,  not  a  delusion.  That  has  been 
told  us  time  and  time  again  in  the  last  few  days.  I  think  as  modern 
knowledge  has  advanced,  as  men  have  learned  to  look  more  clearly 
into  the  mysteries  of  things,  that  more  than  ever  before,  the  resur- 
rection seems  logical,  rational,  and  necessary.  There  are  not  so 
many  thinking  people  today  as  there  were  yesterday  who  question 
the  possibility  of  a  resurrection.  Multitudes  know,  thank  heaven, 
that  Christ  rose  from  the  grave,  yet  there  are  many  who  need  our 
teaching  and  our  help. 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


127 


Fear  and  Uncertainty 

Despite  the  fact  that  this  certainty  of  knowledge  gives  com- 
fort to  us  all,  there  is  much  fear  and  uncertainty  in  the  hearts  of  men 
today.  As  far  as  I  can  remember,  in  my  lifetime  there  has  never 
been  a  time  when  men  and  women  have  been  so  anxious  about  the 
future.  There  is  fear  of  the  future  in  their  hearts.  Fear  is  the  devil's 
first  and  chief  tool.  With  fear  he  destroys  humanity.  Men  have 
learned  to  let  loose  the  forces  that  hold  together  the  very  ground 
under  our  feet.  Of  course,  without  the  steadying  power  of  faith, 
men  are  afraid.  Sometimes  they  say  the  type  of  chain  reaction 
talked  of  by  physicists  may  be  set  into  such  motion  that  the  whole 
earth  will  vanish  in  a  flash.  That,  of  course,  is  an  idle  dream. 
That  will  not  happen.  Only  when  the  Lord  speaks  will  the  end 
come. 

But  uncertainty  remains.  Men  are  unhappy.  Some  people, 
however,  declare  that  we  have  too  much  knowledge;  that  it  would 
be  better  for  us  if  we  had  not  quite  so  much;  that  if  we  knew  a  little 
less,  we  would  be  happier  and  stronger.  That,  also,  we  know  is  a 
mistake. 

Use  of  Knowledge 

God  has  told  us  that  we  should  secure  to  the  best  of  our 
ability  all  knowledge.  The  well  of  truth  will  never  be  drained  dry. 
The  problem  is  not  how  much  knowledge  we  possess,  but  how  wise 
we  are  in  using  it  properly  for  our  own  good  in  accordance  with 
God's  commands.  Use  and  misuse  lie  at  the  foundation  of  every 
good  thing  that  comes  to  humanity.  Therein  lies  the  right  of  the 
free  agent. 

So  we  can  lay  aside  the  doctrine  that  we  have  too  much 
knowledge.  We  do  need,  however,  to  secure  mastery  over  our- 
selves. This  lies  at  the  foundation  of  life  in  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  It  has  been  talked  about  here  time  and  time  again. 
To  conquer  an  army,  it  was  said  in  olden  days,  is  a  very  great 
achievement,  but  to  conquer  oneself  is  greater  still.  It  is  the  duty  of 
Latter-day  Saints  to  learn  little  by  little  to  be  conquerers  of  them- 
selves. Self -conquest  is  the  great  desire  of  all  Latter-day  Saints  who 
understand  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Under  the  power 
of  self-conquest  knowledge  becomes  precious  to  man.  The  Lord 
has  given  us  an  abundance  of  truth. 

I  wonder  if  in  the  scriptures  given  us  by  the  Lord  there  may 
not  be  some  fundamental  basic  solution  of  the  world's  difficulties, 
those  that  have  been  discussed  so  eloquently  in  this  conference. 

Visitation  of  Moroni 

There  is  a  story  in  our  history,  one  almost  revered,  it  is  so 
dear  to  us.  Some  three  years  after  his  first  great  vision,  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  a  lad  about  eighteen  years  of  age,  lay  in  his  bed 
pondering  upon  life  and  its  mysteries,  his  relationship  and  duties  to 


128  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  9  Third  Day 

God,  and  also  grieving  about  his  mistakes  in  life.  While  so  meditat- 
ing, a  heavenly,  resurrected  being  appeared  before  him.  His  name 
was  Moroni,  a  well-known  name,  a  well-known  figure  to  Latter- 
day  Saints.  We  Latter-day  Saints  do  not  stop  with  the  fact  of  the 
resurrection,  for  we  declare  solemnly  that  in  our  day  men  have 
appeared  who  have  tasted  of  death,  have  gone  down  into  the  grave, 
and  have  come  out  again  resurrected  through  the  almighty  power 
of  our  Father  in  heaven.  One  of  these  beings  stood  by  the  bedside 
of  the  young  man  and  told  Joseph  about  his  calling,  the  things  he 
was  to  do,  and  the  consequences  to  follow.  His  duties  and  obliga- 
tions, the  conditions  under  which  he  was  to  labor,  were  laid  before 
him. 

Moroni  quoted  liberally  from  the  Bible,  much  as  the  quotations 
stand  in  King  James'  version  of  the  scriptures,  the  Bible  in  common 
use  at  that  time,  except  in  one  instance.  When  he  used  the  words 
of  Malachi,  he  changed  one  verse  of  Malachi  so  completely  that 
it  is  now  looked  upon  as  the  first  great  written  revelation  of  the 
Lord  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  through  the  lips  of  Moroni.  It 
stands  in  our  book,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  as  Section  Two: 

Behold,  I  will  reveal  unto  you  the  Priesthood,  by  the  hand  of  Elijah 
the  prophet,  before  the  coming  of  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord. 

And  he  shall  plant  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  the  promises  made 
to  the  fathers,  and  the  hearts  of  the  children  shall  turn  to  their  fathers. 

If  it  were  not  so,  the  whole  earth  would  be  utterly  wasted  at  his 
coming. 

The  Lord  here  teaches  how  the  earth  may  be  wasted.  It  will 
not  be  through  one  of  the  atom  bombs.  If  I  read  this  revelation 
correctly  (and  it  is  one  of  our  greatest  possessions,  through  the 
ministry  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith),  it  points  out  that  humanity 
will  win  no  peace,  nor  harmony,  nor  salvation,  as  we  use  the  word, 
unless  we  learn  to  love  one  another. 

Spirit  of  Brotherhood 

It  is  a  message  telling  us  that  in  the  spirit  of  brotherhood  alone 
lies  the  safe  future  of  humankind.  That  places  a  heavy  responsibil- 
ity upon  us.  We  are  not  followers;  we  are  leaders,  else  we  are  far 
astray.  We  are  the  ones  who  must  develop  and  inculcate  the  spirit 
of  brotherhood  in  the  world.  Among  us  must  be  the  spirit  of 
brotherhood  which  all  the  world  will  notice. 

All  this  has  been  said  by  previous  speakers,  but  it  is  well  to 
repeat  it.  It  is  well  to  call  attention  to  this  basic  revelation  of  this 
dispensation.  In  it  lies  the  doctrine  that  unless  we  have  the  spirit 
of  brotherhood  developed  within  us,  if  we  remain  selfish,  self-con- 
tained, unwilling  to  help  our  fellow  men,  there  will  be  no  salvation. 
The  earth  may  then  be  utterly  wasted. 

The  brotherhood  of  this  revelation  is  more  than  the  brotherhood 
existing  between  living  people.  It  is  relatively  easy  to  love  the 
living.    But  there  is  a  higher  type  of  brotherhood  enjoined  upon 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WlDTSOE 


us  in  this  revelation,  which  we  must  take  to  heart  if  the  earth  is  not 
to  be  utterly  wasted.  We  must  establish  a  spirit  of  brotherhood 
among  us  and  those  who  have  gone  before,  most  of  whom  we  know 
only  as  names.  The  human  race  is  one  great  family — all  children 
of  God.  Christ  came  out  of  the  grave  for  all  of  us — those  of  the 
past,  present,  and  future.  The  blessing  of  the  resurrection  is  for  all, 
not  for  a  handful.  There  is  no  aristocracy  in  heaven  except  as  we 
obey  or  disobey  the  commandments  of  God. 

So  the  Lord  has  laid  upon  us  the  great  duty  of  universal 
brotherhood,  to  save  the  world,  to  give  to  those  who  have  gone 
before  us  the  opportunities  that  we  enjoy  here  in  life  of  receiving 
the  blessings  that  lead  to  eternal  life,  and  which  many  failed  to  re- 
ceive while  on  earth.  This  is  one  of  the  greatest  responsibilities 
placed  upon  man. 

Redemption  of  the  Dead 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  before  his  death  concerned  himself 
greatly  with  this  work.  He  thought  and  wrote  about  it,  he  spoke 
about  it,  he  urged  upon  his  people  that  they  forget  not  the  redemp- 
tion of  the  dead,  for  in  that  redemption  lies,  as  I  have  said,  perhaps 
altogether,  the  final  solution  of  the  things  that  vex  mankind. 

In  obedience  to  this  obligation,  we  as  a  Church  have  temples. 
In  the  temples  alone  can  work  for  the  dead  be  done.  We  are  a 
temple-building  and  a  temple-using  people.  We  began  in  1836  and 
have  been  building  temples  ever  since.  We  are  a  temple-building 
people  for  the  very  purpose  of  obeying  the  injunction  given  to  us 
in  Section  Two  of  our  Doctrine  and  Covenants. 

My  message  to  you  today,  following  in  general  the  spirit  of  the 
resurrection  of  the  Christ,  is  that  we  turn  our  hearts  steadily  and 
forcefully  towards  this  duty,  the  duty  of  laboring  for  the  dead.  We 
cannot  be  saved  without  doing  so.  The  earth  cannot  continue  to 
its  destined  end  unless  we  so  do.  There  is  much  work  to  be  done, 
for  those  who  have  passed  on  are  many.  The  great  number  of 
people  that  have  gone  before  us  who  have  not  heard  the  gospel  have 
not  had  the  opportunity  to  partake  of  the  necessary  sacraments  of 
the  gospel.  These  we  must  serve  in  spirit  and  in  deed.  Some  will 
say  as  I  close,  "Well,  I  live  far  from  the  temple,  I  can't  do  the  work 
required."  Well,  you  can  pay  someone  else  to  do  it.  That's  not 
the  best  way,  but  it  can  be  done,  and  I  think  the  Lord  will  accept 
it.  But  there  is  work  we  can  do  at  home.  There  is  the  field  of 
genealogy;  we  may  keep  in  correspondence  with  our  genealogical 
society  here  in  Salt  Lake  City,  one  of  the  greatest  and  best  and 
finest  in  the  land,  in  the  world,  for  that  matter.  Opportunities  will 
come  if  we  seek  them.  It  is  marvelous  how  the  troubles  of  life 
vanish  in  the  presence  of  such  work,  and  how  the  problems  of 
life  find  their  solutions  in  such  work. 

The  Lord  is  mighty;  he  has  control  of  all  mysteries.  He  opens 
the  door  whenever  it  may  be  needed. 


130  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  9  Third  Day 

Need  of  Temple  Work 

I  have  felt  that  as  one  with  you  this  morning  I  wanted  to  say 
this  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  call  to  your  attention  again 
the  need  of  work  in  the  temples.  We  haven't  enough  temples.  We 
are  a  million  strong,  we  were  told  two  days  ago  by  the  President  of 
our  Church.  The  temples  of  the  Church  would  not  accommodate 
us  if  we  did  our  duty  in  behalf  of  universal  salvation.  Let  us  do 
our  duty  for  ourselves  and  for  the  future  of  this  earth  upon  which 
we  live  and  which  we  hold  so  dear.  And  let  us  remember  always 
that  the  spiritual  forces  centering  in  our  temples  are  more  power- 
ful than  atom  rays  or  any  earthly  force  discovered  by  man. 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  his  many  messages  of  truth  to  us  and  for 
this  great  fundamental  message.  May  the  Lord  give  us  strength 
to  accept  it  and  obey  it.  May  it  find  lodgment  in  our  hearts  as 
well  as  in  our  deeds  and  bless  us  all  according  to  our  needs.  May 
this  Church  of  God  and  of  his  Son  Jesus  the  Christ  continue  to 
grow  and  prosper,  as  it  will  do  if  we  do  our  work,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Joseph  Smith  was  asked:    "What  are  the  fundamental  prin- 
ciples of  your  religion? 
He  replied: 

The  fundamental  principles  of  our  religion  are  the  testimony  of  the 
Apostles  and  Prophets,  concerning  Jesus  Christ,  that  He  died,  was  buried, 
and  rose  again  the  third  day,  and  ascended  into  heaven  and  all  other 
things  which  pertain  to  our  religion  are  only  appendages  to  it.  (D.H.C. 
vol.  3,  p.  30.) 

Atonement  of  Christ 

The  atonement  of  Christ  is  the  most  transcendent  and  important 
event  that  has  ever  occurred,  or  ever  will  occur,  in  the  history  of  this 
world.  Everything  pertaining  to  life  and  salvation,  all  that  the 
Saints  have  or  that  they  may  obtain,  center  in  that  most  glorious 
event.  Christ  came  into  the  world  chiefly  for  the  purpose  of  work- 
ing out  the  infinite  and  eternal  atonement. 

He  said: 

...  I  came  into  the  world  to  do  the  will  of  my  Father,  because  my 
Father  sent  me. 

And  my  Father  sent  me  that  I  might  be  lifted  up  upon  the  cross;  .  .  . 
(Ill  Nephi  27:13-14.) 

That  was  to  the  Nephites.  To  the  Jews,  while  in  his  mortal 
ministry,  he  said: 

I  am  the  good  shepherd:  the  good  shepherd  giveth  his  life  for  the 
sheep.  .  .  . 

...  I  lay  down  my  life,  that  I  might  take  it  again. 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE  1 3 1 


No  man  taketh  it  from  me,  but  I  lay  it  down  of  myself.  I  have  power 
to  lay  it  down,  and  I  have  power  to  take  it  again.  This  commandment 
have  I  received  of  my  Father.  (John  10:11,  17,  18.) 

Fall  of  Adam 

Adam  had  come  into  the  world;  had  been  the  first  man,  the 
most  noble  member,  save  Jesus  only,  of  the  human  race;  had  fallen, 
as  the  scriptures  recite;  and  had  brought  temporal  death  and  spiritual 
death  into  the  world. 

Spiritual  death  is  to  be  banished  from  the  presence  of  the  Lord. 
Temporal  death  is  the  dissolution  of  the  body  and  of  the  spirit. 
The  atonement  of  Christ  came  to  ransom  us  from  the  effects  of  the 
fall  of  Adam.  That  atonement  gives  all  men  temporal  life.  "As 
in  Adam  all  die,  even  so  in  Christ  shall  all  be  made  alive."  (I  Cor. 
15:22.)  That  atonement  offers  to  all  men  who  will  believe  and  obey 
the  principles  of  the  gospel  eternal  life  or  spiritual  life  again  in  the 
presence  of  the  Eternal  Father. 

Gospel  in  Its  Fulness 

We  Latter-day  Saints  have  the  gospel  in  its  fulness  and  in  its 
perfection.  Authorized  teachers  reveal  its  doctrines  to  us;  legal 
administrators  are  among  us  to  perform  the  ordinances  of  salvation. 
We  are  on  the  path  to  eternal  life,  and  if  we  endure  to  the  end,  we 
will  be  saved. 

Those  in  the  world  who  will  repent,  who  will  come  into  the 
Church,  believe  the  doctrines,  and  receive  the  ordinances,  will  have 
their  sins  forgiven.  They  will  be  washed  clean  in  the  blood  of  Christ 
because  of  the  atonement.  Those  who  decline  and  fail  to  do  this, 
who  will  not  repent,  but  who  stay  outside  the  reach  of  mercy,  will — 
in  the  justice  of  God — have  to  pay  the  penalty  for  their  own  sins. 
They  will  be  required  to  suffer,  even  as  Christ  suffered,  which 
suffering  caused  himself,  "...  even  God,  the  greatest  of  all,  to 
tremble  because  of  pain,  and  to  bleed  at  every  pore,  and  to  suffer  both 
body  and  spirit,  .  .  ."  and  would  that  he  might  not  drink  the  bitter 
cup.  (See  D.  &C.  19:15-20.) 

There  is  no  more  important  thing  in  this  world,  nor  will  there  be, 
than  the  single  act  of  the  atonement  of  Christ;  and  we  can  be  partici- 
pators in  the  blessings  of  it.  We  can  inherit  the  glories  of  eternity, 
and  all  the  rewards  that  God  has  promised  the  Saints,  if  we  will  abide 
the  law  that  he  has  given  us  in  this  day. 

To  King  Benjamin,  a  righteous  and  faithful  Nephite,  an  angel 
of  God  said  this: 

For  the  natural  man  is  an  enemy  to  God,  and  has  been  from  the 
fall  of  Adam,  and  will  be,  forever  and  ever,  unless  he  yields  to  the  entic- 
ings  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  putteth  off  the  natural  man  and  becometh  a 
saint  through  the  atonement  of  Christ  the  Lord,  and  becometh  as  a  child, 
submissive,  meek,  humble,  patient,  full  of  love,  willing  to  submit  to  all 
things  which  the  Lord  seeth  fit  to  inflict  upon  him,  even  as  a  child  doth 
submit  to  his  father.  (Mosiah  3:19.) 

That  we  may  so  do  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


132  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  9  Thud  Day 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Hundreds  of  years  before  the  Savior  walked  on  the  shores  of 
Galilee  and  was  crucified  and  resurrected.  Job  declared:  "I  know 
that  my  Redeemer  liveth,  and  that  he  shall  stand  at  the  latter  day 
upon  the  earth."  All  listening  in,  and  all  assembled  here,  will  now 
have  the  opportunity  to  express  that  truth  in  his  or  her  own  heart, 
looking  introspectively,  as  you  sing  with  the  choir  "I  Know  That  My 
Redeemer  Lives." 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "I  Know  That  My 
Redeemer  Lives." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  we  have  enjoyed  a  great  abun- 
dance of  the  Lord's  spirit  during  this  great  conference.  All  of  the 
previous  speakers  have  been  richly  endowed  with  it,  and  I  pray  it 
may  be  the  source  of  my  inspiration. 

The  Lord  Jesus  Christ  declared. 

But  seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteousness:  and  all 
these  things  shall  be  added  unto  you.  (Matt.  6:33.) 

Security 

This  statement  of  the  Savior's  involves  two  objectives  to  be 
achieved:  first,  spiritual  security  through  seeking  the  kingdom  of 
God  and  his  righteousness;  and  second,  temporal  security  to  be  added 
unto  us  through  our  efforts. 

The  word  security  has  become  one  of  the  most  used  and  abused 
words  in  the  vocabulary  of  many  people.  The  dictionary  defines  it 
as  the  apprehension  of  one's  well  being  as  to  the  necessities  of 
life,  such  as  food,  clothing,  and  shelter — a  guarantee  from  want. 

In  the  beginning,  when  Adam  was  in  the  Garden  of  Eden,  he  had 
temporal  security.  All  of  the  necessities  of  life  were  made  available 
by  the  Lord;  but  after  the  fall  he  was  forced  into  the  cold  and  dreary 
world  with  the  mandate  from  the  Lord,  "In  the  sweat  of  thy  face 
shalt  thou  eat  bread  (Gen.  3:19),  placing  squarely  upon  his  shoulders 
the  responsibility  of  providing  himself  with  temporal  security. 

In  the  minds  of  holy  men  there  have  always  been  two  categories 
of  security,  spiritual  and  temporal.  Without  the  spiritual  phase, 
temporal  security  could  not  be  achieved.  It  was  a  sacred  under- 
taking wherein  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  were  needed.  Involved  in 
it  were  holy  practices  such  as  prayer,  divine  principles  of  faith, 
thrift,  integrity,  and  endless  effort.  It  demanded  supplication  to  the 
Lord  for  his  blessings;  and  at  the  harvest  time  the  firstlings  of  the 
flock  and  the  best  of  the  fields  were  brought  and  burnt  as  offerings 
of  gratitude  and  thanksgiving  to  the  Lord,  representing  a  great 
achievement  in  that  a  man  of  his  own  faith,  works,  and  with  the  help 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN  133 


of  the  Lord,  had  provided  himself  shelter,  food,  clothing,  and  the 
comforts  of  life,  with  some  marginal  reserves  to  provide  for  himself 
and  family  during  periods  of  illness  and  in  his  declining  years. 

Abraham,  beloved  of  the  Lord,  had  great  wealth  represented  in 
herds  and  fields.  He  had  cattle  on  a  thousand  hills,  and  yet  with  all 
this  wealth  he  labored  diligently  for  spiritual  security.  His  herds 
were  driven  up  to  the  land  of  Melchizedek,  the  high  priest,  where 
they  were  tithed,  returning  to  the  Lord  that  which  belonged  to  him. 

Rejection  of  the  Lord 

After  Israel  had  made  the  long  trek  from  Egypt  to  the  Promised 
Land,  being  ruled  by  the  Lord  through  his  servants,  the  prophets,  for 
generations,  the  people  arose  and  cried,  give  us  a  king  to  judge  us 
that  we  may  be  like  all  the  nations,  that  our  king  may  go  before  us 
and  fight  our  battles.  Samuel,  the  Prophet,  in  deep  sorrow  went 
to  the  Lord  saying,  "They  have  rejected  me."  But  the  Lord  said 
unto  Samuel, 

.  .  .  Hearken  unto  the  voice  of  the  people  in  all  that  they  say  unto 
thee:  for  they  have  not  rejected  thee,  but  they  have  rejected  me,  that  I 
should  not  reign  over  them. 

And  he  said,  this  will  be  the  manner  of  the  king  that  shall  reign  over 
you:  He  will  take  your  sons,  and  appoint  them  for  himself,  for  his 
chariots,  and  to  be  his  horsemen;  and  some  shall  run  before  his  chariots. 

And  he  will  take  your  daughters  to  be  confectionaries,  and  to  be 
cooks,  and  to  be  bakers. 

And  he  will  take  your  fields,  and  your  vineyards,  and  your  olive- 
yards,  even  the  best  of  them,  and  give  them  to  his  servants. 

And  he  will  take  the  tenth  of  your  seed,  and  of  your  vineyards,  and 
give  to  his  officers,  and  to  his  servants. 

And  he  will  take  your  menservants  and  your  maidservants,  and  your 
goodliest  young  men,  and  your  asses,  and  put  them  to  his  work. 

He  will  take  the  tenth  of  your  sheep:  and  ye  shall  be  his  servants. 

And  ye  shall  cry  out  in  that  day  because  of  your  king  which  ye  shall 
have  chosen  you;  and  the  Lord  will  not  hear  you  in  that  day.  ^(1  Samuel 
8:7,  11,  13-18.) 

Israel  in  Bondage 

The  battles  of  the  people  were  not  represented  only  in  physical 
combat  with  the  enemy  but  also  in  the  struggle  for  security.  Israel 
had  forsaken  the  Lord;  Israel  had  softened  in  faith  and  had  been 
disobedient;  Israel  was  indolent.  And  they  gave  up  their  sons  and 
daughters  to  the  king  and  his  officers.  The  king  took  over  all  of 
their  resources,  and  the  price  they  paid  for  a  king  was  their  freedom. 
Under  this  arrangement  the  kings  of  Israel  prospered,  but  the  people 
were  downtrodden  and  found  themselves  in  bondage.  The  kings 
forgot  the  spiritual  phase  of  security;  they  forgot  the  Lord.  Saul 
counseled  the  sorcerer  rather  than  the  Lord.  David  fell  from  grace 
because  of  a  grievous  sin  he  committed.  Solomon  sought  after  other 
gods.  Dissension  rent  the  kingdom  in  twain,  and  a  powerful 
nation  took  Israel  into  captivity.  This  is  the  history  of  a  nation 
that  rejected  the  Lord's  way  of  achieving  temporal  and  spiritual 
security. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


History  Repeats  Itself 


Does  history  repeat  itself?  Yes.  Today  the  term  security 
is  best  defined  in  the  promises  of  economic  kings  and  politicians  in 
the  form  of  doles,  grants,  and  subsidies  made  for  the  purpose  of 
perpetuating  themselves  in  public  office,  and  at  the  same  time  de- 
pleting the  resources  of  the  people  and  the  treasury  of  the  nation. 
The  word  security  is  being  used  as  an  implement  of  political  expe- 
diency, and  the  end  results  will  be  the  loss  of  freedom,  and  temporal 
and  spiritual  bankruptcy.  We  have  those  among  us  who  are  calling 
for  an  economic  king,  and  the  voice  of  the  king  replies  in  promises 
wherein  the  individual  is  guaranteed  relief  from  the  mandate  given 
to  Adam,  "In  the  sweat  of  thy  face  shalt  thou  eat  bread."  Diso- 
bedience to  this  mandate  involves  the  penalty  of  loss  of  free  agency 
and  individuality,  and  the  dissipation  of  the  resources  of  the  indi- 
vidual. These  economic  rulers  have  advocated,  and  do  practice, 
a  vicious  procedure  called  the  "leveling  down  process,"  which  takes 
from  the  man  who  has  achieved  and  distributes  to  those  who  are 
not  willing  to  put  forth  like  effort.  Taxation  is  the  means  through 
which  this  "leveling  down  process"  is  implemented.  Taxes  in  the 
United  States  during  the  last  decade  have  increased  five  hundred 
percent.  If  such  increases  continue,  it  will  mean  final  confiscation  of 
the  property  of  the  people. 


A  clear-cut  example  of  the  promises  of  economic  kings  to  the 
people,  with  all  of  the  penalties  involved,  stands  out  in  the  case  of 
Great  Britain.  Great  Britain,  with  fifty  years  of  rule  over  the  seas 
of  the  earth,  the  sun  never  setting  upon  her  empire,  finds  herself  now 
in  a  convulsion  of  spiritual,  political  and  temporal  bankruptcy.  She 
has  a  king,  but  he  is  merely  a  symbol  of  her  past  greatness;  but  the 
people,  like  those  of  Israel,  cried  for  a  new  king,  an  economic  king, 
and  the  king  has  responded  with  the  rule  of  dictatorship,  bringing 
deterioration  to  the  character  of  the  individual,  loss  of  ambition, 
freedom,  individual  progress  through  the  right  to  work  when  and 
where  he  would,  and  regimentation.  The  people  are  forced  to  heed 
the  call  and  feel  the  iron  hand  of  the  dictator.  Above  all,  they  have 
lost  their  free  agency.  The  British  people  are  but  mere  cogs  in  the 
great  machine  of  socialism.  The  state  is  paramount;  the  citizen 
has  been  subdued.  Their  resources  have  been  absorbed,  the  treasury 
of  the  government  depleted,  and  had  it  not  been  for  the  generosity  of 
this  great  republic,  where  a  few  of  the  fundamentals  of  freedom, 
personal  initiative,  and  free  enterprise  remain,  Great  Britain  would 
have  been  but  a  memory.  Just  as  it  was  in  Israel,  so  will  it  be  with 
Great  Britain — dissension,  division,  and  communistic  captivity. 


What  does  this  mean  to  you  and  to  me?  We  have  those  among 
us,  too,  who  over  the  years  have  cried  for  a  controlled  economy.  We 
have  those  among  us  who  give  succor  and  support  to  such  a  plan, 


Case  of  Great  Britain 


Controlled  Economy 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN  135 


which  plan  of  controlled  economy  involves  the  same  theories  and 
false  philosophies  that  ruined  Israel  and  are  now  destroying  Great 
Britain.  Economic  kings  have  responded  to  the  call  of  some  people, 
promising  them  security  against  want  for  their  votes.  In  the  at- 
tempt to  meet  the  desires  of  these  people,  the  treasury  of  this  great 
nation  is  being  depleted,  and  it  covers  deficit  spending  with  promis- 
sory notes.  Expansion  of  this  disastrous  policy  will  deprive  American 
citizens  of  their  God-given  freedom,  the  right  to  work  when  and 
where  they  will,  freedom  of  speech,  freedom  of  the  press — and  who 
knows  but  what  some  day  the  right  to  worship  God  according  to  the 
dictates  of  one's  conscience  may  be  taken  away.  It  is  destroying, 
and  will  continue  to  destroy,  the  very  fundamentals  upon  which  this 
nation  and  its  people  have  found  prosperity  and  genuine  security. 
These  are  not  idle  words,  but  the  counsel  and  the  words  of  the 
Lord  as  they  have  been  revealed  to  this  nation  through  prophets 
and  the  founding  fathers  of  this  great  republic.  For  one  hundred  and 
twenty  years  modern-day  Samuels  have  pleaded  with  the  people 
to  preserve  the  fundamentals  of  temporal  and  spiritual  security  by 
being  obedient  to  the  gospel,  through  work,  being  thrifty  and  stay- 
ing out  of  debt,  and  above  all  by  remembering  the  Lord.  We  have 
continually  been  counseled  to  conserve  our  resources  to  provide 
temporal  security  during  periods  of  sickness,  unemployment,  and  the 
days  of  old  age.  This  people  has  been  taught  by  the  prophets  of 
God  that  to  waste  the  bounties  of  the  earth  is  a  sin,  and  surely  there 
is  a  penalty  therefor.  The  Lord  cannot  bless  an  individual  or  a 
nation  with  the  bounties  of  the  earth  and  have  that  individual  or 
nation  deliberately  and  wantonly  waste  them,  without  the  law  of 
retribution  of  want  and  famine  being  imposed. 

Welfare  Program 

Economic  kings  have  advocated  the  doctrine  that  those  in 
distress  should  be  provided  for  abundantly  with  no  obligations  on 
the  part  of  the  recipients,  but  the  Lord  has  revealed  through  his 
prophets  a  great  welfare  plan  which  does  not  rob  individuals  in  dis- 
tress of  their  freedom,  personal  initiative,  and  the  right  to  work. 
In  the  welfare  program  the  individual  is  the  objective,  and  through 
the  generosity  and  cooperative  efforts  of  the  membership  of  the 
Church,  the  individual  is  assured  of  temporal  security,  not  as  a  dole 
or  as  a  gift,  but  as  a  bridge  to  cover  the  gap  of  unemployment  or 
illness  until  the  individual  can  again  stand  upon  his  own  feet  and 
work  out  his  temporal  security.  It  is  required  of  him  that  during  this 
period  of  assistance  from  the  welfare  program  he  shall  give  freely  of 
his  labor,  if  physically  fit,  in  the  production  of  the  things  he  needs, 
and  out  of  it  all  he  becomes  one  of  the  independent  sons  of  the  Lord, 
having  not  only  received  but  having  also  given. 

Promises  Kept 

Modern-day  Israel  should  heed  the  admonitions  of  the  living 
oracles  of  God  and  close  their  ears  to  the  teachings  of  false  prophets, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Dag 


remembering  always  that  the  Lord  has  made  definite  promises  to 
this  people,  a  covenanted  people,  through  his  servants,  the  Apostles 
and  the  Prophets.   The  Lord  declared  through  the  Prophet  Brigham 


If  the  Latter-day  Saints  will  walk  up  to  their  privileges,  and  exercise 
faith  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  live  in  the  enjoyment  of  the  fulness 
of  the  Holy  Ghost  constantly  day  by  day,  there  is  nothing  on  the  face 
of  the  earth  that  they  could  ask  for,  that  would  not  be  given  to  them. 
The  Lord  is  waiting  to  be  very  gracious  unto  this  people,  and  to  pour  out 
upon  them  riches,  honor,  glory,  and  power,  even,  that  they  may  possess 
all  things  according  to  the  promises  he  has  made  through  his  Apostles  and 
Prophets.  {Discourses  of  Brigham  Young,  1925  edition,  page  241;  1943 
edition,  page  156.) 

There  may  be  those  of  little  faith  who  will  cry  out  that  circum- 
stances and  situations  arise  wherein  the  people  cannot  help  them- 
selves, but  again  the  Prophet  Brigham  Young  declared  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord: 

When  a  person  is  placed  in  circumstances  that  he  cannot  possibly 
obtain  one  particle  of  anything  to  sustain  life,  it  would  then  be  his  privi- 
lege to  exercise  faith  in  God  to  feed  him,  who  might  cause  a  raven  to 
pick  up  a  piece  of  dried  meat  from  some  quarter  where  there  was  plenty, 
and  drop  it  over  the  famishing  man.  When  I  cannot  feed  myself  through 
the  means  God  has  placed  in  my  power,  it  is  then  time  enough  for  him 
to  exercise  his  providence  in  an  unusual  manner  to  administer  to  my 
wants.  But  while  we  can  help  ourselves,  it  is  our  duty  to  do  so.  If  a 
Saint  of  God  be  locked  up  in  prison,  by  his  enemies,  to  starve  to  death, 
it  is  then  time  enough  for  God  to  interpose,  and  feed  him.  {Ibid.,  1925 
edition,  pp.  240-41;  1943  edition,  p.  155.) 


The  Lord  keeps  his  promises  in  this  day  as  well  as  in  the  days 
of  old  Israel.  When  Israel  was  making  the  trek  from  Egypt  to  the 
Promised  Land  and  circumstances  arose  where  there  was  no  food 
in  the  camp  of  Israel,  the  Lord  caused  the  quail  to  come  into  Israel's 
camp  in  great  abundance  providing  them  with  meat,  and  the  next 
morning  manna  was  on  the  ground  to  provide  bread.  The  Lord  is  the 
same  yesterday,  today,  and  forever,  for  within  the  memory  of  all  of 
us  is  the  story  of  the  pioneers  who  had  planted  crops  which  promised 
a  bounteous  harvest,  but  clouds  of  crickets  flew  over  the  valley, 
settled  upon  the  crops  and  commenced  to  devour  them.  The  hearty 
pioneers,  men  and  women,  went  to  work  with  fire  and  water  to 
destroy  the  plague;  but  their  efforts  were  in  vain.  Then  one  of  the 
great  fundamentals  of  spiritual  security,  faith  in  God  and  supplica- 
tion to  him  for  assistance,  was  implemented  by  the  people.  Upon 
their  knees  in  the  fields,  in  their  homes,  and  in  the  houses  of  wor- 
ship they  pleaded  for  the  Lord's  help.  The  answer  was  readily 
given  in  the  form  of  myriads  of  sea  gulls  who  settled  upon  the 
fields  destroying  the  crickets,  and  the  crops  were  saved. 


Young : 


The  Lord  Provides 


Security  in  Gospel 


Economic  kings  cannot  answer  the  prayers  of  the  people,  for 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN  137 


they  are  but  false  prophets.  They  are  comparable  to  the  gods  of 
Baal,  whose  false  prophets  forced  the  people  to  lay  upon  the  altar 
of  sacrifice  their  resources  and  their  right  to  worship  the  true  and 
Living  God.  In  return  the  people  were  rewarded  with  slavery  and 
subjection.  Security,  spiritual  and  temporal,  can  only  be  found  in 
the  restored  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Through  revelations, 
both  ancient  and  modern,  the  Lord's  word  is  infallible,  and  his  prom- 
ises are  kept  when  predicated  upon  faith  and  obedience.  The  Lord 
declared  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  Section  27,  verses  15 
to  18,  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants: 

Wherefore,  lift  up  your  hearts  and  rejoice,  and  gird  up  your  loins, 
and  take  upon  you  my  whole  armor,  that  ye  may  be  able  to  withstand 
the  evil  day,  having  done  all,  that  ye  may  be  able  to  stand. 

Stand,  therefore,  having  your  loins  girt  about  with  truth,  having  on 
the  breast-plate  of  righteousness,  and  your  feet  shod  with  the  preparation 
of  the  gospel  of  peace,  which  I  have  sent  mine  angels  to  commit  unto 
you; 

Taking  the  shield  of  faith  wherewith  ye  shall  be  able  to  quench  all 
the  fiery  darts  of  the  wicked; 

And  take  the  helmet  of  salvation,  and  the  sword  of  my  Spirit,  which  I 
will  pour  out  upon  you,  and  my  word  which  I  reveal  unto  you,  and  be 
agreed  as  touching  all  things  whatsoever  ye  ask  of  me,  and  be  faithful  until 
I  come,  and  ye  shall  be  caught  up,  that  where  I  am  ye  shall  be  also. 
D.  &  C.  27:15-18.) 

"But  seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteousness: 
and  all  of  these  things  shall  be  added  unto  you." 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  in  the  achievement  of  spiritual  and 
temporal  security  to  the  end  that  we  might  enjoy  a  place  in  his 
celestial  kingdom,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 

Assistant  to  the  Council  o[  the  Twelve  Apostles 

As  we  go  out  to  the  stakes  of  Zion  and  the  wards  of  the  Church, 
we  feel  the  warmth  and  the  friendliness  of  the  good  people  who 
always  makes  us  so  welcome,  and  as  we  come  into  your  assemblies, 
there  is  a  friendliness,  and  we  are  made  to  feel  at  home.  But  as  we 
meet  here  in  the  Tabernacle  with  all  of  you  together,  it  becomes  a 
real  challenge,  and  I  sincerely  trust  that  while  I  stand  here  I  may 
have  an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers. 

Cost  of  Missionary  Service 

The  other  day  at  the  opening  session  of  conference  some  rather 
imposing  figures  were  presented.  Among  them  was  the  cost  of  our 
missionary  service,  a  cost  amounting  to  over  four  million  dollars, 
which  comes  from  the  general  funds  of  the  Church.  To  that  should 
be  added  the  contributions  of  the  families  that  make  possible  the 
boys  and  girls  called  to  the  mission  field. 

We  have  nearly  five  thousand  missionaries.    The  average  cost 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


for  each  missionary  a  month  is  about  fifty-three  dollars.  That  alone 
would  amount  to  three  million  dollars  a  year.  Then  add  to  that 
the  equipment,  clothing,  and  other  personal  accessories,  and  railroad 
fares  for  the  missionaries  to  reach  their  fields  of  labor,  which  costs 
are  largely  borne  by  the  families  of  the  Church,  and  it  would  prob- 
ably amount  to  another  million  dollars;  so  that  we  have  something 
like  four  million  dollars  cost  in  the  sending  of  our  five  thousand 
missionaries  to  the  nations  of  the  earth.  I  doubt  that  that  figure 
would  cover  the  entire  expense.  Then,  as  has  been  suggested  here 
the  money  that  these  boys  could  earn  were  they  to  remain  at  home 
represents  another  imposing  figure.  — „ 

Brother  Sonne  remarked  the  other  day  that  the  Bishop  of 
York,  who  spoke  from  this  pulpit  a  year  or  more  ago,  on  his  return 
to  England  had  been  quite  complimentary  to  the  Church.  Among 
other  things  he  had  said  that  the  Mormon  Church  must  be  a  very 
wealthy  institution  to  maintain  such  an  impressive  missionary  serv- 
ice. 

The  funds  for  that  service  come  from  all  the  people,  rich  and 
poor  alike,  and  if  the  truth  were  known,  it  would  be  found  that 
most  of  these  funds  come  from  the  very  humble  of  the  Church — 
those  of  very  limited  means.  So  this  does  represent  a  great  con- 
tribution on  the  part  of  Church  members,  and  it  brings  home  to  us 
what  it  costs  to  be  a  Latter-day  Saint. 


But  there  is  another  phase  to  it  that  transcends  all  the  material 
costs.  I  have  reference  to  those  who  have  made  great  sacrifices 
in  coming  into  the  Church.  Brother  Widtsoe  touched  on  it  briefly 
this  morning  when  he  mentioned  the  immigrants  who  come  here, 
many  learning  a  new  language,  making  new  adjustments,  the  con- 
ditions altogether  different  from  those  they  left  in  the  Old  Country. 
Many  of  them  have  had  to  sacrifice  their  own  kindred  and  loved 
ones,  being  told  in  some  instances  that  they  had  to  choose  between 
this  new  religion  and  their  own  families,  and  their  new-found  re- 
ligion has  been  their  choice.  This  has  been  a  common  experience 
in  this  Church  from  the  beginning. 


I  remember  my  worthy  grandmother,  a  Quaker,  who  was  con- 
verted in  Pennsylvania  through  the  coming  of  some  of  the  mission- 
aries in  the  days  of  the  Prophet  Joseph.  My  mother  at  one  time 
had  a  great  decision  to  make,  one  that  was  to  try  her  to  the  very 
depths.  Grandmother  said  to  her  in  her  typical  Quaker  style, 
"Thee  will  find  that  it  is  not  always  easy  to  live  the  truth,  but  thee 
will  also  find  that  there  is  joy  and  peace  that  comes  in  thus  living." 
This  grandmother  and  her  people,  including  her  mother  and  seven 
daughters,  had  had  the  restored  gospel  presented  to  them  by  the 
missionaries,  and  they  accepted  it.  They  found  the  witness;  they 


Sacrifices  of  Converts 


Conversion  of  Grandmother 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG  139 


believed.  The  father  in  that  home  was  to  say  to  them  (a  witness 
of  the  truth  had  not  come  to  him),  "You  can  either  choose  this  so- 
called  religion  or  me."  The  witness  had  come  to  them,  and  with 
that  witness  there  always  comes  a  responsibility.   The  Savior  said: 

And  this  gospel  of  the  kingdom  shall  be  preached  in  all  the  world 
for  a  witness  unto  all  nations;  and  then  shall  the  end  come.  (Matthew 
24:14.) 

When  that  witness  comes  into  the  human  heart,  it  brings,  I  re- 
peat, a  responsibility — a  responsibility  that  we  cannot  escape.  And 
this  good  Quaker  grandmother  felt  that  she  could  not  escape  it. 

She  did  not  believe  the  Book  of  Mormon  when  it  was  first  pre- 
sented to  her.  She  read  it  and  read  it  again  and  she  could  not 
get  away  from  it.  Finally  the  witness  came,  and  that's  when  she 
made  her  decision.  She  had  no  other  choice,  and  finally  she  said  to 
her  husband,  "If  that's  it,  then  it  must  be."  So  she,  with  her  seven 
daughters  and  some  of  their  families,  started  for  Nauvoo. 

There  was  nothing  inviting  when  they  arrived  in  Nauvoo. 
Nauvoo  had  been  built  up  and  was  now  a  lovely  city,  but  persecu- 
tion was  rampant.  The  economic  conditions  of  the  people  were 
not  good;  apostasy  prevailed;  the  Prophet  was  being  undermined  on 
every  hand;  and  into  this  influence  came  this  good  family.  I  wonder 
sometimes  what  some  of  us  would  do  under  similar  circumstances; 
and  yet  they  never  wavered;  they  never  failed. 

President  Grant's  mother  had  to  face  the  same  problem.  She 
was  told  that  it  was  either  her  new-found  religion  or  her  inheritance 
and  her  family.  She  chose  her  religion  because  she,  too,  had  re- 
ceived the  witness. 

I  have  always  been  thrilled  in  reading  the  story  of  Brother 
Widtsoe's  mother.  She  may  be  no  different  from  hundreds  of 
Scandinavian  mothers  who  have  come  here.  They  had  to  make 
decisions.  They  had  to  decide  whether  it  was  their  relatives,  their 
friends,  or  this  unpopular  religion.  So  I  repeat,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  the  foundation  of  this  Church  has  been  laid  at  a  great 
cost. 

Blessings  Received 

The  cost  we  pay  today  is  minor — comparable  to  the  great 
blessings  received,  it  amounts  to  nothing.  The  Lord  has  blessed 
us  abundantly,  has  given  us  of  his  substance  that  we  might  use  it 
to  build  up  the  Church  and  kingdom,  so  that  we  need  have  no 
anxiety  about  any  of  these  costs.    I  repeat,  they  are  minor. 

But  the  greatest  cost  of  all  is  that  cost  we  pay  which  gives 
strength  and  character  to  our  people,  a  cost  that  has  built  a  founda- 
tion against  which  the  gates  of  hell  cannot  prevail. 

Now  today  what  does  it  all  mean  to  us?  What  did  it  mean  to 
these  good  people?  I  could  name  many  more  who  made  great  sacri- 
fices, and  we  have  them  today.  We  have  our  modern  pioneers 
out  in  the  world  who  are  giving  up  their  all  because  of  the  witness 


140  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  9  Third  Day 

they  have  in  their  souls.  And  that  will  always  be.  But  what  does 
it  do?  I  repeat  again  what  my  worthy  grandmother  said  to  my 
mother,  that  it  brings  peace  and  joy  to  the  human  heart. 

Jesus  the  Christ 

That  is  why  Easter  means  so  much  to  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
It  isn't  the  symbolism,  the  pageantry,  that  we  are  conscious  of 
today.  It  is  the  fundamental  truth  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  he 
lives,  and  that  he  appeared  in  this  day  to  the  Prophet  Joseph. 

When  I  say  "in  this  day,"  have  you  ever  stopped  to  think  how 
close  that  is?  There  are  men  sitting  on  this  stand  whose  fathers 
knew  the  man  who  communed  with  Jehovah.  The  man  to  whom 
God  the  Father,  and  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son,  appeared  and  bore  wit- 
ness again  of  the  reality  of  the  life  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  the  resur- 
rection is  true,  the  literal  resurrection  as  President  Clark  explained 
to  us  this  morning  in  his  impressive  address.  That  is  how  close  it 
is. 

Statement  of  Louis  Pasteur 

A  consciousness  of  this  truth  brings  peace  to  your  soul  and 
mine.  I  read  recently  a  statement  by  one  of  the  French  scientists, 
Louis  Pasteur,  who  lived  about  eighty  years  ago,  at  a  time  when 
skepticism  prevailed  throughout  France.  He  was  trying  to  prove 
before  the  French  Academy  that  the  theory  of  spontaneous  genera- 
tion was  not  true.  When  he  was  chided  by  his  associates  for  only 
accepting  that  which  he  could  prove,  he  said: 

This  is  not  to  be  taken  to  mean  that,  in  my  beliefs  and  in  the  conduct 
of  my  life,  I  only  take  account  of  acquired  science:  if  I  would,  I  could  not 
do  so,  for  I  should  then  have  to  strip  myself  of  a  part  of  myself.  There 
are  two  men  in  each  one  of  us:  the  scientist,  he  who  starts  with  a  clear 
field  and  desires  to  rise  to  the  knowledge  of  Nature  through  observa- 
tion, experimentation,  and  reasoning,  and  the  man  of  sentiment,  the  man 
of  belief,  the  man  who  mourns  his  dead  children  (he  had  just  lost  a  son 
in  the  Franco-Prussian  War) ,  and  who  cannot,  alas,  prove  that  he  will  see 
them  again,  but  who  believes  that  he  will  and  lives  in  that  hope,  the  man 
who  will  not  die  like  a  vibrio,  but  who  feels  that  the  force  that  is  within 
him  cannot  die.  The  two  domains  are  distinct,  and  woe  to  him  who  tries 
to  let  them  trespass  on  each  other  in  the  so  imperfect  state  of  human 
knowledge. 

He  was  deeply  religious.  He  had  a  spiritual  concept.  Most 
men  of  science  have  that  deep  concept  and  a  deep  humility  in  their 
search  for  truth.    He  said: 

I  see  everywhere  the  inevitable  expression  of  the  Infinite  in  the  world; 
through  it,  the  supernatural  is  at  the  bottom  of  every  heart.  The  idea  of 
God  is  a  form  of  the  idea  of  the  Infinite. 

In  other  words,  the  spiritual  is  just  as  real  as  is  the  side  of  a 
test  tube.  The  spiritual  is  just  as  real  as  the  physical.  That  was 
the  fundamental  doctrine  of  the  Prophet  Joseph. 

And  so  today,  Easter  means  something  to  you  and  me.  It  is 
worth  while — this  great  cost.    It  was  worth  while  to  our  forebears, 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG  141 


my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  it  is  worth  while  to  us.  I  join  with 
you  and  with  my  associates  in  expressing  the  gratitude  of  my  heart 
for  the  peace  that  has  come  to  my  soul  and  comes  every  day,  in  the 
confidence  and  the  knowledge  that.  I  have  of  the  divinity  of  this 
great  work. 

God  help  us  to  be  true  to  it,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 
President  David  O.  McKay: 

That  impressive  message  was  given  by  Elder  Clifford  E. 
Young,  one  of  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve. 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Leo  J.  Muir,  formerly  president 
of  the  Northern  States  Mission  ( Elder  Muir  was  not  present ) . 

President  George  Albert  Smith  commented  yesterday  upon  the 
presence  of  so  many  of  our  Indian  brethren  and  sisters  at  these 
sessions  of  Conference,  and  it  was  he  who  felt  impressed  to  call  one 
of  their  number  to  represent  them.  We,  therefore,  call  for  Elder 
Chief  Blue  who  is  a  Catawba  Indian  from  Rock  Hill,  South  Carolina. 
Brother  Blue  has  been  in  the  Church  sixty  years.  We  shall  now  be 
favored  with  some  remarks  from  this  good  brother. 

ELDER  CHIEF  SAMUEL  BLUE 

Brethren  and  sisters,  we  are  told  that  the  Lord  moves  in  mysteri- 
ous ways,  and  I  bear  testimony  this  is  true.  It  is  wonderful  to  me  that 
I  have  this  privilege  to  enter  this  building  and  attend  this  conference. 

I  have  been  a  member  of  the  Church,  as  you  have  been  told,  for 
sixty-odd  years.  I  am  one  of  the  poor  Indians  down  there  on  the 
reservation,  and  as  we  were  told  a  while  ago,  "Seek  ye  first  the  king- 
dom of  God,  and  his  righteousness;  and  all  these  things  shall  be 
added  unto  you."  I  surely  bear  testimony  to  this. 

I  was  raised  up  as  a  poor  boy,  as  I  said  before,  and  worked  at 
25  cents  a  day  I  fed  my  mother,  brothers  and  sisters,  and  when  I  was 
fifteen  years  old,  the  missionaries  came  to  my  home  and  I  have  fed 
the  Elders  off  my  wages.  I  slept  out  in  the  woods  to  give  my  bed  to 
the  Elders.  I  have  wondered  to  myself,  how  would  I  get  through 
this  world,  but  nevertheless,  I  seek  to  do  the  will  of  God.  I  fasted 
and  prayed  unto  him  for  a  blessing,  and  we  have  been  told 
if  we  seek  God,  other  things  will  be  added  unto  us,  and  this  is 
one  of  the  "adds"  that  have  been  given  to  me.  I  am  thankful  for  those 
blessings. 

I  have  lived  at  home  with  two  missionaries  in  my  house.  They 
were  boarding  in  Rock  Hill.  Their  room  was  costing  them  fifteen 
dollars  a  week.  I  said:  "Elders,  come  to  my  home.  I  have  a  cabin 
with  a  room  in  it  you  can  use,  with  two  beds  in  it";  so  they  have  taken 
the  room,  they  eat  at  my  table,  sleep  under  my  roof.  They  want  to 
pay  me  wages  for  staying  there.  I  say:  "No.  The  Lord  has  provided 
for  me  and  he  is  providing  for  you.  I  want  no  pay." 

So  when  I  left  home  the  other  day,  Elder  Price,  he  had  a  hundred 


142  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Day 

dollars  in  his  pocketbook.  He  offered  me  part  of  it.  I  said:  "No, 
I  don't  want  it." 

"Well,"  he  said,  "you  made  it  for  me." 

I  said:    "How  did  I  make  it?" 

"You  did  not  charge  me  for  my  bedroom  or  for  food,  and  by  so 
doing  I  have  been  able  to  accumulate  this  much  which  my  parents 
have  sent  to  me." 

I  said:  "If  I  have  done  you  that  much  good  by  the  will  of  God, 
keep  it  and  use  it  in  your  mission." 

I  know  that  this  gospel  is  true.  I  have  tasted  the  blessing 
and  joy  of  God.  I  have  seen  the  dead  raised;  I  have  seen  the  sick 
whom  the  doctors  have  given  up,  through  the  administration  of  the 
Elders  they  have  been  restored  to  life. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  beyond  a  shadow  of  a  doubt  I  know 
that  this  gospel  is  true.  My  wife  is  with  me  and  she  is  not  very  well, 
and  I  have  not  been  feeling  well  either.  She  told  me  last  night,  we 
had  better  go  home. 

I  said:  "Why?  I  have  come  here  for  a  good  purpose,  and  if  I 
die  here  I  would  just  as  leave  die  here  as  in  the  world  till  I  have  filled 
the  obligation  that  I  am  sent  here  to  do. 

Now  may  God  bless  you,  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

You  have  just  had  the  unusual  experience  of  hearing  from  one  of 
our  Indian  members  from  the  Catawba  Tribe,  Elder  Chief  Blue. 
President  George  Albert  Smith  will  now  make  a  few  comments  upon 
that  and  such  other  comments  as  he  will  wish  to  make. 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

When  I  was  twenty-one  years  of  age,  I  was  sent  on  a  mission 
to  the  southern  states.  I  became  secretary  of  the  mission,  and  while 
there  was  called  to  Columbia,  South  Carolina,  because  some  of  our 
elders  had  become  seriously  ill.  It  was  difficult  to  get  word  back  and 
forth,  so  I  got  on  a  train  and  went  down  there.  I  found  that  they 
were  improved  and  getting  along  all  right. 

Missionary  Experience 

When  I  bade  them  good-bye,  I  boarded  the  train  and  started 
home,  and  we  passed  a  little  Indian  settlement  at  the  side  of  the 
track.  I  saw  evidence  that  there  were  quite  a  number  of  Indians 
there,  so  I  reached  over  and  touched  the  man  who  was  sitting  in  the 
seat  in  front  of  me,  and  I  said,  "Do  you  know  what  Indians  these 
are?" 

He  said,  "They  are  the  Catawbas."   That  is  the  tribe  that 
Chief  Blue  represents,  who  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
I  asked,  "Do  you  know  where  they  come  from?" 
He  said,  "Do  you  mean  the  Catawbas?" 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  143 


I  replied,  "Any  Indians." 

He  said,  "Nobody  knows  where  the  Indians  came  from." 

"Oh,"  I  said,  "yes  they  do."  I  was  talking  then  to  a  man  about 
forty-five  or  fifty  years  old,  and  I  was  twenty-one. 

He  questioned,  "Well,  where  did  they  come  from?" 

I  answered,  "They  came  from  Jerusalem  six  hundred  years 
before  the  birth  of  Christ." 

"Where  did  you  get  that  information?"  he  asked. 

I  told  him,  "From  the  history  of  the  Indians." 

"Why,"  he  said,  "I  didn't  know  there  was  any  history  of  the 
Indians." 

I  said,  "Yes,  there  is  a  history  of  the  Indians.  It  tells  all  about 
them."  Then  he  looked  at  me  as  much  as  to  say:  My,  you  are  trying 
to  put  one  over  on  me. 

But  he  said,  "Where  is  this  history?" 

"Would  you  like  to  see  one?"  I  asked.  And  he  said  that  he 
certainly  would.  I  reached  down  under  the  seat  in  my  little  log- 
cabin  grip  and  took  out  a  Book  of  Mormon  and  handed  it  to  him. 

He  exclaimed,  "My  goodness,  what  is  this?" 

I  replied,  "That  is  the  history  of  the  ancestry  of  the  American 
Indian." 

He  said,  "I  never  heard  of  it  before.  May  I  see  it?" 

I  said,  "Yes"  and  after  he  had  looked  at  it  a  few  minutes,  he 
turned  around  to  me  and  asked,  "Won't  you  sell  me  this  book? 
I  don't  want  to  lose  the  privilege  of  reading  it  through." 

"Well,"  I  said,  "I  will  be  on  the  train  for  three  hours.  You  can 
read  it  for  that  long,  and  it  won't  cost  you  anything."  I  had  found 
that  he  was  getting  off  farther  on,  but  I  had  to  get  off  in  three  hours. 

In  a  little  while  he  turned  around  again  and  said,  "I  don't  want 
to  give  up  this  book.    I've  never  seen  anything  like  this  before." 

I  could  see  that  he  apparently  was  a  refined  and  well-educated 
man.  I  didn't  tell  him  I  really  wanted  him  to  read  the  book,  but  I 
said,  "Well,  I  can't  sell  it  to  you.  It  is  the  only  one  I  have."  (I  didn't 
tell  him  I  could  get  as  many  more  as  I  wanted.) 

He  said,  "I  think  you  ought  to  sell  it  to  me." 

I  replied,  "No,  I'll  tell  you  what  I'll  do.  You  keep  it  for  three 
weeks,  and  at  the  end  of  that  time  you  send  it  to  me  at  Chattanooga," 
and  I  gave  him  my  card  with  my  address  on,  secretary  of  the  mission. 

So  we  bade  one  another  good-bye,  and  in  about  two  weeks  he 
wrote  me  a  letter  saying,  "I  don't  want  to  give  this  book  up.  I  am 
sure  you  can  get  another,  and  I  will  pay  you  any  price  you  want 
for  it." 

Then  I  had  my  opportunity.  I  wrote  back,  "If  you  really 
enjoy  the  book  and  have  an  idea  it  is  truly  worth  while,  accept  it 
with  my  compliments."  I  received  a  letter  of  thanks  back  from  him. 

I  speak  of  that  because  that  was  the  first  time  I  had  ever  heard 
of  the  Catawba  Indians,  and  there  were  only  a  few  of  them.  I 


144  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Day 

understand  now  from  Chief  Blue  that  ninety-seven  percent  of  them 
are  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Meeting  15  Years  Later 

Coming  back  to  this  book  again —  Brother  B.  H.  Roberts  and 
I  were  sent  some  fifteen  years  later  down  into  the  southern  states  to 
visit  the  mission.  When  we  arrived  at  the  hotel  at  Columbia,  we 
registered  and  went  into  our  room,  and  soon  after  a  knock  came  at 
the  door  and  a  colored  man  said,  "There's  a  man  downstairs  that 
wants  to  see  George  A.  Smith."  That  was  the  way  I  used  to  write 
my  name,  and  I  wrote  it  that  way  before  I  was  married. 

I  said  to  Brother  Roberts,  "What  will  we  do?"  and  he  replied, 
"Send  him  up,"  so  the  man  went  back,  and  pretty  soon  up  came  a 
man  and  knocked  on  the  door,  and  we  opened  it. 

He  reached  out  his  hand  and  said,  "My,  I  am  glad  to  see  you." 

I  said,  "I  am  glad  if  you're  glad  to  see  me;  I  am  happy  to  see 
you,  but  who  are  you?"  and  he  gave  me  his  name. 

I  asked,  "What  can  I  do  for  you?" 

He  said,  "Don't  you  remember  me?" 

I  told  him,  "Remember  you?  I  don't  believe  I  ever  saw  you 
before." 

He  said,  "Isn't  your  name  George  A.  Smith?"  and  I  said,  "Yes." 

"Well,  he  replied,  "I  am  sure  you're  the  man.  I  met  George  A. 
Smith  years  ago  as  he  was  doing  missionary  work  here." 

I  answered,  "Oh,  that  is  easily  explained,  there  was  another 
George  A.  Smith  here  doing  missionary  work,  too." 

"Oh,"  he  said,  "it  wasn't  any  other  George  A.  Smith.  It  was 
you.    Nobody  that  ever  saw  that  face  would  forget  it." 

"Well,"  I  said,  "I  guess  I  must  be  the  man." 

Then  he  related  this  story.  He  said,  "You  were  on  a  train, 
and  we  passed  the  Catawba  Indian  Reservation." 

I  interrupted,  "I  remember  all  about  it  now."  It  all  came  back 
in  an  instant. 

He  said,  "I  want  to  tell  you  something.  I  read  that  book,  and 
I  was  so  impressed  with  it  that  I  made  up  my  mind  I  would  like  to 
take  a  trip  down  into  Central  America  and  South  America,  and  I 
took  that  book  with  me  in  my  bag  when  I  went  down  there.  As  a 
result  of  reading  it,  I  knew  more  about  those  people  than  they  knew 
about  themselves. 

"I  lost  your  address;  I  didn't  know  how  to  find  you,  and  all 
these  years  I  wanted  to  see  you,  and  today  after  you  registered 
downstairs  I  happened  to  be  looking  at  the  hotel  register  and  I  saw 
your  name.   That  is  how  I  found  you. 

"I  am  a  representative  of  the  Associated  Press  for  this  part  of 
the  United  States.  I  understand  you  are  here  in  the  interest  of  your 
people."       -  - 

And  I  answered,  "Yes,  Mr.  Roberts  and  I  both  are  here  for 
that  purpose," 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  145 


And  he  said,  "If  there  is  anything  I  can  do  for  you  while  you 
are  here,  if  you  want  anything  put  in  the  press,  give  it  to  me  and  it 
won't  cost  you  a  cent.  But,"  he  continued,  "I  want  to  tell  you  one 
other  thing,  I  have  kept  your  missionaries  out  of  jail;  I  have  got  them 
free  from  mobs;  I  have  helped  them  every  way  I  could;  but  I  have 
never  been  able  to  get  your  address  until  now." 

Chief  Blue  and  Catawba  Indians 

So  you  may  be  interested,  brethren  and  sisters,  in  knowing  that 
I  am  delighted  in  seeing  Chief  Blue  here  today,  representing  that 
tribe  of  fine  Indians.  I  have  seen  some  of  them  since.  I  have  met 
one  very  fine  young  woman  who  is  a  schoolteacher,  and  others  I 
have  met  of  that  race;  in  fact,  I  have  some  trinkets  in  my  office 
that  were  sent  to  me  by  members  of  that  tribe. 

I  am  happy  to  have  this  good  man  here  who  represents  one  of 
the  tribes  that  descended  from  Father  Lehi  as  well  as  some  of  the 
others  that  are  in  our  audience  today.  One  good  man  that  I  am 
looking  at  here  came  to  the  temple  during  the  week  and  was  sealed 
to  his  wife.  They  are  coming  into  the  Church  all  around,  and  I  am 
so  grateful  this  morning  to  be  here  and  hear  this  man  who  for  sixty 
years  has  been  a  faithful  leader  among  his  people  and  now  comes 
to  this  general  conference  and  bears  testimony  to  us. 

It  is  a  great  work  that  we  are  identified  with.  Not  the  least  of 
our  responsibilities  is  to  see  that  this  message  is  carried  to  the 
descendants  of  Lehi,  wherever  they  are,  and  give  them  an  oppor- 
tunity to  accept  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Additional  Knowledge 

How  glorious  it  is  to  know  that  we  have  that  information,  and 
we  have  the  knowledge  that  there  were  others  resurrected,  as  re- 
corded in  the  New  Testament.  And  then  we  have  the  information 
in  the  Book  of  Mormon  of  the  coming  of  the  Savior  to  this  western 
hemisphere,  and  we  have  the  appearance  of  John  the  Baptist,  and 
Peter,  James,  and  John,  and  the  Father  and  the  Son  to  Joseph  Smith 
vn  these  latter  days.  No  other  people  have  what  we  have.  I  don't 
know  of  any  people  who  ought  to  be  so  anxious  and  willing  and 
grateful  to  be  able  to  celebrate  this  day  that  is  recognized  in  the 
world  as  the  anniversary  of  the  resurrection  of  the  Redeemer  of  man- 
kind, and  that  meant  the  opening  of  the  grave  for  all  humanity. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  us  that  we  may  be  worthy  because  of 
our  lives  to  keep  this  testimony,  that  not  only  we,  but  all  we  can 
reach  may  receive  that  witness  and  carry  it  to  our  brothers  and 
sisters  of  all  races  and  creeds,  and  particularly  to  the  descendants 
of  Lehi,  until  we  have  done  our  duty  by  them.  I  am  sure  that  when 
the  time  comes  for  the  resurrection,  that  all  who  are  in  their  tombs 
and  worthy  shall  be  raised  from  their  graves,  and  this  earth  shall 
become  the  celestial  kingdom,  and  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord,  will  be 
our  King  and  our  Lawgiver — that  we  will  rejoice  that  we  have 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


availed  ourselves  of  the  truth  and  applied  it  in  our  lives.  That  is 
what  the  gospel  teaches  us.  That  is  what  the  gospel  offers  to  us  if 
we  will  accept  it,  and  I  pray  that  we  may  be  worthy  of  it  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

That  impressive  message  to  which  you  have  just  listened  was 
given  by  President  George  Albert  Smith,  President  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing  "Hosannah  Anthem." 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Vern  R.  Peel 
of  the  San  Bernardino  Stake,  California,  after  which  this  Conference 
will  stand  adjourned  until  2:00  o'clock  this  afternoon.  The  proceed- 
ings of  that  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL  and  by  arragement 
with  KSL  over  the  other  stations  to  which  you  have  been  listening  this 
morning.  The  proceedings  will  also  be  televised  over  the  KSL  tele- 
vision station,  channel  5. 

The  choir  music  for  this  session  has  been  furnished  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  with  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting,  and 
Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

The  Choir  will  now  sing  "Hosannah  Anthem." 

The  Choir  sang,  "Hosannah  Anthem." 

The  benediction  was  offered  by  President  Vern  R.  Peel  of  the 
San  Bernardino  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


The  concluding  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  Sunday 
afternoon,  April  9,  at  2:10. 

Once  more  the  Tabernacle  and  Assembly  Hall  were  filled  to 
capacity  with  people  who  had  come  from  the  various  parts  of  the 
Church  to  enjoy  the  Conference  proceedings.  Hundreds  of  others, 
who  were  unable  to  find  accommodation  in  the  Tabernacle  and 
Assembly  Hall  listened  to  the  services  as  they  were  broadcast  on  the 
Tabernacle  grounds. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

This  is  the  seventh  and  closing  session  of  the  One  Hundred 
Twentieth  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah.  It  is  crowded,  and  the  Assembly 
Hall  is  likewise  filled  and  there  are  many  on  the  grounds  outside. 

President  Smith  is  present  and  presiding  at  this  meeting,  and 


THIRD  DAY 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  147 


he  has  requested  the  speaker,  President  Clark,  to  conduct  the 
services. 

These  services  will  be  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  over  a 
loud  speaking  system  and  by  television. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL 
at  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the 
following  stations: 

In  Utah:  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KJAM  at 
Vernal,  KVNU  at  Logan. 

In  Idaho:  KGEM  at  Boise,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at 
Pocatello,  KBIO  at  Burley. 

In  Oregon:  KBKR  at  Baker,  KSRV  at  Ontario. 

And  by  transcription  over  KTYL  at  Mesa,  Arizona,  and  KEXO 
at  Grand  Junction,  Colorado. 

It  will  also  be  televised  over  KSL  television  station,  channel  5. 

The  choir  music  for  this  session  will  be  rendered  by  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir,  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting,  and  Elder 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

We  will  begin  the  afternoon  services  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
singing:  "As  The  Dews  From  Heaven." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Parley  A. 
Arave  of  the  Blackfoot  Stake,  Idaho. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "As  The  Dews  From 
Heaven." 

President  Parley  A.  Arave  of  the  Blackfoot  Stake  offered  the 
invocation. 

The  Choir  sang  "The  Lord  Will  Comfort  Zion." 
President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

Elder  Henry  D.  Moyle  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be 
our  first  speaker  this  afternoon.  He  will  be  followed  by  President 
Oscar  A.  Kirkham  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy. 

ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Though  he  were  a  Son,  yet  learned  he  obedience  by  the  things  which 
he  suffered; 

And  being  made  perfect,  he  became  the  author  of  eternal  salvation 
unto  all  them  that  obey  him.  (Hebrews  5:8-9.) 

Closely  allied  with  this  statement  of  the  New  Testament  is  our 
third  Article  of  Faith. 

We  believe  that  through  the  atonement  of  Christ,  all  mankind  may 
be  saved,  by  obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel. 

Exaltation  Through  Obedience 

Just  as  surely  as  our  Savior  became  the  author  of  our  eternal 
salvation,  so  must  we  through  that  same  degree  of  obedience  be- 


148  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  9  Third  Day 

come  the  authors  of  our  own  exaltation.  We  celebrate  this  Easter 
Sabbath  with  a  knowledge  that  we  shall  come  forth  in  the  morning 
of  the  resurrection.  We  likewise  know  that  we  shall  be  judged 
according  to  that  which  we  do  in  the  flesh.  We  shall  not  be  saved 
by  grace  alone.  And  how  grateful  I  am  to  my  Father  in  heaven 
for  the  restoration  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  that  has  taught  us 
the  importance  of  obedience  to  his  will  and  to  his  command. 

We  sometimes  feel  that  we  need  further  light  and  knowledge 
from  our  Father  in  heaven  in  order  to  carry  out  the  duties  and  the 
responsibilities  of  our  calling.  It  is  my  humble  conviction  that  if 
we  were  able  to  make  ourselves  entirely  submissive  to  the  will  of 
our  Heavenly  Father,  his  direction  to  us  would  be  complete. 

Closely  allied  with  the  day  which  we  celebrate  today  was 
Christ's  ascension  to  heaven.  He  realized  well  that  he  had  been 
the  stay  and  the  staff  of  his  disciples  during  his  ministry  here  upon 
this  earth.  It  would  hardly  have  been  possible  for  them  to  carry  on  in 
his  absence  unless  another  comforter  were  given  to  them,  and  that 
comforter  was  indeed  promised  them,  and  the  disciples  of  old  re- 
ceived it.  It  is  my  testimony  to  you  today  that  every  son  and 
daughter  of  our  Father  in  heaven  here  upon  this  earth  who  lends 
obedience  to  the  first  principles  and  ordinances  of  the  gospel  re- 
ceives this  comforter.  The  first  principles  and  ordinances  of  the 
gospel  are:  first,  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  second,  repentance; 
third,  baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins;  fourth,  laying 
on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Just  as  John  of  old  records: 

.  .  .  The  Holy  Ghost  whom  the  Father  will  send  in  my  name,  he  shall 
teach  you  all  things,  and  bring  all  things  to  your  remembrance  whatso- 
ever  I  have  said  unto  you.  (John  14:26. ) 

So  he  will  today.  Without  that  gift  and  without  that  power 
of  the  Holy  Ghost  you  and  I  would  not  be  able  to  become  submis- 
sive to  the  will  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  We  would  not  know  what 
his  will  is,  except  by  the  gift  and  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  Then 
when  we  know  what  his  will  is,  we  must  be  as  clay  in  the  hands 
of  the  potter  to  permit  our  lives  to  be  molded  in  the  pattern  that  the 
Savior  of  mankind  set  for  us. 

Submission  to  God's  Will 

I  am  grateful  beyond  measure  this  day  to  know  that  I  have  the 
privilege  of  associating  with  men  who  have  been  called  of  God,  to  lead 
and  guide  Israel  in  these  latter  days.  I  know  that  as  we  submit  our- 
selves to  the  will  of  our  Heavenly  Father  there  comes  into  our  life 
a  consciousness,  a  peace  that  passeth  all  understanding.  It  is 
through  submission  to  the  will  of  our  Father  in  heaven  that  we  re- 
ceive all  of  the  blessings  that  are  essential  for  our  welfare  and  our 
happiness  and  our  advancement  in  his  kingdom.  Following  the 
resurrection,  in  which  we  shall  participate,  we  shall  stand  before  the 
judgment  bar  of  God  with  our  record  before  us — one  I  hope  of 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE  149 

which  we  shall  be  proud,  one  which  will  entitle  us  to  associate 
with  those  of  our  loved  ones  who  have  gone  to  the  great  beyond, 
and  who  will  be  there  to  welcome  us.  May  we  all  enjoy  the  bless- 
ings and  the  privileges  which  we  desire  through  our  obedience 
to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  gospel.  If  we  can  become  entirely 
submissive  and  obedient  to  the  will  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  our 
problems  will  be  solved  temporally  and  spiritually.  When  we  are 
called  upon  to  mourn  there  will  come  a  comfort  and  a  consolation 
into  our  hearts  "that  passeth  all  understanding."  I  stand  here  be- 
fore you  today  to  express  my  thanks  and  gratitude  to  my  Heavenly 
Father  for  this  knowledge,  this  conviction,  this  witness  that  has 
come  into  my  life. 

Testimony 

The  birth  and  the  mission  of  Jesus  Christ  is  just  as  real  to  me 
as  was  that  of  my  own  earthly  father.  Christ  was  born  and  died  for 
the  sins  of  men.  I  know  his  resurrection  from  the  grave  was  as  real 
as  his  life,  and  that  before  he  ascended  to  heaven  he  stood  before 
his  disciples  and  gave  to  them  a  promise  of  a  comforter  which 
would  be  sent  to  them.  They  received  the  comforter,  and  that  same 
comforter  has  made  itself  manifest  in  the  lives  of  thousands  and 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  Saints  in  this  the  Dispensation  of  the 
Fulness  of  Times.  I  know  that  comforter  exists  today  and  builds 
us  up  and  strengthens  us  and  qualifies  us  for  every  responsibility 
and  every  duty  and  obligation  of  life.  The  power  and  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  can  draw  us  close  together,  can  make  us  united,  can 
make  us  discern  the  word  of  the  Lord  when  we  hear  it  from  his 
servants,  that  we  will  be  immediately  obedient  and  susceptible  to  his 
will  thus  expressed. 

Repentance  for  All 

I  want  to  say  that  when  we  hear  a  sermon  on  repentance,  it  is 
meant  for  you  and  me.  Sister  Choules  of  the  Southern  States 
Mission  addressed  an  audience  at  Macon,  Georgia,  at  the  dedication 
of  the  chapel,  and  in  that  talk  she  expressed  this  beautiful  thought: 
"Wouldn't  it  be  wonderful  if  we  could  all  sit  and  listen  to  a  sermon 
on  repentance  and  not  immediately  think  of  our  neighbor?"  I  knew 
she  had  in  mind  such  sermons  as  we  have  heard  in  this  conference. 
They  were  intended  for  you  and  me. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  realize  that  we  need  repentance,  that 
we  need  to  be  obedient  and  susceptible  to  the  will  of  our  Heavenly 
Father;  and  may  he  bend  us  to  his  will,  I  pray  humbly  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  pray  that  I  may  enjoy  the  blessings  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 
I  am  very  grateful  today  that  across  our  good  land  millions 


150  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Day 

of  Americans  have  wended  their  way  to  the  great  churches,  to 
the  hilltops,  and  to  the  mountaintops,  where  they  have  listened  to 
the  word  of  the  Lord.  They  have  been  lifted  up  on  this  glorious 
Easter  day  as  you  and  I  have  been  lifted  up. 

Gratitude  for  America 

I  am  grateful  for  America.  My  path  has  led  me  into  the  com- 
panionship of  men  from  nearly  every  state  in  the  Union.  I  have  in 
my  meditations  this  day  tried  to  place  myself  where  they  might  be — 
fine  Christian  men!  And  I  am  grateful  and  I  have  faith  in  this 
glorious  land.  That  faith  has  been  built  up  because  of  my  religious 
training  and  the  words  that  have  been  spoken  through  the  prophets 
of  this  land  as  recorded  in  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

Someone  has  said  recently,  and  I  sincerely  believe  that  it  is 
true,  that  what  America  says  and  does  in  the  next  fifty  years  will 
mark  the  destiny  of  the  world.  How  important  is  our  place  among 
the  children  of  men!  And  we,  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  the  majority  of  us  tucked  away  in  these  western 
hills,  having  received  the  word  of  God — how  great  is  our  responsi- 
bility and  opportunity! 

I  have  faith  that  great  works  are  not  only  requested  of  us 
through  the  prophets  of  today  and  yesterday,  but  that  they  shall  also 
be  fulfilled. 

Power  of  the  Spirit 

The  great  Thomas  Edison  said  of  Steinmetz  that  he  had  the 
greatest  mind  of  any  American.  On  his  deathbed,  Steinmetz,  with 
his  students  about  him,  said,  "Most  of  our  discoveries  have  been  of 
the  material  world,  but  the  discoveries  of  tomorrow  will  be  of  the 
spirit."  I  have  faith  in  that.  I  believe  we  will  witness  new  powers 
upon  the  earth,  and  they  will  be  of  the  spirit. 

Napoleon  said  there  are  two  powers  in  the  earth:  that  of  the 
spirit  and  that  of  the  sword.  Then  in  a  moment  of  reflection  he 
added,  "But  the  spirit  always  overcometh  the  sword." 

In  the  127th  Psalm  are  these  great  words  of  counsel:  "Except 
the  Lord  build  the  house,  they  labour  in  vain  that  build  it."  (Psalm 
127:1.)  I  feel  that  I  am  not  taking  any  undue  privileges  if  I  may 
add  to  those  sacred  words.  Except  the  Lord  build  a  life,  they  labor 
in  vain  that  build  it.  Except  the  Lord  build  the  city,  they  labor 
in  vain  that  build  it.  Except  the  Lord  build  the  state  and  the  nation, 
they  labor  in  vain  that  build  it. 

I  would  like  to  read  the  words  of  one  of  our  great  presidents. 
(Woodrow  Wilson.) 

Our  civilization  cannot  survive  materially  unless  it  be  redeemed 
spiritually.  It  can  be  saved  only  by  becoming  permeated  with  the  spirit 
of  Christ.  Only  thus  can  discontent  be  driven  out,  and  all  the  shadows 
be  lifted  from  the  road  ahead. 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM  151 


Brigham  Young's  Counsel 

From  this  very  pulpit  Brigham  Young  counseled  with  the 
Saints. 

When  you  go  into  the  field  to  plow,  be  sure  you  take  the  Lord  with 
you.  When  you  go  about  your  business,  be  sure  the  Lord  is  with  you, 
also  in  your  dealings  with  men. 

And  here  are  his  words  further, 

No  man  of  counsel  should  sit  to  judge  the  people  but  what  should 
judge  in  the  Lord,  that  he  may  righteously  and  impartially  discern  between 
right  and  wrong,  truth  and  error,  light  and  darkness,  justice  and  injustice. 
Should  any  legislature  sit  without  the  Lord,  if  it  does,  sooner  or  later  it 
will  fall  to  pieces.  No  nation  ever  did  live  that  counselled  and  transacted 
its  national  affairs  without  the  Lord,  but  sooner  or  later  went  to  pieces 
and  came  to  naught.  The  same  is  true  of  all  the  nations  that  now  live 
or  that  ever  will  live. 

United  Nations 

You  and  I  are  living  in  a  great  time.  But  in  my  reading  and 
in  my  meditations  I  have  been  tremendously  interested  in  what  fifty- 
nine  nations  of  this  earth  are  now  doing  about  these  great  principles 
of  which  we  speak.  When  they  first  met  in  San  Francisco,  they 
said,  "No,  we  cannot  have  vocal  prayers.  Here  is  the  Confucianist, 
here  is  the  Buddhist,  here  is  the  Jew,  here  is  the  Christian.  We  must 
have  no  certain  prayers."  They  started  about  their  business,  and 
soon  they  found  that  something  greater  than  themselves  must  come 
among  them  if  they  accomplished  that  which  was  in  their  hearts 
to  do.  They  agreed  on  one  minute  a  day  of  silent  personal  devo- 
tion. And  then  time  went  on,  and  if  you  have  recently  been  to  New 
York  City,  and  gone  down  42nd  Street  to  the  East  River,  you  will 
see  where  blocks  of  buildings  have  been  torn  down.  Through  the 
leadership  of  a  great  Christian  American  institution,  the  Rockefeller 
Foundation,  a  glorious  gift  has  been  made  to  these  fifty-nine  nations 
and  to  those  who  may  follow  later.  They  have  built  a  great  build- 
ing; it  is  now  nearing  completion.  And  in  the  center  of  it  is  a  chapel 
to  prayer.  There  are  no  pulpits,  no  stained  windows,  merely  a 
granite  slab  that  marks  the  great  sacrifice  of  millions.  But  above 
it,  a  shaft  of  light  falls  from  the  heavens,  representing  that  eternal 
power  and  promise  which  will  strengthen  the  hearts  of  men  and  give 
them  faith  in  the  great  cause  of  peace. 

Yes,  except  the  Lord  build  a  house,  they  labor  in  vain  that 
build  it.  And  when  we  think  of  the  great  purposes  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  in  the  destinies  of  men  and  nations  and  our  humble  part, 
we  must  be  patient,  we  must  have  faith.  God  grant  to  us  that 
working  faith  that  you  and  I  can  participate  in  daily. 

Let  every  man  and  woman  in  this  assembly  feel,  "I  am  a  mis- 
sionary— I'm  a  part  of  that  great  league  that  is  working  for  peace 
and  happiness  of  all  men  throughout  the  world."  That  neighbor 
that  lives  nearby — speak  to  him.   Don't  be  afraid.  Courageously  go, 


152 

Sunday,  April  9 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


carry  to  him  the  word  of  God.  The  Lord  will  sanctify  your  words 
and  open  the  hearts  of  men.  You  are  the  messenger  of  truth  and 
happiness. 

Work  for  Brotherhood 

Let  us  work  for  the  brotherhood  of  man.  I  was  happy  to  receive 
a  report  from  one  of  our  seventies  quorums  in  Utah  County.  On 
the  highway  one  day  an  automobile  ran  over  a  fine  boy  and  killed 
him.  The  father  and  mother  were  broken-hearted.  But  the  next 
morning  twenty-one  men  were  on  the  porch.  Twenty-one  men  were 
extending  love  and  comfort — showing  real  brotherhood  in  offering 
their  services  to  bless  that  home. 

I  walked  down  the  street  of  a  small  village  in  Maui  one  day 
with  a  Hawaiian  woman,  one  of  the  presidency  of  the  Relief  So- 
ciety. As  we  walked  along,  she  said,  "You  see  that  building  over 
there?  Well,  I  have  a  very  dear  friend,  a  Chinese  woman,  who 
lives  there.  I  went  to  visit  her  when  we  were  building  the  temple 
at  Laie.  I  asked  her  if  she  would  like  to  contribute  to  the  building 
of  the  temple.  And  although  not  a  member  of  the  Church,  she 
said,  'Oh,  yes,  I  believe  in  temples;  I'd  love  to  assist.'  We  chatted 
for  a  few  minutes  and  then  left  her.  Eight  months  later  I  was 
coming  down  this  way  again,  and  I  thought,  'Why,  I  haven't  been 
to  see  my  Chinese  friend.'  So  I  went  over  and  said,  'Have  you 
forgotten  our  conversation?'  She  said,  'No,  I've  been  waiting  for 
you  to  come.  Have  you  a  purse  or  something  to  put  the  money 
in?'  I  took  out  of  my  bag  a  small  black  purse,  and  she  said,  'Oh, 
I'm  afraid  that  will  not  hold  what  I  have  saved  for  you.'  She  went 
into  another  room  and  brought  back  a  bowl  containing  coins  and 
other  money.  She  said,  'If  you'll  kindly  open  your  apron.'  I 
opened  it,  and  the  Chinese  woman  poured  the  money  into  my  lap. 
I  said  to  her,  'Is  this  all  for  the  temple?  Do  you  mean  for  me  to 
take  it  all?'  'Oh,  yes,'  she  said,  'you  may  have  the  money.  I  have 
the  blessing.'  " 

May  God  help  us  to  know  when  we  turn  our  hearts  in  love 
toward  mankind  that  the  resurrection  then  is  happening  to  us,  the 
gift  of  God  is  with  us — the  greatest  gift  bestowed  upon  mankind. 
The  Lord  is  then  building  the  house. 

For  these  things  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

As  I  have  listened  to  these  beautiful  sermons  on  repentance, 
I  have  thought  over  and  over  again  about  one  of  the  commandments 
given  by  the  Savior  in  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount.    In  it  he  said, 

Be  ye  therefore  perfect,  even  as  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven  is 
perfect.  (Matthew  5:48.) 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN  153 


Perfecting  of  the  Saints 

Paul  tells  us  that  the  Church  organization  was  given  to  us, 
among  other  reasons,  for  the  perfecting  of  the  Saints.  In  spite 
of  this  commandment,  and  in  spite  of  this  statement  of  Paul,  there 
are  some  people  who  believe  that  it  is  impossible  for  us  to  become 
perfect.    Perfection  is  not  for  this  life,  they  say,  and  so  why  try? 

I  would  like  to  say  that  I  believe  with  all  my  heart  that  if  the 
Lord  had  any  idea  that  we  could  not  begin  in  mortality  on  the  march 
toward  perfection,  he  would  never  have  given  us  that  command- 
ment; neither  would  he  have  given  us  a  Church  organization  for 
the  perfecting  of  the  Saints. 

100%  Perfect 

I  believe  that  in  many  ways,  here  and  now  in  mortality,  we  can 
begin  to  perfect  ourselves.  A  certain  degree  of  perfection  is  attain- 
able in  this  life.  I  believe  that  we  can  be  one  hundred  percent  per- 
fect, for  instance,  in  abstaining  from  the  use  of  tea  and  coffee. 
We  can  be  one  hundred  percent  perfect  in  abstaining  from  liquor 
and  tobacco.  We  can  be  one  hundred  percent  perfect  in  paying 
a  full  and  honest  tithing.  W^e  can  be  one  hundred  percent  perfect 
in  abstaining  from  eating  two  meals  on  fast  day  and  giving  to  the 
bishop  as  fast  offering  the  value  of  those  two  meals  from  which 
we  abstain. 

We  can  be  one  hundred  percent  perfect  in  keeping  the  command- 
ment which  says  that  we  shall  not  profane  the  name  of  God.  We 
can  be  perfect  in  keeping  the  commandment  which  says,  "Thou 
shalt  not  commit  adultery."  (Ex.  20:14.)  We  can  be  perfect  in 
keeping  the  commandment  which  says,  "Thou  shalt  not  steal." 
(Ibid.,  15.)  We  can  become  perfect  in  keeping  various  others  of 
the  commandments  that  the  Lord  has  given  us. 

I  am  confident  that  one  of  the  great  desires  of  the  Lord  our 
God  is  that  we  shall  keep  that  great  commandment  which  says, 
"Be  ye  therefore  perfect,"  (Mathew  5:48.)  and  that  we  may  do 
so  is  my  humble  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

On  the  program  at  this  point  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  con- 
gregation will  sing  "For  The  Strength  Of  The  Hills,"  after  which 
we  will  hear  from  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve. 

Singing  by  the  Choir  and  congregation,  "For  The  Strength  Of 
The  Hills." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

For  a  number  of  years  on  the  editorial  page  of  The  Deseret 
News  this  has  appeared; 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


We  stand  for  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  with  its  three 
departments  of  government  as  therein  set  forth,  each  one  fully  inde- 
pendent in  its  field. 


I  thought  it  would  not  be  amiss  or  out  of  order  to  say  some- 
thing about  the  Constitution,  to  give  a  little  history  of  it  perhaps 
briefly;  for  I  am  convinced  that  the  people  generally  of  the  United 
States  have  not  studied  it.  Many  of  them  have  never  read  it,  and 
some  know  nothing  concerning  what  it  is  all  about. 

At  the  close  of  the  Revolution  the  several  states  of  this  Ameri- 
can government  became  independent  of  Great  Britain,  but  they 
were  confronted  with  dangers  of  disintegration,  or  falling  apart. 
They  did  not  have  a  stable  form  of  government.  Some  of  the  wiser 
statesmen  among  the  patriots  saw  this  danger  and  attempted  to 
divert  it.  George  Washington,  in  a  circular  letter  to  the  state 
governors,  wrote  in  June  1783,  saying: 

It  is  yet  to  be  decided  whether  the  revolution  must  ultimately  be 
considered  as  a  blessing  or  a  curse. 

This  is  the  moment  to  establish  or  ruin  [the  colonies']  national 
character  forever.  There  should  be  lodged  somewhere  a  supreme  power 
to  regulate  and  govern  the  general  concerns  of  the  confederated  republic, 
without  which  the  Union  cannot  be  of  long  duration. 


John  Fisk,  the  historian,  in  treating  of  this  period  says  that  the 
period  between  1783  and  1789  was  the  most  critical  in  the  history 
of  the  United  States.  John  Fisk  was  right.  That  was  a  critical 
period.  We  are  today  facing  another  critical  period,  one  which 
evidently  the  majority  of  the  citizens  of  this  country  fail  to  realize 
exists,  but  nevertheless  that  is  the  situation. 

At  the  time  the  war  ended,  as  well  as  during  the  period  of 
the  Revolution,  the  states  were  joined  by  a  very  loose  confederation. 
The  war  had  held  them  together.  After  the  war  each  state  looked 
upon  itself  practically  as  an  independent  government.  They  were 
a  number  of  small  nations  that  had  entered  into  an  agreement  to 
live  together  and  act  in  concert  in  relation  to  their  common  welfare. 
The  idea  prevailed  that  this  federation  could  be  severed  at  any  time. 
Each  state  reserved  the  right  to  withdraw  at  will  from  the  union 
thus  far  created.  From  July  4,  1776,  to  March  1,  1781,  when  the 
confederation  was  adopted,  the  United  States  was  governed  by  the 
Continental  Congress  under  the  "Articles  of  Confederation  and 
Perpetual  Union  between  the  States."  This  union  had  no  presi- 
dent, no  supreme  court,  and  consisted  of  one  house  of  congress 
made  up  of  delegates  elected  by  the  legislatures  of  the  states,  and 
the  jurisdiction  was  greatly  limited.  There  were  so  many  defects 
and  restrictions  in  this  confederation  that  the  wise  men  of  the  na- 
tion, like  Washington,  readily  perceived  that  something  more  nearly 
perfect,  more  powerful  and  binding  upon  the  colonies  was  essential. 


The  Constitution 


Critical  Period 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  155 


Convention  in  Philadelphia 

It  was  with  this  object  in  view  that  in  May  1787  a  convention 
of  delegates  from  all  the  states  except  Rhode  Island  met  in  Phila- 
delphia. The  number  of  delegates  was  fifty-five,  but  only  thirty- 
nine  of  them  signed  the  Constitution  after  it  was  framed.  Most  of 
these  delegates  were  men  in  the  prime  of  life,  few  of  them  were 
aged.  Benjamin  Franklin,  the  dean  of  the  Convention  was  in  his 
eighty-second  year,  but  it  is  said  of  him  that  he  was  very  active 
and  alert.  I  think  the  names  of  these  thirty-nine  who  signed  the 
Constitution  are  worthy  of  our  remembrance,  and  I  am  going  to 
take  the  time  to  name  them.  They  were: 

George  Washington,  President  and  Deputy  from  Virginia 
John  Langdon  and  Nicholas  Gilman,  New  Hampshire 
Nathaniel  Gorham  and  Rufus  King,  Massachusetts 
William  Samuel  Johnson  and  Roger  Sherman,  Connecticut 
Alexander  Hamilton,  New  York 

William  Livingston,  David  Brearley,  William  Paterson,  and 
Jonathan  Dayton,  New  Jersey 

George  Read,  Gunning  Bedford,  Jr.,  John  Dickson,  Richard 
Bassett,  and  Jacob  Broom,  Delaware 

James  McHenry,  Daniel  of  St.  Thomas  Jenefer,  and  Daniel 
Carroll,  Maryland 

John  Blair,  James  Madison,  Jr.,  and  George  Washington, 
Virginia 

William  Blount,  Richard  Dobbs  Spaight,  and  Hugh  William- 
son, North  Carolina 

Benjamin  Franklin,  Thomas  Mifflin,  Robert  Morris,  George 
Clymer,  Thomas  Fitzsimmons,  Jared  Ingersoll,  James  Wilson,  and 
Gouverneur  Morris,  Pennsylvania 

John  Rutledge,  Charles  Cotesworth  Pinckney,  Charles  Pinck- 
ney,  and  Pierce  Butler,  South  Carolina 

William  Few  and  Abraham  Baldwin,  Georgia* 

These  delegates,  after  a  stormy  period  of  nearly  four  months 
in  which  some  of  the  delegates  almost  despaired  of  ever  coming 
to  a  peaceful  agreement,  brought  forth  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States.    As  you  have  heard,  some  of  the  delegates  refused 

*The  following  were  appointed  as  delegates  to  the  convention  but  never 
took  their  seats:  John  Pickering  and  Benjamin  West,  New  Hampshire; 
Francis  Dana,  Massachusetts;  John  Nelson  and  Abraham  Clark,  New 
Jersey;  Patrick  Henry  (declined),  Virginia;  Richard  Caswell  (resigned), 
Willie  Jones  (declined),  North  Carolina;  George  Walton  and  Nathaniel 
Pendleton,  Georgia. 

The  following  delegates  were  absent  at  the  time  of  signing:  Caleb 
Strong,  Massachusetts;  Oliver  Elsworth,  Connecticut;  Robert  Yates  and 
John  Lansing,  New  York;  William  Churchill  Houston,  New  Jersey;  John 
Francis  Mercer  and  Luther  Martin,  Maryland;  George  Wythe  and  James 
McClurg,  Virginia;  Alexander  Martin  and  William  Richardson  Davie, 
North  Carolina;  William  Pierce  and  William  Houston,  Georgia. 

The  following  refused  to  sign:  Eldridge  Gerry,  Massachusetts;  Ed- 
mund Randolph  and  George  Mason,  Virginia. 


156  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Dig 

to  sign;  some  absented  themselves  at  the  time  of  signing.  After  the 
document  was  prepared  and  approved  came  the  struggle  for  ratifi- 
cation. Washington,  Franklin,  Madison,  Hamilton,  and  Marshall, 
we  understand,  took  the  leading  part  in  drafting  the  Constitution, 
and  after  it  was  adopted  by  the  convention,  Madison  and  Hamilton 
used  their  untiring  efforts  to  have  it  ratified  by  the  various  states. 
Some  of  the  states  ratified  at  an  early  date;  others  delayed.  Rhode 
Island  and  North  Carolina  delayed  for  some  months  but  finally 
joined  with  their  sister  states  in  ratification. 

The  Constitution  went  into  operation  March  4,  1789,  and  thus 
became  the  vital  and  basic  law  of  the  United  States.  George  Wash- 
ington was  elected  President  of  the  United  States  April  6,  1789, 
and  was  inaugurated  on  the  thirtieth  day  of  that  same  month. 

We  the  People 

Now  in  this  statement  from  The  Deseret  News  we  read:  "We 
stand  for  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  with  its  three  de- 
partments of  government  as  therein  set  forth,  each  one  fully  inde- 
pendent in  its  own  field."  I  hope  that  every  member  of  the  Church 
subscribes  to  that  declaration — also  to  The  Deseret  News.  The 
preamble  to  the  Constitution  does  not  begin,  the  king";  nor  does 
it  begin,  "/,  the  President  of  the  United  States."  It  reads: 

We  the  people  of  the  United  States,  in  order  to  form  a  more  perfect 
union,  establish  justice,  insure  domestic  tranquility,  provide  for  the  .com- 
mon defense,  promote  the  general  welfare,  and  secure  the  blessings  of 
liberty  to  ourselves  and  our  posterity,  do  ordain  and  establish  this  Consti- 
tution for  the  United  States  of  America. 

It  is  "We  the  people." 

It  was  understood  that  the  people  would  govern;  of  course,  it 
would  have  to  be  by  representation,  but  the  control  of  government 
would  be  in  the  hands  of  the  people.  As  we  read  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  when  the  righteous  rule,  everything  is  well.  King  Mosiah 
gave  up  his  throne  with  the  idea  that  the  people  would  have  a  re- 
public, and  he  called  attention  to  the  dangers  of  a  kingdom  and  a 
centralized  government  and  the  dangers  that  would  arise  should 
the  wicked  rule.  The  Lord  has  taught  us  to  choose  wise  men  and 
just  men,  and  that  was  the  understanding  on  the  part  of  these  men 
who  formed  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States. 

Three  Governmental  Departments 

The  three  forms  of  government  spoken  of  in  the  strip  and  re- 
ferring to  our  government  are:  the  legislative,  the  judicial,  and  the 
executive.  Channing,  in  A  Students'  History  of  the  United  States, 
has  this  to  say  of  these  three  branches  in  our  government: 

Each  is  given  power  to  defend  itself  against  the  encroachments  of  the 
other  two,  and  each  acts  as  a  check  on  the  others.  The  Constitution 
framers  had  good  reason  to  attempt  the  accomplishment  of  this  difficult 
purpose;  in  the  old  colonial  days,  which  most  pf  them  remembered,  the 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  157 


governor  of  the  royal  provinces  had  exercised  all  three  functions,  greatly 
to  the  dissatisfaction  of  the  colonists;  and  the  legislative  body  of  Great 
Britain  had  held  the  supreme  power.  To  avoid  establishing  a  govern- 
ment which  would  develop  into  either  of  these  forms,  the  framers  of  the 
Constitution  sought  to  give  each  department  its  due  share  of  power,  and 
prevent  any  one  department  from  making  itself  supreme.  For  instance, 
the  executive  power  is  vested  in  the  President;  but  he  also  exercises  im- 
portant legislative  functions  in  his  veto,  and  judicial  power  in  his  right 
to  pardon.  The  legislative  power  is  lodged  in  Congress,  but  the  Senate 
acts  as  an  advisory  council  to  the  President — without  its  consent  no  im- 
portant appointment  can  be  made  and  no  treaty  ratified.  The  judicial 
power  is  entrusted  to  the  Supreme  Court  and  inferior  courts;  but,  as  no 
law  can  be  enforced  which  the  Supreme  Court  declares  to  be  uncon- 
stitutional, the  Supreme  Court,  in  fact,  exercises  supreme  legislative 
functions.  Finally,  the  House  of  Representatives,  by  means  of  its  in- 
itiative in  taxation,  exercises  a  most  effectual  control  over  the  executive 
department. 

The  legislative  power  is  confined  to  certain  subjects  enumerated  in  the 
Constitution  and  is  further  restricted  by  the  first  ten  amendments,  especial- 
ly by  the  tenth,  which  declares  that  "the  powers  not  delegated  to  the 
United  States  by  the  Constitution,  nor  prohibited  by  it  to  the  States,  are 
reserved  to  the  States,  respectively,  or  to  the  people."  The  Supreme 
Court  is  the  authorized  interpreter  of  the  fundamental  law,  and  has  con- 
strued the  Constitution  in  the  broadest  possible  way;  following  these  de- 
cisions Congress  has  exercised  powers,  many  of  which  were  probably 
never  dreamed  of  by  the  framers  of  that  instrument  or  by  the  members  of 
the  ratifying  conventions,  whose  votes  gave  it  the  force  of  law.  Acts  of 
Congress  are  "the  supreme  law  of  the  land,"  unless  the  Supreme  Court 
declares  them  unconstitutional,  and  hence  null  and  void  (Channing,  Ibid., 
pp.  240-241.) 

The  people  should,  with  jealous  care,  guard  against  the  time  ever 
coming  when  any  one  of  these  three  branches  may  surrender  its  rights 
to  any  other  or  be  swallowed  up  and  overcome  by  some  other  branch 
of  the  government.  Today  there  are  many  who  advocate  the  destruc- 
tion of  these  safeguards  given  us  by  the  framers  of  the  Constitution  who 
were  men  inspired  to  make  this  document  as  near  to  the  fundamental 
doctrines  of  the  kingdom  of  God,  as  it  was  possible  under  the  circumstances 
for  it  to  be.  ( The  Progress  of  Man,  p.  297. ) 

The  Constitution  proclaims  the  following : 

This  Constitution  and  the  laws  of  the  United  States  which  shall  be 
made  in  pursuance  thereof,  and  all  treaties  made,  or  which  shall  be  made, 
under  the  authority  of  the  United  States,  shall  be  the  supreme  law  of  the 
land;  and  the  judges  in  every  State  shall  be  bound  thereby,  anything  in 
the  Constitution  or  laws  of  any  State  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding.  . 

The  senators  and  representatives  before  mentioned,  and  the  mem- 
bers of  the  several  state  legislatures,  and  all  executive  and  judicial  officers, 
both  of  the  United  States  and  of  the  several  States,  shall  be  bound  by 
oath  or  affirmation,  to  support  this  Constitution;  but  no  religious  test 
shall  ever  be  required  as  a  qualification  to  any  office  or  public  trust 
under  the  United  States. 

Constitution  Deserves  Veneration 

There  is  much  more  that  could  be  said,  and  I  wish  to  read  an- 
other statement.  The  English  statesman,  James  Bryce,  in  his  ex- 
cellent work,  The  American  Commonwealth,  has  said: 

The  Constitution  of  1789  deserves  the  veneration  with  which  the 
Americans  have  been  accustomed  to  regard  it.    It  is  true  that  many 


158  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Day 

criticisms  have  been  passed  upon  its  arrangement,  upon  its  omissions, 
upon  its  artificial  character  of  some  of  the  institutions  it  creates,  .  .  .  Yet 
after  all  deductions  it  ranks  above  every  other  constitution  for  the  in- 
trinsic excellence  of  its  scheme,  its  adaptation  to  the  circumstances  of  the 
people,  the  simplicity,  brevity,  and  precision  of  its  language,  its  judicious 
mixture  of  definiteness  in  principle  with  elasticity  in  detail.  (The  Ameri- 
can Commonwealth,  vol.  1,  p.  25.) 

What  is  the  stand  that  is  taken  by  the  Church  in  regard  to 
this  great  document?    We  have  the  word  of  the  Lord: 

And  now,  verily  I  say  unto  you  concerning  the  laws  of  the  land, 
it  is  my  will  that  my  people  should  observe  to  do  all  things  whatsoever 
I  command  them. 

And  that  law  of  the  land  which  is  constitutional,  supporting  that  prin- 
ciple of  freedom  in  maintaining  rights  and  privileges,  belongs  to  all  man- 
kind, and  is  justifiable  before  me. 

Therefore,  I,  the  Lord,  justify  you,  and  your  brethren  of  my  church, 
in  befriending  that  law  which  is  the  constitutional  law  of  the  land; 

And  as  pertaining  to  law  of  man,  whatsoever  is  more  or  less  than 
this,  cometh  of  evil.  (D.  &  C.  98:4-7.) 

In  Section  101,  the  Lord  has  said: 

According  to  the  laws  and  constitution  of  the  people,  which  I  have 
suffered  to  be  established,  and  should  be  maintained  for  the  rights  and 
protection  of  all  flesh,  according  to  just  and  holy  principles; 

That  every  man  may  act  in  doctrine  and  principle  pertaining  to 
futurity,  according  to  the  moral  agency  which  I  have  given  unto  him, 
that  every  man  may  be  accountable  for  his  own  sins  in  the  day  of 
judgment. 

Therefore,  it  is  not  right  that  any  man  should  be  in  bondage  one 
to  another. 

And  for  this  purpose  have  I  established  the  Constitution  of  this  land, 
by  the  hands  of  wise  men  whom  I  raised  up  unto  this  very  purpose, 
and  redeemed  the  land  by  the  shedding  of  blood.  {Ibid.,  101:77-80.) 

Here  is  a  statement  that  this  document  should  be  maintained, 
that  every  man  may  act  in  doctrine  and  principle  pertaining  to 
futurity,  according  to  the  moral  agency  which  the  Lord  has  given 
him,  that  every  man  may  be  accountable  for  his  own  sins  in  the  day 
of  judgment. 

Statements  of  Joseph  Smith 

If  I  may  be  permitted,  I  would  like  to  quote  the  words  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  on  this  subject: 

The  Constitution  of  the  United  States  is  a  glorious  standard.  It  is 
founded  in  the  wisdom  of  God.  It  is  a  heavenly  banner;  it  is  to  all  those 
who  are  privileged  with  the  sweets  of  its  liberty,  like  the  cooling  shades 
and  refreshing  waters  of  a  great  rock  in  a  thirsty  and  weary  land.  It  is 
like  a  great  tree  under  whose  branches  men  from  every  clime  can  be 
shielded  from  the  burning  rays  of  the  sun.  .  .  . 

We  say  that  God  is  true;  that  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States 
is  true;  that  the  Bible  is  true;  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  true;  that  the 
Book  of  Covenants  is  true;  and  that  Christ  is  true.  {History  of  the 
Church  3:304.) 

It  is  one  of  the  first  principles  of  my  life  and  one  that  I  have  culti- 
vated from  my  childhood,  having  been  taught  it  by  my  father,  to  allow 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  159 


everyone  the  liberty  of  conscience.  I  am  the  greatest  advocate  of  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States  there  is  on  earth.  In  my  feelings  I  am 
always  ready  to  die  for  the  protection  of  the  weak  and  the  oppressed  in 
their  just  rights.  (Ibid.,  6:56-57.) 

I  must  not  take  more  time  but  to  add  this:  The  statement  has 
been  made  that  the  Prophet  said  the  time  would  come  when  this 
Constitution  would  hang  as  by  a  thread,  and  this  is  true.  There 
has  been  some  confusion,  however,  as  to  just  what  he  said  follow- 
ing  this.  I  think  that  Elder  Orson  Hyde  has  given  us  a  correct 
interpretation  wherein  he  says  that  the  Prophet  said  the  Constitution 
would  be  in  danger.    Said  Orson  Hyde: 

I  believe  he  said  something  like  this — that  the  time  would  come  when 
the  Constitution  and  the  country  would  be  in  danger  of  an  overthrow; 
and  said  he:  "If  the  Constitution  be  saved  at  all,  it  will  be  by  the  Elders 
of  this  Church."  I  believe  this  is  about  the  language,  as  nearly  as  I 
can  recollect  it.  (Journal  o[  Discourses,  6:152.) 

Now  I  tell  you  it  is  time  the  people  of  the  United  States  were 
waking  up  with  the  understanding  that  if  they  don't  save  the 
Constitution  from  the  dangers  that  threaten  it,  we  will  have  a 
change  of  government. 

The  Lord  bless  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  A.  RICHARD  PETERSON 

Former  President  of  the  Norwegian  Mission 

I  am  delighted,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  have  the  privilege 
of  assembling  here  on  this  glorious,  hallowed  Sabbath  day,  to  com- 
memorate the  resurrection  of  our  Lord  and  Saviour,  Jesus  Christ,  and 
this  is  as  real  to  me  as  life  itself.  I  only  wish  that  the  world  could 
understand  the  great  mission  of  our  Redeemer,  when  he  gave  his 
life  for  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God. 

I  have  been  thrilled  during  the  sessions  of  this  conference,  to 
be  home  and  to  listen  to  the  wonderful  testimonies  that  have  been 
borne  and  the  counsel  and  advice  that  have  been  given.  After  spend- 
ing four  years  in  a  war-torn  country,  it  is  indeed  good  to  be  home. 

I  would  like  to  say  that  I  have  stood  in  the  homes  and  in  the 
offices  of  the  government  of  Norway,  and  been  belittled,  but  I  was 
happy  because  I  was  in  the  service  of  God.  They  refused  us  the 
privilege  of  staying  in  Norway  and  for  eighteen  months,  Sister  Peter- 
son and  I  were  living  there  without  permission.  I  finally  told  them, 
when  they  said:  "We'll  give  you  a  few  hours  now,"  "How  can  I 
leave  when  I  have  been  called  by  a  prophet  of  God.  The  only  way 
I  will  go  out  of  Norway,  unless  I  receive  a  release  from  the  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church,  is  if  you  come  down  and  move  us  out.  Then 
of  course  we  will  have  to  go. 

They  did  not  come  and  move  us  out,  but  we  were  up  against 
a  stone  wall  for  these  many  months.  We  were  not  able  to  do  any- 
thing and  we  were  also  denied  the  rationing  cards,  and  if  it  had  not 


160  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  9  Third  Dag 

been  for  the  wonderful  saints  of  Norway,  bringing  to  us  food  that 
we  needed,  that  we  could  not  get  because  we  were  denied  these  ra- 
tioning points,  we  would  have  been  without  food. 

I  thank  God  that  the  way  was  opened  up  that  we  did  get 
permission  to  stay.  And  then  the  missionaries  came  in  great  numbers. 

I  want  to  bring  greetings  to  you  from  your  wonderful  sons  and 
daughters  in  far-away  Norway.  The  work  of  the  Lord  is  going  on 
now.  We  were  hampered  at  first,  but  we  have  opened  up  three  new 
districts  and  many,  many  branches  of  the  Church,  and  the  message 
of  the  Redeemer  is  being  preached  from  the  southern  part  of  Nor- 
way to  the  northern  part,  and  in  the  far  north  where  it  is  impossible 
to  get  a  place  to  baptize  the  people,  they  are  chopping  holes  in  the 
ice  and  baptizing  them  in  the  cold  winter. 

I  appreciate  the  privilege  I  have  had  of  going  into  the  world 
and  preaching  the  gospel.  There  is  nothing  that  has  been  greater  in 
my  life  than  to  bring  this  gospel  to  many  souls,  and  to  teach  these 
young  men  whom  the  Lord  has  called,  who  come  into  the  mission 
field  with  stammering  tongues  and  in  a  foreign  tongue  preach  the 
gospel,  and  instil  into  the  hearts  of  the  people  a  testimony  of  this 
restored  gospel. 

I  am  grateful  for  my  membership  in  the  Church.  I  am  grateful 
for  the  mother  who  gave  me  life,  mother  of  fourteen  children,  who 
sent  me  and  kept  me  as  a  widowed  mother  on  my  first  mission. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  set  me  apart  in  1905,  and  he 
said  these  words,  among  others:  "We  send  you  forth  as  a  lamb 
among  wolves."  And  two  weeks  after  we  had  arrived  in  the  mission 
field,  a  mob  came  throwing  stones  through  the  windows  and  I 
thought,  why  should  I  be  that  lamb.  I  was  frightened. 

But  he  said  also  this:  "I  promise  you,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord, 
that  if  you  will  testify  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  the  living 
God  your  tongue  shall  be  loosened  and  you  will  be  able  to  preach 
in  plainness  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  that  land  where  so  many 
of  God's  chosen  people  have  gathered." 

I  have  received  great  treasures  of  knowledge  on  this  mission  as 
well  as  others,  even  hidden  treasures,  and  I  bear  witness  that  I  no 
longer  need  to  see  heavenly  visions  to  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ 
and  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  the  living  God. 

I  am  grateful  that  this  testimony  that  has  been  given  me.  I  am 
grateful  for  the  wonderful  experience  that  I  have  had,  and  I  thank 
the  First  Presidency  for  the  confidence  they  have  had  in  me  in  send- 
ing me  over  to  Norway  where  I  have  spent  thirteen  years,  and  this 
is  the  fourth  mission  I  have  returned  from. 

I  was  thrilled  the  other  day  in  the  Temple  when  I  heard  the 
prophet  of  God,  and  it  seems  to  me  that  he  was  magnified  before 
that  audience  when  he  stood  and  told  us,  the  leaders  of  this  Church, 
those  who  stand  at  the  helm,  those  who  are  at  the  headgates,  that 
we  should  repent  and  see  to  it  that  we  were  honoring  the  holy 
priesthood.  If  not,  sorrow  would  come  unto  us,  and  when  the  judg- 


ELDER  A.  RICHARD  PETERSON  161 


ments  of  God  should  pass  over,  how  could  we  expect  to  be  de- 
livered or  receive  the  blessings.  Has  not  the  Lord  said,  go  into  your 
closets  and  close  the  door  while  the  wrath  of  God  shall  go  over  the 
earth.  Has  he  not  told  us  why  we  should  gather  into  this  country. 
How  can  you  stop  the  emigration.  I  tell  you  it  is  no  easy  thing  to 
stop  the  emigration  when  these  souls  have  received  the  spirit  of  the 
gathering,  and  here  they  come  flocking  to  the  valleys  of  the  moun- 
tains. I  say,  bless  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  who  have  been  so  kind 
in  helping  these  poor  people  when  they  come  over  here. 

I  want  to  say  that  I  sustain  all  that  the  Presidency  and  the 
brethren  have  said.  I  sustain  them  a  hundred  percent  and  if  they  need 
me,  even  though  I  have  just  returned,  I  will  be  ready  to  go  any  time, 
if  I  get  the  call. 

I  want  to  be  faithful  unto  the  last.  Like  the  old  sister,  a  sweet 
old  soul  who  had  been  in  the  Church  for  over  forty  years,  I  called  her 
up  to  speak  and  bear  her  testimony — she  was  over  a  hundred  years 
old — and  after  she  had  sung  a  song  to  us,  she  said,  "Oh,  I  hope  and 
pray  that  I  may  remain  faithful  unto  the  end." 

What  a  glorious  wish,  and  so  I  say,  how  necessary  it  is  for 
each  and  every  one  of  us  to  have  with  us,  or  for  our  companion,  the 
Holy  Ghost,  and  I  promise  you  you  will  never  go  wrong,  or  that  you 
will  never  say  one  word  against  the  servants  of  our  Heavenly  Father 
who  have  been  called  and  sustained. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us.  My  testimony  has  grown  and  I  am  grate- 
ful for  this  testimony,  and  may  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  all,  I 
humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  believe  in  the  gifts  of  the  gospel.  I  believe  they  will  come  to 
those  who  live  and  strive  for  them.  I  believe  that  the  gifts  of  the 
gospel  comprehend  more  and  wider  powers  and  attributes  than 
those  specifically  mentioned  in  our  Articles  of  Faith,  namely:  "... 
the  gift  of  tongues,  prophecy,  revelation,  visions,  healing,  interpreta- 
tion of  tongues,  etc."  (Article  7.)  I  believe  that  these  listed  gifts 
and  others  of  comparable  seemingly  supernatural  nature  have  come 
to  men  and  women  of  faith,  and  I  believe  that  they  will  continue  to 
come  from  time  to  time  as  conditions  and  circumstances  warrant. 
I  place  no  limitation  on  the  power  of  the  Lord  to  manifest  himself 
through  his  children  and  his  chosen  servants,  however  miraculous 
many  may  think  the  manifestation  to  be.  I  do  place  one  limitation 
on  those  who  exercise  such  powers — that  they  be  very  sure  the 
inspiration  is  from  the  right  source. 

Gifts  of  the  Gospel 

There  are  gifts  of  the  gospel  which  are  not  usually  thought  of 
as  being  miraculous  or  supernatural.    They  would  commonly  be 


162  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  9  Third  Dag 

spoken  of  as  mere  attributes  of  character,  but  I  believe  they  have 
spiritual  foundation.  This  conclusion  seems  to  be  borne  out  by 
the  scriptures.   The  Apostle  Paul  tells  his  brethren: 

Now  there  are  diversities  of  gifts,  but  the  same  Spirit. 

And  there  are  differences  of  administrations,  but  the  same  Lord. 

And  there  are  diversities  of  operations,  .  .  . 

But  all  these  worketh  that  one  and  the  selfsame  Spirit  dividing  to 
every  man  severally  as  he  will.  (I  Cor.  12:4-6,  11.)) 

Modern  revelation  emphasizes  this  diversity: 

To  some  it  is  given  by  the  Holy  Ghost  to  know  that  Jesus  Christ  is 
the  Son  of  God,  .  .  . 

To  others  it  is  given  to  believe  on  their  words.  (D.  &  C.  46: 13-14.) 

The  Book  of  Mormon,  as  usual,  brings  further  clarification: 

To  one  is  given  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  that  he  may  teach  the  word  of 
wisdom; 

And  to  another  that  he  may  teach  the  word  of  knowledge  .  .  . 
And  to  another,  exceeding  great  faith;  and  to  another,  the  gifts  of 
healing, 

...  to  another,  that  he  may  work  mighty  miracles; 
...  to  another,  that  he  may  prophesy; 

...  to  another,  the  beholding  of  angels  and  ministering  spirits; 
...  to  another,  all  kinds  of  tongues; 

...  to  another,  the  interpretation  of  languages  and  of  divers  kinds 
of  tongues.  (Moroni  10:9-16.) 

While  this  wide  diversity  of  gifts  mentioned  in  the  scriptures 
may  bring  to  our  Father's  children  greatly  varying  talents  and 
capacities,  I  feel  sure  that  there  are  some  highly  important  gifts  of 
the  gospel,  which  it  is  intended  that  all  men  of  faith  shall  enjoy 
at  least  to  some  extent.  It  is  to  these  precious  gifts,  available  to  all 
the  Church  and  to  many  good  men  and  women  outside  the  Church, 
that  I  would  direct  attention. 

Gift  of  Discernment 

First,  I  mention  the  gift  of  discernment,  embodying  the  power 
to  discriminate,  which  has  been  spoken  of  in  our  hearing  before, 
particularly  as  between  right  and  wrong.  I  believe  that  this  gift 
when  highly  developed  arises  largely  out  of  an  acute  sensitivity 
to  impressions — spiritual  impressions,  if  you  will — to  read  under 
the  surface  as  it  were,  to  detect  hidden  evil,  and  more  importantly 
to  find  the  good  that  may  be  concealed.  The  highest  type  of 
discernment  is  that  which  perceives  in  others  and  uncovers  for 
them  their  better  natures,  the  good  inherent  within  them.  It's  the 
gift  every  missionary  needs  when  he  takes  the  gospel  to  the  peo- 
ple of  the  world.  He  must  make  an  appraisal  of  every  personality 
whom  he  meets.  He  must  be  able  to  discern  the  hidden  spark 
that  may  be  lighted  for  truth.  The  gift  of  discernment  will  save 
him  from  mistakes  and  embarrassment,  and  it  will  never  fail  to 
inspire  confidence  in  the  one  who  is  rightly  appraised. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS  163 


The  gift  of  discernment  is  essential  to  the  leadership  of  the 
Church.  I  never  ordain  a  bishop  or  set  apart  a  president  of  a  stake 
without  invoking  upon  him  this  divine  blessing,  that  he  may  read 
the  lives  and  hearts  of  his  people  and  call  forth  the  best  within 
them.  The  gift  and  power  of  discernment  in  this  world  of  conten- 
tion between  the  forces  of  good  and  the  power  of  evil  is  essential 
equipment  for  every  son  and  daughter  of  God.  There  could  be 
no  such  mass  dissensions  as  endanger  the  security  of  the  world,  if 
its  populations  possessed  this  great  gift  in  larger  degree.  People 
are  generally  so  gullible  one  is  sometimes  led  to  wonder  whether 
the  great  Lincoln  was  right,  after  all,  in  the  conclusion  of  his 
memorable  statement,  "You  can't  fool  all  the  people  all  the  time." 
One  does  feel  at  times,  however,  a  sense  of  pity  and  sympathy  for 
some  of  the  peoples  of  the  world  whose  education,  information,  and 
exposure  to  higher  ideals  and  exalted  concepts  have  been  so  arbi- 
trarily and  ruthlessly  restricted. 

There  is  a  class  of  people  now  grown  sizable  in  the  world  who 
should  possess  this  great  gift  in  large  degree.  They  know  how  the 
gift  is  attained.  They  have  been  educated  in  its  spiritual  founda- 
tions. They  have  been  blessed  with  the  counsels  which  foster  it. 
They  know  how  to  order  their  lives  to  procure  it.  You  know  who 
they  are,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  Every  member  in  the  restored 
Church  of  Christ  could  have  this  gift  if  he  willed  to  do  so.  He  could 
not  be  deceived  with  the  sophistries  of  the  world.  He  could  not  be 
led  astray  by  pseudo-prophets  and  subversive  cults.  Even  the 
inexperienced  would  recognize  false  teachings,  in  a  measure  at 
least.  With  this  gift  they  would  be  able  to  detect  something  of  the 
disloyal,  rebellious,  and  sinister  influences  which  not  infrequently 
prompt  those  who  seemingly  take  pride  in  the  destruction  of  youth- 
ful faith  and  loyalties.  Discerning  parents  will  do  well  to  guard 
their  children  against  such  influences  and  such  personalities  and 
teachings  before  irreparable  damage  is  done.  The  true  gift  of 
discernment  is  often  premonitory.  A  sense  of  danger  should  be 
heeded  to  be  of  value.  We  give  thanks  for  a  set  of  providential 
circumstances  which  avert  an  accident.  We  ought  to  be  grateful 
every  day  of  our  lives  for  this  sense  which  keeps  alive  a  conscience 
which  constantly  alerts  us  to  the  dangers  inherent  in  wrongdoers 
and  sin. 

Gift  of  Wisdom 

The  next  gift  of  the  gospel  which  I  present  is  that  of  wisdom. 
Wisdom  cannot  be  disassociated  from  discernment,  but  it  involves 
some  other  factors,  and  its  applications  are  rather  more  specific. 
Wisdom  is  sometimes  defined  as  sound  judgment  and  a  high  degree 
of  knowledge.  I  define  wisdom  as  being  the  beneficent  application 
of  knowledge  in  decision.  I  think  of  wisdom  not  in  the  abstract 
but  as  functional.  Life  is  largely  made  up  of  choices  and  determina- 
tions, and  I  can  think  of  no  wisdom  that  does  not  contemplate  the 


164  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Day 

good  of  man  and  society.  Wisdom  is  true  understanding,  and  we  are 
told  in  Proverbs  that 

She  is  more  precious  than  rubies:  and  all  the  things  thou  canst  desire 
are  not  to  be  compared  unto  her. 

Length  of  days  is  in  her  right  hand;  and  in  her  left  hand  riches  and 
honour. 

Her  ways  are  ways  of  pleasantness,  and  all  her  paths  are  peace.  .  .  . 
Happy  is  the  man  that  flndeth  wisdom.  (Proverbs  3:15-17,  13.) 

I  do  not  believe  that  true  wisdom  can  be  acquired  or  exercised 
in  living  without  a  sound  fundamental  knowledge  of  the  truth 
about  life  and  living.  The  cry  of  the  world  is  for  wisdom  and  wise 
men.  This  is  so  particularly  in  the  field  of  human  relations.  Why 
are  they  not  found?  It  is  because  men  are  so  blinded  to  the  truth. 
Nearly  one-half  of  the  world  are  steeled  against  it,  and  the  other 
half  not  too  well-fortified  in  past  and  present  performance  to  pro- 
mote it.  We  have  had  for  centuries  a  formula  for  peace.  Wisdom 
for  composition  of  the  world's  troubles  is  available,  but  the  minds 
and  hearts  of  men  are  not  prepared  to  receive  it.  It  is  the  mission 
of  the  Church  of  Christ  to  teach  them  how.  We  need  wisdom  in 
so  doing,  and  we  need  to  maintain  our  divinely  appointed  society 
in  the  wisdom  which  comes  from  God. 

The  really  vital  things  in  life  are  relatively  few,  my  brethren 
and  sisters — the  body,  family,  property,  and  relationship  to  man 
and  God.  You  may  have  wisdom  about  health,  housing,  marriage, 
children,  economics,  education,  and  even  government  if  you  truly 
seek  it  and  live  for  it.  The  fundamental  knowledge  which  the 
Church  brings  to  you  will  bring  you  understanding.  Your  testi- 
mony, your  spirit,  and  your  service  will  direct  the  application  of 
your  knowledge;  that  is  wisdom.  Every  man  needs  it  a  hundred 
times  a  day.  Every  woman  needs  it.  Every  youth  needs  it.  The 
foolish  and  the  wise  are  the  antipodes  of  mankind  as  are  the  two 
poles  of  the  earth.  The  foolish  build  on  the  sand;  the  wise  on  the 
rock.  The  one  perishes;  the  other  endures.  Thank  God  for  the 
gift  of  wisdom. 

Gift  of  Comfort 

I  shall  have  time  to  mention  but  one  more  gift  of  the  gospel — 
that  of  comfort.  I  speak  of  comfort  in  the  spiritual  and  scriptural 
sense  bringing  consolation,  peace  of  mind  and  soul,  resignation, 
tranquility,  and  serenity  in  times  of  bereavement,  suffering,  fear, 
doubt,  and  uncertainty.  Very  few  are  without  some  kind  of  trouble, 
and  many  think  their  own  troubles  most  severe.  I  remember  years 
ago  on  one  of  my  first  visits  to  the  beautiful  memorial  church  at 
Stanford  University  reading  an  inscription  engraved  in  stone  on  one 
of  the  walls.  In  substance  it  was  as  follows:  If  every  person  in 
the  world  should  wrap  his  troubles  in  a  bag  and  then  throw  it  in 
a  heap  with  all  the  packages  of  troubles  of  all  the  people,  and  if 
each  were  then  told  that  he  could  go  to  the  heap  and  select  the 
package  of  troubles  which  he  would  bear,  each  would  go  to  the 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS  165 


pile  and  bring  back  his  own  package.  So  it  may  well  be  in  the 
providence  of  things  that  each  should  have  troubles  of  a  kind  suited 
to  his  capacity  and  experience  in  life.  However  this  may  be,  we  all 
need  comfort  and  perhaps  the  self-sufficient  ones  who  do  not 
recognize  the  need  really  require  it  more  than  any  others. 

Physical  pain  is  torturing,  hard  to  endure.  I  am  a  witness  to 
the  fact  that  it  may  be  assuaged  by  spiritual  blessing  and  comfort. 
Thousands  there  are  who  testify  as  to  the  efficacy  of  prayer  and  the 
healing  and  the  comfort  of  the  priesthood,  but  even  the  torture  of 
pain  is  not  more  excruciating  than  the  humiliation  and  stigma  of 
disgrace  or  the  consciousness  of  guilt.  Thank  the  Lord  for  the 
gift  of  repentance  which  has  been  so  beautifully  portrayed,  to  the 
transgressor,  but  it  often  happens  that  even  the  greater  sorrow 
comes  to  the  innocent.  A  wayward  child  brings  tragedy  to  a  fam- 
ily, shattering  a  reputation  and  good  name  it  may  have  taken  genera- 
tions to  build.  A  drunken  or  otherwise  perverted  husband  or  wife 
smashes  a  good  home.  A  rebellious  son  or  daughter  stabs  a  knife 
into  the  hearts  of  loving  parents  as  he  or  she  discards  the  loyalties 
of  a  lifetime.  These  are  cases  for  comfort  beyond  the  merely  human 
touch  that  call  for  deep  understanding,  for  spiritual  fortification,  for 
a  resignation  that  is  divine. 

And  then  there  are  the  lonely.  They  who  have  been  bereft  of 
the  companionship  of  loved  ones,  sometimes  left  all  alone  without 
kin  about  them.  I  was  reading  the  other  day  that  there  are  more 
than  six  million  widows  in  the  United  States,  many  of  them  being 
widowed  at  as  early  an  age  as  forty  with  an  expectancy  approxi- 
mating thirty  years  of  life  without  their  mates.  Some  are  without 
the  companionship  of  children.  In  the  immediate  circle  of  my  own 
friends  and  associates,  many  sad  partings  have  come.  Decades  of 
loving  and  most  beautiful  association  have  been  sadly  interrupted 
just  at  a  time  when  it  seemed  to  mortal  ken  the  ripest  and  richest 
years  of  holy  wedlock  were  in  the  offing.  I  know  many  a  friend 
who  needs  comfort.  I  am  deeply  grateful  that  for  the  most  part  my 
immediate  friends  have  this  consolation  of  the  spirit.  They  are 
buoyed  up  by  an  unfaltering  trust  that  the  sad  separations  are  but 
temporary.  They  give  themselves  and  their  great  service  to  the 
master  to  requite  in  part  at  least  that  which  he  gives  to  them — 
comfort  and  peace  to  the  soul. 

Rich  Blessings 

I  am  aware  that  in  the  Christian  world  and  perhaps  outside  of 
it  as  well,  there  are  countless  thousands  of  our  Father's  children 
who  are  the  beneficiaries  of  the  gifts  of  the  gospel.  There  are  many 
of  all  faiths  and  conditions  of  life  who  love  the  Lord;  and  in  return 
for  this  love  and  obedience  to  his  commandments,  he  blesses  them 
with  his  spirit.  I  am  grateful  indeed  that  it  is  so;  but,  my  dear 
brethren  and  sisters,  with  the  superior  knowledge  which  the  Lord 
has  brought  to  us,  with  a  more  perfect  understanding  of  his  holy 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Dag 


gospel,  with  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  how  much  more  should 
we  so  favored  enjoy  its  precious  gifts!  If  others  of  our  Father's 
children  throughout  the  world  observe  these  manifestations  of 
his  special  blessings  to  his  chosen  people,  they  will  be  led  to  in- 
vestigate and  seek  the  truth. 

It  seems  to  me  as  we  near  the  conclusion  of  this  great  confer- 
ence with  its  uplifting  and  inspiring  teachings  and  testimonies,  we 
could  do  no  better  thing  than  to  highly  resolve  that  henceforth 
and  always  our  loyalty,  our  lives,  and  our  love  shall  be  such  that 
our  Father  may  .pour  out  his  rich  blessings  upon  us  in  the  gifts  of  the 
eternal  gospel  with  discernment,  wisdom  and  comfort  to  all.  I  know 
that  he  lives.  I  know  that  he  will  reward  the  faithful.  I  pray  that 
in  his  mercy  he  will  bring  light  and  truth  to  all  the  world,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


I  had  hoped  and  supposed  that  my  many  speeches  before  the 
various  groups  at  this  conference  would  relieve  me  from  saying 
anything  more,  particularly  I  had  thought  that  this  morning's  sermon 
would  count  as  something  said  here.  But  President  Smith  has  asked 
that  I  say  a  word  or  two.  I  shall  not  detain  you  long  because  we 
must  have  President  Smith  close  this  conference. 


So  many  things  have  been  said,  so  much  good  has  been  told 
us,  that  it  would  be  folly  to  try  to  summarize  or  repeat,  but  I  think 
that  most  of  us  will  leave  this  conference  with  two  matters  princi- 
pally in  mind — that  of  repentance  and  its  reciprocal,  forgiveness. 
The  call  has  been  made:  Repent,  for  the  hour  of  his  judgment  is 
nigh. 

The  Lord  has  said, 

By  this  ye  may  know  if  a  man  repenteth  of  his  sins — behold,  he  will 
confess  them  and  forsake  them.  (D.  &  C.  58:43.) ) 

I  would  like  to  point  out  that  to  me  there  is  a  great  difference 
between  confession  and  admission,  after  transgression  is  proved. 
I  doubt  much  the  efficacy  of  an  admission  as  a  confession. 


In  the  ancient  days,  men  made  sacrifice  that  they  might  be 
forgiven.  Today  we  are  told  that  we  must  bring  to  the  Lord  for 
our  forgiveness  a  humble  heart  and  a  contrite  spirit.  As  to  forgive- 
ness, the  Lord  has  said, 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


Repentance 


Forgiveness 


I,  the  Lord  will  forgive  whom  I  will  forgive,  but  of  you  it  is  re- 
quired to  forgive  all  men.  (Ibid.,  64:10.) 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


167 


which  means,  as  I  understand  it,  that  where  there  is  repentance, 
we  shall  forgive  and  receive  into  fellowship  the  repentant  trans- 
gressor, leaving  to  God  the  final  disposition  of  the  sin. 

Testimony  to  Risen  Christ 

This  is  Easter,  and  I  have  already  borne  my  testimony  to  the 
risen  Christ  but  I  do  want  to  read  from  the  76th  Section  the  verses 
we  all  know,  part  of  which  was  quoted  by  Brother  Evans  this 
morning.  This  was  the  great  vision  that  came  to  Joseph  and  Sidney 
in  1832: 

And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies  which  have  been  given  of  him, 
this  is  the  testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we  give  of  him:  That  he  lives! 

For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right  hand  of  God;  and  we  heard  the 
voice  bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father — 

That  by  him,  and  through  him,  and  of  him,  the  worlds  are  and  were 
created,  and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten  sons  and  daughters  unto 
God.  (Ibid..  76:22-24.) ) 

I  renew  the  bearing  of  my  testimony  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  the  first  fruits  of  the  resurrection,  the 
Only  Begotten  of  the  Father. 

And  I  cannot  but  remember  that  glorious  message  that  came 
out  of  the  chamber  on  that  night  most  memorable  perhaps  in  all  the 
history  of  the  world,  the  night  before  the  crucifixion,  when  he  had 
his  disciples  together  and  gave  them  his  great  final  discourse: 

Peace  I  leave  with  you,  my  peace  I  give  unto  you;  not  as  the  world 
giveth,  give  I  unto  you.  Let  not  your  heart  be  troubled,  neither  let  it  be 
afraid.  (John  14:27.) 

That  message  to  the  disciples  in  the  chamber  is  a  message  that 
comes  to  all  of  God's  children,  that  peace  be  with  us  always,  and 
may  we  live  so  that  we  may  rightfully  ask  therfor,  I  humbly  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

President  George  Albert  Smith,  President  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  the  Presiding  High  Priest  of 
the  Church,  the  prophet,  seer  and  revelator,  ordained  and  set  apart 
thereto  by  those  having  authority  will  now  close  this  conference 
with  his  final  instruction. 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

I  am  very  grateful  that  I  have  been  able  to  attend  the  sessions 
of  this  conference;  thankful  that  I  have  had  the  companionship  of 
this  great  group,  most  of  them  in  this  building.  I  want  to  take 
this  occasion  to  express  my  appreciation  and  invoke  the  blessings 
of  the  Lord  upon  these  men,  women,  and  children  who  have  stood 
during  these  long  two  hours  of  meeting,  with  no  place  to  sit  but  have 


168  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Day 

stood  here  in  the  house  of  the  Lord  to  be  edified  by  those  who  have 
done  the  speaking.  I  am  sure  you  will  receive  your  blessings,  and 
I  am  sure  they  will  be  sufficient  to  compensate  you  for  any  weariness 
that  may  have  come  to  you  as  a  result  of  this  experience. 

Security  on  Lord's  Side 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  the  only  means  by  which  we  may 
hope  to  find  a  place  in  the  celestial  kingdom.  Sometimes  we  feel 
that  we  are  sure  of  it  because  we  have  membership  in  the  Church. 
I  take  this  occasion  to  call  to  the  attention  of  the  older  members 
of  the  Church,  who  have  lived  a  part  of  their  lives  and  feel  quite 
secure,  the  fact  that  nobody  is  secure  unless  he  is  on  the  Lord's  side 
of  the  line. 

All  temptation  and  evil  are  on  the  devil's  side.  If  I  had  time, 
I  could  tell  you  of  an  experience  of  a  man  who  was  magnified  and 
was  a  great  preacher  of  the  gospel,  and  because  of  his  failure  to 
stay  on  the  Lord's  side  of  the  line,  he  went  into  the  dark  and  died 
a  bitter  apostate. 

None  of  us  are  secure  except  we  keep  the  commandments  of 
our  Heavenly  Father.  The  pathway  of  righteousness  is  the  highway 
of  happiness.  There  is  no  other  way  to  happiness. 

Purpose  of  Life 

Today  the  people  all  over  the  world  are  talking  about  the 
same  subject  we  have  been  speaking  of,  the  resurrection.  When  we 
think  of  the  resurrection  of  our  Redeemer,  I  am  reminded  that  the 
purpose  of  his  life  was  to  prepare  us  all,  to  make  a  path  that  we 
could  all  walk,  that  would  bring  us  eternal  happiness  in  his  presence 
as  well  as  in  the  presence  of  one  another.  He  gave  his  life  and 
testified  by  the  shedding  of  his  blood  that  he  was  a  Son  of  God, 
and  then  as  we  have  had  it  called  to  our  attention,  his  appearance 
since  that  time  has  demonstrated  beyond  any  possible  doubt  that  he 
was  what  he  claimed  to  be. 

The  Church  is  organized,  and  the  missionaries  go  out  in  all 
the  world  to  share  the  gospel,  not  to  give  some  new  truth,  but  to 
share  the  truth  that  the  Lord  has  already  revealed. 

When  he  was  asked  to  pray — I  am  reminded  of  a  part  of  that 
prayer- — he  said, 

.  .  .  Our  Father  which  art  in  heaven.  Hallowed  be  thy  name. 
|    Thy  kingdom  come.  Thy  will  be  done  in  earth  as  it  is  in  heaven. 
Matt.  6:9-10.) 

Universal  Resurrection 

That  is  the  purpose  of  the  gospel,  and  today  we  are  thinking  of 
what  a  marvelous  thing  it  was  when  the  Savior  was  resurrected, 
when  he  took  up  his  immortal  body  to  live  forever. 

But  he  wanted  this  earth  to  become  a  heaven,  and  that  is  what 
the  gospel  is  intended  to  do,  to  teach  people  so  that  it  will  become 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  169 


a  heaven.  What  a  wonderful  condition  it  would  be!  We  rejoice 
because  of  the  resurrection,  and  he  held  out  to  us  that  it  would  be  a 
universal  resurrection,  and  that  this  earth  would  be  redeemed,  and 
the  people  who  dwell  here  would  live  in  happiness  forever. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  we  ought  to  be  grateful  for  our  blessings. 
We  ought  to  be  thankful  for  the  companionship  of  such  men  and 
women  as  we  have.  We  ought  to  feel  a  desire  to  do  all  that  we 
can  to  set  an  example,  that  others,  seeing  our  upright  lives  may  be 
constrained  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God. 

We  are  coming  to  the  close  of  a  most  interesting  and  instructive 
conference.  As  I  look  at  these  beautiful  flowers  that  came  from  the 
Berkeley  Stake,  I  want  to  take  occasion  again  to  thank  the  people 
who  sent  them,  for  I  don't  know  of  any  place  where  flowers  are 
more  appropriate  than  in  the  house  of  the  Lord.  And  these  beautiful 
lilies  that  we  have,  have  made  this  house  a  beauty  spot  that  it  would 
not  have  been  but  for  them. 

Houses  in  Order 

Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  go  to  our  homes.  If  our  houses  are 
not  in  order,  let  us  set  them  in  order.  Let  us  renew  our  determina- 
tion to  honor  God  and  keep  his  commandments,  to  love  one  another, 
to  make  our  homes  the  abiding  place  of  peace.  Each  of  us  can 
contribute  to  that  in  the  homes  in  which  we  live. 

It  will  not  be  long  until  calamities  will  overtake  the  human 
family  unless  there  is  speedy  repentance.  It  will  not  be  long  before 
those  who  are  scattered  over  the  face  of  the  earth  by  millions  will  die 
like  flies  because  of  what  will  come. 

Our  Heavenly  Father  has  told  us  how  it  can  be  avoided,  and 
that  is  our  mission,  in  part,  to  go  into  the  world  and  explain  to  people 
how  it  may  be  avoided,  and  that  people  need  not  be  unhappy  as  they 
are  everywhere  but  that  happiness  may  be  in  their  lives — because 
when  the  Spirit  of  God  burns  in  your  soul,  you  cannot  be  otherwise 
than  happy. 

Gratitude  for  Support 

I  take  this  occasion  to  thank  the  brethren  who  are  giving  all 
their  time  to  developing  and  building  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  want  to  thank  these  men  who  stand  by  my 
side,  who  are  so  willing  to  support  me  in  the  responsibilities  that 
are  tremendous  for  one  man  to  carry — my  counselors,  and  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  and  their  assistants,  and  the 
First  Council  of  the  Seventy,  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  and  the 
Patriarch. 

I  want  to  add  to  that  the  stake  presidencies,  the  bishops  of 
wards,  the  presidents  of  missions,  and  the  presidencies  and  general 
boards  of  all  the  auxiliary  organizations.  I  am  grateful  for  the  things 
that  they  are  doing,  because  they  are  trying  to  bring  this  world 
into  a  condition  that  will  be  heaven.  The  Lord  has  said  it  could 
be  if  we  will  do  our  part. 


170  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  9  Third  Day 

Blessing 

In  conclusion  I  desire  to  leave  the  blessing  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  with  you  all,  that  you  may  go  to  your  homes  renewed,  re- 
freshed, and  invigorated,  determined  to  carry  on  and  to  do  all  you 
can  to  make  this  earth  heaven. 

I  bless  you  that  you  may  have  joy  in  this,  that  you  may  go  to 
your  homes  in  peace  and  in  safety,  and  that  you  may  carry  with  you 
that  spirit  which  our  Heavenly  Father  has  bestowed  upon  us  here 
so  generously,  and  that  we  may  look  forward  to  the  time  when  we 
may  meet  again  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  with  assurance  that  a 
blessing  will  follow,  because  he  has  said  it  always  would,  even  if 
two  or  three  meet  in  his  name. 

Remember,  we  all  have  responsibilities.  We  may  not  be  called 
to  some  definite  duty,  but  in  every  neighborhood  there  is  opportuni- 
ty for  each  of  us  to  radiate  a  spirit  of  peace  and  love  and  happiness 
to  the  end  that  people  may  understand  the  gospel  and  be  gathered 
into  the  fold. 

Testimony 

To  some  it  may  sound  selfish  to  hear  us  say,  "This  is  the  only 
true  Church."  But  we  are  only  repeating  what  the  Savior  said,  and 
he  knows.  It  is  the  Church  that  he  recognizes,  and  it  bears  his  name. 
We  do  not  say  that  in  unkindness  to  our  brothers  and  sisters,  and 
they  are  our  brothers  and  sisters,  in  other  churches,  or  in  no  church, 
but  we  say  it  with  the  hope  that  they  may  feel  the  love  that  is  in  our 
hearts  when  we  reach  out  to  them  with  the  desire  that  the  happiness 
that  has  been  ours  may  be  theirs  and  may  continue,  not  only  now, 
but  also  throughout  the  ages  of  eternity. 

God  lives.  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of 
the  Lord,  and  the  gospel  as  it  was  restored  through  him  is  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation  to  all  those  who  would  accept  it  and  apply 
it  in  their  lives.  I  bear  this  testimony  in  love  and  in  kindness,  and 
with  my  blessings  as  a  servant  of  the  Lord  upon  all  of  you,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

We  have  just  listened  to  President  George  Albert  Smith. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing  the  "Hallelujah  Chorus," 
and  the  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  J.  Willard 
Marriott  of  the  Washington  Stake,  Washington,  D.C,  after  which 
this  Conference  will  stand  adjourned  sine  die. 

The  conference  of  the  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union  will 
convene  in  this  building  tonight  at  7:00  o'clock.  All  are  invited  to 
attend,  and  all  Sunday  School  workers  are  urged  to  attend. 

The  messages  that  have  been  received  for  individuals  supposed 
to  be  in  attendance  at  this  Conference  will  be  broadcast  over  the 
grounds  as  usual  after  the  close  of  this  meeting. 

The  choir  music  today  has  been  furnished  by  the  Tabernacle 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  1 71 


Choir,  with  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting,  Elder  Frank  W. 
Asper  at  the  organ  this  morning,  and  Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  at 
the  organ  this  afternoon. 

I  am  sure  the  Tabernacle  Choir  will  permit  me  to  extend  to 
them  again  the  thanks  and  gratitude  which  all  of  us  feel  in  our 
hearts  for  the  great  service  which  they  are  rendering  to  the  Church. 
They  are  one  of  the  great  missionary  instrumentalities  of  the  Church. 
Their  music  grows  more  beautiful  with  the  years.  God  bless  them 
always. 


Singing  by  the  Choir,  "HallelujahChorus." 
President  J.  Willard  Marriott  of  the  Washington  Stake  offered 
the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  sine  die. 

GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 

The  General  Priesthood  meeting  of  the  Church  was  held  in 
the  Tabernacle  Saturday  evening,  April  8,  at  7:00. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  was  present  and  presided. 

The  choral  music  for  this  meeting  was  furnished  by  the  Deseret 
Stake  Male  Chorus,  Elder  Ladd  R.  Cropper  conducting,  Elder 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

The  Tabernacle  and  the  Assembly  Hall  to  the  south  of  the 
Tabernacle  were  crowded  to  capacity,  every  available  space  being 
occupied.  The  services  were  not  broadcast,  except  that  the  brethren 
assembled  in  the  Assembly  Hall  were  able  to  see  and  hear  the  pro- 
ceedings as  they  were  televised  from  the  Tabernacle. 

As  an  opening  number  the  Deseret  Stake  Male  Chorus  sang: 
"All  In  The  April  Evening." 

President  L.  Harold  Wright  of  the  Maricopa  Stake  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

The  Chorus  sang  the  hymn:  "I  Need  Thee  Every  Hour." 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

I  hesitate  to  suggest  that  you  crowd  together  and  make  more 
room  for  the  people  standing,  but  if  there  is  a  space  anywhere  that 
you  can  move  into,  let  us  give  everybody  a  seat  that  we  possibly  can. 

Now  we  are  met  tonight  in  this  historic  building,  just  as  we 
have  met  many  times,  but  we  have  never  before  had  as  many  people 
here  at  Priesthood  Meeting  as  we  have  now. 

This  is  during  the  period  of  time  that  is  celebrated  by  the  world 
as  a  part  of  the  time  when  the  Saviour  was  in  the  tomb.  Tomorrow 
will  be  Easter  and  the  services  in  many  parts  of  the  Christian  world 
will  be  directed  to  emphasize  that  fact.  And  yet,  very  few  people  in 
the  world  realize  what  it  means.  They  talk  about  it  and  sing  about 
it,  but  not  very  many  people  know  what  Easter  really  means. 


172  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  8  Second  Day 

Now  tonight  we  shall  visit  together  a  little  in  regard  to  matters 
that  the  priesthood  are  concerned  about,  and  our  first  speaker  will 
be  the  Historian  of  the  Church,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  who 
will  have  some  information  that  I  am  sure  some  of  you  will  be  very 
happy  to  obtain,  and  by  learning  of  it  will  be  able  to  help  the  His- 
torian's Office  with  its  work. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  wish  to  address  my  remarks  particularly  to  the  bishops  and  the 
presidents  of  stakes,  and  yet  we  are  all  concerned  with  the  records 
of  the  Church. 

Keeping  of  Records 

In  the  days  of  Adam,  one  of  the  first  things  the  Lord  did  was  to 
call  upon  him  and  others  following  him  to  keep  records.  You  will 
read  of  that  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price. 

In  Section  twenty,  which  was  given  at  the  time  of  the  organization 
of  the  Church,  and  in  the  next  Section,  Section  twenty-one,  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  you  will  find  written  instructions  in  regard 
to  the  keeping  of  records  in  the  Church.  What  would  we  do,  what 
condition  would  we  be  in  if  records  had  not  been  kept  in  days  of 
old?  We  would  not  have  our  Bible;  we  would  not  have  our  Book 
of  Mormon;  and  in  our  own  day  we  would  not  have  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  nor  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  You  all  know  how 
valuable  these  books  are,  and  the  Lord  preserved  them  that  they 
might  be  a  benefit  to  us  in  learning  of  His  ways  and  in  the  keeping 
of  His  commandments. 

Ward  and  Stake  Records 

Now  the  Church  has  given  instructions  that  records  be  kept 
in  every  ward  and  in  every  stake  of  Zion.  We  send  out  the  blanks 
with  definite  instruction  printed  upon  them  as  to  the  nature  of  the 
information  which  is  to  be  gathered.  We  try  to  make  it  easy  for  the 
clerks.  And  I  want  to  say  that  it  is  just  as  important,  ordinarily 
so  at  least,  to  have  a  good,  efficient  clerk,  as  it  is  to  have  a  good, 
efficient  president  of  a  stake,  one  who  has  the  desire  and  the  ability 
to  keep  the  records. 

These  records  should  be  kept  in  duplicate  and  one  copy  sent  in 
quarterly  to  the  Historian's  Office  and  one  filed  in  the  stake.  Records 
should  be  kept  in  the  wards.  The  stake  clerk  should  keep  a  record 
of  all  events,  taking  from  the  ward  records  the  material  that  is  es- 
sential to  place  in  the  record  of  the  stake. 

All  recorders  know,  or  should  know,  the  nature  of  the  recording 
that  they  ought  to  make. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING  173 


Historical  Reports 

Now  we  have  had  a  great  deal  of  difficulty  in  getting  these 
historical  reports.  Sixty-three  stakes  and  two  missions  failed  to 
send  in  reports  for  1947  and  1948  and  1949.  We  have  some  stakes 
and  some  missions  that  have  not  reported  for  much  longer  periods 
of  time,  and  yet  these  are  quarterly  reports.  We  are  under  the  neces- 
sity constantly  of  sending  out  letters  asking  for  these  historical 
records  to  be  sent  in  to  us  so  that  they  may  be  filed  and  preserved 
according  to  the  commandments  of  the  Lord. 

Completeness  and  Accuracy 

I  would  like  to  call  attention  also,  to  the  fact  that,  notwith- 
standing the  information  we  ask  for,  that  many  of  these  reports 
are  not  complete.  Every  name  should  be  written  in  full.  Clerks 
should  be  appointed,  or  historians,  in  the  wards  and  stakes  who 
can  write  legibly  so  that  their  records  can  be  read. 

Some  of  them  evidently  do  not  read  the  instructions  that  are  on 
these  blanks.  Many  valuable  matters  pertaining  to  the  records  are 
not  included.  We  would  like  to  call  your  attention  to  this.  We  have 
been  after  you  and  some  of  you  know  that  we  are  after  you  because 
we  are  writing  constantly,  and  some  of  the  stakes  have  been  busy 
and  they  have  gone  to  work  and  have  complied,  although  they  have 
had  to  go  back  years  to  do  it. 

Up-to-Date  Records 

Too  many  mistakes  are  made  because  information  is  not  written 
at  the  time.  Everything  should  be  recorded  as  nearly  at  the  time  of 
the  event  as  it  is  possible  for  it  to  be.  I  know  from  my  own  experi- 
ence that  I  cannot  trust  to  my  memory,  and  when  things  are  neglected 
for  any  length  of  time  mistakes  are  bound  to  enter  into  the  records, 
in  regard  to  certain  incidents  and  as  to  the  time  when  matters  have 
been  performed. 

Now  brethren,  will  you  look  into  these  matters  in  your  stakes 
and  see  that  this  record  is  kept  up  to  date?  This  is  the  way  we 
are  keeping  the  record  of  the  Church.  It  is  most  valuable;  it  is  ab- 
solutely necessary,  and  we  ask  you  for  your  help,  for  your  support 
in  these  matters,  that  we  may  have  our  records  up  to  date,  kept  neatly, 
written  in  permanent  ink,  or  upon  the  typewriter  with  a  permanent 
ribbon,  and  in  a  manner  that  it  can  be  preserved  eternally. 

I  thank  you  for  the  opportunity  of  presenting  this  matter  to  you. 
May  the  Lord  bless  you  all,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

As  Elder  Mark  Petersen  and  President  S.  Dilworth  Young  and 
I  were  walking  at  a  good  clip  this  evening  to  get  into  our  seats  by 


174  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  8  Secofid  Day 

seven  o'clock,  and  encountered  crowds  of  men  outside  the  Tabernacle, 
and  as  we  entered  the  west  door,  saw  this  building  crowded  to 
capacity,  I  had  a  re-affirmation  of  the  strength  of  the  priesthood.  It  is 
a  fact,  as  you  know,  that  if  you  have  a  moving  body,  and  you  increase 
the  speed,  the  greater  is  the  momentum.  Add  weight  to  that  body 
and  increase  speed  the  momentum  is  still  greater.  That  is  what 
is  occurring  in  this  Church,  a  great  body  of  priesthood,  moving  with 
an  acceleration  never  before  known  to  the  Church.  Brethren,  there 
is  nothing  that  can  stop  the  progress  of  Truth,  excepting  only  our 
weaknesses  or  failure  to  do  our  duty. 

The  older  I  grow  the  more  thrilled  and  more  grateful  am  I  for  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  the  more  impressed  I  am  with  the  im- 
portance of  declaring  this  truth  to  the  world. 

Progress  in  Missions 

That  leads  me  to  the  thought  about  which  I  am  requested  to 
speak  tonight.  What  I  have  said  about  the  momentum  of  this  body 
of  priesthood  is  applicable  to  our  great  missionary  force.  Never 
before  have  we  had  so  many  representatives  in  the  field  preaching 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  never  before  in  the  history  of  the 
world,  I  think,  was  that  message  more  needed. 

Over  eight  thousand  missionaries,  choice  men  and  women,  now 
laboring  at  home  and  abroad.  They  have  the  love  of  the  truth  in 
their  hearts.  I  am  glad  to  report  to  you  that  1949  has,  perhaps,  been 
one  of  our  most  successful  years.  In  material  improvement  we  show 
great  progress.  Many  of  you  spent  your  first  years  in  foreign  fields, 
met  in  undesirable  halls — we  all  have — and  we  know  the  need  and 
importance  of  having  suitable  meeting  places.  You  will  be  glad  to 
learn  tonight  that  during  last  year  we  had  in  the  missions  one  hundred 
and  thirty-seven  new  building  projects.  Besides  these  are  remodeling 
projects,  thirty-eight;  and  other  projects,  including  buying  of  lots, 
furnishings,  etc.,  nine;  or  a  total  of  one  hundred  and  seventy-two 
building  projects  during  1949.  The  people  are  grateful  for  this 
surge  forward  to  get  suitable  meeting  places  for  those  who  are 
seeking  the  truth. 

Tahitian  Mission 

You  have  read  in  the  paper  about  the  completion  of  the  edifice 
down  in  Papeete,  Tahiti,  the  first  mission  opened  by  the  Church  among 
the  Polynesians. 

For  years  they  have  been  in  need  of  a  means  of  transportation 
to  go  from  island  to  island  out  there.  What  you  Tahitian  mission- 
aries have  endured  during  the  past  fifty  years,  or  more,  very  few  of 
us  can  realize.  The  Lord  bless  you  for  having  endured  it. 

Well,  the  president  of  the  mission  and  the  elders  and  the 
saints  will  not  be  wholly  dependent  upon  sailing  schooners  which 
sometimes  get  caught  in  a  calm,  and  elders  and  saints  remain  on  deck 
for  hours  and  days  and  sometimes  even  weeks.    An  excellent 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING  175 


schooner,  or  yacht,  was  recently  purchased  and  a  little  over  two  weeks 
ago  they  left  Wilmington  Harbor,  and  after  a  successful  voyage  of 
three  weeks  on  the  Pacific,  they  arrived  at  Papeete  in  safety.  You 
will  be  pleased  to  learn  that  that  schooner  was  piloted,  by  one  of 
the  best  captains  in  the  United  States.  He  is  qualified  to  run  any 
steamer,  on  any  ocean  in  the  world,  and  that  man — not  a  member 
of  the  Church — Captain  Kenny,  volunteered  his  services  to  take  the 
schooner  to  Papeete,  without  any  monetary  consideration. 

If  you  could  hear  Elder  Stephen  L  Richards  and  Brother  E. 
Bentley  Mitchell,  former  president  of  the  Tahitian  Mission,  tell  how 
the  way  opened  up  for  them  to  get  that  schooner,  at  less  cost  than  the 
auxiliary  engine  that  is  in  it,  you  would  appreciate  how  the  Lord  is 
helping  forward  this  missionary  work.  And  you  will  all  be  happy 
to  learn  that  Elder  Richards  received  a  cable  from  Captain  Kenny 
day  before  yesterday,  that  they  had  landed  on  one  of  the  islands  in 
the  Marquesas  Group.  It  read:  "After  fifteen  days  on  the  ocean,  we 
are  all  well  and  happy." 

Greater  Missionary  Activity 

So  much  for  a  glimpse  at  the  progress  that  the  missions  are 
making  in  buildings  and  other  physical  aspects.  The  real  progress, 
however,  is  in  the  increase  in  activity  of  the  missionaries.  One  or  two 
missions  are  yet  a  little  lax,  but  most  of  the  missions  are  getting  the 
best  service  possible  out  of  the  missionaries,  and  the  more  the 
missionaries  work,  the  more  devoted  they  are,  the  greater  their 
testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  work. 

More  baptisms  are  reported,  also  greater  sales  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon.  The  distribution  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  has  exceeded 
that  of  any  other  year.  Offers  from  non-members  to  aid  have 
exceeded,  so  far  as  the  brethren  know,  any  other  year.  So,  all  in 
all,  we  can  all  feel  happy  and  grateful  tonight  that  the  way  is  being 
opened  for  the  spreading  of  truth. 

Czechoslovakia]*  Mission 

There  is  only  one  sorrowful  phase  and  that  is  in  Czechoslovakia, 
but  brethren,  every  member  of  this  Church  should  take  a  lesson  from 
what  has  occurred  in  that  communisticly  dominated  land,  and  if 
you  do  not,  then  you  are  not  using  the  intelligence  and  the  inspiration 
to  which  you  are  entitled. 

Communism  is  anti-Christ.  We  have  heard  that  some  of  our 
members  suspect  that  stories  which  come  out  of  Russia  are  exag- 

ferated.  Do  not  be  deceived.  No  matter  what  the  effect  may  be, 
am  going  to  tell  you  three  things  about  communism  which  are  facts. 
This  was  just  hinted  at  six  months  ago.  One  of  our  brethren,  loyal 
and  true,  presiding  over  a  branch,  held  the  priesthood  just  as  you  and 
I,  had  a  testimony  just  as  you  and  I,  a  prosporoUs  businessman,  true 
to  his  wife  and  has  a  lovely  family.  Brother  Benson  has  met  him  and 
knows  him.  .        .  . 


176  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  8  Second  Dag 

They  held  a  well-attended  conference,  Brother  Toronto  being 
present,  and  had  a  spiritual  feast.  A  night  or  two  later  officers 
entered  his  home  and  arrested  him.  Asked  for  the  charge,  he  was 
answered  indignantly, 

"Nevermind  the  charge.  Come  with  us." 

"I  ask  to  be  heard,"  said  the  arrested  man. 

"You  have  already  been  heard  and  tried." 

That  is  not  an  exaggeration.   That  is  a  fact. 

And  he  was  taken  that  night  without  even  having  been  given  a 
hearing  and  put  into  a  concentration  camp,  his  wife  not  knowing 
where. 

Now  you  weigh  the  significance  of  that. 

Second.  You  know  all  about  the  imprisonment  of  two  elders, 
each  put  in  a  cell  by  himself  with  no  communication.  The  President 
of  the  Mission  could  not  communicate  with  them.  The  U.  S.  Consul 
could  not.  And  there  they  remained,  charged  with  what?  They  did 
not  know,  and  day  after  day  wondered  what  would  happen  to  them. 
They  had  not  violated  any  law.  You  and  I  know  they  had  not. 
They  were  on  their  way  to  visit  one  of  the  Saints  who  needed  com- 
fort. She  was  up  near  the  Polish  border.  Perhaps  unwittingly  they 
entered  a  forbidden  area,  but  they  did  not  do  it  intentionally.  Well, 
they  came  out  all  right.  They  had  to  leave  the  country. 

The  third  point  followed  the  expulsion  from  that  country  of 
President  Toronto  and  all  the  elders.  You  read  it  in  the  public  press, 
that  the  Mormon  missionaries  were  government  spies.  You  and  I 
know  that  is  false,  of  course,  and  any  government  or  any  group  of 
men  who  would  publish  it,  do  so  in  ignorance  or  with  maliciousness. 

Well,  pray  for  those  Saints  over  there,  and  we  shall  leave  the 
rest  to  the  Lord,  and  do  all  we  can  to  comfort  and  bless  them,  and  the 
people  in  every  other  country.  They  are  God's  children  and  they  are 
longing  for  the  Gospel. 

I  referred  to  the  improvement,  the  accelerated  force  now  mani- 
fested by  our  missions.  Our  mission  presidents  are  doing  excellent 
work.  It  is  an  inspiration  to  sit  in  their  presence.  You  could  listen 
for  hours  to  their  narrating  manifestations  of  the  Lord,  resulting 
from  the  strength  and  activity  of  the  elders.  Now,  brethren,  will  you 
please  cooperate  with  them  in  making  more  effective  the  missionary 
cause. 

Standards  for  Calling  Missionaries 

There  are  certain  standards  by  which  we  should  be  guided  in 
calling  our  missionaries.  First,  call  no  young  man  or  young  woman, 
for  the  purpose  of  saving  him  or  her.  The  young  man  is  getting 
wayward  and  you  think  a  mission  would  do  him  good.  It  would. 
But  that  is  not  why  you  are  sending  him  out.  Choose  the  young  men 
and  young  women  who  are  worthy  to  represent  the  Church,  see 
that  they  are  sufficiently  mature,  and,  above  all,  that  they  have 
character. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING  177 


Age  Requirements 

Now  in  regard  to  maturity,  we  have  an  age,  twenty  years 
for  the  young  men,  twenty-three  for  the  young  women,  and  recently, 
because  of  the  call  of  mission  presidents,  we  have  said  you  may  call 
young  women  who  are  twenty-one.  But  that  is  just  in  order  to  fill 
up  the  ranks  that  such  a  call  is  made.  But  now  many  are  asking  that 
we  send  young  girls  eighteen  or  nineteen.  Please  do  not  hurt  their 
feelings.  Just  sit  down  and  talk  to  them  and  say:  "You  work  here  at 
home.  Prove  yourself  to  be  worthy,  and  as  soon  as  they  need  you, 
we  will  recommend  you  and  you  will  be  called." 

Some  of  you  say,  "Well,  you  have  called  young  men  at  nineteen 
and  now  it  hurts  their  feelings  if  we  do  not  call  their  companions." 

Now  in  every  case  if  you  will  analyze  it  you  will  find  that 
those  young  men  have  not  left  for  their  missions  until  near  their 
twentieth  birthday,  or  more.    Please  cooperate  with  us  in  that. 

Physically  Handicapped 

Again  there  is  the  problem  of  the  physically  handicapped,  of 
course  you  would  like  them  to  go,  but  think  how  they  will  interfere 
with  their  companions.  Elders  should  go  two  by  two  and  so  should 
sisters,  and  no  one  of  them  should  be  hampered  in  his  or  her 
activity  with  somebody  who  is  just  not  equal  to  the  responsibility  of 
missionary  work. 

Some  of  them  are  able  to  pass  the  physical  examination  all 
right,  but  when  they  get  out  under  the  strain  of  missionary  work — 
and  I  tell  you  it  is  a  strain — they  soon  break  and  then  the  mission 
president  has  a  responsibility  which  diverts  his  attention  from  his 
regular  duties,  and  missionary  work  is  retarded. 

Importance  of  Character 

But  the  most  important  standard  is  character.  Let  each  one 
whom  you  interview  sense  the  fact  that  he  is  going  out  as  a  repre- 
sensative.  Some  of  the  brethren  have  urged  that  each  ward  should 
have  in  the  mission  field  a  certain  percentage  of  the  ward  membership. 
That  is  not  an  ideal.  If  you  have  no  one  who  is  worthy  and  financially 
able  to  represent  the  Church,  do  not  send  anybody  out,  but  sit  down 
with  these  young  men  and  young  women  and  say,  "If  you  accept 
this  call  willingly,  you  go  out  as  a  trusted  representative  of  the 
Church  and  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ."  And  to  be  trusted,  young 
men,  is  a  greater  compliment  than  to  be  loved,  and  you  cannot 
violate  that  trust.  You  are  obligated  to  keep  that  trust  between  now 
and  the  time  you  go  to  the  missionary  home.  Maintain  the  Church 
standards  with  your  companions  who  will  want  to  give  you  a  farewell 
party.  We  have  heard  of  some  missionaries  who  have  been  called 
who  have  joined  in  with  their  fraternity  friends  in  actions  that 
reflected  discredit  upon  themselves  and  upon  the  missionary  cause. 
Tell  the  young  man,  "From  now  on,  from  this  very  moment,  you 


178  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  8  Second  l3ay 

are  a  trusted  representative  of  this  ward,  of  your  parents  and  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ." 

Care  Needed 

Brethren,  let  us  be  more  careful.  These  missionary  presidents 
are  calling  for  recruits.  Why,  today,  where  we  thought  five  mis- 
sionaries in  a  certain  area  would  be  sufficient,  the  president  of  the 
mission  said,  "send  us  twenty  more." 

There  are  some  other  points,  but  I  will  not  take  the  time.  I 
have  spoken  about  their  representing  the  Church.  So  do  you  and  so 
do  I.   I  would  like  to  say  in  conclusion  what  that  means  tonight. 

Gloom  at  Crucifixion 

President  Smith  appropriately  referred  to  the  fact  that  tomorrow 
is  Easter.  This  is  not  just  an  anniversary,  I  mean  as  to  the  date. 
Easter  varies  from  one  date  to  another  as  you  know.  But  I  am  not 
so  sure  that  April  is  not  a  commemorative  month,  not  only  for  the 
resurrection  but  for  the  birth  of  our  Lord.  And  so  I  like  to  think 
that  about  two  thousand  years  ago  tonight,  there  were  some  pretty 
gloomy  apostles.  Peter  was  heavy-hearted;  John  was  grieving; 
as  was  Mary,  Christ's  Mother.  The  other  apostles  had  fled.  Judas 
had  realized  what  a  crime  he  had  committed.   What  a  gloomy  night! 

Next  morning  Christ  arose,  and  we  are  celebrating  that  event 
in  the  Christian  world.  That  being  true,  this  event  establishes  the 
immortality  of  the  soul,  the  existence  of  loved  ones  who  are  on  the 
other  side,  their  personality  persisting.  They  are  as  real  in  that 
spiritual  realm  as  Christ's  spirit  when  He  preached  to  the  spirits  in 
prison. 

Resurrection  of  Christ 

I  wonder  if  the  Christian  world  will  take  as  evidence  the  testi- 
mony of  those  gloomy  apostles,  nineteen  hundred  and  fifty  years  ago 
tonight,  for  it  is  an  evidence  of  the  divinity  of  Christ's  resurrection 
from  the  grave.    Let  me  read  the  following : 

"When  Christ  was  crucified  the  apostles'  hopes  had  all  but 
died.  That  His  death  was  a  reality  to  the  disciples  was  shown  in  their 
intense  grief  in  the  statement  of  Thomas,  in  the  moral  perplexity  of 
Peter  and  in  the  evident  preparations  for  a  permanent  burial  of  their 
Master.  Notwithstanding  the  often  repeated  assurance  of  Christ 
that  he  would  return  to  them  after  death,  the  apostles  seemed  not 
to  have  accepted,  or  at  least  not  comprehended  Christ's  statement 
as  a  literal  fact.  At  the  crucifixion  they  were  frightened  and  dis- 
couraged. They  were  left  alone  and  they  seemed  confused,  helpless, 
panic-stricken.    Only  John  stood  by  the  cross. 

"Not  with  timidity,  not  with  feelings  of  doubt  and  gloom  and 
discouragement  is  a  skeptical  world  made  to  believe.  Such  wavering, 
despairing  minds  as  the  apostles  possessed  on  the  day  of  the  cruci- 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING  179 


fixion  could  never  have  stirred  people  to  accept  an  unpopular  belief, 
and  to  die  martyrs  to  the  cause. 

"What  was  it  that  suddenly  changed  these  disciples  to  confident, 
fearless,  heroic  preachers  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ?  It  was  the 
revelation  that  Christ  had  risen  from  the  grave.  His  promises  had 
been  kept;  His  Messianic  mission  fulfilled,  'The  final  and  absolute 
scene  of  genuineness  had  been  put  on  all  His  claims,  and  the  indelible 
stamp  of  a  divine  authority  upon  all  His  teachings.  The  gloom  of 
death  had  been  banished  by  the  glorious  light  of  the  presence  of 
their  risen,  glorified  Lord  and  Savior.'  " 

Representatives  of  the  Risen  Lord 

I  said  these  missionaries  are  representatives  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  and  so  is  every  man  within  the  sound  of  my  voice.  To  be 
the  representative  of  the  risen  Lord  is  the  greatest  honor  that  can 
come  to  man. 

I  think  it  was  J.  A.  Francis,  who  wrote  in  the  Los  Angeles 
Examiner,  in  his  tribute  to  Christ,  as  follows:  "I  am  far  within  the 
mark  when  I  say  that  all  the  armies  that  ever  marched  and  all  the 
navies  that  were  ever  built,  and  all  the  parliaments  that  ever  sat, 
and  all  the  kings  that  ever  reigned,  put  together  have  not  affected 
the  life  of  man  upon  this  earth  as  powerfully  as  has  this  one,  solitary 
life." 

And  yet  if  we  face  the  facts  tonight  on  the  eve  of  his  resur- 
rection, the  anniversary  of  his  resurrection,  we  know  that  there  are 
many  so-called  Christians  who  do  not  believe  in  the  literal  resurrec- 
tion, and  upon  your  shoulders  and  the  shoulders  of  ten  thousand 
others  in  this  Church  rests  the  responsibility  of  declaring  to  the 
world  his  divine  Son-ship,  his  literal  resurrection  from  the  grave, 
and  his  appearance  in  person  in  the  presence  of  the  Father  to  the 
prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  these  things  are  real,  your  author- 
ity is  real,  you  are  trusted  servants  who  must  represent  the  Lord  and 
Saviour  Jesus  Christ  in  your  allotted  spheres  to  this  dispensation. 

May  the  Lord  give  us  power  to  be  worthy  representatives  and 
discharge  our  duty  ably  and  well,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brethren,  as  always  I  come  to  you  in  fear  and  trembling  and 
in  humility,  and  I  ask  our  Heavenly  Father  to  bless  me,  that  what 
I  may  say  tonight  may  be  of  some  value  to  us  in  our  work. 

Power  of  the  Priesthood 

I  am  again  impressed,  as  always,  by  the  strength  of  the  priest- 
hood.   I  have  seen  it  work  in  the  lives  of  many  men.    I  have  seen 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


them  grow  under  its  power  and  its  influence.  I  have  seen  men 
moving  in  the  walks  of  life  of  the  world  increased  in  power  and  in 
influence,  far  beyond  their  natural  abilities,  and  I  am  sure  the  only 
reason  for  it  was  the  posession  of  the  priesthood. 

The  priesthood,  of  course,  must  not  be  taken  lightly,  and  as  I 
have  said  to  you  before,  the  priesthood  cannot  be  taken  off  and  put 
back  on  at  will  as  you  would  a  coat.  Once  endowed  by  the  priesthood 
it  remains  with  you.  You  may  forfeit  its  power,  the  power  may  go, 
but  your  priesthood  is  still  there,  and  in  the  days  to  come  God  will 
judge  us  by  the  use  we  have  made  of  it,  and  we  can  no  more  escape 
that  consequence  than  we  can  escape  death.  That  fact  should  be 
with  us  always  and  never  absent  from  us. 


I  wish  again  to  refer  tonight  to  my  favorite  subject  of  unity. 
I  sometimes  think  that  for  me  this  is  sort  of  an  air  on  the  G  string 
that  I  play  every  time. 

I  am  grateful  to  Brother  Harold  B.  Lee  today  for  making  some 
variations  to  my  tune.  I  adopt  them;  I  am  grateful  for  them.  But 
with  his  permission  I  want  to  play  my  tune  again. 

I  say  to  you  again,  brethren,  as  I  have  said  every  priesthood 
meeting  night  for  years,  that  if  you  are  united,  if  you  will  act  as 
one  man  in  carrying  out  the  purposes  of  the  Lord,  there  is  absolutely 
nothing  that  can  withstand  your  power. 


An  essential  part  of  unity  is  loyalty.  There  can  be  no  union 
where  loyalty  does  not  exist.  Loyalty  is  a  pretty  difficult  quality 
to  possess.  It  requires  the  ability  to  put  away  selfishness,  greed, 
ambition  and  all  of  the  baser  qualities  of  the  human  mind.  You  can- 
not be  loyal  unless  you  are  willing  to  surrender.  There  is  no  growth, 
mental,  physical  or  spiritual,  unless  there  be  some  curtailment,  some 
sacrifice  may  I  say,  on  the  part  of  him  who  would  be  loyal.  His 
own  preferences  and  desires  must  be  put  away,  and  he  must  see 
only  the  great  purpose  which  lies  out  ahead. 


I  have  spoken  in  the  past  about  loyalty  to  authority.  You 
remember  reference  has  already  been  indirectly  made  to  this 
tonight  by  Brother  McKay,  speaking  of  Peter.  You  remember  how 
when  the  Lord  told  what  was  going  to  befall  him,  the  Lord,  Peter 
avowed  his  loyalty  to  the  Lord.  The  Lord  picked  him  up  very  quickly 
and  told  him  that  before  the  cock  should  crow  he  would  deny  Him, 
the  Lord,  thrice.  And  Peter  said:  "Oh  no,  though  I  should  die,  yet 
I  will  not  deny  thee."  and  yet  before  the  cock  did  crow  the  next 
morning  he  had  three  times  denied  his  knowledge  of  an  acquaintance 
with  the  Lord. 


Unity 


Loyalty 


Cases  of  Disloyalty 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING  181 


President  McKay  has  referred  tonight  to  the  fact  that  at  the 
cross  when  the  Son  of  Man  was  offering  himself  as  a  sacrifice  for 
the  sins  of  the  world  there  was  only  one  apostle  there  and  that  was 
John.  The  rest,  apparently,  did  not  have  the  loyalty  to  go  and  see 
the  Master  die. 

Loyalty  to  themselves  has  been  a  highly  prized  and  sometimes 
too  rare  a  virtue  with  all  the  brethren  who  have  stood  at  the  head 
of  the  Church,  some  more  than  others.  Joseph  suffered  from  dis- 
loyalty, and  this  has  been  referred  to  during  the  conference,  for 
even  those  nearest  to  him  plotted  to  overthrow  him  and  he  charged 
some  of  them  with  plotting  his  death.  Brother  Brigham  had  his 
critics, — men  who  could  not  be  loyal,  men  whose  own  ambition,  own 
greed,  own  objects,  prevented  them  from  following  Brigham  and 
helping  him  out.  There  were  tens  of  thousands,  however,  who  did 
have  the  loyalty  and  who  followed. 

You  cannot  have  loyalty  and  be  a  carping  critic.  That  just 
cannot  be. 

Obedience  Through  Faith 

Now  another  point,  brethren.  Sometimes  local  presiding  officers 
say,  why,  why  should  this  be  done,  why  should  this  course  be  fol- 
lowed? This  does  not  apply  to  our  local  situation  and  that  does  not 
apply  to  somebody's  else  situation.  Do  you  remember  that  after 
Adam  was  driven  from  the  Garden  of  Eden  he  was  offering  sacrifice 
and  an  angel  of  the  Lord  came  to  him  and  said:  "Why  dost  thou 
offer  sacrifice  unto  the  Lord?" 

He  said:  "I  know  not,  save  the  Lord  commanded  me." 

And  then  the  angel  explained  to  Adam  what  the  sacrifice 
meant,  and  the  point  I  want  to  make  from  that  is  that  obedience 
must  often  precede  knowledge. 

We  are  prone  to  try  to  rationalize  and  to  say  that  the  things 
we  cannot  understand  cannot  be.  Well  how  much  is  there  in  the 
physical  world  that  we  do  not  understand  and  that  even  the  wisest 
of  our  scientific  savants  do  not  understand.  They  theorize  about 
it.  None  of  us  here,  perhaps  one  or  two  of  us  may,  but  very  few  of 
us  here,  can  understand  the  atom  bomb,  can  understand  whence 
comes  the  power  and  the  heat  of  the  bomb  that  cause  such  great 
destruction.  The  fact  that  we  cannot  understand  it  makes  no  dif- 
ference at  all.  The  atom  bomb,  unfortunately,  works,  and  metes 
out  its  terrible  destruction  whether  we  know  or  not.  Nations,  ap- 
parently, are  prepared  to  do  anything,  stoop  to  any  level,  to  try 
to  discover  about  the  hydrogen  bomb  which  is  supposed  to  be  so 
much  more  terrible  than  the  bomb  we  have.  Those  of  us  here,  the 
great  bulk  of  us,  know  nothing  about  the  hydrogen  bomb.  Does 
that  make  any  difference  to  the  fact  of  the  bomb,  the  destruction 
still  comes.  The  human  mind  cannot  fully  fathom  the  purposes  of 
the  Lord.  We  see  them  dimly.  We  see  as  through  a  glass  darkly, 


I 


182  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  April  8  Second  Dag 

but  that  does  not  change  the  fact  that  the  purposes  are  there,  even 
though  we  do  not  understand  them. 

Lincoln's  Faith 

What  a  narrow  measure  it  is  to  try  and  judge  and  calculate 
the  infinite  by  the  little  our  finite  minds  know.  A  story  is  told  of 
Lincoln,  who  was  supposed  to  be  a  great  skeptic  in  his  younger  life. 
When  he  was  down  at  Richmond  as  the  war  was  drawing  to  a  close, 
one  of  his  early  companions — I  think  it  was  General  Reynolds — 
suddenly  came  around  the  corner  of  the  tent  where  the  President 
was  living  and  found  him  reading  the  Bible.  The  General  began 
to  twit  him  about  reading  the  Bible,  basing  the  raillery  on  the  early 
life,  as  he  understood  it,  of  Lincoln.  Then  Lincoln  said:  "Well,  I 
have  grown  older  and  wiser.  I  now  read  the  Bible.  I  believe  all 
I  can  and  I  take  the  rest  on  faith." 

And  that  is  about  where  all  of  us  are  when  it  comes  to  the 
infinities  that  are  involved  in  our  spiritual  welfare. 

Loyalty  One  to  Another 

I  want  to  say  a  word  now  about  unity  in  the  mass,  our  loyalty 
one  to  the  other.  It  is  not  enough  that  you  be  loyal  to  those  who 
are  in  authority  over  you.  You  must  be  loyal,  one  to  another,  and  you 
will  appreciate  on  a  moment's  thought  what  that  loyalty  will  require 
in  your  dealings,  one  with  another.  Unless  you  can  be  loyal,  one 
to  another,  the  strength  of  the  priesthood  cannot  be  exercised, 
and  I  repeat,  that  means  that  out  of  our  hearts  must  go  the  greed 
and  the  avarice,  the  ambition,  that  sometimes  we  let  lodge  there. 

A  short  time  ago  some  gentlemen  came  here  to  write  an  article 
about  us,  and  as  frequently  happens,  they  came  to  see  the  First 
Presidency,  and  as  frequently  happens,  their  approach  was  kindly, 
more  or  less  respectful,  almost  deferential.  They  were  going  to  do 
a  great  job.  We  have  become  accustomed  to  that  approach  and 
try  to  keep  our  guards  up  as  well  as  we  can.  They  wrote  a  story 
and  the  title  of  it,  as  I  recall  it,  was,  "The  Mormons  Move  Over." 
The  implication  as  I  remember  it  was  that  we  are  sort  of  being 
crowded  out,  surrendering  our  position.  We  were  on  the  down-grade 

Well,  there  was  a  time,  brethren,  when  we  moved  over  as 
we  were  bid,  or  forced,  but  if  we  have  unity  and  loyalty  we  do  not 
need  to  move  over  until  we  wish. 

A  Growing  Church 

This  is  a  growing  Church.  It  has  the  priesthood  of  Almighty 
God  in  it  and  directing  it,  and  God  will  honor  His  priesthood  if  we, 
its  bearers,  honor  it.  • 

I  read  a  story  once.  A  judge  was  out  driving  one  Sunday 
morning  in  Hyde  Park,  London.  He  had  a  coachman  and  a  very 
spirited  team.  The  park  was  filled  with  other  buggies,  teams,  baby 
carriages  and  nurses  and  all  the  rest,  and  suddenly  his  team  took 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING  183 


fright  and  started  to  run  away.  As  the  coachmen  dodged  in  and 
out  among  the  other  vehicles,  the  judge  got  more  and  more  ex- 
cited. He  could  see  possible  suits  for  damages  for  large  amounts 
as  he  gazed  at  some  of  the  handsome  equipages  they  were  narrowly 
missing.  As  the  horses  gained  momentum  he  moved  farther  and 
farther  to  the  front  of  his  seat  and  then  he  called  out  to  the  coach- 
man: "Henry,  for  goodness  sake,  drive  into  something  cheap." 

We  were  "cheap,"  once.  Everybody  considered  it  within  his 
right  and  it  certainly  has  been  within  his  power  to  treat  us,  write 
about  us,  talk  about  us  as  he  wished.  But  we  are  not  "cheap"  any- 
more, brethren,  if  we  will  be  united  and  loyal.  And  the  respect 
which  men  have  for  us  is  built,  almost  entirely,  upon  our  loyalty 
and  devotion  to  the  cause  which  we  represent.  We  do  not  need 
to  put  ourselves  into  a  position  where  anybody  can  think  that  it  is 
his  power  and  his  right  to  write  spurious  articles  about  us.  They  will 
be  written  but  they  will  not  be  believed. 

Scripture  Reading 

One  thing  more  before  I  sit  down.  I  would  like  to  urge  you 
brethren  to  read  the  scriptures,  not  somebody's  interpretation  of 
them.  Read  them.  They  are  the  original  sources.  You  go  to  them 
and  read  them.  Make  up  your  own  minds  about  them. 

When  the  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  speaks,  when  he  inter- 
prets, we  follow.  So  with  the  brethren  when  they  speak  under  the 
influence  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  We  have  a  growing  lot  of  books,  a 
growing  lot  of  courses  of  study,  but  I  urge  you  to  read  the  scriptures, 
so  that  you  may  get  your  own  idea  as  to  what  they  mean. 

I  close  as  I  began,  brethren,  that  there  is  nothing  that  should 
be  done,  that  we  cannot  do,  if  we  shall  be  united  and  loyal,  united 
in  our  purpose,  loyal  to  those  who  preside  over  us  and  to  the  cause 
which  we  represent.  That  we  may  be  so  united  and  so  loyal,  ] 
humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

I  remember  a  number  of  years  ago  I  was  in  Portland,  Oregon, 
and  at  that  time  the  President  General  of  the  National  Society  of 
the  Sons  of  the  American  Revolution  was  there  visiting,  so  I  in- 
vited him  to  go  to  church  with  me.  He  and  his  wife  accepted,  and 
when  we  got  to  the  place  where  the  meeting  was  being  held  we 
could  not  get  in.  People  were  standing  out  in  front,  packed  on 
the  steps,  and  I  said  to  him,  "If  you  will  follow  me,  we  will  find 
another  way."  And  so  we  went  around  the  building  and  climbed 
up  the  back  stairs  and  went  over  the  backs  of  the  seats  into  the 
choir  loft.  The  missionaries  did  most  of  the  talking  and  when 
we  got  outside  the  visitors  said  to  me,  "My,  Mr.  Smith,  what 
wouldn't  our  minister  give  for  a  congregation  like  that." 

I  just  repeat  that  to  you  now — what  wouldn't  any  organi- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


zation,  any  church,  give  for  a  congregation  like  this,  and  I  want 
to  say  not  only  because  of  numbers  but  because  of  quality. 

The  choir  will  now  sing  to  us  a  hymn  that  will  be  familiar 
to  many  of  you  because  it  was  sung  by  Melvin  J.  Ballard  so  many 
times,  our  dear  departed  brother  who  was  so  dear  to  us  all,  "I'll  Go 
Where  You  Want  Me  To  Go,  Dear  Lord."  The  choir  and  congre- 
gation will  sing  that  hymn. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn  "I'll  Go  Where  You 
Want  Me  To  Go,  Dear  Lord." 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

I  wonder  if  there  is  anybody  in  the  audience  tonight,  other  than 
the  man  I  am  going  to  have  stand,  who  is  ninety-four  years  of  age. 
I  do  not  see  very  many  hands  up.  I  would  like  to  know  whether  any 
of  you  have  attended  a  hundred  and  thirty-five  general  conference 
meetings,  and  never  missed  a  meeting.  All  those  who  have  raise 
their  right  hand.  ( No  hands  were  raised ) . 

Brother  Walter  Cox  of  Provo  is  always  at  meeting,  never 
misses  anything,  and  he  is  the  man  I  have  been  talking  about  and 
I  thought  I  would  like  to  have  you  look  at  him.  He  appears  to  be 
good  for  another  ten  or  fifteen  years. 


This  is  a  great  Church.  Today  we  have  had  a  number  of 
Indians  in  the  congregation  and  I  thought  we  might  be  able  to  locate 
some  of  them  tonight,  but  we  hope  to  find  them  by  tomorrow  morning. 
I  mention  the  Indians,  because  in  this  particular  case,  the  men  I 
am  referring  to  have  been  in  the  Church  a  long  time  and  they  are 
very  faithful.  One  man  came  to  the  Temple  within  the  last  two  or 
three  days  and  had  his  wife  sealed  to  him.  This  means  they  are  moving 
our  way,  in  the  direction  that  we  are  going,  and  that  causes  me  to 
call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  the  way  is  opening  for  the  dis- 
semination of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  among  the  Indians. 

Dr.  John  R.  Nicholls,  who  is  the  Commissioner  of  Indian  Affairs, 
was  here  some  months  ago  and  he  seems  to  be  very  friendly  to  our 
work  among  the  Indians,  not  more  than  to  any  other  Church,  but 
some  of  the  other  Church  organizations  have  sought  to  keep  us 
out  of  the  reservations.  Within  the  last  year  or  two  we  have  appointed 
a  committee  whose  duty  it  is  to  find  a  way  of  reaching  the  Indians 
in  the  various  sections  of  the  country,  wherever  they  may  be. 


The  Intermountain  Indian  School  is  located  at  what  was 
formerly  called  the  Bushnell  Hospital  at  Brigham  City.  Dr.  George 
Boyce  is  the  Superintendent  there,  and  he  has  manifested  his  kind- 
ness in  every  way.  He  wants  to  help  the  Indians  all  he  can,  their 
children  who  are  there. 


Work  Among  Indians 


Intermountain  Indian  School 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING  185 


I  take  this  occasion  to  say  to  our  people  who  live  at  Brigham 
City,  and  I  hope  you  will  carry  the  message  on  to  your  wives  who 
are  not  here,  that  you  are  doing  a  fine  piece  of  work  in  looking  after 
those  Indians  that  are  in  the  school  at  Brigham  City.  They  are 
our  Father's  children.  If  they  were  not  Indians  a  good  many  people 
would  be  concerned  about  them,  but  because  they  are  some  people 
are  not  so  concerned.  You  people  who  hold  the  priesthood,  not  only 
at  Brigham  City  but  in  every  part  of  the  world,  enjoy  a  blessing 
from  our  Heavenly  Father  that  carries  with  it  a  responsibility  to 
share  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  with  all  of  His  children,  and  that 
includes  the  Indians. 

Importance  of  Indians 

These  Indians  in  the  western  world  are  the  descendants  of 
Father  Lehi  who  left  Jerusalem,  centuries  ago  at  the  direction  of 
our  Heavenly  Father.  They  are  His  children,  and  I  hope  that 
there  will  be  no  member  of  the  Church,  in  any  department,  who 
will  feel  that  because  it  is  the  Indians,  they  are  not  important. 
They  are  just  as  important  as  are  the  whites.  They  are  entitled 
to  the  priesthood  if  they  live  to  be  worthy  of  it,  and  our  Heavenly 
Father  is  anxious  that  they  should  have  that  blessing.  I  want  to 
emphasize  this  to  all  you  brethren,  tonight. 

Of  course  it  is  not  necessary  to  say  anything  to  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church.  They  know  that  a  committee  has  been 
appointed,  that  we  can  no  longer  neglect  our  responsibility  of 
carrying  the  Gospel  to  the  Indians.  And  I  hope  that  the  presidents 
of  stakes  and  bishops  of  wards  and  those  who  are  in  the  mission 
field  will  feel  the  responsibility  that  is  ours,  and  if  we  will  do  our 
duty  the  Lord  will  bless  us  for  it,  while  he  is  blessing  his  Indian 
children.   That  is  one  of  the  matters  that  I  had  on  my  mind  tonight. 

Reference  has  been  made  to  the  development  and  growth  of  the 
Church.  This  meeting  tonight  is  an  evidence  of  the  growth  of  the 
interest  in  the  Church,  because  a  good  many  of  you  people  have 
come  from  afar  to  be  here,  and  we  appreciate  it. 

Friendly  Minister 

A  good  many  people  are  friendly  with  us.  I  had  a  visit  with 
a  good  man  not  very  long  ago  who  is  not  a  member  of  the  Church. 
In  fact,  he  is  a  minister.  He  is  just  as  friendly  and  nice  as  can  be, 
in  fact,  I  received  a  birthday  congratulation  from  him.  The  last 
time  I  saw  him  he  was  not  very  well,  and  he  seemed  to  be  afraid  I 
was  going  to  preach  to  him.  He  gave  me  to  understand  that  he 
was  not  able  to  believe  that  Joseph  Smith  could  have  been  a  prophet. 
He  was  just  in  the  same  condition  exactly  that  Nathaniel  was 
in  the  days  of  the  Savior  when  Philip  said  to  him:  "We  have  found 
our  Lord." 

Nathaniel  asked:  "Where  did  he  come  from?" 
"Why,  he  came  from  Nazareth." 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


And  then  this  good  man  said:  "Can  any  good  thing  come  out 
of  Nazareth?" 

And  Philip,  who  was  talking  to  him,  said:  "Come  and  see." 

And  when  he  went  to  see  he  became  a  devoted  follower  of 
the  Savior  and  was  the  one  whom  the  Savior  later  referred  to  as 
"an  Israelite  without  guile." 

So  I  am  not  worrying  but  what  our  brother,  if  we  can  just 
get  him  to  come  and  see — and  not  only  him  but  hundreds  of  others — 
will  understand  as  Nathaniel  did,  eventually,  that  this  is  our  Father's 
work  that  we  are  identified  with. 


Utah's  birth  rate  was  33.9  per  thousand  in  1947.  It  was  31 
percent  above  the  national  average  of  25.8.  New  Mexico  alone, 
had  a  higher  birth  rate  than  Utah. 

Our  death  rate  in  Utah  was  7.8  percent  per  thousand  in  1947 
and  was  22  percent  below  the  national  average,  and  was  the  lowest 
in  the  nation. 

The  ratio  of  Utah's  population  attending  school  in  1940  in 
the  age  group  of  five  to  twenty-four  was  sixty-four  percent.  This 
is  the  highest  ratio  in  the  nation  and  is  twelve  percent  above  the 
national  average  of  fifty-seven,  according  to  the  statistical  abstract. 

I  thought  you  would  like  to  know  that  this  Church  you  belong 
to  is  not  only  better  informed  about  the  purpose  of  life,  better  in- 
formed as  to  where  we  came  from  and  where  we  expect  to  go  than 
any  other  organization  in  the  world,  but  we  believe  in  education 
and  refinement  and  culture,  and  we  believe  that  we  will  be  saved  no 
faster  than  we  gain  knowledge  and  apply  that  knowledge  in  our 
lives.  We  have  nothing  to  apologize  for  among  our  brothers  and 
sisters  of  the  various  churches. 

I  congratulate  all  of  us  who  are  here  that  we  can  be  here, 
congratulate  all  of  us  that  we  are  here  in  peace  and  quiet.  Can 
you  think  of  a  more  delightfully  quiet  place  to  be  than  here,  and 
have  the  joy  and  satisfaction  and  companionship  of  good  men,  the 
very  finest  men  and  boys  in  all  the  world.  And  when  we  go  from 
here  I  hope  we  will  not  forget  that  it  is  our  privilege  to  carry  the 
message  that  has  been  so  beautifully  portrayed  to  us  today  with 
regard  to  our  responsibilities,  by  the  brethren,  carry  the  message 
to  those  to  whom  we  may  minister  and  with  whom  we  associate. 


There  is  one  more  thing  I  would  like  to  emphasize.  We  have 
had  quite  a  number  of  our  boys  and  girls,  due  partly  to  the  war 
conditions,  that  have  become  careless.  In  some  cases  the  bishops 
have  kept  in  touch  with  them  not  only  in  their  own  wards,  but 
where  they  have  moved  away  have  had  others  contact  them,  and  see 
that  they  did  not  stray  away  from  the  Church  and  lose  their  virtue. 
I  thought  when  I  heard  of  this  how  beautiful  it  was.    Here  was  a 


Statistics 


Duties  of  Presiding  Officers 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING  187 


father  of  a  ward  of  six  or  seven  hundred  people  and  yet  he  had  time 
to  go  outside  of  his  own  area  to  follow  this  boy  or  this  girl, 
children  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  and  try  to  hold  them  in  a  path  that 
would  entitle  them  to  eternal  life  in  the  Celestial  kingdom. 

Brethren,  you  men  who  are  presidents  of  stakes,  and  bishops  of 
wards  and  presidents  of  missions,  branch  presidents,  holding  posi- 
tions of  authority,  you  have  tremendous  duties,  and  I  want  to  say 
to  you  that  they  carry  with  them  tremenduous  responsibility.  Let  us 
not  neglect  our  opportunities  and  our  privileges.  Let  us  labor  while 
the  day  lasts. 

We  may  not  all  live  to  be  as  old  as  Brother  Cox  here,  ninety- 
four,  ninety-four  years  of  activity,  always  on  hand  when  there  was  an 
opportunity  to  hear  the  Gospel  preached  or  partake  of  it.  He  is  always 
at  the  Brigham  Young  University  affairs  because  there  he  can  meet 
with  members  of  the  Church.  Let  us  each  year,  as  the  years  continue 
to  come  on,  lay  up  our  treasure  in  heaven  so  that  when  the  time  comes 
for  us  to  go  to  the  other  side,  our  Heavenly  Father  will  be  able  to 
welcome  us  home  because  we  have  not  neglected  our  opportunities 
and  because  we  have  been  anxious  to  share  his  Gospel  with  his 
other  children. 

The  Power  of  Love 

There  is  one  other  thing  that  I  should  like  to  mention.  The 
increase  in  the  Church  for  1949  was  16,261  members.  Think  of  that 
in  one  year,  and  so  it  goes  and  goes  if  we  will  do  our  part,  as  the 
brethren  have  called  to  our  attention  tonight,  if  we  will  be  true  to 
one  another,  be  true  to  our  Heavenly  Father,  and  if  we  will  use  our 
authority  with  kindness  and  love.  We  cannot  drive  these  young 
people,  and  our  neighbors  and  friends  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven 
by  scolding  them  and  finding  fault  with  them,  but  I  want  to  tell 
you  that  we  can  love  them  into  the  direction  of  our  Father  in 
heaven,  and  by  and  by,  perhaps,  lead  them  there  too. 

That  is  our  privilege.  Love  is  the  great  power  to  influence 
this  world,  and  if  we  do  not  find  more  love  in  the  world  soon,  if 
people  do  not  get  together  better  than  they  are,  then,  as  you  have 
already  been  told,  the  predictions  that  are  in  the  scriptures  will 
be  fulfilled. 

Ministry  of  The  Savior 

Reference  has  been  made  to  the  fact  that  the  Son  of  our 
Heavenly  Father  appeared  in  Jerusalem  and  his  own  race  refused 
him.  He  was  crucified  in  the  home  of  his  friends,  so  to  speak, 
but  he  was  resurrected.  Now  a  good  many  people  in  the  world 
do  not  know  what  the  resurrection  is.  Do  you  teach  your  children 
and  your  associates  what  it  means? 

Reference  also  has  been  made  to  the  fact  that  the  Father  and 
the  Son  appeared  to  Joseph  Smith.  There  are  many  people  who 
do  not  believe  it,  but  it  is  true  just  the  same.    And  then  we  have 


188  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  April  8  Second  Day 

the  additional  information  of  the  appearance  of  the  Savior  after 
he  was  crucified  when  he  came  to  this  Western  Hemisphere,  as 
he  had  told  them  in  the  East:  "Other  sheep  have  I  that  are  not 
of  this  fold,  and  them  must  I  bring  that  there  may  be  one  fold  and 
one  shepherd,"  and  so  he  came  to  the  Western  Hemisphere  where 
the  descendants  of  Father  Lehi  were,  and  appeared  among  them, 
and  while  they  had  been  told  that  he  would  come,  and  while  he 
came  in  the  clouds  of  Heaven  with  power  and  glory,  when  he  came 
to  them,  so  that  there  could  be  no  question,  he  said:  "I  am  Jesus 
Christ  for  whom  you  have  been  looking." 

Meaning  of  Resurrection 

There  could  be  no  question  about  it.  His  resurrection  is  plain 
to  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  understand  the  gospel,  but  there  are 
so  many  who  do  not  understand  what  it  means.  But  how  beauti- 
ful it  is  to  know  that  in  our  day,  not  only  the  Saviour,  but  our 
Father  in  heaven  appeared,  and  other  resurrected  beings  in  addi- 
tion, the  Angel  Moroni,  John  the  Baptist,  Peter,  James  and  John, 
men  that  have  lived  upon  the  earth  as  we  have  lived,  who  have 
gone  on  and  performed  their  part  and  have  been  resurrected  and 
sent  back  to  earth.  That  is  what  the  resurrection  means,  and  the 
purpose  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  to  prepare  every  man 
woman  and  child  for  the  time  when  all  those  who  have  died  will 
be  brought  forth  from  their  graves,  and  when  our  Heavenly  Father 
will  establish  his  kingdom  upon  this  earth  and  the  righteous  will 
dwell  there  and  Jesus  Christ  will  be  our  King  and  our  Law-giver. 

This  is  my  testimony  tonight.  I  want  to  thank  you  all  for 
the  delightful  privilege  I  have  of  being  with  you.  When  I  go  out 
among  the  people  of  the  Church,  they  are  always  so  kind  and  help- 
ful and  I  pray  that  the  Lord  may  bless  them  and  bless  you  for  all 
these  good  things,  and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our 
Redeemer,  Amen. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

Brethren,  I  would  like  to  caution  you  when  going  out  tonight, — 
it  is  dark  and  the  streets  may  be  thronged  with  people — to  be  as 
careful  as  you  can,  so  that  there  will  be  nobody  injured  by  an  ac- 
cident.   We  will  now  be  dismissed. 


The  Deseret  Stake  Male  Chorus  sang,  "The  Lord's  Prayer." 
President  Harry  T.  Oscarson,  of  the  Sugar  House  Stake  offered 
the  benediction. 


The  congregational  singing  of  the  Conference  was  directed  by 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor,  and  Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant 
Conductor  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir. 

The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir  was  in  attendance  at  the 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING  189 


Sunday  sessions  and  presented  musical  numbers  at  those  meetings. 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall  directed  the  singing  of  the  Choir. 

The  Brigham  Young  Choir,  furnished  musical  numbers  at  the 
Thursday  morning  and  afternoon  meetings,  John  R.  Halliday  con- 
ducted the  singing  of  the  Choir  at  the  morning  meeting,  and  Newell 
Weight  at  the  afternoon  meeting. 

Saturday  morning,  the  singing  was  entirely  by  the  congregation, 
and  in  the  afternoon  the  Swiss-German  Choir,  Elder  Heinz  Rimasch 
conducting,  furnished  the  choral  numbers. 

The  music  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broadcast,  Sun- 
day morning  9:30  to  10:00,  as  also  the  music  for  the  Church  of  the 
Air  broadcast,  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Frank  W.  Asper 
was  at  the  organ,  and  the  spoken  word  was  by  Richard  L.  Evans. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played 
by  Alexander  Schreiner  and  Frank  W.  Asper. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


Index 

Adams,  Elder  Orval  W.    17 

Anderson,  Elder  Joseph    7 

Auditing  Committee,  Church — Report   17 

Authorities  and  Officers  Present   2 

Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained   18 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft   71 


A  Miraculous  Drama  71,  The  Jewish  Problem  72,  Lack  of  Wisdom 
73,  Prophecies  Clear  74,   Sufferings  of  Judah   74,   Gathering   of  . 


Israel  75,  Dedication  of  Palestine  75,  Prophecy  of  Wilford  Woodruff 
76,  Return  of  the  Jews  77,  Persecution  of  Jews  77,  Determination 
to  Return  78,  Future  Events  78 

Blue,  Elder  Chief  Samuel   141 

Bowen,  Elder  Albert  E.    49 

Commission  of  the  Lord  49,  Awesome  assignment  50,  Faith  Put  to 
Test  51,  Persecutions  51,  The  Son  of  God  52,  Influence  of  Christian 
Teachings  52,  Disquieting  Signs  53,  Criticism  of  Christianity  53,  Alter- 
nate Proposals  54,  A  Revelation  of  God  55 

Changes  in  Church  Officers  and  Organizations   7 

Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  119 

Church  of  the  Air  113 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr  

 12,  30,  31,  55,  83,  102,  112,  146,  147,  153,  167,  170 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.   114 

Appearances  of  Risen  Lord  114,  Ascension  115,  Messiahship  Affirmed 
116,  The  Redemption  116,  The  Messiah's  Place  117,  He  is  Risen  118, 
Testimony  of  Divinity  118 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.   166 

Repentance  166,  Forgiveness  166,  Testimony  to  Risen  Christ  167 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.   179 

Power  of  the  Priesthood  179,  Unity  180,  Loyalty  180,  Cases  of 
Disloyalty  180,  Obedience  through  Faith  181,  Lincoln's  Faith  182, 
Loyalty  One  to  Another  182,  A  Growing  Church  182,  Scripture 
Reading  183 

Cowley,  Elder  Matthew   123 

Speedy  Repentance  123,  Discernment  Needed  123,  Understanding 
Polynesians  124,  Spirit  of  Forgiveness  124 

Deaths   10 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L.   102 

Privilege  of  Repentance  102,  Experience  of  Jonah  103,  Cure  for 
Ills  of  World  103,  Abraham's  Bargaining  104,  Faith  in  Future  104, 
Time  of  the  End  105,  Assurance  of  Everlasting  Life  106 

Financial  Report    12 

First  Day- — Afternoon  Meeting    30 

First  Day — Morning  Meeting   2 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Present    2 


192  INDEX 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained    18 

General  Priesthood  Meeting   .171 

Hunter,  Elder  Milton  R  89 

Two  Great  Commandments  89,  The  Law  and  the  Prophets  89,  Com- 
mandment of  Love  90,  Criteria  of  Love  90,  Commandments  91,  Story 
of  the  Teapot  91,  Love  of  Neighbor  92,  Analyze  the  Heart  92, 
Letter  of  the  Law  93,  Love  of  Enemies  93,  Example  of  Jesus  94, 
Needed  Qualities  95,  Teachings  of  Mormon  95 

Isaacson,  Elder  Thorpe  B.   37 

Purpose  of  Conference  38,  Testimonies  38,  Miracles  Today  39, 
Magnified  in  Service  39,  Inactive  Members  40,  A  Way  of  Life  41, 
Testimony  41 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R.   25 

Conversions  to  the  Gospel  25,  Missionary  Body  25,  Perfecting  of 
Quorum  Members  26,  Full  Faith  Required  26,  Time  for  Service  27, 
Dependability  27,  Duty  between  Meetings  28 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W.   41 

Destructive  Trends  42,  Lamanites  Enslaved  42,  Independence  of 
Mayas  43,  Loss  of  Liberties  43,  Hopi  Indians  43 

Kirkham,  Elder  Oscar  A.   149 

Gratitude  for  America  150,  Power  of  the  Spirit  150,  Brigham  Young's 
Counsel  151,  United  Nations  151,  Work  for  Brotherhood  152 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B.   96 


Blessings  of  Unity  96,  Master's  Prayer  97,  "Ye  Are  Not  Mine"  97, 
Command  to  "Be  One"  98,  Plan  for  Unity  99,  Test  of  Unity  99, 
Counsel  in  Temporal  Affairs  100,  Loyalty  to  Leadership  101,  Brigham 
Young's  Loyalty  101 


Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F.   57 

Disturbed  Conditions  57,  The  Golden  Rule  58,  Dangers  Within  59, 
Free  Enterprise  59,  Developing  Tendencies  60,  Labor  Unions  60, 
Use  of  Profits  61,  Office-Hungry  Politicians  61,  Two  Alternatives  62 

Moyle,  Elder  Henry  D.  147 

Exaltation  Through  Obedience  147,  Submission  to  God's  Will  148, 
Testimony  149,  Repentance  for  All  149 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R.  130 

Atonement  of  Christ  130,  Fall  of  Adam  131,  Gospel  in  Its  Fulness  131 
McKay,  President  David  0. 18,  56,  71,  79,  82, 122,  132,  141,  142,  146 

McKay,  President  David  O.    31 

Anchored  to  the  Truth  32,  Individual  Liberty  32,  Man's  Responsibility 
33,  Spinning  Our  Own  Fates  33,  Personal  Influence  34,  Progress 
Through  Freedom  34,  Force  Rules  Today  35,  Governments  the 
Servants  35,  Freedom  of  Worship  36,  Revelation  on  Government  36, 
Preservation  of  Freedom  37 

McKay,  President  David  O  173 


Progress  in  Missions  174,  Tahitian  Mission  174,  Greater  Missionary 
Activity  175,  Czechoslovakian  Mission  175,  Standards  for  Calling 
Missionaries  176,  Age  Requirements  177,  Physically  Handicapped  177, 
Importance  of  Character  177,  Care  Needed  178,  Gloom  at  Crucifixion 
178,  Resurrection  of  Christ  178,  Representatives  of  the  Risen  Lord  179 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E.  152 

Perfecting  of  the  Saints  153,  100%  Perfect  153 
Peterson,  Elder  A.  Richard   159 


INDEX  193 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers    18 

Priesthood  Meeting,  General   ...171 

Richards,  President  George  F.   21 

Man's  Salvation  21,  Adult  Members  of  Aaronic  Priesthood  21,  Im- 
portance of  Priesthood  22,  Eternal  Marriage  22,  Rules  in  Temple 
Work  23,  Loss  Through  Neglect  23,  Loss  Through  Unworthiness  24, 
Missionary  Work  24 

Richards,  Bishop  LeGrand  106 

Earth  Crammed  with  Heaven  107,  Kingdom  of  God  107,  Part  of 
Kingdom  108,  Impressions  of  Visitors  109,  Story  of  Minister  109, 
Message  from  God  110,  Holy  Presthood  111,  Temple  Work  111 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L   161 

Gifts  of  the  Gospel  161,  Gift  of  Discernment  162,  Gift  of  Wisdom 
163,  Gift  of  Comfort  164,  Rich  Blessings  165 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G.    83 

First  Principles  84,  Repentance  Leading  to  Salvation  84,  True 
Repentance  85,  Need  of  the  Hour  85,  Repentance  in  America  86, 
Unrighteousness  Today  86,  Our  Responsibility  87,  No  Other  Way 
87,  Message  of  Hope  88 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting      82 

Second  Day — Morning  Meeting   56 

Sharp,  Elder  June  B.    29 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G   66 

A  Blessed  People  67,  Methods  of  Teaching  67,  Strength  of  Gentle- 
ness 67,  Blessings  Forfeited  68,  Treasures  of  Knowledge  68,  Im- 
provement in  Teaching  69,  Appreciation  of  Priesthood  70,  Joyful 
Living  70,  Rewards  for  Obedience  70 

Smith,  President  George  Albert   3,  17,  28,  30,  171,  183,  188 

Smith,  President  George  Albert    3 

George  B.  Margetts  4,  Blessings  of  Conference  4,  Calling  of  Joseph 
Smith  4,  Need  for  Repentance  5,  Growth  of  Church  5,  Appreciation 
for  Remembrances  6,  Work  of  the  Lord  6,  Blessings  to  Faithful  6 

Smith,  President  George  Albert   142 

Missionary  Experience  142,  Meeting  15  Years  Later  144,  Chief  Blue 
and  Catawba  Indians  145,  Additional  Knowledge  145 

Smith,  President  George  Albert  167 

Security  on  Lord's  Side  168,  Purpose  of  Life  168,  Universal  Resur- 
rection 168,  Houses  in  Order  169,  Gratitude  for  Support  169,  Bless- 
ing 170,  Testimony  170 

Smith,  President  George  Albert   184 

Work  Among  Indians  184,  Intermountain  Indian  School  184,  Im- 
portance of  Indians  185,  Friendly  Minister  185,  Statistics  186, 
Duties  of  Presiding  Officers  186,  The  Power  of  Love  187,  Ministry 
of  the  Savior  187,  Meaning  of  Resurrection  188 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding    153 

The  Constitution  154,  Critical  Period  154,  Convention  in  Phila- 
delphia 155,  We  the  People  156,  Three  Governmental  Departments 
156,  Constitution  Deserves  Veneration  157,  Statements  of  Joseph 
Smith  158 


» 


194  INDEX 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   -  172 

Keeping  of  Records  172,  Ward  and  Stake  Records  172,  Historical 
Reports  173,  Completeness  and  Accuracy  173,  Up-to-Date  Records 
173 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma   79 

Kingdoms  Shaken  79,  War-Weary  World  80,  Relief  Extended  80, 
God  at  the  Helm  81,  Missionary  Enterprise  81,  Book  of  Mormon 
81,  Gospel  of  Salvation  82. 

Statistical  Report    11 

Sustaining  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers    18 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  119 

Third  Day — Afternoon  Meeting  146 

Third  Day — Morning  Meeting   119 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A  125 

European  Mission  Centennial  125,  The  Resurrection  126,  Fear 
and  Uncertainty  127,  Use  of  Knowledge  127,  Visitation  of  Moroni 
127,  Spirit  of  Brotherhood  128,  Redemption  of  the  Dead  129,  Need 
of  Temple  Work  130 

Wirthlin,  Elder  Joseph  L.  132 

Security  132,  Rejection  of  the  Lord  133,  Israel  in  Bondage  133, 
History  Repeats  Itself  134,  Case  of  Great  Britain  134,  Controlled 
Economy  134,  Welfare  Program  135,  Promises  Kept  135,  The  Lord 
Provides  136,  Security  in  Gospel  136. 

Young,  Elder  Clifford  E.  137 

Cost  of  Missionary  Service  137,  Sacrifices  of  Converts  138,  Con- 
version of  Grandmother  138,  Blessings  Received  139,  Jesus  the 
Christ  140,  Statement  of  Louis  Pasteur  140 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar   62 

Divine  Life  of  Jesus  63,  America's  Destiny  64,  Land  of  Liberty  64, 
Church  Reestablished  65,  Dedicatory  Prayer  65,  My  Redeemer 
Liveth  66 

Young,  Elder  S.  Dilworth   44 

Missionary  Principles  45,  Love  of  Country  45,  Love  of  People  45, 
Attitude  46,  The  Folks  at  Home  47,  Letter  from  Missionary  48, 
Support  of  Missionaries  49. 


IS  NURTURED  BY  EXPERIENCE  AND  TRUTH 


READ- 
FAITH  PROMOTING  STORIES  $1.25 

Compiled  by  Preston  Nibley 

PIONEER  STORIES  $1.35 

Compiled  by  Preston  Nibley 

THE  MORMON  PIONEERS   .$2.50 

By  E.  Cecil  McGavin 

NAUVOO.  THE  BEAUTIFUL    $3.00 

By  E.  Cecil  McGavin 

SHARING  THE  GOSPEL  WITH  OTHERS  $2.50 

By  President  George  Albert  Smith 

ON  THE  WAY  TO  IMMORTALITY  AND  ETERNAL  LIFE....$3.50 
By  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

SWEET  LOVE  REMEMBERED   $2.75 

By  Helen  Cortes  Stafford 

PROTESTORS  OF  CHRISTENDOM  $2.25 

By  lames  L.  Barker 

WORLD  RELIGIONS  IN  THE  LIGHT  OF  MORMONISM  ....$2.00 
By  Thomas  C.  Romney 

TRUTH  SEEKER  AND  MORMONISM    $1.00 

By  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

THE  CHURCH  IN  WAR  AND  PEACE   $1.00 

By  Stephen  L  Richards 

FUNDAMENTALS  OF  RELIGION   $1.50 

By  Charles  A.  Cqllis 

FRUITS  OF  RELIGION   $1.50 

By  Franklin  L.  West 

YOUTH  AND  THE  CHURCH  $1.75 

By  Harold  B.  Lee 

CONSTANCY  AMID  CHANGE   $2.00 

By  Albert  E.  Bowen 


DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 

44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


Enjoy  the  fellowship  of  Great  (Hinds 

by  Reading  GOOD  Books 

A  book  is  cm  invitation  to  share  the  thoughts  of  an  illum- 
inating mind.  Consider  the  enrichment  one  will  receive  from 
spending  quiet  hours  with  the  authors  of  these  books: 

George  Albert  Smith   SHARING  THE   GOSPEL  WITH 


OTHERS   $2.50 

Heber  J.  Grant  GOSPEL  STANDARDS   2.25 

David  O.  McKay         ANCIENT  APOSTLES   1.25 

J.  Reuben  Clark.  Jr.     ON  THE  WAY  TO  IMMORTALITY 

AND  ETERNAL  LIFE    3.50 

James  E.  Talmage       JESUS  THE  CHRIST    2.75 

ARTICLES  OF  FAITH    2.00 

Joseph  F.  Smith  GOSPEL  DOCTRINE   2.75 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith   ESSENTIALS  IN  CHURCH 

HISTORY    2.75 

TEACHINGS  OF  THE  PROPHET 

JOSEPH  SMITH    2.75 

LIFE  OF  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH    2.50 

SIGNS  OF  THE  TIMES   1.25 

RESTORATION  OF  ALL  THINGS..  1.75 

John  A.  Widtsoe  IN  SEARCH  OF  TRUTH   75 

HOW  THE  DESERT  WAS  TAMED..  1.25 

RATIONAL  THEOLOGY    1.25 

DISCOURSES  OF  BRIGHAM 
YOUNG    2.75 

Richard  L.  Evans         UNTO  THE  HELLS    1.50 

THIS  DAY  AND  ALWAYS    1.50 

"and  THE  SPOKEN  WORD"    1.50 

AT  THIS  SAME  HOUR    2.00 


These  and  many  other  sources  of  inspiration  are  available 
to  you  in  the  large  stock  of  the 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

Publishers  of  Latter-day  Saint  Literature 

44  East  South  Temple  Street 
Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 
"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 


