OnsL  dtuntbuuL  Jhirdisrfk. 


ANNUAL 

confERtncf 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Oft/iiL  2, 3,  If  and.  6,  1960 

With  Report  of  Discourses 


Published  by 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


The  One  Hundred  Thirtieth  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Thirtieth  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  was  held  in  the 
Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Sat- 
urday, Sunday,  Monday  and  Wednesday, 
April  2,  3,  4  and  6,  1960. 

The  general  sessions  of  the  Confer- 
ence were  held  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00 
p.m.,  Sunday,  Monday  and  Wednesday, 
and  the  General  Priesthood  meeting  was 
held  in  the  Tabernacle  Saturday  evening, 
April  2,  at  7:00  p.m. 

The  proceedings  of  the  general  ses- 
sions were  broadcast  and  telecast  over 
Station  KSL  and  KSL-TV  at  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  and  by  arrangement  through 
KSL  the  following  stations  made  avail- 
able to  their  listening  or  viewing 
audiences  one  or  more  of  the  six  general 
sessions* 

In  Utah:  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KSUB 
at  Cedar  City,  KVEL  at  Vernal,  KVNU 
at  Logan,  KDXU  at  St.  George. 

In  Idaho:  KRXK  at  Rexburg,  KID 
and  KID-TV  at  Idaho  Falls,  KPST  at 
Preston,  KBRV  at  Soda  Springs,  KBOI- 
TV  at  Boise,  KLIX-TV  at  Twin  Falls, 
KLEW-TV  at  Lewiston. 

In  Colorado:  KREX  at  Grand  Junc- 
tion, KBTV  at  Denver. 

In  California:  KSRO  at  Santa  Rosa, 
KRDG  and  KVIP-TV  at  Redding, 
KEEN  and  KNTV  at  San  Jose,  KTTV 
at  Los  Angeles,  KGO-TV  at  San  Fran- 
cisco, KOVR-TV  at  Stockton,  KFMB- 
TV  at  San  Diego,  KERO-TV  at  Bakers- 
field,  KIEM-TV  at  Eureka. 

In  Oregon:  KKID  at  Pendleton,  KBES- 
IV  at  Medford,  KOTI-TV  at  Klamath 
Falls,  KOIN-TV  at  Portland. 

In  Arizona:  KPHO  and  KPHO-TV  at 
Phoenix,  KCLS  at  Flagstaff,  K-GUN- 
TV  at  Tucson. 

In  New  Mexico:  KRSN  at  Los  Alamos. 

In  Montana:  KXLF-TV  at  Butte, 
KOOK-TV  at  Billings. 

In  Washington:  KXLY-TV  at  Spo- 
kane, KIMA-TV  at  Yakima,  KBAS-TV 
at  Ephrata,  KEPR-TV  at  Pasco  KTNT- 
TV  at  Tacoma. 


In  Nevada:  KLAS-TV  at  Las  Vegas. 

All  general  sessions  of  the  Conference 
were  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  on 
Temple  Square,  in  Barratt  Hall  (60 
North  Main  Street),  over  a  loudspeaking 
system  and  by  television.  Thousands, 
in  addition,  listened  to  the  services  on 
the  Tabernacle  Grounds  by  means  of 
amplifying  equipment. 

The  proceedings  of  the  General  Priest- 
hood meeting  were  broadcast  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall  over 
public  address  systems,  and  by  direct 
wire  over  a  public  address  system  to 
members  of  the  Priesthood  in  other  as- 
semblies throughout  the  United  States 
and  in  Canada. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided, 
and  conducted  the  services  at  each  of 
the  sessions  of  the  Conference,  including 
the  General  Priesthood  meeting. 

A  full  report  of  Columbia  Broadcast- 
ing System's  Church  of  the  Air  and 
Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broadcasts 
is  also  included  in  this  record.  (See 
pages  123  to  128.) 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  was  Clerk  of 
the  Conference. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
Present 

The  First  Presidency:  David  O. 
McKay,  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  Henry  D. 
Moyle. 

The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Harold  B.  Lee, 
Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson, 
Mark  E.  Petersen,  Delbert  L.  Stapley, 
Marion  G.  Romney,  LeGrand  Richards, 
Richard  L.  Evans,  George  Q.  Morris, 
Hugh  B.  Brown,  Howard  W.  Hunter. 

Patriarch  to  the  Church:  Eldred  G. 
Smith. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Alma  Sonne,  EIRay  L.  Christiansen, 
John  Longden,  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Gordon 
B.  Hinckley,  Henry  D.  Taylor,  William 
J.  Critchlow,  Jr.,  *. 

•Elder  Alvin  R.  Dyer  presiding  over  the  Euro- 
pean Mission. 


2  GENERAL  C 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy: 
Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins, 
Seymour  Dilworth  Young,  Milton  R. 
Hunter,  Bruce  R.  McConkie,  Marion  D. 
Hanks,  Albert  Theodore  Tuttle. 

Presiding  Bishopric:  Joseph  L.  Wirth- 
lin,  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  Carl  W. 
Buehner. 

General  Officers  and  Other 
Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  as  assistants, 
A.  William  Lund  and  Preston  Nibley. 

Members  of  the  General  Welfare 
Committee,  Church  Welfare  Program. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Edu- 
cation and  Administrator  Church  Board 
of  Education,  Directors  and  Associate 
Directors  of  Institutes,  and  Seminary 
Instructors. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Coun- 
selors, Presidents  of  Temples,  Patriarchs, 
High  Priests,  Seventies,  Elders,  General, 


Stake  and  Ward  officers  of  Auxiliary 
Associations,  etc.,  from  all  parts  of  the 
Church. 

Mission  Presidents:  Richard  L.  Evans, 
Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  City;  Jesse  A. 
Udall,  California;  Thomas  S.  Monson, 
Canadian;  George  Z.  Aposhian,  Central 
Atlantic  States;  Samuel  R.  Carpenter, 
Central  States;  Frank  H.  Brown,  East 
Central  States;  Gerald  G.  Smith,  Eastern 
States;  Clifford  O.  Gledhill,  Great  Lakes; 
Lincoln  F.  Hanks,  Gulf  States;  Harvey 
H.  Taylor,  Mexican;  John  E.  Carr,  New 
England;  Paul  C.  Child,  North  Central 
States;  Warren  E.  Pugh,  Northern  Cali- 
fornia; Israel  I.  Bentley,  Northern  Mexi- 
can; Richard  C.  Stratford,  Northern 
States;  Franklin  D.  Richards,  North- 
western States;  J.  Byron  Ravsten,  South- 
ern States;  Fred  W.  Turley,  Southwest 
Indian;  Ralph  E.  Brown,  Spanish  Amer- 
ican; Casper  W.  Merrill,  West  Central 
States;  Leland  M.  Perry,  West  Spanish 
American;  Parley  A.  Arave,  Western 
Canadian;  David  S.  Romney,  Western 
States. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


The  First  meeting  of  the  Conference 
was  the  General  Priesthood  meeting, 
which  was  held  in  the  large  Tabernacle 
Saturday  evening,  April  2,  at  7:00  p.m. 
President  McKay  presided  and  con- 
ducted the  exercises. 

The  music  for  this  meeting  was 
furnished  by  the  Portland  Stake  Priest- 
hood Chorus,  with  Elder  Bruce  Kelly 
directing  and  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the 
organ. 

President  McKay  opened  the  meeting, 
and  the  Conference,  with  the  following 
introductory  remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Some  of  you  will  remember  when 
this  General  Priesthood  Meeting  was 
held  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  everyone 
of  us  of  the  Priesthood  in  attendance  had 
a  seat.  Tonight,  this  General  Priesthood 
Session  of  the  One  Hundred  Thirtieth 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  will 
meet  in  closed  circuit  to  members  of 
the  Priesthood  gathered  in  the  Assembly 
Hall,  Barratt  Hall,  and  in  244  other 
Church  buildings  from  Coast  to  Coast 
and  in  Canada. 

You  will  be  pleased  to  know  that  the 
singing  during  this  session  will  be  fur- 
nished by  the  Portland  Stake  Priesthood 
Chorus,  Elder  Bruce  Kelly  as  director, 
and  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ.  There 
are  223  members  in  this  chorus,  each 
of  whom  paid  his  own  expenses.  One 
hundred  of  them  came  early  enough  to 
go  to  the  temple  last  night.  We  wel- 
come this  group  of  singers,  and  we  are 
very  grateful  for  your  presence.  God 
bless  you  for  the  service  you  render.  I 
know  all  listening  in  throughout  the 
United  States  and  Canada  wherever 
a  body  of  the  Priesthood  is  assembled 
will  be  inspired,  not  only  by  the  singing 


of  this  group,  but  the  willing  service 
they  are  now  rendering  to  the  Church. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Portland  Stake  Priesthood  Chorus  sing- 
ing, "Holy  City."  Walter  Richardson  is 
soloist,  and  as  stated,  Brother  Bruce  Kelly 
is  conducting.  Following  the  singing 
Elder  Ervin  W.  Atkerson,  president  of 
the  Dallas  Stake  in  Texas,  will  offer  the 
opening  prayer. 


The  Portland  Stake  Priesthood  Chorus 
sang,  "The  Holy  City." 

Ervin  W.  Atkerson,  President  of  the 
Dallas  Stake,  offered  the  invocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Portland  Stake  Priesthood  Chorus 
will  now  sing,  "No  Man  Is  An  Island," 
directed  by  Elder  Bruce  Kelly. 


Singing  by  the  Chorus,  "No  Man  Is 
An  Island." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  next  part  on  the  program  will  be 
under  the  direction  of  the  Committee 
having  in  charge  our  Servicemen's  Pro- 
gram, having  in  their  care  the  welfare 
of  our  boys  who  hold  the  Priesthood, 
who  are  also  in  the  service  of  their 
country. 

Following  the  presentation  of  the 
film,  Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie,  a  mem- 
ber of  that  Committee,  will  explain 
more  fully  and  clearly  the  responsibility 
of  the  priesthood  quorums  in  respect  to 
this  part  of  Church  work. 


A  film  presentation  pertaining  to  the 
Servicemen's  Program  of  the  Church  was 
then  presented,  with  the  following  com- 
mentary: 


ANNOUNCER: 

The  next  voice  you  hear  will  be  that  of  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  and  chairman  of  the  General  Church  Servicemen's  Committee. 


Picture  of  Brother  Lee 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE: 

The  Servicemen's  Program  of  the  Church  provides  a  method  for  keeping 
in  contact  with  members  in  the  armed  forces  throughout  the  world  so  that 


4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  2  First  Day 

these  brethren  and  sisters  may  receive  the  spiritual  guidance  and  direction 
they  so  much  need.  Careful  attention  to  the  instructions  which  follow  will 
aid  you  in  conducting  this  program  effectively. 

Picture  of  Young  Man 

This  young  man  is  of  the  age  to  enter  military  service.  He  is  an  active  church 
member.  Probably  he  is  typical  of  young  men  who  are  members  of  your  ward 
or  branch.   But  what  will  his  life  be  like  when  he  enters  the  service? 

Cover  of  "Look"  Magazine  (March  1st  issue) 

"Look"  Magazine,  in  the  issue  of  March  1,  1960,  described  the  conditions 
that  face  some  servicemen. 

Picture  of  Graham  in  City  Market  Square  (from  "Look"  Magazine) 

It  described  life  in  a  city  of  sin  and  sorrow,  and  says  that  the  best  place  a 
soldier  in  Korea  can  find  to  spend  his  time  on  a  pass  is  in  the  refugee-packed 
capital  of  Seoul.  Here,  the  magazine  says,  he  is  "besieged  by  advances  and 
every  kind  of  sin." 

Soldier  Leaning  Against  Post  (from  "Look") 

A  strange  city  is  always  lonely  for  a  soldier  far  from  home.  This  is  especially 
true  of  our  young  men  in  the  service  who  are  accustomed  to  living  in  good 
LDS  homes. 

Picture  of  Top  of  Letter  and  Ship 

Listen  to  this  excerpt  from  an  actual  letter  received  by  the  Servicemen's  Com- 
mittee from  a  young  church  member  serving  in  the  navy: 

Picture  of  Letter 

SERVICEMAN'S  VOICE: 

"This  ship  is  a  small  one,  yet  there  are  at  present  three  LDS  members  aboard. 
Of  the  three,  only  one  of  us  receives  the  Church  Section  of  the  Deseret  News, 
and  only  one  has  received  any  letters,  tracts  or  pamphlets. 

Picture  of  Ship 

Without  these,  and  with  few  chances  to  attend  meetings,  we  lose  track  of  the 
Church,  and  in  a  short  time  lose  ourselves.  I  was  one  of  those  that  lost — 
and  in  my  mind,  what  has  been  lost  is  lost  for  all  time.  I  see  little  point  in 
returning  at  this  late  date  to  the  fold." 

"Era"  Page  "Dear  Brother  McConkie"  Letter 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE: 

Here's  another  letter  addressed  "Dear  Brother  McConkie."  It  was  published 
recently  in  the  "ERA."  It  tells  the  story  of  a  young  member  of  the  Church 
who  would  rather  remain  alone  in  the  barracks  on  weekends  than  go  to  town 
with  associates  who  do  not  make  worthy  companions.  Listen  to  what  this 
young  man  says  about  his  lonely  weekends  in  camp: 

Young  Man  in  Uniform  Sitting  on  Bunk 
YOUNG  MAN'S  VOICE: 

During  this  period,  you  have  only  two  things  to  look  forward  to — your  church 
meetings  and  your  friends,  with  whom  you  only  spend  an  hour  or  two  a 


SERVICEMEN'S  PROGRAM  5 

week — and  those  precious  letters  from  back  home.  Very  often  when  you  need 
that  letter  or  Church  Section  or  the  "Improvement  Era,"  it  just  isn't  there. 

BISHOP: 

Tracts,  Pamphlets  and  White  Card 
ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE: 

The  Servicemen's  Program,  if  properly  followed,  will  help  prevent  his  loneli- 
ness and  provide  an  anchor  for  young  men  while  they  are  away  from  home. 
To  illustrate  how  this  program  functions,  we  are  going  to  follow  a  typical 
case  .  .  . 

Picture  of  Jerry  Goodfellow 

that  of  Jerry  Goodfellow,  an  Elder,  who  is  about  to  enter  military  service. 
Fortunately  Jerry  has  many  things  in  his  favor.  He  has  been  on  a  mission 
and  is  active  in  the  Church. 

Picture  of  Bishop  Looking  for  Jerry  in  Foyer  of  Chapel 

It  is  only  natural,  therefore,  that  his  bishop  hears  about  Jerry's  draft  call 
and  is  watching  for  him  after  Priesthood  Meeting  one  morning. 

Bishop  Shaking  Hands  with  Jerry 

BISHOP: 

Jerry,  I  hear  you're  going  into  the  service. 

Close-Up  of  Jerry  and  Back  of  Bishop's  Head 

JERRY: 

That's  right,  bishop.   I  leave  next  week. 
BISHOP: 

I  have  some  things  in  my  office  that  will  help  you  while  you're  away.  Do 
you  have  a  few  minutes? 

]ERRY: 

You  bet! 

Bishop  and  Jerry  Walking  Upstairs 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE: 

Because  inactive  boys  often  leave  for  the  service  without  the  bishop's  knowl- 
edge, it  is  important  that  a  special  effort  be  made  to  keep  in  close  contact 
with  them  as  they  approach  the  age  when  they  will  be  eligible  for  military 
service. 

Bishop  Seated  Near  Jerry  by  a  Desk 

BISHOP: 

Jerry,  the  Church  has  provided  many  ways  to  help  you  and  other  young  men 
like  yourself  to  take  the  best  possible  advantage  of  the  time  that  you  spend 
in  the  service.  I  hope  you  can  make  this  time  profitable  for  you  and  for  the 
Church. 


6  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  2  First  Day 

Close-Up  of  Booklet:  "So  You  Are  Going  Into  the  Service?" 

Here  is  a  little  booklet  published  by  the  Church  Servicemen's  Committee 
called  "So  You  Are  Going  Into  Military  Service?"  ; 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE: 

This  wise  bishop  keeps  a  supply  of  these  booklets  on  hand.  It  is  the  instruction 
of  the  First  Presidency  that  each  serviceman  receive  one.  The  supply  of  these 
is  replenished  upon  request  from  the  General  Latter-day  Saint  Servicemen's 
Committee  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

Inside  of  Booklet  Opened  to  Part  Referring  to  Registering  in  Service 
BISHOP: 

This  booklet  suggests  that  you  be  sure  to  register  in  the  service  as  being  a 
member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Dog  Tags 

When  you  receive  your  Dog  Tags,  you  should  ask  to  have 

Close-Up  of  "Latter-day  Saint"  on  Tags 

"LDS"  or  "Latter-day  Saint"  stamped  on  them  instead  of  just  the  letter  "P" 
for  Protestant.  As  you  know,  Jerry,  we  are  not  properly  classified  as  a  Protes- 
tant church. 

Special  LDS  Tag 

This  small  aluminum  tag  will  be  sent  to  you  from  the  Church  Servicemen's 
Committee.   It  should  be  worn  on  the  chain  with  your  Dog  Tags. 

JERRY: 

It  says,  "I  am  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints — 
(Mormon).  The  other  side  says,  "In  the  case  of  need,  notify  LDS  chaplain 
or  member." 

Jerry  Holding  Up  Tag  and  Talking  to  Bishop 
How  did  you  say  I  would  get  this  tag,  bishop? 

White  Card  . 

BISHOP: 

I  will  send  this  white  card  to  the  General  Servicemen's  Committee  at  47  East 
South  Temple  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah.  When  they  receive  it,  they  will 
mail  the  identification  tag  to  you.  You  will  also  receive  two  books  .  .  . 

Servicemen's  Edition  of  "The  Book  of  Mormon"  and  "Principles  of  the  Gospel" 

the  servicemen's  edition  of  "The  Book  of  Mormon"  and  the  "Principles  of 
the  Gospel."   Keep  these  and  read  them  often. 

"Servicemen's  Directory" 

The  "Servicemen's  Directory"  will  also  be  sent  to  you  so  that  you  can  locate 
the  ward,  branch  or  mission  nearest  you  anywhere  in  the  world.  Since  a 
duplicate  copy  of  your  recommend  will  be  forwarded  to  the  ward,  branch  or 
mission  nearest  your  military  station,  church  representatives  will  be  anticipat- 
ing your  attendance  at  the  meetings.  They  will  be  on  hand  to  aid  you  and 
give  you  a  number  of  booklets,  including 


SERVICEMEN'S  PROGRAM  7 

Booklets:  "Message  of  the  First  Presidency"  and  "Chastity" 
by  Mark  E.  Petersen 

"A  Message  of  the  First  Presidency,"  which  outlines  the  attitude  of  the  Church 
with  respect  to  military  service,  war,  communism  and  related  matters,  and 
an  excellent  discussion  on  "Chastity"  by  Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen. 

Bishop  Holding  Two  Booklets 

JERRY: 

Thank  you,  bishop.  Fll  be  sure  to  read  them  and  also  heed  the  instructions 
and  counsel  I  receive. 

Bishop  with  His  Hands  on  File  Cabinet  Drawer 

BISHOP: 

Jerry,  since  you  have  been  through  the  temple,  I  have  a  special  letter  from 
the  First  Presidency  which  you  should  read. 

Letter:  Heading  and  Date 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE: 

Notice  that  the  bishop  does  not  attempt  to  interpret  its  contents  for  Jerry,  but 
allows  him  to  read  it  personally.  Copies  of  this  letter,  which  is  dated  October  2, 
1950,  are  in  the  files  of  all  bishops  and  stake  and  mission  presidents. 

Bishop 

BISHOP: 

Jerry,  I'm  sure  you  are  going  to  appreciate  receiving  "The  Improvement  Era" 
and  the  Church  Section  of  the  Deseret  News  while  you  are  away.  Since  you 
are  an  Elder,  these  will  be  sent  to  you  by  your  Elders'  quorum. 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE: 

In  case  of  Aaronic  Priesthood  members,  this  would  be  taken  care  of  by  the 
bishop. 

Front  Page  of  Church  Section  with  Address 
for  Subscriptions 

Subscriptions  for  the  Church  Section  of  the  Deseret  News  should  be  sent  to: 
Deseret  News 
Circulation  Department 
143  South  Main  Street 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

The  address  of  the  serviceman  and  $3.50  for  one  year  or  $2.00  for  a  6-month's 
subscription  should  be  enclosed. 

Front  Page  of  "Era"  with  Section  for  Address 

"Era"  subscriptions  should  be  sent  to: 
"Improvement  Era" 
50  North  Main  Street 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Enclose  $3.00  for  a  one-year  subscription  or  $1.50  for  six  months.  If  the 
serviceman  returns  home  before  his  subscription  to  either  publication  expires, 
you  may  have  it  transferred  to  another  serviceman  by  writing  the  publication 


8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  2  First  Day 

and  requesting  the  change.  If  the  serviceman  is  transferred,  he  should  promptly 
notify  the  Deseret  News  and  the  Era  office  of  his  new  address. 

Bishop 

BISHOP: 

Jerry,  the  Church  News  offers  you  an  excellent  opportunity  to  keep  in  touch 
with  the  Church.   Just  look  what  it  contains  .  .  . 

Three  "Message  of  Inspiration"  Pages 

Here  in  the  front  you  always  find  a  "Message  of  Inspiration"  from  one  of  the 
General  Authorities. 

Pages  of  General  Authorities  Messages 

The  full  texts  of  all  speeches  by  the  First  Presidency  are  printed  in  the  Church 
Section,  along  with  a  record  of  the  day  to  day  progress  of  the  Church. 

Listings  of  Visits  by  General  Authorities 

You'll  want  to  check  the  listings  of  visits  by  the  General  Authorities  to  stakes 
and  missions  near  your  military  station. 

Editorial  Page  of  Two  Papers 

I'm  sure  you'll  find  this  back  page  worthwhile  reading,  too.  It  carries  a  timely 
religious  editorial  each  week. 

Covers  of  "The  Improvement  Era" 

"The  Improvement  Era"  is  filled  with  worthwhile  reading. 

Era  Open  to  President  McKay's  Editorial  Page 

You'll  want  to  read  President  McKay's  monthly  editorial — always  a  message 
of  inspiration. 

Era  Showing  Joseph  Fielding  Smith's  "Your  Question" 

Then  there's  a  monthly  article  by  President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  titled 
Your  Question." 

Era  Showing  Drawings  of  General  Authorities  and  First  Page  of 
President  McKay's  Talk 

In  the  June  and  December  issues  you'll  receive  the  complete  text  of  all 
General  Conference  talks  .  .  . 

Front  Cover  of  November  Era  and  Pictures  of  Presidents  of  the  Church 

and  special  issues  from  time  to  time  carry  pictures  and  articles  of  lasting  interest. 

Bishop  and  Jerry 

I  know  you'll  treasure  your  copies  of  the  "Era"  and  the  Church  Section, 
Jerry,  because  so  many  of  our  servicemen  write  to  express  their  appreciation 
for  them. 

Bishop  Reading  Letter 

Here's  a  letter  from  Korea,  for  instance.  It  reads  .  .  .  "Each  month  I  receive 
The  Improvement  Era  and  can  hardly  wait  to  sit  down  and  eat  up  the  spiritual 


SERVICEMEN'S  PROGRAM  9 

food  contained  therein.  In  the  last  two  days  I  have  read  the  current  issue 
from  cover  to  cover.  I  only  hope  and  pray  that  each  bishop  and  quorum 
president  spares  no  effort  to  get  it  to  their  men  in  the  service." 

Bishop  Holding  Letter 

Similar  letters  referring  to  the  "Era"  and  Church  News  are  received  regularly. 

Three  Texts  from  Home  Study  Courses 

You'll  want  to  make  the  best  use  of  your  spare  time  in  the  service,  Jerry.  One 
way  to  do  this  is  to  take  extension  couress  from  the  Brigham  Young  University. 
You  can  do  this  through  the  United  States  Armed  Forces  Institute  at  a  very 
nominal  cost.  Just  request  that  you  be  enrolled  at  the  BYU  when  you  register 
with  the  Armed  Forces  Institute. 

BYU  Home  Study  Catalog 

This  catalog  will  be  sent  to  you  so  that  you  can  select  the  classes  you  would 
like  to  complete.  The  advantage  of  enrolling  at  the  BYU,  of  course,  is  that 
a  substantial  number  of  excellent  religion  courses  are  available  along  with  the 
regular  academic  work. 

Bishop 

You  can  expect  to  receive  a  letter  from  me  at  least  once  a  month,  Jerry. 

Missionary  Tracts  and  a  Ward  Bulletin 

I'll  send  you  missionary  tracts  from  time  to  time  and  try  to  keep  you  up  to  date 
on  the  ward  news. 

Hand  with  Pen  Writing  Letter  which  Begins:  "Dear  Jerry  .  .  ." 

Your  quorum  presidency  will  write  to  you  once  a  month,  too.  You  should 
remember  to  write  home  often,  and  I'll  be  looking  for  a  letter  occasionally,  too. 

Jerry  Listening 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE: 

At  this  interview  continues,  Jerry  will  receive  counsel  from  his  bishop  relative 
to  morality  and  personal  chastity. 

Jerry  Listening 

He  will  be  reminded  of  the  blessings  promised  to  those  who  are  faithful  in 
the  payment  of  tithes  and  offerings  and  to  those  who  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 
The  bishop  will  advise  Jerry  to  have  his  own  secret  prayers  every  morning 
and  night  .  .  . 

Picture  of  LDS  Chapel 

To  participate  in  the  activities  of  nearby  wards  and  branches  of  the  Church. 
Jerry  will  be  counseled  to  pursue  a  course  of  life  which  will  make  him  a  living 
witness  of  the  divine  mission  of  the  Church. 

Two  Soldiers  Looking  at  Tract 

He  will  be  told  that  many  converts  are  being  made  among  servicemen  and 
that  his  time  in  the  service  can  be  a  second  mission  for  him  if  he  lives  as 
he  should  and  takes  every  available  opportunity  to  tell  his  fellow  servicemen 
about  Joseph  Smith  and  the  restoration  of  the  gospel. 


10  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  2  First  Day 

Two  Servicemen  Seated 

At  one  military  base  in  the  United  States  during  the  Korean  conflict,  a  total 
of  125  baptisms  were  gained  from  among  servicemen  in  the  course  of  a  single 
year. 

Bishop 

Under  the  spirit  of  inspiration,  the  bishop  will  give  Jerry  any  special  items 
of  instruction  which  he  may  need. 

Bishop  and  Jerry  Shaking  Hands 

JERRY: 

Bishop,  I  can't  tell  you  how  much  this  little  talk  has  helped  me. 
Close-Up  of  Bishop  and  Jerry  Shaking  Hands 

BISHOP: 

I  have  great  confidence  in  you,  Jerry.  I  will  be  looking  forward  to  having 
you  back  in  our  ward  organization  again  when  you  return  from  the  service.  I 
know  you  will  make  this  time  in  the  service  profitable  both  for  yourself  and 
for  the  Church. 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE: 

Having  completed  this  interview,  the  bishop  should  confer  with  the  president 
of  Jerry's  Elders'  quorum. 

Bishop  and  Elders'  President 

BISHOP: 

Brother  Henderson,  as  you  know,  Jerry  Goodfellow  is  leaving  for  the  service 
next  week.  I  am  sure  you  will  see  that  he  receives  the  "Era"  and  the  Church 
Section,  and  monthly  letters  from  the  quorum  the  same  as  the  other  service- 
men from  your  quorum. 

Picture  of  Booklet  of  Instructions  from  the  First  Presidency 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE: 

The  First  Presidency  has  placed  the  responsibility  of  sending  subscriptions 
to  the  "Era"  and  Church  News  upon  the  priesthood  quorums  where  holders 
of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  are  concerned,  and  upon  the  bishop  for  all 
others.  Quorum  or  ward  funds  may  be  used  for  this  purpose. 

Bishop  Standing,  with  Letter  in  Hand,  Showing  It  to  Ward  Clerk 
BISHOP: 

Brother  Warner,  Jerry  Goodfellow  will  be  leaving  for  the  service  next  week. 
I'm  sure  you  remember  the  letter  we  received  from  the  First  Presidency  entitled 

Letter:  "Changes  in  LDS  Servicemen's  Program" 

"Changes  in  LDS  Servicemen's  Program." 

WARD  CLERK: 

If  I  understand  this  new  program  correctly,  bishop,  I  am  to  retain  the  original 
white  copy  of  Jerry's  membership  record  here  in  the  ward,  as  before. 


SERVICEMEN'S  PROGRAM  II 

Pink  Membership  Record  Form 

This  duplicate  copy  of  the  membership  record,  printed  on  pink  paper  and 
entitled,  "Serviceman's  Duplicate  Membership  Record,"  should  be  forwarded 
through  the  Presiding  Bishopric's  Office  to  the  stake  or  mission  in  which  the 
serviceman's  station  is  located. 

Bishop  and  Ward  Clerk:  Clerk  with  Pink  Membership  Record  in  Hand 

BISHOP: 

That's  correct,  Bro.  Warner.  If  Jerry  were  married  and  members  of  his  family 
were  to  accompany  him,  a  similar  course  would  be  followed  with  respect  to 
the  records  of  his  family.  When  these  records  are  sent  in,  they  must  show 
an  actual  address  and  not  just  an  A.P.O.  or  F.P.O.  listing.  These  listings 
alone  are  not  sufficient  to  locate  a  branch  or  ward.  Of  course,  duplicate 
membership  records  are  forwarded  only  when  members  will  be  in  the  service 
more  than  six  months. 

Ward  Clerk  Facing  Camera 

WARD  CLERK: 

That's  right,  and  according  to  the  letter,  "Duplicate  records  of  membership 
for  all  brethren  in  the  armed  services  who  are  stationed  outside  the  areas 
of  stakes  and  missions  will  be  kept  by  the  General  LDS  Servicemen's  Committee 
in  Salt  Lake  City." 

Membership  Size  PBO  Envelope  with  Pink  Membership  Records  Protruding 
BISHOP: 

That's  right,  Bro.  Warner;  then  the  bishops  and  branch  presidents  in  the 
stakes  and  missions  where  servicemen  and  their  families  are  located  will  assume 
responsibility  for  their  spiritual  well-being  just  as  if  the  original  membership 
records  were  in  their  hands. 

Several  Church  Statistical  Reports 

This  includes  the  performing  of  priesthood  ordinations,  issuing  temple  recom- 
mends, receiving  tithing  and  other  contributions,  and  supervising  all  priest- 
hood and  auxiliary  activities. 

Pink  Membership  Records 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE: 

If  these  duplicate  copies  of  the  membership  record  have  not  been  completed 
and  forwarded  for  all  appropriate  members  of  your  ward  or  branch,  this 
matter  should  be  given  immediate  attention. 

"The  Purpose  of  the  Servicemen's  Program  is  to  Bring  the  Church  to  the 
Serviceman  and  the  Serviceman  to  the  Church". 

The  purpose  of  the  Servicemen's  Program  is  to  "bring  the  Church  to  the 
serviceman  and  the  serviceman  to  the  Church."  Your  participation  in  the 
program  as  a  bishop,  quorum  president,  high  councilman  or  stake  president 
is  essential  to  its  success.  V  ' 

Jerry  and  Bishop  Shaking  Hands 

The  rewards  in  this  work  are  great  because  the  program  involves  the  guidance 
of  young  men  during  a  very  critical  period  in  their  lives.   A  serviceman  told 


12  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  2  First  Day 

one  of  the  General  Authorities  this  story  about  the  effect  of  a  simple  incident 
in  his  life: 

Picture  of  Army  Barracks 

SERVICEMAN: 

I  was  about  to  leave  the  barracks  to  go  into  town  with  some  of  the  men  in 
my  company.  We  were  to  meet  some  girls,  and  I  knew  the  plans  were 
not  those  which  would  be  appropriate  for  a  member  of  the  Church. 

Open  Foot  Locker  and  "Era" 

As  I  opened  my  foot  locker,  I  noticed  a  copy  of  "The  Improvement  Era" 
which  had  been  sent  to  me  by  my  bishop.  I  hadn't  read  it,  nor  did  I 
read  it  at  that  time.  But  it  reminded  me  of  home  and  of  my  responsibilities  to 
myself  and  to  the  Church.  I  decided  not  to  go  into  town,  and  I  am  sure  I 
saved  myself  from  a  tragic  mistake.  I  will  be  eternally  grateful  for  the  thought- 
fulness  of  my  bishop  and  for  the  stabilizing  influence  of  the  Church  during 
my  time  in  the  service. 

Picture  of  Brother  Lee 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE: 

What  greater  reward  could  we  ask  than  to  be  able  to  make  such  a  contribution 
to  the  eternal  happiness  of  one  of  our  brothers?  The  purpose  of  the  Service- 
men's Program  is  to  help  our  brethren  and  sisters  in  the  armed  services  to 
become  worthy  of  the  blessings  promised  them  by  the  First  Presidency  in  a 
message  to  the  servicemen  delivered  in  the  closing  session  of  the  112th  General 
Conference  of  the  Church  .  .  . 

Message  in  Full 

"To  our  young  men  who  go  into  service,  no  matter  whom  they  serve  or 
where,  we  say  live  clean,  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  pray  to  Him 
constantly  to  preserve  you  in  truth  and  righteousness;  live  as  you  pray  .  .  . 

Text  .  .  . 

and  then,  whatever  betides  you,  the  Lord  will  be  with  you  and  nothing 
will  happen  to  you  that  will  not  be  to  the  honor  and  glory  of  God  and  to 
your  salvation  and  exaltation. 

Text  .  .  . 

There  will  come  into  your  hearts  from  the  living  of  the  pure  life  you  pray  for, 
a  joy  that  will  pass  your  powers  of  expression  or  understanding. 

Text  .  .  . 

The  Lord  will  be  always  near  you;  He  will  comfort  you;  you  will  feel  His 
presence  in  the  hour  of  your  greatest  tribulation. 

Text  .  .  . 

He  will  guard  and  protect  you  to  the  full  extent  that  accords  with  his  all-wise 
purpose. 

Text  .  .  . 

When  you  return  to  your  homes,  having  lived  the  righteous  life,  how  great 
will  be  your  happiness  .  .  .  that  you  have  lived  as  the  Lord  commanded. 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE  13 
Text  .  .  . 

You  will  return  so  disciplined  in  righteousness  that  thereafter  all  Satan's  wiles 
and  stratagems  will  leave  you  untouched. 

Text .  .  . 

Your  faith  and  testimony  will  be  strong  beyond  breaking.  You  will  be  looked 
up  to  and  revered  as  having  passed  through  the  fiery  furnace  of  trial  and 
temptation  and  come  forth  unharmed. 

Text  .  .  . 

Your  brethren  will  look  to  you  for  counsel,  support  and  guidance.  You  will 
be  the  anchors  to  which,  thereafter,  the  youth  of  Zion  will  moor  their  faith 
in  man."  End  of  First  Presidency's  Message. 

Bishop  Shaking  Hands  with  Jerry 

With  your  help  and  constant  attention  to  the  Servicemen's  Program,  our 
young  men  throughout  the  world  will  feel  the  influence  of  the  Church  and 
will  be  instilled  with  the  desire  to  be  worthy  of  the  promises  made  to  them  by 
the  First  Presidency.  God  grant  that  it  may  be  so.  In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

—  END  — 

President  David  O.  McKay:  after  Brother  McConkie  speaks,  and  we 

Just  remain  seated,  brethren,  until    shall  save  some  time.  Thank  you. 

ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

President  McKay  and  Brethren  of  the  Mormon  trainees  were  of  extremely 

Priesthood:  high  caliber,  possessing  unusual  leader- 

We  have  just  seen  and  heard  a  dra-  ship  ability, 

matic  and  compelling  presentation  sum-  "During  one  year,  twenty-four  of  our 

marizing  the  servicemen's  program  of  brethren  received  outstanding  achieve- 

the  Church — a  program  designed  to  ment  awards  from  the  several  service 

care  for  the  spiritual  well-being  of  our  schools  housed  on  the  post.  Nineteen 

brethren  in  the  armed  services.  of  these  were  returned  missionaries. 

In  addition  to  the  excellent  counsel  "One  of  our  most  loyal  friends  and 
given  in  this  presentation,  may  I  suggest  supporters  at  Fort  Ord  was  the  corn- 
two  additional  things  that  very  properly  mander  of  the  post,  General  Robert  B. 
and  wisely  should  be  done  in  the  Church  McClure.  On  several  occasions,  at 
to  help  care  for  the  spiritual  welfare  of  which  I  was  present  in  an  official 
our  brethren  who  go  in  the  service.  I  capacity  as  one  of  the  post  chaplains, 
will  preface  these  two  suggestions  by  General  McClure,  in  his  initial  orienta- 
reading  three  brief  excerpts  from  letters  tion  to  new  troops,  would  ask  the  Mor- 
which  have  been  received  by  the  serv-  mon  missionaries  to  rise.  He  would 
icemen's  committee.  then  address  himself  to  the  officers  and 

From  the  first  letter:  "During  my  tour  men  of  the  assembled  regiment  and  say: 

of  duty  as  an  L.D.S.  Chaplain  at  Fort  'Men  take  a  good  look  at  these  Mormon 

Ord,  California,  it  was  my  privilege  to  missionaries.    Make  their  acquaintance, 

minister  unto  a  particularly  outstanding  Follow  them,  do  what  they  do.  These 

group  of  Latter-day  Saint  servicemen,  men  will  be  your  leaders.' 

On  numerous  occasions  it  was  brought  "In  a  letter  I  received  from  General 

to  my  attention,  by  many  of  the  high  McClure  upon  being  discharged  from 

ranking  officers  of  that  post,  that  our  the  service  he  wrote  among  other  things 


14 

Saturday,  April  2 

the  following:  'I  have  the  highest  per- 
sonal regard  for  Latter-day  Saint  soldiers, 
and  appreciate  so  much  the  fine  and 
patriotic  service  they  daily  render  to 
their  country.  Since  I  have  been  at  Fort 
Ord,  I  have  noted  with  great  personal 
interest  the  splendid  record  made  in 
training  by  Mormon  officers  and  men, 
particularly  the  returned  missionaries.'  " 
Signed  by  Ben  F.  Mortensen,  a  Latter- 
day  Saint  Chaplain. 

From  the  second  letter:  "While  a 
chaplain  I  was  stationed  at  Fort  Ord. 
My  assignment  was  with  the  Division 
Artillery.  Each  Saturday  I  was  the 
presiding  Chaplain  at  the  leadership 
school  graduation,  and  General  Robert 
B.  McClure  was  the  regular  commence- 
ment speaker.  During  several  of  these 
graduations,  General  McClure  asked  for 
the  L.D.S.  returned  missionaries  to 
stand.  Then  he  said:  'These  returned 
missionaries  from  the  Mormon  Church 
are  outstanding  young  men,  and  if  you 
will  follow  their  examples,  you'll  never 
go  wrong.' 

"I  became  intimately  associcated  with 
General  McClure  and  have  flown  with 
him  on  several  different  occasions.  He 
always  introduced  me  as  his  Mormon 
Chaplain  and  would  say,  'This  Chaplain 
has  been  on  a  two-year  mission  for  the 
Mormon  Church.  These  returned  mis- 
sionaries are  some  of  the  finest  soldiers 
in  the  army.' 

"Also  on  several  occasions  at  the  gen- 
eral orientation  sessions,  General  Mc- 
Clure asked  the  returned  missionaries  to 
stand.  He  would  then  tell  the  group 
of  inductees  that  these  boys  had  been 
on  two-year  missions  in  some  part  of 
the  world  or  other  and  really  knew 
how  to  live.  'Follow  their  examples,' 
he  would  say. 

"My  other  duty  assignment  was  in 
Korea  for  18  months.  While  serving  in 
the  Second  and  the  Seventh  Divisions, 
officers  have  remarked  that  a  returned 
missionary  from  the  L.D.S.  Church 
could  be  relied  upon  as  a  good  re- 
sponsible soldier."  Signed  John  R.  Con- 
nell,  Jr.,  Chaplain. 

Brother  Frank  C.  Kimball,  one  of 
those  who  represents  the  Church  on  its 
General  Chaplain's  Committee  in  Wash- 
ington, after  attending  a  three-day 
annual  United  States  Air  Force  Staff 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

Chaplain's  Conference,  included  the 
following  statement  in  his  report:  "It 
was  pointed  out  by  Chaplain  John  C. 
O'Laughlin,  of  the  Office  of  the  Chief 
of  Air  Force  Chaplains,  that  the  young 
people  coming  into  the  military  service 
should  have  a  better  pre-induction  train- 
ing in  spiritual  matters.  He  said  that 
from  studies  which  have  been  made, 
our  young  people  of  today  are  sadly, 
spiritually  illiterate." 

Now,  my  two  suggestions,  offered  in 
addition  to  what  has  been  so  well  sum- 
marized in  the  film,  are  these:  First,  the 
servicemen's  program  does  not  begin 
with  entrance  into  the  armed  services. 
Probably  the  most  important  thing  con- 
nected with  this  program  is  the  long 
course  of  preparation  that  goes  on  in 
the  home  and  through  the  organiza- 
tions of  the  Church,  to  get  young  men 
ready  to  go  out  into  the  world  and  to 
stand  up  against  the  downgrading  effects 
of  the  environment  which  is  all  too 
frequently  encountered  by  young  peo- 
ple away  from  home. 

I  think  this  means  that  the  whole 
program  of  the  Church  which  deals 
with  the  youth  must  be  geared  toward 
getting  them  ready  for  military  service. 
Specifically  and  especially,  it  means  that 
we  must  encourage  all  of  our  young 
men  to  become  qualified  and  worthy 
to  serve  as  missionaries,  and  then  to  fill 
full-time  missions  before  they  are  drafted 
or  inducted  into  the  service.  In  the 
event  they  are  going  in  only  for  a  six- 
month  period  before  reaching  the  mis- 
sionary age,  we  must  give  them  even 
more  encouragement,  training,  direction 
and  indoctrination,  both  in  the  home 
and  through  the  programs  of  the 
Church,  including  the  opportunity  to 
engage  in  missionary-type  activity. 

My  second  suggestion  is  this:  Since 
young  men  in  the  service,  at  the  end  of 
their  basic  training  period,  have  time  on 
their  hands,  we  need  to  use  them  in  the 
organizations  of  the  Church  near  the 
installations  where  they  are  stationed. 
There  is  no  substitute  for  service  in  the 
Church.  It  will  increase  spirituality 
and  testimony  and  the  prospect  of  gain- 
ing all  of  the  blessings  of  the  gospel. 
We  now  have  servicemen  who  are  in 
stake  presidencies,  on  high  councils,  in 
bishoprics,  and  in  the  auixiliary  organ- 
izations, plus  a  great  host  of  them  serv- 


PRESIDENT  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


15 


ing  as  part-time  missionaries  in  the 
stakes  and  in  the  missions. 

We  have  upwards  of  12,000  young 
men  now  in  the  service.  It  is  probable 
that  among  them  there  are  added  thou- 
sands by  actual  count  who  could  be 
called  into  missionary  service,  and  whose 
labors  would  result  in  bringing  into  the 
kingdom  an  added  host  of  honest  and 
upright  people  who  as  yet  have  not  had 
the  privilege  of  hearing  the  true  gospel 
taught. 

There  is  probably  nothing  more  im- 
portant, and  nothing  which  will  be  of 
greater  profit  in  the  long  run  for  our 
whole  servicemen's  program  than  so  to 
condition  and  train  our  young  men  as 
to  qualify  them  for  missionary  service 
before  they  go  into  the  armed  services, 
and  then  to  utilize  a  second  time  in  the 
missionary  cause  their  talents,  faith  and 
testimony  after  they  have  been  called 
to  fulfil  their  civic  and  governmental 


responsibilities  in  the  service. 

God  grant  that  we  may  effect  such  a 
program.  In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  congregation  will  now  sing,  "Do 
What  Is  Right,"  with  Elder  Bruce  Kelly 
conducting.  You  will  arise,  and  as  we 
do,  the  General  Authorities  will  return 
to  their  places. 


The  Chorus  and  congregation  joined 
in  singing  the  hymn,  "Do  What  Is 
Right." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Henry  D.  Moyle  of  the  First 
Presidency  of  the  Church  will  now  ad- 
dress us. 


PRESIDENT  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


Brethren,  this  is  a  great  privilege  and 
indeed  a  great  responsibility.  I  ask 
very  humbly  and  sincerely  for  an  inter- 
est in  your  faith  and  prayers. 

Victor  Hugo  once  wrote,  "There  is 
nothing  in  the  world  so  powerful  as 
an  idea  whose  time  has  come."  I  say 
the  time  to  strike  is  here.  The  founda- 
tion for  a  new  era  in  proselyting 
throughout  the  world  has  been  laid  for 
these  many  years  past.  This  work  in- 
volves all  of  us — Priesthood,  Auxiliary 
organizations,  and  newly  converted 
members.  Through  united  action  the 
revealed  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  can  be 
presented  to  the  world. 

We  are  indeed  preparing  for  the 
Second  Coming  of  Christ.  This  is  the 
Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times. 
We  have  the  task  of  representing  our 
Heavenly  Father  in  this  preparation.  We 
have  as  tools  all  that  has  gone  before 
in  all  generations  of  time,  including  the 
revelation  given  to  Enos.  (Enos  10.)  In 
Section  27  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants we  read,  speaking  of  the  Priest- 
hood of  the  Church,  what  the  Lord  has 
said: 

"Unto  whom  I  have  committed  the 
keys  of  my  kingdom,  and  a  dispensa- 


tion of  the  gospel  for  the  last  times; 
and  for  the  fulness  of  times,  in  the 
which  I  will  gather  together  in  one  all 
things,  both  which  are  in  heaven,  and 
which  are  on  earth."  (D&C  27:13.) 

And  in  the  124th  Section  we  read: 
"For  I  deign  to  reveal  unto  my  church 
things  which  have  been  kept  hid  from 
before  the  foundation  of  the  world, 
things  that  pertain  to  the  dispensation 
of  the  fulness  of  times."  (D&C  124:41.) 

President  John  Taylor  once  said, 
"Where  the  Kingdom  of  God  is  not, 
there  is  nothing."  Let  me  paraphrase 
this  statement  of  Victor  Hugo's  which 
I  read  in  the  beginning:  "There  is 
nothing  in  the  world  so  powerful  as 
truth  whose  time  has  come,"  and  that  is 
exactly  the  position  in  which  we  find 
ourselves  in  the  Church  today.  I  do  not 
know  where  we  can  find  a  more  won- 
derful description  of  the  world  today 
and  the  need  for  the  work  and  the  power, 
loyalty  and  devotion  of  the  Priesthood, 
than  we  do  in  the  84th  Section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants: 

"And  the  whole  world  lieth  in  sin, 
and  groaneth  under  darkness  and  under 
the  bondage  of  sin. 

"And  by  this  you  may  know  they 


16  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  2 

are  under  the  bondage  of  sin,  because 
they  come  not  unto  me. 

"For  whoso  cometh  not  unto  me  is 
under  the  bondage  of  sin. 

"And  whoso  receiveth  not  my  voice  is 
not  acquainted  with  my  voice,  and  is 
not  of  me. 

"And  by  this  you  may  know  the  right- 
eous from  the  wicked,  and  that  the 
whole  world  groaneth  under  sin  and 
darkness  even  now."  (D&C  84:49-53.) 

It  is  our  responsibility  as  brethren 
holding  the  Priesthood  of  God  to  bring 
light  and  knowledge  and  understanding 
into  the  lives  of  people  who  thus  live 
in  darkness.  They  are  literally  our 
brothers  and  sisters,  the  children  of  our 
Heavenly  Father.  And  especially  is  it 
our  task  not  alone  to  call  the  world 
to  repentance,  but  to  seek  out  those  who 
are  striving  after  light  and  after  knowl- 
edge and  after  understanding,  and  to 
give  to  them  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
and  instill  in  their  hearts  a  courage  to 
accept  the  same  and  lend  obedience 
thereto. 

This  thought  has  come  to  me:  That  in 
the  very  act  of  calling  those  in  darkness 
to  repentance,  we  may  perform  a  serv- 
ice which  will  not  wholly  mature  in 
mortality.  I  think  that  this  quotation 
from  the  76th  Section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  explains  clearly  what  I 
mean. 

"And  also  they  who  are  the  spirits  of 
men  kept  in  prison,  whom  the  Son 
visited,  and  preached  the  gospel  unto 
them,  that  they  might  be  judged  ac- 
cording to  men  in  the  flesh; 

"Who  received  not  the  testimony  of 
Jesus  in  the  flesh,  but  afterwards  re- 
ceived it. 

"These  are  they  who  are  honorable 
men  of  the  earth,  who  were  blinded  by 
the  craftiness  of  men. 

"These  are  they  who  receive  of  his 
glory,  but  not  of  his  fulness."  (D&C 
76:73-76.) 

I  remember  that  President  Ivins  once 
preached  the  gospel  to  a  very  good 
man — good  in  his  own  way — and  I 
heard  this  good  man  say  more  than  once 
before  he  passed  away  that  President 
Ivins  had  converted  him  to  all  of  the 
principles  of  the  Church  save  one — the 
principle  of  tithing.  Except  for  that 
principle  he  would  have  joined  the 
Church.   I  believe  he  was  one  of  those 


First  Day 

who  received  not  the  testimony  of  Jesus 
in  the  flesh.  He  was  -  an  honorable 
man,  but  he  was  blinded  by  the  crafti- 
ness, and  I  might  add,  the  pride  of  men. 

And  so  as  we  go  about  in  our  mis- 
sionary work  with  the  living,  there  is 
at  least  the  possibility  that  we  might 
make  it  easier  for  those  who  have 
passed  into  the  Spirit  World  to  accept 
the  benefits  of  that  which  we  do  for 
them  vicariously  in  the  temples  of  the 
Lord,  whereas  without  that  experience 
that  might  not  be  the  case.  So  we  need 
not  always  despair  if  every  contact  we 
make  is  not  immediately  successful,  but 
certainly  we  have  an  added  reason  to 
utilize  every  facility  and  every  oppor- 
tunity we  have  to  bear  witness  to  the 
testimony  which  we  have  in  our  hearts 
that  God  lives  and  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  and  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  in  its  purity  has  been  restored 
once  again  to  the  earth  through  the  in- 
strumentality of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith. 

We  read  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price, 
in  the  Book  of  Abraham:  "And  we  will 
prove  them  herewith,  to  see  if  they  will 
do  all  things  whatsoever  the  Lord  their 
God  shall  command  them."  (Abraham 
3:25.) 

If  we  do  that  in  this  life,  then,  the 
Apostle  John  says,  that  He  will  give  us 
power  to  become  the  sons  of  God,  even 
to  them  that  believe  on  his  name.  And 
this  thought  contained  in  the  gospel  of 
John  is  repeated  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  in  the  39th  Section: 

"But  to  as  many  as  received  me,  gave 
I  power  to  become  my  sons;  and  even 
so  will  I  give  unto  as  many  as  will  re- 
ceive me,  power  to  become  my  sons. 

"And  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you, 
he  that  receiveth  my  gospel  receiveth 
me;  and  he  that  receiveth  not  my  gospel 
receiveth  not  me. 

"And  this  is  my  gospel — repentance 
and  baptism  by  water,  and  then  cometh 
the  baptism  of  fire  and  the  Holy  Ghost, 
even  the  Comforter,  which  showeth  all 
things,  and  teacheth  the  peaceable  things 
of  the  kingdom."  (D&C  39:4-6.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  on  one 
occasion,  said:  "Now  I  will  give  my 
testimony.  I  care  for  no  man.  I  speak 
boldly  and  faithfully  and  with  author- 
ity. How  is  it  with  the  Kingdom  of 
God?  Where  did  the  Kingdom  of  God 


PRESIDENT  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


17 


begin?  Where  there  is  no  Kingdom  of 
God  there  is  no  salvation.  What  con- 
stitutes the  Kingdom  of  God?  Where 
there  is  a  prophet,  a  priest,  or  a  right- 
eous man  unto  whom  God  gives  his 
oracles,  there  is  the  Kingdom  of  God, 
and  where  the  oracles  of  God  are  not, 
there  the  Kingdom  of  God  is  not." 

In  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  in  the 
5th  Section  we  read:  "And  their  testi- 
mony shall  also  go  forth  unto  the  con- 
demnation of  this  generation  if  they 
harden  their  hearts  against  them; 

"For  a  desolating  scourge  shall  go 
forth  among  the  inhabitants  of  the 
earth,  and  shall  continue  to  be  poured 
out  from  time  to  time,  if  they  repent 
not,  until  the  earth  is  empty,  and  the 
inhabitants  thereof  are  consumed  away 
and  utterly  destroyed  by  the  brightness 
of  my  coming."  (D&G  5:18-19.) 

Now  the  execution  of  our  duty  is  to 
call  the  world  to  repentance,  and  to  do 
so  effectively  we  must  follow  a  plan. 
Our  present  procedure  throughout  the 
missions  of  the  world  and  in  the  stakes 
is  inspired.  It  comes  to  us  as  the  re- 
sult of  a  hundred  and  thirty  years  of 
inspired  work,  and  it  is  not  to  be  set 
aside  or  changed  or  altered  by  anyone 
lightly.  We  plead  with  you,  my  breth- 
ren, that  in  all  of  your  Church  work 
that  has  the  remotest  bearing  upon 
missionary  work  that  you  seek  to  learn 
and  understand,  and  then  to  teach  the 
plan  which  has  the  approval  of  the 
General  Authorities  of  the  Church  for 
use  throughout  the  world  in  the 
preaching  of  this  precious  gospel,  in 
order  that  every  minute,  every  hour  of 
devoted  service  on  the  part  of  our 
Priesthood  may  bear  the  maximum 
fruit. 

Now  for  a  moment  I  should  like  to 
discuss  some  of  the  phases  of  this  pro- 
gram which  can  bring  such  wonderful 
blessings  into  the  lives  of  men,  a  prom- 
ise that  we  will  be  saved  and  exalted  in 
the  Kingdom  of  our  Heavenly  Father 
as  his  sons.  We  have  the  further  prom- 
ise that  step  by  step,  through  our  faith- 
fulness we  may  receive  all  of  the 
blessings  that  the  Lord  has  in  store  for 
those  who  serve  him. 

First  of  all,  I  should  like  to  say  with- 
out any  equivocation  that  the  preaching 
of  the  gospel  is  the  obligation  of  the 
Priesthood.   It  is  one  of  those  primary- 


obligations.  Every  man  who  holds  the 
priesthood  can  consider  himself  a  part 
of  the  work.  He  meets  the  require- 
ments of  our  Fifth  Article  of  Faith, 
because  he  has  the  power  and  the  au- 
thority given  him  by  the  laying  on  of 
hands  by  those  who  are  in  authority 
to  preach  the  gospel  and  administer  in 
the  ordinances  thereof.  When  we  either 
shirk  or  shrink  from  this  responsibility 
we  are  not  doing  justice  to  ourselves, 
and  we  are  certainly  depriving  ourselves 
of  the  blessings  which  we  should  cherish 
above  life  itself. 

In  every  activity  of  the  Church,  there 
is  no  reason  why  we  should  not  have 
uppermost  in  our  minds  the  fact  that 
the  Lord  has  told  us  that,  "this  is  my 
work  and  my  glory  to  bring  to  pass  the 
immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man." 
We  cannot  accomplish  this  if  we  do  not 
open  our  lips  and  exert  ourselves  to 
bear  that  testimony  with  which  the 
Lord  has  blessed  us. 

There  is  a  dual  blessing  which  at- 
tends every  missionary  effort,  direct  and 
indirect.  First  a  blessing  to  the  one  who 
preaches  the  gospel,  and  second  to  the 
one  who  listens  and  is  affected  and  con- 
verted thereby.  There  is  nothing  which 
strengthens  men  in  their  priesthood, 
develops  the  power  of  the  priesthood 
within  them,  more  than  exercising  their 
priesthood  in  behalf  of  others. 

We  should  be  alert  to  every  oppor- 
tunity. We  have  some  indirect  methods 
as  well  as  direct  methods.  We  have  a 
great  program  which  is  spreading 
rapidly  through  the  Church,  and  should 
be  encouraged  at  every  turn  of  sharing 
the  gospel  with  others.  Sometimes  we 
call  it  the  "referral"  program.  It  is 
really  a  program  of  sharing  the  gospel, 
and  when  circumstances  may  be  such 
that  you  cannot  accomplish  this  pur- 
pose alone,  you  need  only  utilize  one 
of  these  cards  which  we  are  so  happy 
to  supply  to  you  throughout  the  Church 
to  give  us  the  data  by  which  we  may 
send  our  missionaries — those  who  are 
directly  engaged  in  this  work — to  call 
upon  your  friends  and  associates,  and 
to  supplement  and  to  augment  the  work 
which  you  have  started. 

It  is  not  enough  to  send  this  card 
alone.  Let  us  make  use  of  our  own 
homes.  What  is  more  wonderful  than 
to  invite  a  neighbor  and  his  family  into 


18 

Saturday,  April  2 

our  home,  and  have  our  own  family 
join  with  them  in  hearing  these  les- 
sons that  are  given  so  ably  by  the  mis- 
sionaries. Teach  the  gospel  to  your 
family  in  the  most  direct  way,  as  well 
as  give  to  your  friends  a  knowledge  of 
the  gospel.  This  will  be  satisfying  to 
you  and  give  you  the  feeling  that  you 
have  done  your  duty  in  large  measure 
toward  these  friends  and  neighbors 
who  might  otherwise  live  and  die  in  our 
midst  without  the  benefit  of  having 
heard  the  gospel. 

Let  me  say  that  the  Lord  in  his  wis- 
dom, I  am  sure,  has  brought  these  multi- 
tudes of  people  to  our  door.  Many  times 
we  have  a  receptive  person  in  our  next 
door  neighbor.  It  is  just  as  important, 
if  not  more  so,  to  bless  him  than  to  go 
out  into  the  world  and  seek  someone 
whom  the  Lord  may  not  have  specially 
prepared  for  this  message.  I  think  we 
should  strengthen  the  feeling  within  us 
that  people  who  come  in  our  midst  have 
not  come  blindly.  They  may  not  have 
known  why,  but  I  am  sure  our  Father  in 
Heaven  has  had  a  purpose  in  directing 
their  lives  into  our  midst.  We  should 
never  let  one  of  them  come  and  go 
without  hearing  in  an  effective  manner 
our  message. 

We  have  been  told  that  in  one  mis- 
sion 40  percent  of  these  referrals  result 
in  baptisms,  whereas  in  that  same  mis- 
sion only  three  percent  of  those  con- 
tacted directly  by  tracting  from  door 
to  door  are  converted.  We  have  some- 
thing over  6000  missionaries  in  the 
Church  today,  and  brethren,  we  need 
12,000.  I  would  not  be  satisfied  with 
10,000  because  I  am  sure  the  Church 
needs  12,000  and  the  Lord  expects  us 
to  produce.  I  believe  this  is  our  chal- 
lenge today. 

President  McKay  has  it  in  his  mind 
that  other  missions  should  be  opened 
up  in  other  parts  of  the  world  in  which 
we  have  done  little  or  no  missionary 
work.  There  are  tremendous  fields  of 
opportunity,  but  we  have  not  enough 
missionaries  today  to  properly  man  the 
missions  that  are  already  organized. 
One  mission  president  this  week  in  our 
conferences  with  them  said  that  he  was 
short  30  missionaries,  and  others  need 
comparable  numbers. 

It  is  our  feeling,  brethren,  that  every 
auxiliary  organization  of  the  Church 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

should  put  aside  many  other  objectives 
for  the  moment  at  least,  and  concentrate 
in  their  auxiliary  wrok  in  building  up 
the  desires  of  our  people,  certainly  our 
parents,  to  have  their  sons  and  daughters 
go  on  missions.  The  auxiliary  organ- 
izations cannot  do  this  alone.  They 
need  the  help  of  the  home. 

I  told  the  Primary  conference  Friday 
that  I  thought  their  slogan  ought  to  be, 
"Every  member  batpized  at  eight,  and 
a  missionary  at  twenty."  Now  we  are 
getting  not  more  than  one  out  of  four, 
25  percent.  We  need  50  percent.  We 
should  have  a  hundred  percent.  But  to 
get  this  12,000  we  need  50  percent  of 
the  young  men  when  they  become  20 
years  of  age,  and  not  25  percent. 

This  responsibility  falls  directly  upon 
every  home,  every  father,  every  mother, 
and  every  bishop,  and  I  say  every 
auxiliary  organization.  None  of  the 
auxiliary  organizations  of  the  Church, 
none  of  the  Priesthood  quorums  of  the 
Church,  can  feel  that  they  have  ac- 
complished their  purpose  unless  we  can 
so  train  and  inspire  our  young  people 
that  they  will  answer  these  missionary 
calls. 

We  have  another  need  for  missionary 
work.  We  have  called  the  high  priests 
quorums  of  the  Church  into  action,  and 
they  have  performed  a  marvelous  work, 
but  have  only  scratched  the  surface. 
Since  1957  they  have  distributed 
114,000  copies  of  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
and  sold  56,000,  making  a  total  of 
170,000  copies  of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
We  ask  every  bishop  and  every  high 
priest  quorum  president,  if  you  do  not 
already  have  in  your  file  the  memoran- 
dum of  May  25,  1956  sent  out  by  Brother 
Spencer  W.  Kimball's  Committee  on  the 
distribution  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  to 
please  get  a  copy. 

Out  of  the  meetings  we  have  held  this 
week  with  these  wonderfully  inspired 
mission  presidents,  we  have  learned  that 
it  is  doubly  effective  to  distribute  marked 
copies  of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  Brother 
Kimball  is  ready  to  give  you  the  list  of 
passages  which  should  be  marked.  He 
suggests,  with  the  Missionary  Commit- 
tee's approval,  that  it  would  be  a  won- 
derful undertaking  for  the  Senior 
Aaronic  Priesthood,  under  the  direc- 
tion of  the  high  priests  quorums,  to  so 
mark  the  Book  of  Mormon. 


PRESIDENT  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


19 


Do  you  see  what  it  would  do?  They 
could  not  mark  many  without  reading 
the  marked  passages  themselves.  It  is 
also  the  practice  in  some  of  our  missions 
to  have  converts  recently  baptized  render 
this  service,  and  thus  insure  their 
familiarity  with  these  wonderful  pas- 
sages of  scripture  contained  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon. 

So  I  say,  brethren,  let  us  speed  up  this 
program,  and  through  the  instrumental- 
ity of  the  high  priests  quorums  to  re- 
double these  sales,  and  to  do  so  in 
keeping  once  again  with  this  inspired 
program  which  has  come  to  these  in- 
spired Brethren,  and  not  undertake  to 
deviate  too  far  from  the  program.  As 
long  as  you  will  go  as  far  as  the  pro- 
gram goes,  we  will  encourage  you  to  go 
as  much  farther  as  your  wisdom  and 
inspiration  will  lead  you,  but  do  not 
stop  short  of  that  which  we  have  found 
so  effective  by  those  who  have  followed 
the  plan  of  presenting  the  gospel  im- 
plicitly. 

Now  the  next  and  final  subject  that 
I  would  like  to  call  to  your  attention  in 
reference  to  this  missionary  work  is  the 
fellowshipping  of  converts.  It  is  one 
thing  to  convert  to  the  point  of  baptism. 
We  do  not  expect  every  convert  to  have 
a  perfect  knowledge  and  understanding 
of  the  gospel  at  that  time  of  baptism. 
They  need  only  to  have  received  the 
witness  in  their  hearts  that  the  mes- 
sage which  they  have  heard  is  true. 
They  are  prepared,  even  though  it  be 
for  the  moment,  to  put  aside  the  things 
of  the  world  and  to  humble  themselves, 
to  be  baptized  in  the  waters  of  baptism, 
and  to  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  through  the  laying  of  hands. 
They  can  receive  thereby  an  added  force, 
and  power,  to  assist  them  in  carrying 
out  the  covenants  they  make  with  the 
Lord  in  the  waters  or  baptism.  I  am 
sure  the  Lord  intends  us  to  be  right  on 
hand — every  one  of  us — to  give  them  a 
helping  hand,  and  to  teach  them  day 
by  day  the  principles  of  the  gospel  that 
they  might  grow  in  strength  and  in 
knowledge  and  in  understanding. 

We  have  areas  in  the  Church  where 
large  numbers  are  being  baptized,  and 
at  the  same  time  80  percent  or  more  of 
them  are  remaining  true  to  the  Church 


year  after  year.  It  is  this  20,  or  this  30 
percent,  that  somehow  or  other  we 
neglect.  We  fail  to  take  hold  properly 
just  at  the  right  moment.  Sometimes 
there  is  a  little  difficulty,  or  a  little  time- 
lapse  between  baptism  by  the  full  time 
missionaries  on  the  one  hand  and  in- 
tegrating them  into  the  ward  or  stake 
in  which  they  live.  We  are  all  one 
Church.  We  are  not  worrying  about 
statistics  or  who  gets  credit  for  a  bap- 
tism. The  thing  we  are  concerned  about 
is  that  when  a  person  is  baptized  and 
accepted  into  the  Church,  that  we  fel- 
lowship him  wholeheartedly  and  see  to 
it  that  he  is  given  every  opportunity  to 
progress. 

Here  again  is  an  individual  oppor- 
tunity for  service — an  opportunity  to 
call  others  to  a  simple  service — so  that 
every  convert  can  have  not  only  some 
specific  individual  or  committee  on 
hand  to  take  care  of  his  needs,  but  every 
member  of  the  ward  can  make  it  a 
point  to  fellowship  them  in  the  meeting 
house;  to  visit  and  to  know  them  in  the 
community;  and  to  encourage  them  in 
endless  ways  to  do  as  we  should  do. 

It  is  wonderful,  my  brethren,  to  have 
the  opportunity  to  work  in  the  service 
of  the  Lord.  I  think  sometimes  it  is 
even  more  wonderful  than  that,  to  think 
that  every  worthy  man  in  the  Church 
has  the  same  opportunity  for  service. 
It  makes  no  difference  whether  you  ar 
working  in  the  ward  or  as  a  General 
Authority,  you  are  in  the  same  service. 
Those  of  you  who  hold  the  Higher 
Priesthood  hold  the  same  Priesthood, 
and  those  of  you  brethren  who  are 
holders  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  may 
soon  hold  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood 
if  you  desire  and  but  live  for  it. 

May  God  bless  us  to  so  live  day  by 
day  that  we  may  be  worthy  to  be  his 
mouthpieces  in  declaring  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  as  it  has  been  restored  in 
these  latter  days  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  I  pray  humbly  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the 
First  Presidency  will  now  address  us. 


20 

Saturday,  April  2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


First  Day 


My  brethren:  I  am  more  grateful  than 
I  can  say  for  the  privilege  which  I  have 
tonight  to  say  something  to  you.  The 
Lord  has  been  good  to  me  far  beyond 
any  desert  I  know  about.  I  am  grateful 
for  your  prayers  and  the  prayers  of  my 
Brethren  who  have  brought  this  to  pass. 

As  I  stand  before  you  tonight  to  say 
a  few  words  (and  they  are  going  to  be 
few,  because  I  feel  that  the  people  of  the 
Church  wish  to  hear  the  President  of 
the  Church  and  I  do  not  like  to  see  the 
hour  pass  and  have  our  friends  who  are 
not  here,  not  hear  him  say  all  he  would 
like  to  say),  we  are  all  bearers  of  the 
Priesthood,  we  who  are  here  and  the 
tens  of  thousands  who  are  assembling  in 
other  places  to  hear  what  is  said  here. 

Brethren,  I  refer  again  and  for  a 
moment  only,  to  what  the  influence, 
the  power  of  this  Church  would  be,  if 
we  were  united  as  one  man.  Then  we 
might  meet  the  principle  announced  in 
the  Prayer  of  the  Great  High  Priest  in 
the  Garden,  when  He  prayed  that  the 
Disciples  might  be  one,  even  as  He  and 
the  Father  were  one,  and  as  He  declared 
in  modern  revelation:  "I  say  unto  you, 
be  one;  and  if  ye  are  not  one  ye  are  not 
mine."  (John  17:21;  D.C.  38:27.) 

I  am  told  that  Brother  Matt  Cowley 
once  voiced  this  idea:  He  said  something 
of  this  sort,  "You  know,  I  am  so  busy 
trying  to  understand  the  first  principles 
of  the  Gospel  that  I  have  no  time  for 
the  mysteries." 

As  I  have  thought  about  what  I  might 
say  in  the  few  minutes  I  shall  be  with 
you  here  at  the  stand,  I  have  thought 
I  would  like  to  say  just  a  little  bit  about 
the  Priesthood  itself.  We  are  all  bearers 
of  it,  the  Holy  Priesthood  after  the  Order 
of  the  Son  of  God. 

What  is  this  Priesthood  that  we  have? 
We  have  had  our  definitions.  I  will 
come  to  them,  if  I  may,  just  a  few  min- 
utes later.  But  I  have  thought  that  I 
would  like  to  look  first  somewhat  at  the 
work  of  our  Savior.  His  work  was  per- 
formed through  faith.  If  you  will  ex- 
amine a  little  bit  carefully  His  life,  you 
will  find  that  in  His  miracles  He  per- 
formed many  of  the  great  functions  of 


creation.  He  worked,  I  repeat,  by  the 
power  of  the  Priesthood. 

You  will  remember  that  He  walked 
upon  the  water,  thus  defying  and  over- 
ruling, so  far  as  we  can  see,  the  principle 
of  gravity.  You  will  remember  that 
Peter  asked  to  be  bidden  to  come  to 
Him.  Peter  being  so  bidden,  got  out 
of  the  boat  and  walked  a  short  dis- 
tance on  the  water  and  then  becoming 
fearful,  he  began  to  sink  and  called  to 
the  Lord  for  help,  and  the  Lord  said  to 
him,  "O  thou  of  little  faith.  .  .  ." 

You  will  remember  that  on  one  occa- 
sion He  was  on  the  Sea  of  Galilee  and 
a  violent  storm  came  up,  so  much  so 
that  those  who  were  with  Him  feared 
for  the  sinking  of  the  ship.  They  awak- 
ened Him  and  appealed  to  Him  and  He 
stilled  the  tempest,  having  power  over 
the  forces  that  were  involved  in  that. 

You  will  recall  that  He  fed  a  multi- 
tude with  a  few  loaves  and  a  few  fishes, 
five  thousand  on  one  occasion,  four 
thousand  on  another.  You  will  recall 
that  He  also  provided  miraculous 
draughts  of  fish  on  two  or  three  occa- 
sions. The  whole  world  was  under 
him. 

You  will  recall  that  He  cursed  the 
barren  fig  tree.  You  will  recall  that  He 
raised  the  dead  to  life  again.  Think  of 
what  was  involved  in  that. 

You  will  recall  His  thousands,  al- 
most (so  far  as  we  know),  of  healings 
of  all  sorts  of  diseases.  These  were  mani- 
festations of  the  power  of  faith.  Some- 
times it  seems  the  faith  was  partially 
exercised  by  those  whom  He  healed,  as 
when  the  woman  touched  the  border  of 
His  garment  and  was  healed  of  an  issue 
of  blood.  At  other  times  it  seemed  as  if 
the  faith  came  from  Himself.  Think 
of  the  blessing  of  faith  exercised  through 
the  Priesthood. 

On  more  than  one  occasion,  He  said: 
"If  ye  have  faith  as  a  grain  of  mustard 
seed  "  (Sees.  103,  140.*)  The  com- 
mentators, I  may  add,  make  no  explana- 
tion of  this.  The  only  statement  I  have 
found  about  that  statement, — faith  is  as 
a  grain  of  mustard  seed — is  that  the 
mustard  seed  is  one  of  the  smallest  of 

•Our  Lord  of  The  Gospels. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


21 


seeds.  And  that  was  followed  by,  ".  .  . 
ye  shall  say  unto  this  mountain,  Remove 
hence  to  yonder  place;  and  it  shall  re- 
move." (Sees.  103,  163a.)  And  the  com- 
mentators, who  do  not  understand  nor, 
apparently,  believe  in  faith,  say  that  this 
merely  was  an  exaggerated  imagery  of 
the  East;  and  that  the  expression  "re- 
move mountains"  was  common  among 
Jewish  preachers  as  indicating  the  im- 
pressiveness  with  which  a  man  might 
speak,  and  referred  only  to  difficulty.  It 
is  my  judgment,  my  belief,  my  testi- 
mony, that  the  possible  removal  of  a 
mountain  is  a  sober  statement  of  fact. 

He  told  them  at  one  time  that  if  they 
had  the  faith,  if  they  believed,  they 
could  say  to  a  sycamine  tree,  "Be  thou 
plucked  up  by  the  root,  and  be  thou 
planted  in  the  sea,"  and  it  would  be 
done.  (Sec.  140.)  I  believe  that.  I 
beileve  that  is  literally  true. 

We  have  been  given  that  Priesthood 
which  carries  in  it  this  great  power  of 
faith.  It  has  been  given  to  us,  you,  me, 
and  all  who  are  listening  in  of  the 
brethren  holding  the  Priesthood. 

What  about  it?  Paul  said,  .  .  .  faith  is 
the  assurance  of  things  hoped  for,  the 
evidence  of  things  not  seen."  (Heb. 
11:1,  I.V.)  I  have  never  been  able  quite 
to  understand  that,  but  I  can  understand 
what  has  been  said  either  by  the  Proph- 
et Joseph  or  with  his  approval,  found  in 
the  old  "Lectures  on  Faith"  in  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants.    He  said: 

"By  this  we  understand  that  the 
principle  of  power  which  existed  in  the 
bosom  of  God,  by  which  the  worlds 
were  framed,  was  faith;  and  that  it  is 
by  reason  of  this  principle  of  power 
existing  in  the  Deity,  that  all  created 
things  exist;  so  that  all  things  in  heaven, 
on  earth,  or  under  the  earth,  exist  by 
reason  of  faith  as  it  existed  in  Him." 
(Lectures  on  Faith,  1:15.) 

As  I  think  about  faith,  this  principle 
of  power,  I  am  obliged  to  believe  that 
it  is  an  intelligent  force.  Of  what  kind, 
I  do  not  know.  But  it  is  superior  to  and 
overrules  all  other  forces  of  which  we 
know.  It  is  the  principle,  the  force,  by 
which  the  dead  are  restored  to  life. 

I  do  not  believe  that  the  Lord,  that 
God  permits  any  man  to  have  faith  that 
would  overrule  His  purposes.  In  that 
connection,  I  call  to  your  attention  the 


fact  that  the  Savior,  Himself,  plead  that 
His  crucifixion  might  be  turned  aside. 
Yet,  on  one  occasion  He  said,  when  He 
asked  that  the  hour  might  be  passed  on, 
".  .  .  but  for  this  cause  came  I  unto 
this  hour."  The  Son  of  God  was  not 
given  the  necessary  faith  at  that  time  to 
enable  Him  to  turn  aside  the  purposes 
reached  by  Himself  and  the  Father 
before  and  still  remembered  by  the 
Father.  I  repeat,  I  think  that  the  Lord 
never  gives  faith  to  any  individual  to 
enable  him  to  overturn  the  purposes  of 
His  will.  Always  we  are  subject  to  what 
He  wishes. 

I  think  that  we  should  never  admin- 
ister to  the  sick,  we  should  never  pray, 
particularly  when  we  pray  for  specific 
things,  that  we  do  not  repeat  and  pre- 
sent to  the  Lord,  even  as  Christ  prayed 
in  the  Garden,  "Nevertheless,  not  my 
will,  but  thine,  be  done." 

You  brethren,  we  brethren,  have  had 
this  great  power  given  unto  us,  this 
power  of  faith.  What  are  we  doing 
about  it?  Can  you,  can  we,  do  the 
mighty  things  that  the  Savior  did?  Yes. 
They  have  been  done  by  the  members 
of  the  Church  who  had  the  faith  and 
the  righteousness  so  to  do.  Think  of 
what  is  within  your  power  if  you  but 
live  the  Gospel,  if  you  but  live  so  that 
you  may  invoke  the  power  which  is 
within  you. 

And  I  would  like  to  add  this  as  a 
sobering  thought  to  myself  and  to  you, 
each  of  you,  and  all  of  you:  Remember 
the  parable  of  the  talents  where  the 
man  who  failed  to  improve  the  talent 
given  him,  had  it  taken  from  him?  I 
ask  you  brethren,  and  myself,  are  we 
magnifying  our  Priesthood  in  such  a 
way,  are  we  living  close  enough  to  the 
Lord  and  in  obedience  to  His  com- 
mandments that  we  may  exercise  this 
power,  or  shall  it  be  wholly  or  in  part 
taken  away  from  us?  You  would  better 
think  about  it.  It  is  worth  thinking 
about.  It  is  the  greatest  power  that  has 
been  revealed  to  man. 

God  grant  that  we  may  all  so  live 
that  we  shall  not  lose  that  power,  but 
that  always  it  shall  be  available  to  us. 

Bearing  my  testimony  again  that  God 
lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that 

Joseph  was  the  instrument,  along  with 
lis  associates,  in  the  re-establishing  of 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  2 

the  Church,  that  all  of  the  rights, 
powers,  and  privileges  that  were  lodged 
in  the  Prophet  have  descended  to  our 
present  President  and  are  enjoyed  by 
him,  I  bear  this  testimony  and  I  ask 
these  blessings  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


First  Day 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  very  urgent.  Bishop  Carr  of 
Ephrata,  Washington,  wants  Harold 
Pierson  to  call  him,  through  operator 
five  in  Washington,  Skyline  4-3684.  If 
Brother  Pierson  gets  that,  please  respond 
immediately. 


PRESIDENT  D 

There  are  present  tonight  in  this  great 
Conference,  as  reported  from  the  various 
groups,  53,265  men,  the  largest  attend- 
ance ever. 

There  are  a  number  of  service  men 
present,  and  as  the  theme  of  this  meet- 
ing began  with  reference  to  service  men 
and  our  duty  to  them,  will  all  the  serv- 
ice men  present  in  the  Tabernacle  and 
the  Assembly  Hall  please  rise.  Thank 
you,  and  welcome. 

"If  I  were  a  voice — a  persuasive  voice 
That   could   travel    the   wide  world 
through, 

I  would  fly  on  the  beams  of  the  morning 
light, 

And  speak  to  men  with  a  gentle  might, 
And  tell  them  to  be  true. 

I'd  fly  o'er  land  and  sea, 
Wherever  a  human  heart  might  be, 
Telling  a  tale,  or  singing  a  song, 
In  praise  of  the  Right  and  in  blame  of 
the  Wrong." 

— Charles  MacKay 

The  poet  who  wrote  that  had  but  one 
thought  in  his  mind,  and  that  was  that 
men  should  be  true  to  each  other  and 
true  to  their  ideals.  To  the  fifty  thou- 
sand and  more  men  of  the  Priesthood 
tonight,  that  is  what  I  should  like  to 
say,  and  I  should  like  to  say  it  in  the 
inspired  words  of  Joseph  Smith  re- 
corded at  the  end  of  that  marvelous 
revelation  on  Priesthood: 

"Wherefore,  now  let  every  man  learn 
his  duty,  and  to  act  in  the  office  in 
which  he  is  appointed,  in  all  diligence. 

"He  that  is  slothful  shall  not  be 
counted  worthy  to  stand,  and  he  that 
learns  not  his  duty  and  shows  himself 
not  approved  shall  not  be  counted 
worthy  to  stand.  Even  so.  Amen." 
(D&C  107:99-100.) 

Two  things  mentioned  in  that  revela- 


/ID  O.  McKAY 

tion  point  out  important  elements  in 
the  Priesthood. 

First,  learning  one's  duty,  and  that 
means  learning  what  kind  of  life  a  man 
who  holds  the  Priesthood  should  live, 
being  true  to  himself,  to  his  loved  ones, 
to  the  Church,  to  God.  Every  indi- 
vidual has  that  duty,  and  particularly 
every  individual  who  holds  the  Priest- 
hood. If  he  is  honest  to  himself  he  is 
honest  with  the  brethren;  he  is  fair  in 
his  dealings  in  business  circles;  in 
politics  he  speaks  the  truth;  he  merits 
the  confidence  of  his  associates  in  busi- 
ness, civic  areas,  and  particularly  he 
should  live  so  as  to  merit  the  confidence 
of  members  of  the  Church  who  trust 
him. 

But  the  Lord  was  not  content  when 
he  gave  to  the  individual  the  Priesthood. 
He  organized  those  men  who  were  true 
in  upholding  the  ideals  of  the  Priest- 
hood into  groups  that  they  might  render 
group  service  to  their  fellow  men.  I 
hope  that  the  fifty  thousand  men  listen- 
ing tonight  caught  that  emphasis  in  the 
message  illustrated  so  impressively  by 
Brother  Lee. 

The  duty  of  quorum  Priesthood  mem- 
bers to  keep  in  touch  with  their  mem- 
bers who  are  out  in  the  service  is  a  very 
practical  idea.  I  heard  of  a  very 
successful  group  of  men  who  were 
dealing  with  the  Senior  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood. I  wrote  to  a  man  who  I  know 
has  been  very  active  in  that  work,  and 
if  he  and  his  associates  can  obtain  the 
success  he  reports,  so  can  every  quorum 
of  Priesthood  in  the  Church.  He  and 
his  group  were  formed  into  a  ward 
committee.  Listen  to  a  paragraph  or 
two  from  his  interesting  report: 

"We  had  a  fine  group  of  men  on  our 
ward  committee  and  we  remained  to- 
gether with  only  a  few  changes  until 
recently.    We  held  our  planning  and 


PRESIDENT  D 

ward  meetings  for  an  hour  every  Sun- 
day morning  where  we  reviewed  our 
activities.  We  kept  books  on  our 
members,  reviewing  the  details  of  our 
visits  so  that  we  were  all  aware  of  the 
problems  in  each  home.  This  was  in- 
teresting work  for  all  of  us,  discourag- 
ing in  many  ways  and  often  a  challenge, 
one  which  has  not  as  yet  been  met  to 
our  satisfaction.  However,  as  we  go 
over  the  records  we  find  that  forty 
members  in  our  ward  have  been  ad- 
vanced to  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood, 
all,  so  far  as  we  can  determine,  with 
satisfactory  results.  Many  have  moved 
away,  but  we  have  made  contact  with 
most  of  them." 

One  of  the  reactivated  members  "has 
had  a  fine  influence  on  many  of  the 
other  members  of  the  league  to  which  he 
belongs,  and  many  of  them  are  now 
active  in  the  wards  in  which  they  live. 
On  their  Golden  Wedding  day,  he  and 
his  wife  took  the  entire  family  to  the 
temple  for  the  necessary  sealing  work." 

The  other  instances  result  with  equal 
satisfaction.  "After  a  while,"  he  says, 
regarding  one  with  whom  they  worked, 
"it  was  not  long  until  there  was  no 
smell  of  either  liquor  or  tobacco  about 
him,  and  nothing  had  ever  been  men- 
tioned about  his  use  of  them.  He  was 
ordained  a  Priest  later  and  made  secre- 
tary of  the  Senior  Aaronic  Priesthood 
group.  He  began  attending  classes  at 
Weber  College  and  has  continued  to 
take  three  or  four  classes  each  year  ever 
since.  This  man  was  ordained  an  Elder 
and  soon  afterwards  was  selected  as 
President  of  his  quorum.  He  chose  one 
of  his  Senior  Aaronic  Priesthood  asso- 
ciates as  a  counselor  and  both  are  doing 
fine  work  as  officers  at  this  time.  He 
is  a  wonderful  leader." 

It  is  the  duty  of  leaders  in  Priesthood 
quorums  to  watch  over  their  members, 
to  teach  them  their  duty.  They  can 
do  that  independently  of  the  Ward 
bishopric.  They  do  it  because  it  is  their 
own  responsibility;  it  is  their  duty  to 
have  their  members  fit  to  be  called  into 
ward  activity,  stake  activity,  missionary 
activity,  as  already  explained. 

"And  if  it  so  be  that  you  should  labor 
all  your  days  in  crying  repentance  unto 
this  people,  and  bring,  save  it  be  one 
soul  unto  me,  how  great  shall  be  your 


VID  O.  McKAY  23 

joy  with  him  in  the  kingdom  of  my 
Father  1 

"And  now,  if  your  joy  will  be  great 
with  one  soul  that  you  have  brought 
unto  me  into  the  kingdom  of  my  Father, 
how  great  will  be  your  joy  if  you  should 
bring  many  souls  unto  mel"  (D&G 
18:15-16.) 

Quorums  of  the  Priesthood  through- 
out the  world:  Keep  in  touch  with  your 
members  who  are  away,  especially  in 
the  armed  forces,  surrounded  by  tempta- 
tions. Keep  in  touch  with  your  mem- 
bers here  at  home,  some  of  whom  are 
negligent,  who  need  the  spiritual  food 
you  can  give  them,  and  you  will  find, 
as  did  this  eminent  physician  who  made 
the  report  I  have  given  you,  that  there 
is  much  joy  in  bringing  one  soul,  twenty 
souls,  forty  souls,  into  activity. 

God  bless  all  who  are  assembled  in 
this  great  meeting  tonight.  May  the 
spirit  of  the  occasion  govern  their 
hearts,  first,  awakening  a  desire  to  live 
righteously,  to  keep  their  own  souls  free 
from  the  temptations  that  surround  us 
in  our  wards  and  stakes,  and  second, 
awakening  a  determination  to  contribute 
of  their  earnestness  and  their  purity  of 
living,  to  the  strength  of  the  quorum, 
thus  making  it  a  power  for  good,  not 
only  in  the  stake  or  in  the  ward,  but 
throughout  the  entire  world,  I  pray,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Brethren  of  the  chorus  from  Portland: 
Thank  you  for  your  inspirational  sing- 
ing, but  that  "thank  you"  carries  with 
it  the  feeling  expressed  only  by  the 
word  gratitude.  May  any  sacrifice  that 
perhaps  some  of  you  had  to  make  return 
to  you  tenfold  in  blessings  of  our  Heav- 
enly Father,  which  always  come  through 
rendering  service  to  others,  and  you 
have  rendered  a  great  service  tonight  to 
fifty  thousand  people  who  are  listening. 

The  session  at  ten  o'clock  Sunday 
morning  will  be  broadcast  as  a  public 
service  over  television  and  radio  stations 
throughout  the  West.  Elder  Howard 
W.  Hunter  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
will  be  the  speaker  on  the  Columbia 
Broadcasting  System  Church  of  the  Air. 
This  may  be  heard  over  KSL  at  seven- 
thirty  o'clock  tomorrow  morning.  The 
Tabernacle  Choir  broadcast  will  be  from 


24 

Saturday,  April  2 

nine-thirty  to  ten  in  the  morning.  Those 
desiring  to  attend  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
broadcast  must  be  in  their  seats  at  9:15 
o'clock. 

As  thousands  leave  this  great  Priest- 
hood meeting  tonight,  may  they  keep 
in  mind  the  admonition  that  is  con- 
stantly being  given  to  drive  carefully. 
Let  us  have  courtesy  in  the  city  and  on 
the  highway. 

I  do  not  know  what  caused  that  urgent 
call,  Brother  Pierson.  I  hope  it  is  not 
an  accident. 

The  Portland  Stake  Priesthood  Chorus 
will  now  sing,  "The  Lord's  Prayer," 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

conducted  by  Elder  Bruce  Kelly,  after 
which  Elder  Arthur  J.  Barlocker,  presi- 
dent of  Uvada  Stake,  will  offer  the 
closing  prayer,  after  which  this  Confer- 
ence will  be  adjourned  until  ten  o'clock 
tomorrow  morning. 


The  Portland  Stake  Priesthood  Chorus 
sang  "The  Lord's  Prayer." 

President  Arthur  J.  Barlocker,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Uvada  Stake,  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10:00 
Sunday  morning,  April  3. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  first  general  session  of  the  Con- 
ference was  held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Sunday  morning,  April  3,  1960,  at  10:00 
a.m. 

(The  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast 
was  presented  from  7:30  to  8:00  a.m., 
with  Howard  W.  Hunter  as  the  speaker, 
and  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ 
broadcast  from  9:30  to  10:00  a.m.,  in 
the  Tabernacle.  See  pages  123  to  128  for 
full  report  of  these  broadcasts.) 

The  music  for  this  session  was  fur- 
nished by  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 
Choir,  with  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the 
organ. 

President  McKay,  who  presided  and 
conducted  the  services,  made  the  fol- 
lowing introductory  remarks: 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

As  many  of  you  know,  this  session  is 
being  televised  all  throughout  the  West, 
and  we  have  changed  the  order  of  pro- 


cedure somewhat,  out  of  consideration 
for  those  listening. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  with  Alex- 
ander Schreiner  at  the  organ,  will  open 
these  services  by  singing,  "God  Of  Our 
Fathers."  The  invocation  will  be  of- 
fered by  Elder  Junius  E.  Driggs,  presi- 
dent of  the  East  Phoenix  Stake. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  hymn, 
"God  Of  Our  Fathers." 

Elder  Junius  E.  Driggs,  President  of 
the  East  Phoenix  Stake,  offered  the  in- 
vocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

"Out  Of  The  Deep"  will  now  be  sung 
by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  Richard  P. 
Condie  conducting,  Alexander  Schreiner 
at  the  organ. 


Singing  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  "Out 
Of  The  Deep." 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


In  behalf  of  the  First  Presidency,  mem- 
bers of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  and 
all  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church,  with  all  my  heart  I  bid  you 
welcome — you  who  are  crowding  into 
the  Tabernacle,  the  grounds,  Assembly 
Hall,  and  all  who  are  listening  in — 
welcome  to  this,  the  first  session  of  the 
One  Hundred  Thirtieth  Annual  Confer- 


ence of  the  Church.  I  pray  that  the 
request  offered  in  the  invocation  may  be 
granted,  and  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
may  dwell  with  those  who  speak  at  this 
session  and  throughout  this  conference, 
and  inspire  those  who  listen,  that  we 
may  have  indeed  a  spiritual  uplifting — 
a  spiritual  feast. 
"Except  a  man  be  born  again,  he  can- 


PRESIDENT  D 

not  see  the  kingdom  of  God."  (John 
3:3.) 

"We  are  living  in  perilous  times." 
That  is  what  they  said  when  I  was  a 
boy.  That  is  what  people  thought  and 
said  in  the  days  of  the  apostles,  follow- 
ing the  death  and  resurrection  of  our 
Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ.  That  is 
what  people  thought  and  said  three 
thousand  years  before  the  Savior  came 
to  the  earth,  if  we  can  rely  upon  writ- 
ings taken  from  an  Assyrian  tablet  dated 
2800  years  before  Christ. 

Hayden  gives  a  similar  warning:  "To- 
day, as  seldom  if  ever  before,  human 
society  is  threatened  with  disintegration, 
if  not  complete  chaos.  All  the  an- 
cient evils  of  human  relationships,  in- 
justice, selfishness,  abuse  of  strength, 
become  sinister  and  terrible  when  re- 
enforced  by  the  vast  increase  of  material 
power.  The  soul  of  man  cowers,  starved 
and  fearful  in  the  midst  of  a  civiliza- 
tion grown  too  complex  for  any  mind  to 
visualize  or  to  control.  Joy  and  beauty 
fade  from  human  living.  Yet  life, 
abundant,  beauteous,  laughing  life,  has 
been  our  age-long  labor's  end.  What 
other  conceivable  worth  has  the  mastery 
of  the  material  world,  the  exploitation 
of  the  resources  of  nature  and  the  crea- 
tion of  wealth,  except  as  a  basis  for  the 
release  of  the  life  of  the  spirit?  We  are 
witnessing  either  the  crumbling  of 
civilization  under  the  weight  of  its  mate- 
rial mechanism  or  the  birth  of  a  new 
organization  with  a  spiritual  ideal." 

The  daily  press  gives  ample  evidence 
that  there  seems  to  be  a  general  distrust 
of  our  young  folk.  The  great  majority 
of  them  want  to  know  what  is  right.  I 
have  confidence  in  our  young  people.  It 
is  our  duty  to  show  them  a  proper  exam- 
ple. Most  of  them  today  will  follow 
it,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  they 
are  living  in  an  age  full  of  mysteries 
and  discoveries  never  before  known  in 
the  world.  Man  holds  dominion  over 
earth,  sea,  and  air,  and  now  is  intent 
upon  conquering  space. 

Just  recently  the  United  States  sent 
a  new  messenger  out  among  the  planets. 
Pioneer  Five,  a  94.8-pound  sphere  only 
26  inches  in  diameter,  was  the  first 
interplanetary  traveler  with  a  far-rang- 
ing and  long-lasting  voice.  "If  all  goes 
well,  scientists  will  be  hearing  from 
Pioneer  Five  steadily  for  the  next  five 


/ID  O.  McKAY  25 

months,  then  sporadically  for  years  to 
come,  as  it  swings  back  within  range." 

What  a  glimpse  of  the  starry  heav- 
ens I  While  increasing  admiration  for 
man's  ingenuity,  it  should  not  surprise 
members  of  the  Church  who  have  been 
singing  for  years  W.  W.  Phelps'  hymn: 

"If  you  could  hie  to  Kolob 

In  the  twinkling  of  an  eye, 
And  then  continue  onward 

With  that  same  speed  to  fly, 
D'ye  think  that  you  could  ever, 

Through  all  eternity, 
Find  out  the  generation 

Where  Gods  began  to  be? 

"Or  see  the  grand  beginning, 

Where  space  did  not  extend? 
Or  view  the  last  creation, 

Where  Gods  and  matter  end? 
Methinks  the  Spirit  whispers, 

'No  man  has  found  "pure  space,"  ' 
Nor  seen  the  outside  curtains, 

Where  nothing  has  a  place. 

"The  works  of  God  continue, 
And  worlds  and  lives  abound; 

Improvement  and  progression 
Have  one  eternal  round." 

The  more  man  learns  of  infinity,  the 
more  convinced  he  should  become  of  the 
possibility  of  rising  above  a  mere  ani- 
mal existence. 

Wernher  Von  Braun,  Director  of  De- 
velopment Operations  Division,  United 
States  Army  Ballistic  Missile  Agency,  a 
man  who  has  dedicated  his  life  to  the 
conquest  of  space,  in  a  recent  article 
explains  simply  and  fully  what  space 
means  to  our  future,  and  then  concludes 
as  follows: 

"We  need  not  fear  that  future  space 
explorers  on  their  heaven-storming 
journeys  will  lose  their  humility.  The 
heavens  will  surround  them  as  an  eter- 
nal reminder  that  there  is  a  force  greater 
than  the  thrust  of  their  rocket  ships,  a 
spirit  greater  than  the  cold  logic  of 
their  computers,  a  power  greater  than 
that  of  their  own  nation." 

Yes,  we  are  living  in  an  interesting 
world.  There  is  another  side,  too.  We 
are  told  that  120,000  young  people  from 
Asia  and  Africa  each  year  are  indoctri- 
nated with  the  false  ideology  of  Com- 
munism— 120,000!  There  are  now 
400,000  trained  communist  missionaries 


26  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  3 

in  southern  Asia  and  Africa  saying  to 
the  hungry  masses:  "We  are  here  to 
liberate  you.  In  Russia  and  China  we 
have  found  the  way — liquidate  the  rich 
classes;  take  all  they  have;  the  land 
and  the  machinery  will  be  owned  by 
the  government.  Then  everybody  will 
have  enough,  and  nobody  will  be  op- 
pressing the  poor.  Communism  holds 
a  tremendous  fascination  for  the  illiter- 
ate, hungry,  desperate  people  of  Asia 
and  Africa."  (Frank  C.  Laubach  in  a 
speech  given  in  Chautauqua,  N.  Y. 
1958.) 

I  was  very  much  interested,  as  you 
were  undoubtedly,  at  a  press  dispatch 
recently  about  Ardeshir  Zahedi,  the  new 
Iranian  Ambassador  to  United  States, 
who  spent  five  years  between  1945  and 
1950  earning  a  degree  in  agriculture  at 
the  Utah  State  University  in  Logan, 
Utah.  He  credits  Dr.  Franklin  S. 
Harris,  former  president  of  the  Agri- 
cultural College  (Utah  State  Univer- 
sity), and  one  of  the  founders  of  Point 
Four  in  Iran,  with  doing  a  major  job 
in  cementing  United  States-Iran  ties. 
Mr.  Zahedi  remembers  Utah  and 
Utahns  with  fondness,  according  to  a 
report  from  Deseret  News  Washington 
Bureau  correspondent,  Warren  Zimmer- 
man. 

I  thought  as  I  read  that  how  important 
it  is  for  members  of  the  Church,  par- 
ticularly the  leaders  who  are  sent  out  to 
these  various  missions,  to  exemplify  the 
one  source  of  peace — the  Lord  and 
Savior,  Jesus  Christ.  How  important  it 
is  to  teach  them  to  support  themselves, 
but  at  the  same  time  to  point  out  that 
there  is  a  force  higher  than  themselves, 
higher  and  greater  than  man,  greater 
than  the  whole  universe — that  is  that 
God  is  the  Creator  of  it  all. 

The  duty  of  the  Church  is  to  teach  and 
practise  the  fundamental  principles  of 
the  good  life.  Obedience  to  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  no  matter  what  the 
financial  or  physical  conditions  may  be, 
will  bring  peace  in  the  soul.  When 
Nicodemus  called  upon  Jesus  about  two 
thousand  years  ago,  a  notable  conversa- 
tion took  place,  during  which  un- 
doubtedly they  spoke  about  eternal 
salvation,  the  real  development  of  man. 
It  is  implied  in  the  scripture  that  the 
purpose  of  membership  in  the  kingdom 
of  God  is  for  the  fostering  of  the  spiritual 


Second  Day 

life,  and  the  achievement  of  moral  and 
charitable  ends. 

"Except  a  man  be  born  again,"  said 
Jesus,  "he  cannot  see  the  kingdom  of 
God."  (John  3:3.)  He  told  Nicodemus 
that  before  he  could  solve  the  question 
that  was  troubling  his  mind,  his  spiritual 
vision  would  have  to  be  changed  by  an 
entire  revolution  of  his  "inner  man." 
His  manner  of  thinking,  feeling,  and 
acting  with  reference  to  spiritual  things 
would  have  to  undergo  a  fundamental 
and  permanent  change  with  reference 
to  spiritual  matters. 

It  is  easy  to  see  temporal  things.  It 
is  easy  to  yield  to  lascivious  things. 
It  requires  little  or  no  effort  to  indulge 
in  anything  physical  and  animal-like. 
But  to  be  born  out  of  that  world  into  a 
spiritual  world  is  advancement  that 
the  Lord  requires  of  each  of  us. 

It  is  implied  in  the  scriptures  that  the 
purpose  of  membership  in  the  kingdom 
of  God  is  for  the  fostering  of  spiritual 
life — I  repeat — and  the  achievement  of 
moral  and  charitable  ends;  in  other 
words,  for  the  developing  of  the  religious 
sentiment,  the  true  religious  spirit. 

This  may  be  done  in  two  ways:  first, 
by  seeking  the  truth  and  living  in 
harmony  with  it;  and,  second,  by  resist- 
ing every  influence,  every  power  that 
tends  to  destroy  or  to  dwarf  in  any  way 
the  religious  sentiment.  When  an  ap- 
plicant for  baptism  stood  at  the  water's 
edge,  before  being  buried  with  Christ 
in  baptism,  he  possessed  an  implicit  faith 
that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  is  estab- 
lished upon  the  earth,  and  that  this 
organization  is  the  best  in  the  world 
today  for  the  fostering  of  spiritual  life, 
for  the  attaining  of  true  religious  devel- 
opment, for  the  salvation  of  the  soul. 

I  repeat  that  this  implicit  faith  was 
within  him;  and  with  that,  there  was  a 
true  repentance,  and  that  repentance 
carried  with  it  a  desire  to  leave  off  every- 
thing in  the  past  life  that  was  contrary 
to  the  teachings  of  the  gospel  or  the 
Church.  His  old  life,  and  the  sins,  if 
there  were  any  connected  with  it,  he 
truly  repented  of.  He  looked  forward 
to  the  time  when  he  would  be  born 
anew  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  He  was 
about  to  go  through  the  ordinance  of 
baptism,  typical  of  the  burial  of  his  old 
life,  and  with  it  all  the  imperfections, 
the  frailties,  the  evils,  the  sins  that  ac- 


PRESIDENT  D 

companied  that  old  living.  He  was  to 
be  buried  by  baptism,  that  as  Christ  was 
raised  from  the  dead  by  the  power  and 
the  glory  of  the  Father,  so  he  might 
come  forth  in  newness  of  life,  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Church  of  God,  a  child  of 
the  Father,  a  citizen  in  the  kingdom  of 
Christ.  By  baptism  he  was  born  again, 
and  became  a  fit  recipient  of  the  Holy 
Spirit.  His  body  came  forth  anew,  and 
the  Holy  Ghost  was  bestowed  upon  him; 
he  was  confirmed  a  member  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 

That  is  where  we  all  stood  at  one 
time.  Those  were  our  feelings,  our 
faith,  our  hope.  We  stood  that  day 
forgiven  of  past  evils  and  follies.  Now, 
the  whole  mission — the  life,  if  you 
please,  of  soul  development — was  before 
us,  and  we  had  thus  bestowed  upon  us 
the  light  that  emanates  from  the  Father, 
to  lead  us  that  our  feet  might  not  stum- 
ble, that  the  truths  of  his  holy  gospel 
•  might  sink  into  our  hearts — the  truths 
that  will  give  us  knowledge  that  our 
souls  might  be  saved  in  intelligence. 
The  Holy  Ghost  was  to  bring  all  things 
to  our  remembrance,  to  show  us  things 
to  come,  to  testify  of  the  Father;  and 
as  we  seek  that  light,  and  live  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  duties  that  are  placed 
upon  us  by  that  obligation,  we  are  seek- 
ing the  true  religious  development  we 
are  fostering  the  true  religious  growth. 

But  what  is  the  other  element  which 
we  must  consider?  Along  with  this 
new  life,  with  this  seeking  for  truth, 
there  should  be  a  strong  power  of  re- 
sistance. Though  being  born  anew,  and 
being  entitled  to  new  life,  new  vigor, 
new  blessings,  yet  the  old  weaknesses 
still  remained  with  us.  The  Evil  One 
was  eager  and  ready  to  attack  and  strike 
us  at  our  weakest  point,  and  he  has 
been  striking  at  it  ever  since.  Why? 
That  he  might  thwart  the  very  purpose 
for  which  we  entered  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ. 

Our  mission,  then,  is  to  resist  evil  as 
well  as  to  seek  that  which  is  high. 

Our  Savior  is  our  Divine  Exemplar. 
After  he  passed  through  the  ordinance 
of  baptism  to  "fulfil  all  righteousness," 
after  he  had  received  the  commendation 
of  the  Father  and  the  testimony  from 
on  high  that  he  was  the  Son  of  God, 
the  "Beloved  Son"  in  whom  the  Father 
was  well  pleased,  Satan  was  there  ready 
to  thwart  his  mission.   Jesus  went  forth 


VID  O.  McKAY  27 

in  fasting  and  prayer  preparatory  to 
the  great  mission  resting  upon  him,  and 
when  in  his  weakest  moment,  as  Satan 
thought,  when  his  body  was  weak  and 
exhausted  by  long  fasting,  the  Evil  One 
presented  himself  in  temptation.  And 
what  was  the  temptation?  An  appeal  to 
his  bodily  weakness:  "If  thou  be  the 
Son  of  God" — (note  the  taunt,  the  very 
testimony  on  the  bank  of  the  Jordan  was, 
"This  is  my  beloved  Son"  [Matt.  3:17.]) 
— "If  thou  be  the  Son  of  God,  command 
that  these  stones  be  made  bread." 
(Ibid.,  4:3.)  In  a  moment  of  weakness 
and  hunger  that  temptation  would  be 
strongest,  other  things  being  equal. 
There  was  the  moment  of  resistance  on 
Jesus'  part.  His  seeking  had  been  mani- 
fest in  prayer  and  fasting.  His  resist- 
ance came  at  the  moment  of  bodily 
weakness.  Though  the  body  was  weak, 
the  Spirit  was  strong,  and  Christ  an- 
swered: "It  is  written,  Man  shall  not 
live  by  bread  alone,  but  by  every  word 
that  proceedeth  out  of  the  mouth  of 
God."  (Ibid.,  A.) 

Then,  as  you  recall,  Satan  tried  him 
on  another  point.  Failing  in  that,  the 
tempter  tried  him  still  on  a  third  point. 
He  tempted  him,  first,  on  his  love  for 
physical  comfort;  second,  he  tempted 
him  on  vanity;  and  third,  he  tempted 
him  on  love  for  worldly  wealth,  and 
the  power  to  rule  the  world.  I  say 
"tempted  him,"  but  Christ  was  above 
temptations.  Satan  tried  to  tempt  him. 
But  all  these  temptations  Christ  resisted; 
and  the  final  resistance  was:  "Get  thee 
hence,  Satan:  for  it  is  written,  Thou 
shalt  worship  the  Lord  thy  God,  and 
him  only  shalt  thou  serve."  (Ibid.,  10.) 

We  may  not  have  heard  audibly  on 
the  water's  edge  the  words:  "This  is  my 
beloved  Son,  in  whom  I  am  well 
pleased,"  but  the  Spirit  bore  testimony 
in  our  souls  that  God  was  well  pleased 
with  the  act,  and  he  was  pleased  to 
lead  us  as  we  sought  his  guidance  in 
fasting  and  prayer.  We  might  not  have 
heard  in  audible  tones:  If  you  are  a 
member  of  that  Church,  a  member  of 
his  kingdom,  entitled  to  the  Holy  Spirit, 
do  this  or  do  that.  Our  temptation 
may  not  have  come  in  that  form.  It 
may  have  come  in  the  form  of  old 
desires.  It  may  have  been  (and  I  doubt 
not  that  it  was)  in  the  form  of  some 
bodily  temptation,  some  longing.  It 
may  have  been  the  craving  for  the 


28 

Sunday,  April  3 

cigaret,  which  we  determined — if  we 
were  sincere — to  put  aside  when  going 
into  the  waters  of  baptism.  Oh,  when 
that  longing  came,  after  we  were  in 
the  Church  or  kingdom,  who  was  it 
who  said:  "Though  you  pretend  to 
throw  that  aside,  take  it  only  once  more; 
this  once  will  not  hurt."  There  was  the 
necessary  moment  of  resistance!  How 
many  of  us  stood  as  did  Christ,  our 
leader,  and  said:  "Get  thee  behind  mel" 

This  element  of  resistance  in  regard 
to  our  bodily  longings — satisfying  the 
passions — applies  to  every  member  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  In  some  way 
the  Evil  One  will  attack  us.  In  some 
way  he  can  weaken  us.  In  some  way 
he  will  bring  before  us  that  which  will 
weaken  our  souls,  and  will  tend  to 
thwart  that  true  development  of  religious 
sentiment.  And  what  I  mean  by  that 
is  this:  the  development  of  the  spirit 
within,  the  strengthening  of  the  inner 
man,  the  strengthening  and  growth  of 
the  spirit,  which  time  cannot  kill,  but 
which  is  enduring  and  lasting  as  the 
Eternal  Father  of  that  spirit.  And  the 
things  which  will  tend  to  dwarf  that 
spirit,  or  to  hinder  its  growth,  are  things 
which  members  of  the  Church  are  called 
upon  to  resist. 

We  have  in  the  eighty-ninth  section 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the  word 
of  the  Lord  upon  a  few  little  things — 
little  as  considered  by  many,  and  par- 
ticularly by  the  men  of  the  world — 
which  the  members  of  the  Church  are 
asked  to  observe.  It  is  a  temporal  law, 
and  pertains  to  our  spiritual  as  well  as 
to  our  physical  welfare.  I  hope  that  we 
may  have  strength  to  resist  all  the 
allurements  that  come  with  wealth  and 
worldly  position,  when  we  make  those 
two  things  an  end  in  themselves.  To- 
day we  have  only  time  enough  to  con- 
sider those  few  little  things  with  which 
Satan  tempts  us  in  regard  to  our  body. 

In  that  section,  you  remember,  we 
read:  "Behold,  verily,  thus  saith  the 
Lord  unto  you:  In  consequence  of  evils 
and  designs  which  do  and  will  exist  in 
the  hearts  of  conspiring  men  in  the  last 
days,  I  have  warned  you,  and  forewarn 
you,  by  giving  unto  you  this  word  of 
wisdom  by  revelation — 

"That  inasmuch  as  any  man  drinketh 
wine  or  strong  drink  among  you,  behold 
it  is  not  good,  neither  meet  in  the  sight 
of  your  Father,  only  in  assembling  your- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


selves  together  to  offer  up  your  sacra- 
ments before  him. 

"And,  again,  strong  drinks  ...  to- 
bacco .  .  .  [and]  hot  drinks  are  .  .  .  not 
good  for  man."  (D&C  89:4-5,  7-9.) 

These  things  mentioned  here — strong 
drinks,  tobacco,  hot  drinks,  (tea  and 
coffee  included) — are  a  few  of  the 
temporal  things  which  members  of  the 
Church  who  would  follow  the  true  re- 
ligious sentiment  of  this  Church  should 
resist. 

Every  young  man  throughout  Zion, 
when  he  comes  forth  from  the  waters  of 
baptism,  ought  to  know  that  it  is  part 
of  his  duty  to  resist  smoking  a  cigaret, 
no  matter  where  he  may  be.  Every 
young  person  in  the  Church  should  be 
taught,  when  coming  from  the  waters 
of  baptism,  that  he  should  resist  intoxi- 
cants when  passed  around  at  the  social 
gathering.  Every  young  member  of  this 
Church  should  know  that  tobacco  in  any 
form  should  not  be  used.  He  or  she  • 
should  resist  all  these  habits,  not  only 
for  the  blessing  that  is  promised  herein 
by  our  Father,  but  also  because  of  the 
strength  so  acquired  to  resist  greater 
temptations. 

Now,  just  a  word  in  regard  to  this 
"resisting"  under  circumstances  that 
seem  difficult.  A  young  man  who  may 
refuse  cigarets  or  liquor  at  home,  and 
who  may  find  it  easy  to  do  so,  might 
yield  when  he  is  out  in  company  at  a 
social.  When  all  the  others  partake  of 
these  things,  he  might  not  have  strength 
to  resist  the  temptation.  That  is  the 
moment  when  the  true  soul  growth 
should  be  made  and  fostered.  That  is 
the  moment,  in  the  hour  of  greatest 
temptation,  when  the  strongest  resistance 
does  the  most  good.  It  is  not  when  it 
is  in  the  family  circle,  when  father's  and 
mother's  influence  help  to  keep  these 
things  away.  In  this  respect  it  is  to 
be  hoped  that  every  father  and  mother 
will  set  a  good  example.  I  hope  that 
parents  will  not  set  bad  examples  so 
that  the  children  indulging  in  weakness 
may  say,  "I  am  following  you." 

As  far  as  possible  let  our  fathers  and 
mothers  restrain  themselves  in  these 
things.  Parents,  resist  temptation! 
Control  your  appetite!  What  though 
you  do  crave  these  gratifications?  The 
more  you  crave  it,  the  greater  should 
be  your  resistance  and  the  greater  will 
be  your  soul  development.    It  is  no 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


29 


credit  for  us  to  resist  something  we  do 
not  crave  or  long  for.  The  man  who 
grows  most  by  resisting  is  the  man  who 
resists  what  he  craves,  and  who  will 
say,  in  the  strength  of  the  gospel,  "I 
will  stop  it.  I  will  resist  it." 

"It  is  easy  enough  to  be  virtuous 
When  nothing  tempts  you  to  stray, 
When  without  or  within  no  voice  of  sin 
Is  luring  your  soul  away. 
But  it's  only  a  negative  virtue 
Until  it  is  tried  by  fire; 
And  the  life  that  is  worth  the  honor  of 
earth 

Is  the  life  that  resists  desire." 

(Ella  Wheeler  Wilcox) 

May  God  grant  that  as  we  are  seeking 
the  further  establishment  of  the  king- 
dom of  God,  that  we  may  instruct  our 
young  people,  and  the  members  of  the 


Church  everywhere,  to  resist  tempta- 
tions that  weaken  the  body,  that  destroy 
the  soul,  that  we  may  stand  truly  re- 
pentant as  we  were  when  we  entered 
the  waters  of  baptism;  that  we  may  be 
renewed  in  the  true  sense  of  the  word, 
that  we  may  be  born  again;  that  our 
souls  might  bask  in  the  light  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  and  go  on  as  true  members  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  until  our 
mission  on  earth  is  completed  and  God 
receives  us  and  rewards  us  according 
to  our  merits. 

May  this  be  our  lot,  I  ask  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  next  speaker  will  be  Elder  Rich- 
ard L.  Evans  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


In  following  this  moving  opening 
address  by  President  McKay,  I  am  sure 
that  you  who  are  here  will  forgive  me 
and  understand  if  I  am  more  aware  of 
those  who  are  not  here,  who  listen  and 
look  in  many  far  places  through  the 
modern  means  that  have  been  given 
us.  I  am  grateful  for  choice  friends  out 
there,  friends  not  of  my  own  faith,  whom 
I  have  learned  to  respect  and  cherish, 
and  for  whom  I  have  a  sincere  affec- 
tion. I  am  grateful  for  the  conviction 
that  has  come  in  mingling  with  them 
that  there  is  much  that  we  have  in 
common — all  men:  great  truths,  great 
objectives,  common  problems  and  so 
much  that  pertains  to  all  of  us  in  the 
living  of  life,  and  I  have  learned  to  re- 
spect the  beliefs  of  others  and  would 
ask  the  privilege  at  this  time  of  telling 
something  of  my  own. 

In  doing  so  I  am  well  aware  of  a 
responsibility.  All  of  us  have  a  re- 
sponsibility for  all  of  our  influence  with 
others,  for  all  of  the  ideas  we  let  loose, 
for  the  total  effect  of  our  teaching  and 
our  influence  on  all  others.  I  am  well 
aware,  also,  of  the  weight  of  witnessing 
sobering  truths  that  touch  upon  the 
lives  of  other  people. 

Yet  I  feel  somewhat  as  suggested  by 
the  celebrated  sentence  which  is  found 


in  the  John  Knox  house  in  Edinburgh, 
Scotland,  which  says,  "I  am  in  the  place 
where  I  am  demanded  of  my  conscience 
to  speak  the  truth,  and  therefore  the 
truth  I  speak,  impugn  it,  whoso  list." 

I  am  persuaded,  also,  by  an  utterance 
of  another  great  man,  Tolstoi,  who  said, 
"If  we  would  only  .  .  .  testify  to  the 
truth  as  we  see  it,  it  would  turn  out 
at  once  that  there  are  hundreds,  thou- 
sands, and  even  millions  of  men  just 
as  we  are,  who  see  the  truth  as  we  do, 
are  afraid  as  we  are  of  seemingly  to  be 
singular  by  confessing  it,  and  are  only 
waiting,  again  as  we  are,  for  someone 
to  proclaim  it." 

I  should  like  to  proclaim  it,  to  con- 
fess it,  to  share  it,  and  humbly  to  testi- 
fy of  it,  and  leave  with  you,  my  beloved 
friends  widely  scattered  over  the  world, 
the  witness  of  the  truth  as  I  find  it  im- 
planted undeniably  within  my  own 
soul. 

Life  is  a  great  search  for  all  of  us. 
We  all  have  unanswered  questions,  and 
I  am  grateful  to  witness  to  you  this  day 
that  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  as 
restored  to  earth  in  this  day  and  dis- 
pensation, I  have  found,  in  the  faith  of 
my  fathers,  the  road  that  leads  to  the 
answers  to  life's  compelling  questions — 
the  road  along  which  the  search  lies, 


30 

Sunday,  April  3 

that  gives  purpose  and  meaning  to  life, 
a  great  sense  and  assurance  of  the  ulti- 
mate objectives  and  of  the  everlasting 
continuance  of  truth  and  intelligence 
and  personality,  and  of  sweet  associa- 
tion with  loved  ones  and  all  that  means 
the  most — a  gospel  which  gives  free- 
dom: freedom  for  the  search,  freedom 
for  the  seeking  of  truth,  freedom  for 
learning,  indeed,  not  only  freedom  for 
it  but  also  a  solemn  charge  to  pursue 

it- 
All  this  I  find  in  this  faith  that  my 
fathers  embraced  when,  blessedly,  young 
men  as  missionaries  found  them  in 
far  places  and  witnessed  to  them  these 
truths  to  which  they  responded  and 
by  which  their  lives  and  the  lives  of 
their  children  and  their  children's  chil- 
dren, even  unto  this  generation,  have 
been  blessed.  I  am  grateful  for  these 
assurances:  for  the  everlasting  assurances, 
for  a  gospel,  for  a  faith  which  en- 
compasses all  truth,  all  time,  and  all 
eternity,  all  those  now  living  and  all 
who  shall  live  and  all  who  have  ever 
lived,  all  of  our  Father's  children  in  the 
great  encompassing  arms  which  seek  to 
lift  the  lives  of  all  his  children  and  to 
lead  us  to  everlasting  life  with  our 
loved  ones. 

Out  in  a  far  place  this  day  we  are 
blessed  and  privileged  to  have  a  son 
who  is  one  of  some  six  thousand  mis- 
sionaries of  this  Church,  full-time,  these 
being  mostly  young  men,  with  many 
others  besides  who  take  part  of  their 
time  for  this  purpose,  knocking  on  doors, 
making  appointments,  answering  invi- 
tations, seeking  to  share  this  great  thing 
that  has  come  into  their  lives  and  of 
which  they  have  an  unshakable  con- 
viction. 

It  is  not  improbable  or  not  impossible 
at  least,  that  some  within  the  sound  of 
my  voice  now  would  sometime  respond 
to  a  knock  at  the  door  where  our  son  or 
someone  else's  son  would  seek  to  share 
with  them  these  truths,  with  only  one 
motive  in  mind:  that  they  feel  an  ob- 
ligation which  the  Lord  God  has  given, 
to  pass  on  that  which  has  given  mean- 
ing and  purpose  to  their  lives.  I  would 
plead  with  you  to  open  the  doors — the 
doors  of  your  minds  and  your  hearts, 
and  listen  to  what  they  have  to  say,  and 
then  decide — for  there  is  always  freedom 
for  the  search. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

I  think  the  young  men  who  found 
my  forebears,  in  effect  must  have  said 
to  them  something  such  as  a  message 
Cromwell  once  sent  to  some  with  whom 
he  would  reason  and  persuade  from  a 
certain  course  and  to  a  certain  course: 
"I  beseech  you  .  .  .  think  it  possible  you 
may  be  mistaken." 

The  great  beauty  of  this  gospel  is  its 
everlasting  significance — and  except  for 
these  eternal  assurances  each  day  we  live 
would  mean  a  shorter  time  with  those 
we  love  and  a  shorter  time  for  all  the 
things  that  mean  the  most. 

"Life,"  said  Arthur  Brisbane,  "is  a 
short  walk  along  a  narrow  thread  .  .  . 
beginning  and  ending  in  a  mysterious 
unknown.  Hope  keeps  us  balanced  as 
we  walk  the  narrow  line.  Life  is  short 
as  we  see  it,  but  in  reality  it  is  just 
beginning,  and  never  ends — and,  long 
or  short,  it  is  all  we  have." 

Since  life  is  all  we  have,  and  since, 
blessedly,  it  is  everlasting,  and  since  the 
journey  is  long,  a  searching  is  indicated, 
always — for  truth,  for  that  which  will 
bring  peace  and  purpose,  and  for  an 
awareness  of  the  meaning  of  all  that  we 
are  and  of  all  that  the  Lord  God,  who 
gave  us  life  and  who  made  us  in  his 
image,  intends  for  us. 

I  would  witness  to  you,  my  beloved 
brethren  and  sisters,  world-wide,  of  the 
certainty  of  my  soul  as  to  the  divinity 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the  literal  Son 
of  God,  who  died  that  men  might  live; 
of  the  gospel  that  he  left  for  the  salva- 
tion and  exaltation  of  all  of  us,  which, 
over  the  centuries,  was  changed  and  lost, 
as  to  its  fulness  and  authority;  and  that 
the  heavens  again  were  opened,  that 
the  gospel  was  restored  with  the  divine 
authority  to  administer  in  its  ordinances; 
that  this  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ, 
with  prophets  and  apostles;  that  the 
voice  of  God  again  is  heard;  that  the 
prize  is  great;  that  the  search  is  worth 
the  searching;  and  I  would  plead  for 
an  audience  for  that  message  with  an 
open  heart  and  mind. 

May  God  bless  all  of  us  in  seeking  to 
know  his  will,  in  the  keeping  of  his 
commandments,  and  in  pursuing  the 
search  toward  the  finding  of  the  ulti- 
mate answers  of  life  and  salvation  and 
the  sweetness  of  everlasting  association 
with  those  we  love,  with  those  who 
mean  the  most,  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


31 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
The  Choir  and  congregation  will  now 
sing,  "High  On  the  Mountain  Top," 
after  which  Bishop  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 
will  address  us. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  united  in 


singing  the  hymn,  "High  On  The 
Mountain  Top." 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  will  now  address  us. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  William  J. 
Critchlow,  Jr. 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 


I  sincerely  trust,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  that  I  might  have  that  spirit  and 
blessing  so  essential  in  expressing  to  you 
the  thoughts  I  have  this  morning. 

I  wish  that  every  young  man  and 
young  woman  could  have  heard  Presi- 
dent McKay  give  his  testimony  of  the 
truthfulness  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  and  what  it  means  to  all 
of  us. 

I  was  inspired  by  the  marvelous  priest- 
hood meeting  held  last  night  when 
President  Moyle  said,  "We  should  have 
12,000  young  men  preaching  the  gospel 
to  those  not  of  our  faith."  At  the  pres- 
ent, the  Church  has  6,000  missionaries, 
and,  I  am  sure,  President  Moyle  and 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  it  is  possible 
to  have  12,000  missionaries  in  the 
world  preaching  the  gospel  because  all 
of  our  brethren  whether  they  hold  the 
Aaronic  or  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood 
should  have  a  full  knowledge  of  the 
gospel  and  a  testimony  that  they  can 
bear  to  the  world. 

Two  thousand  years  ago,  it  was  de- 
clared by  the  Christ,  "And  this  gospel 
of  the  kingdom  shall  be  preached  in  all 
the  world  for  a  witness  unto  all  nations; 
and  then  shall  the  end  come."  (Matthew 
24:14.) 

We  know  Joseph  Smith  actually  saw 
the  Father  and  the  Son.  There  should 
be  no  question  about  that.  He  was  the 
first  to  see  the  Father  and  the  Son  since 
the  apostles  were  upon  the  earth  nearly 
2,000  years  ago,  and  through  his  testi- 
mony we  know  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  his  Son.  Having  that  knowl- 
edge and  also  the  priesthood,  we,  there- 
fore, have  the  ability  and  the  authority 
to  preach  the  gospel  to  the  world. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  at  the  age 


of  twenty-two  was  translating  the  Book 
of  Mormon  that  the  people  of  the  world 
might  have  the  privilege  of  receiving 
that  marvelous  book  and  becoming  ac- 
quainted with  the  history  of  America, 
that  Jesus  Christ  had  been  upon  this 
the  American  continent  and  that  he  had 
taught  the  Nephites  the  gospel  as  he 
had  taught  the  people  in  far-off  Jeru- 
salem. In  translating  the  gold  plates,  he 
came  upon  a  passage  concerning  baptism. 
Consequently,  he  made  it  a  matter  of 
prayer,  and  in  answer  to  that  prayer, 
there  appeared  a  heavenly  being  who 
introduced  himself  as  John  the  Baptist. 
If  you  fathers  and  mothers  and  grand- 
fathers and  grandmothers  should  proper- 
ly teach  your  sons  and  grandsons,  when 
they  receive  the  Aaronic  Priesthood, 
they  will  have  a  testimony  that  this 
great  event  took  place,  that  John  the 
Baptist  who  baptized  the  Christ  ap- 
peared and  bestowed  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  upon  Joseph  Smith  and 
Oliver  Cowdery. 

We  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  some- 
times wonder  whether  or  not,  in  homes, 
fathers  and  mothers  are  inspiring  and 
encouraging  their  young  men  to  read 
that  marvelous  statement  of  John  the 
Baptist,  the  thirteenth  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants.  These  are 
the  words  of  John  the  Baptist.  These  are 
not  the  words  of  Joseph  Smith  or  Oliver 
Cowdery,  and  because  of  that  fact,  all 
of  these  young  men  who  hold  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  be  they  deacons,  teachers,  or 
priests  should  be  acquainted  with  that 
statement.  It  will  become  a  reality. 
They  will  know  it  actually  happened. 
It  would  be  inspiring  to  our  young  people 
in  our  homes,  brethren  and  sisters,  if 
we  would  periodically  read  the  state- 


32  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  3 

ment  of  John  the  Baptist.  These  are 
his  words:  "Upon  you  my  fellow  serv- 
ants, in  the  name  of  Messiah  I  confer 
the  Priesthood  of  Aaron,  which  holds 
the  keys  of  the  ministering  of  angels, 
and  of  the  gospel  of  repentance,  and  of 
baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission 
of  sins;  and  this  shall  never  be  taken 
again  from  the  earth,  until  the  sons  of 
Levi  do  offer  again  an  offering  unto  the 
Lord  in  righteousness."  (D&C,  section 
13.)  These  words  will  build  a  testimony 
of  its  truthfulness  in  their  hearts. 

After  Christ  and  the  apostles  had  left 
the  earth,  the  world  changed  its  atti- 
tude toward  the  gospel,  and  the  organ- 
ization of  the  Church  was  taken  away. 
There  had  been  a  change  in  the  form 
of  baptism.  There  had  been  a  change 
in  repentance.  In  fact,  the  Church  as 
a  whole  had  changed.  Therefore,  a 
great  event  had  to  take  place  wherein 
great  men  as  Martin  Luther  and  others 
some  four  hundred  years  ago  had  the 
courage  to  declare  to  the  world  that  the 
so-called  church  of  that  time  had  gone 
wrong.  They  were  no  longer  giving 
consideration  to  the  priesthood  as  it  ex- 
isted in  the  days  of  the  prophets  or  in 
the  days  of  John  the  Baptist. 

With  the  reformation  that  came 
through  these  great  men,  then,  the 
restoration  was  necessary.  The  Lord 
selected  the  young  man  Joseph  Smith 
to  restore  the  true  Church.  For  that 
reason,  John  the  Baptist  appeared  and 
bestowed  upon  him  and  Oliver  Cowdery 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood. 

To  you  bishops  who  are  responsible 
for  men  who  are  laboring  with  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood,  see  that  all  these 
young  men  will  understand  the  gospel 
in  its  fulness,  and  as  they  go  on  year 
by  year  and  arrive  at  the  age  of  twenty, 
they  will  have  a  testimony  whereby  they 
can  go  out  into  the  world  and  testify 
that  Joseph  Smith  actually  saw  the 
Father  and  the  Son.  They  will  have  the 
knowledge  and  the  ability  to  teach  the 
world  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

All  of  us  who  hold  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  hold  it  because  Peter,  James, 
and  John  bestowed  it  upon  Joseph  Smith 
and  Oliver  Cowdery.  These  are  the 
only  young  men  in  the  history  of  nearly 
2,000  years  who  have  declared  that  they 
actually  saw  Peter,  James,  and  John, 
and  who  bestowed  upon  them  the  Mel- 
chizedek Priesthood.    That  marvelous 


Second  Day 

revelation  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
and  Oliver  Cowdery  can  be  found  in 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  section 
27,  verse  12,  when  Christ  said  to  them 
and  to  us  who  hold  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood,  "And  also  with  Peter,  and 
James,  and  John,  whom  I  have  sent  unto 
you,  by  whom  I  have  ordained  you  and 
confirmed  you  to  be  apostles,  .  .  ."  Is 
there  any  question  that  we  have  apostles 
today  as  there  were  apostles  in  the  days 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph?  There  should 
not  be  because  here  we  have  the  words 
of  the  Christ  himself  when  he  said, 
".  .  .  by  whom  I  have  ordained  you  and 
confirmed  you  to  be  apostles  .  .  ."  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  with  the  same  au- 
thority, the  same  rights  and  the  same 
privileges  that  existed  nearly  2,000  years 
ago.  Then  he  said,  ".  .  .  and  especial 
witnesses  of  my  name  .  .  ." — to  be  espe- 
cial witnesses  of  the  name  of  Christ 
himself.  We  who  hold  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood,  can  continually  bear  testi- 
mony to  the  fact  as  well  as  the 
apostles  that  Jesus  Christ  was  the  Son 
of  God.  Then  he  said,  ".  .  .  and  bear 
the  keys  of  your  ministry  and  of  the 
same  things  which  I  revealed  unto 
them."  There  should  be  no  question 
whether  we  hold  the  Aaronic  or  Mel- 
chizedek Priesthood  but  that  we  have 
received  this  authority  because  it  was 
bestowed  upon  the  Prophet  Joseph  by 
John  the  Baptist  and  by  the  apostles, 
Peter,  James,  and  John. 

With  reference  to  youth,  I  hope  the 
youth  of  the  Church  will  read  the  his- 
tory of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and 
read  of  all  of  these  great  events  which 
took  place,  remembering  he  called  upon 
the  Lord  at  the  age  of  fourteen.  The 
Father  and  the  Son  appeared,  and  the 
Father  said,  ".  .  .  This  is  My  Beloved 
Son.  Hear  Him!"  (Joseph  Smith  2:17.) 
If  the  youth  of  the  Church  have  this 
testimony  in  their  souls,  they  would 
not  have  any  difficulties  in  understand- 
ing what  they  should  do  to  live  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

As  I  read  the  history  of  Joseph  Smith 
and  all  the  great  events  that  took  place, 
I  am  impressed  with  the  fact  that  he 
was  a  young  man.  At  the  age  of  twenty- 
two  he  received  the  Aaronic  and  Mel- 
chizedek Priesthood.  When  he  reached 
twenty-four,  5,000  copies  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon  were  printed  which  were 
available  to  the  world.   When  he  was 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


33 


twenty-five  years  of  age,  the  Church  was 
moved  to  Kirtland,  and  there  he  or- 
dained the  first  bishop.  At  the  age  of 
twenty-seven,  he  received  the  revela- 
tion on  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  One- 
hundred  and  twenty-seven  years  ago, 
he  received  that  marvelous  revelation. 
At  the  age  of  twenty-seven  he  com- 
menced the  erection  of  a  temple.  At 
the  age  of  twenty-nine  he  chose  twelve 
apostles.  At  the  age  of  thirty  he  dedi- 
cated the  Kirtland  Temple.  When  that 
great  event  took  place,  there  were  vi- 
sions, there  were  angels,  the  Christ  ap- 
peared to  him,  and  there  were  Moses, 
Elias,  and  Elijah  who  bestowed  their 
keys  of  authority  on  him.  These  events 
made  it  possible  for  all  the  sons  and 
daughters  of  our  Heavenly  Father  who 
had  lived  over  the  hundreds  of  years 
gone  by  to  enjoy  all  of  these  blessings. 
When  he  was  thirty-two  years  of  age 
the  Church  had  to  move  into  Missouri. 
At  that  time,  he  received  the  marvel- 
ous revelation  on  tithing.  Youth  ought 
to  be  aware  of  the  fact  that  the  law  of 
tithing  came  through  revelation.  When 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  thirty-two 
years  of  age,  another  great  event  took 
place  and  that  was  to  give  the  Church 
its  name.  None  of  the  great  leaders 
or  organizers  of  other  churches  have 
ever  attempted  to  say,  "This  is  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ."  They  may 
take  the  name  of  Luther.  They  may 
take  the  names  of  others.  The  revela- 
tion given  to  the  Prophet  in  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  section  115,  verse 
4  said,  "For  thus  shall  my  church  be 
called  in  the  last  days,  even  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints." 
Youth  ought  to  know  why  this  great 
organization  carries  that  sacred  name — 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

At  the  age  of  thirty-four,  this  young 
man  sent  nine  apostles  into  England  to 
preach  the  gospel.  As  a  result  of  their 
work,  literally  thousands  of  people  from 
Great  Britain  have  joined  the  Church. 
During  the  last  three  years,  our  Prophet 
dedicated  temples  in  London,  New  Zea- 
land, and  Switzerland  for  the  benefit 
of  the  people  in  those  countries.  Re- 
cently, Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  was  in 
far-off  England,  and  there  he  organized 
a  stake  in  the  Manchester  area.  The 


Lord  intends  that  all  his  people,  re- 
gardless of  where  they  are,  are  to  have 
the  same  privileges  and  opportunities 
that  were  revealed  to  us  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  The  youth  of 
the  Church  should  know  more  about 
Joseph  Smith  and  of  these  great  histori- 
cal events  that  have  taken  place  so  that 
they  will  have  in  their  souls  a  testimony 
that  Joseph  Smith  actually  saw  the 
Father  and  the  Son,  that  the  establish- 
ment of  the  Church  came  through 
revelation,  not  coming  to  a  man  because 
of  his  own  ideas  but  because  of  the 
plan  of  the  Lord  for  us  in  these  the 
latter  days.  Youth  should  know  that 
this  young  man  at  the  age  of  thirty-six 
made  it  possible  for  all  of  us  to  receive 
what  is  called  endowments.  The  youth 
should  understand  and  know  what  these 
endowments  are.  Fathers  and  mothers, 
that  is  your  responsibility,  and  mine,  to 
teach  them  of  these  sacred  things.  At 
the  age  of  thirty-seven,  the  Prophet 
Joseph  received  the  revelation  on  the 
new  and  everlasting  covenant  of  mar- 
riage. Youth  should  know  about  the 
new  and  everlasting  covenant  of  mar- 
riage whereby  youth  may  have  the  op- 
portunity of  going  into  the  house  of  the 
Lord  and  being  sealed  for  time  and 
eternity.  That  is  our  responsibility.  At 
the  age  of  thirty-eight,  he  sealed  his 
testimony  of  the  restoration  of  the 
Church  and  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
with  his  blood. 

I  pray  that  youth  will  be  able  to  testify 
of  these  historical  events  and  know  the 
truth  of  the  words  found  in  Moses  1:39, 
"For  behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my 
glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality 
and  eternal  life  of  man." 

May  the  Lord  continue  to  bless  you 
as  the  parents  of  youth,  to  bless  all  of 
us  that,  in  turn,  we  may  be  a  great  source 
of  inspiration  and  guidance  to  them,  I 
humbly  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin  has  just 
addressed  us.  Elder  William  J.  Critch- 
low,  Jr.,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  will 
now  speak  to  us.  He  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen. 


34 

Sunday,  April  3 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  WILLIAM  J.  CRITCHLOW,  JR. 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Second  Day 


"What  music  must  our  Father  have 
provided  for  His  saints  in  Heaven,  when 
He  afforded  us  such  music  here  on 
earth." 

I  borrowed  that  from  Izaak  Walton 
to  express  my  appreciation  for  the 
music  of  this  great  choir.  If  music  were 
the  language  of  angels,  I  have  heard 
angels  speak  this  morning. 

About  one  hundred  forty  years  ago, 
an  early  American  historian  directed  a 
youth,  Joseph  Smith,  to  a  hidden  deposit 
of  golden  plates  upon  which  was  en- 
graved a  history  of  the  early  inhabitants 
of  the  Americas.  The  engravings,  sub- 
sequently translated  by  Joseph  Smith 
by  the  gift  and  power  of  God,  comprise 
the  Book  of  Mormon.  The  historian 
was  Moroni — a  resurrected  prophet. 

In  an  interview  with  a  prospective 
young  missionary,  I  quite  routinely 
asked: 

"Do  you  believe  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
prophet  of  God?" 

"Sir,"  he  said,  "I  know  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  prophet  of  God." 

"What  is  your  feeling  about  the  Book 
of  Mormon?" 

"I  know  the  Book  of  Mormon  is 
true,"  he  replied. 

His  quick  emphatic  reply  prompted 
me  to  say,  "How  can  you  be  so  positive 
about  it?" 

His  response  again  was  emphatic, 
impressive,  and  brief.  Three  short 
words  conveyed  it:  "I've  read  it." 

There  are  undoubtedly  many  of  you 
members  of  the  Church  listening  to  me 
at  this  moment  who  could  similarly 
testify  to  the  truthfulness  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon  because  you've  read  it. 

One  scholarly  man  told  me  that  he 
could  not  bring  himself  to  read  the 
Book  of  Mormon  because  of  the  fan- 
tastic story  concerning  its  origin. 

"Let  me  see  those  golden  plates — 
seeing  is  believing — "  he  said. 

"Perhaps,"  I  admitted,  hastening  to 
explain  that  Joseph  Smith  returned  them 
to  the  Angel  Moroni  who  had  told  him 
that  a  sealed  part  or  section  of  the 
plates  would  be  translated  at  a  future 
time  when  the  world  was  better  prepared 
to  receive  its  message. 


"Well,"  he  smiled  as  he  answered 
facetiously,  "when  Moroni  returns  them 
for  translation,  give  me  a  ring.  I'd  like 
to  ask  him  a  few  questions." 

I  suppose  there  are  critics  and  skeptics 
whose  attitudes  toward  the  Book  of 
Mormon  are  reflected  in  this  man's 
philosophy — "seeing  is  believing."  I 
suppose,  too,  that  some  of  our  young 
missionaries  have  wished  that  Moroni 
had  left  the  plates  with  Joseph  Smith 
so  that  he  could  have  deposited  them  in 
some  public  place,  a  museum  perhaps, 
where  investigators  might  come  to  see 
for  themselves  and  thus  be  convinced, 
since  seeing  is  believing. 

I  wonder!  And  my  wondering  in- 
clines me  to  doubt — even  question  the 
idea  that — "seeing  is  believing" — par- 
ticularly in  its  application  to  the  golden 
plates. 

Were  any  of  our  early  missionaries 
or  others  ever  able  to  support  "seeing 
is  believing"  with  evidence  that  the 
people  who  saw  the  papyri  scrolls  with 
the  Egyptian  mummies  readily  accepted 
Joseph  Smith's  translation  of  one  of  the 
scrolls  as  divinely  inspired?  The  book 
of  Abraham  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price 
constitutes  this  translation.  Those  mum- 
mies and  scrolls  were  exhibited  over  a 
period  of  two  years,  throughout  towns 
and  cities  east  of  the  Appalachian  Moun- 
tains. For  another  nine  years  they  were 
in  Joseph  Smith's  possession,  and  after 
his  death  they  reportedly  reposed  in 
museums;  first,  in  St.  Louis  and  later 
in  Chicago,  where  they  were  supposedly 
destroyed  in  the  great  fire  of  1871. 
Thousands  of  people  must  have  seen 
them.  No  one,  so  far  as  I  am  able  to 
determine,  ever  questioned  their  genuine- 
ness, but  how  many,  because  they  felt 
"seeing  is  believing,"  accepted  Joseph 
Smith's  translation  as  the  handiwork  of 
God  and  petitioned  for  membership  in 
his  (God's)  Church?  Very,  very  few — 
I'm  sure.  What  reason  have  we  then 
to  suspect  that  seeing  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon plates  would  be  different?  Were 
they  available  for  inspection  people  see- 
ing them  may  admit  that  golden  plates 
exist,  and  that  there  are  engravings  upon 
them — which  scholars  cannot  translate, 


ELDER  WILLIAM 

but  would  that  knowledge  silence  the 
attacks  of  skeptics  who  surely  would 
impute  them  to  be  spurious?  Would 
it  abate  the  endless  disputations  about 
their  origin,  the  angel,  and  the  transla- 
tion by  the  gift  and  power  of  God? 
Again,  I  wonder.  The  more  I  ponder 
the  suggestion  that  "seeing  is  believing" 
the  more  convinced  I  am  that  the  Lord's 
way  was  best — he  kept  the  plates.  He 
said  to  his  prophet  Isaiah:  "For  my 
thoughts  are  not  your  thoughts,  neither 
are  your  ways  my  ways,  .  .  .  For  as  the 
heavens  are  higher  than  the  earth,  so 
are  my  ways  higher  than  your  ways, 
and  my  thoughts  than  your  thoughts." 
(Isaiah  55:8-9.) 
Yes,  the  Lord's  way  was  best. 

(1)  His  way — keeping  the  plates — 
safely  preserves  them  against  the  time 
when  the  world  is  ready  for  a  transla- 
tion of  the  part  thereof  which  is  sealed. 

oseph  Smith  was  not  permitted  to  trans- 
ate  this  sealed  part  because  the  hearts 
of  the  people  were  not  susceptible  to  the 
divine  truth  contained  therein.  Con- 
cerning it,  the  historian-prophet  Moroni 
wrote: 

".  .  .  there  never  were  greater  things 
made  manifest  than  those  which  .  .  . 
the  Lord  hath  commanded  me  to  write 
them; .  .  .  And  he  commanded  me  that 
I  should  seal  them  up;  and  he  also  hath 
commanded  that  I  should  seal  up  the 
interpretation  thereof;  .  .  .  until  the  day 
that  they  [the  Gentiles]  shall  repent 
of  their  iniquity,  and  become  clean  be- 
fore the  Lord."  (Ether  4:4-6.) 

In  fancy  let's  assume  that  the  plates 
had  been  deposited  with  the  mummies 
and  the  Egyptian  scrolls  in  the  Chicago 
museum.  Both  would  then  have  been 
destroyed  by  fire.  Joseph  Smith  never 
did  find  time  to  translate  the  second 
scroll  which  he  said  contained  the  writ- 
ings of  Joseph,  grandson  of  Abraham. 
Its  contents  are  seemingly  lost  to  the 
world.  So,  without  the  Lord's  inter- 
vention, "the  greater  things  made  mani- 
fest" in  the  sealed  portion  of  the  gold 
plates  may  have  been  similarly  lost  to 
the  world.  Surely  God's  "ways  are 
higher  than  your  ways  and  my  thoughts 
than  your  thoughts."  I  am  grateful 
that  the  Lord  kept  the  plates.  Sometime, 
I  hope  to  read  the  "greater  things"  sealed 
therein. 

(2)  His  way — keeping  the  plates — 
complied  with  and  satisfied  his  own 


/.  CR1TCHLOW  35 

divine  law  of  witnesses  which  is  "In  the 
mouth  of  two  or  three  witnesses  shall 
every  word  be  established."  (2  Corin- 
thians 13:1.)  He  gave  this  law  to  Moses 
for  the  children  of  Israel;  (Deut.  17:6.) 
He  taught  this  law  to  his  disciples  when 
he  walked  with  them  on  earth  (Matt. 
18:15-16);  he  inspired  his  servant  Paul 
to  teach  this  law  to  the  Corinthians  (2 
Cor.  13:1);  and  he  literally  conformed 
to  this  law  in  this  last  dispensation  by 
supplying  twelve  witnesses  of  the  golden 
plates,  Joseph  Smith  and  eleven  others. 

(3)  His  way — keeping  the  plates — 
satisfies  adequately  the  civil  laws  of  the 
land  with  respect  to  witnesses.  Twelve 
witnesses  in  any  civil  court  comprise  a 
jury  whose  verdict  should  completely 
satisfy  the  demands  of  civil  law.  The 
jury's  verdict  was:  "The  plates  exist — 
we  saw  them."  This  evidence  is  incontro- 
vertible. 

Listen  for  a  moment  to  the  witnesses: 
"Be  it  known  unto  all  nations, 
kindreds,  tongues,  and  people,  unto 
whom  this  work  shall  come:  That  we  . . . 
have  seen  the  plates  .  .  .  ,  and  we  also 
know  that  they  have  been  translated  by 
the  gift  and  power  of  God,  for  his  voice 
hath  declared  it  unto  us;  .  .  .  And  we 
also  testify  that  we  have  seen  the  en- 
gravings which  are  upon  the  plates; 
. . .  And  we  declare  with  words  of  sober- 
ness, that  an  angel  of  God  .  .  .  brought 
and  laid  before  our  eyes,  that  we  beheld 
and  saw  the  plates,  and  the  engravings 
thereon;  .  .  ."  So  spoke  three  of  them. 
Eight  others  spoke  as  follows: 
"Be  it  known  unto  all  nations, 
kindreds,  tongues,  and  people,  unto 
whom  this  work  shall  come:  That  Joseph 
Smith,  Jun.,  .  .  .  has  shown  unto  us  the 
plates  ...  which  have  the  appearance 
of  gold;  .  .  .  and  we  also  saw  the  en- 
gravings thereon,  .  .  .  And  this  we  bear 
record  with  words  of  soberness,  that .  .  . 
we  have  seen  and  hefted,  and  know  of  a 
surety  that  the  said  Smith  has  got  the 
plates  of  which  we  have  spoken.  .  .  ." 

I  have  deleted  from  these  testimonies, 
in  the  interest  of  brevity,  many  inter- 
esting statements  which  every  investi- 
gator of  the  work  should  read.  They 
may  be  found  on  one  of  the  preface 
pages  of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

None  of  the  witnesses  ever  denied  his 
testimony.  Each  to  his  last  breath  and 
some  with  their  last  breath  declared  in 
substance,  "I  saw  the  plates — the  work 


! 


36  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  3 

is  true."  Two  of  the  twelve  witnesses 
sealed  their  testimonies  with  their  blood; 
five  were  excommunicated  from  the 
Church;  two  others  withdrew  from  the 
Church;  but  despite  disaffection  toward 
the  Church,  enmity  toward  the  Prophet, 
adversity,  and  persecution,  not  one  of 
them  ever  denied  his  testimony. 

(4)  His  way — keeping  the  plates — 
left  to  the  world,  in  lieu  of  the  plates, 
which  man  could  not  read,  a  true  trans- 
lation thereof  which  man  can  read, 
because  it  is  now  translated  into  twenty- 
four  languages.  It  is  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon. Joseph  Smith  translated  it  by 
the  gift  and  power  of  God. 

The  intrinsic  value  of  the  plates  is 
not  their  gold  content,  but  is  their  mes- 
sage content.  The  Lord  left  that  mes- 
sage to  the  world. 

It  is  said,  "The  proof  of  the  pudding 
is  in  the  eating."  So  is  the  proof  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon  in  the  reading. 
The  young  missionary  who  said,  "I 
know  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  true  be- 
cause I've  read  it,"  is  not  unlike  thou- 
sands of  you  who  are  listening  to  me, 
who,  too,  can  testify  that  you  know  it 
is  true  because  you've  read  it. 

And  when  you  read  it,  you  discovered 
a  key  which  unlocked  for  you  a  source 
of  evidence  which  proved  beyond  the 
shadow  of  a  doubt  the  divine  source  of 
its  origin. 

This  key  was  your  reward  for  reading 
the  book,  from  cover  to  cover,  for  only 
those  who  pursue  their  reading  to  the 
closing  pages  will  find  it.  This  is  the 
key: 

"And  when  ye  shall  receive  these 
things,  I  would  exhort  you  that  ye 
would  ask  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  in 
the  name  of  Christ,  if  these  things  are 
not  true;  and  if  ye  shall  ask  with  sin- 
cere heart,  with  real  intent,  having  faith 
in  Christ,  he  will  manifest  the  truth  of 
it  unto  you,  by  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost."  (Moroni  10:4.) 

This  promise  is  not  unlike  a  promise 
made  by  our  Lord  and  Master  nineteen 
hundred  years  ago  when  he  stood  upon 
a  mount  in  Galilee  and  spoke: 

"Ask  and  it  shall  be  given  you;  seek, 


Second  Day 

and  ye  shall  find;  knock,  and  it  shall 
be  opened  unto  you."  (Matt.  7:7.) 

Another  time  he  said:  "If  any  of  you 
lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God,  that 
giveth  to  all  men  liberally,  and  up- 
braideth  not;  and  it  shall  be  given  him. 
(James  1:5.) 

Joseph  Smith,  the  youth,  did  "ask," 
and  he  did  "seek"  and  he  did  "knock" 
and  there  was  "opened  unto"  him — 
golden  plates — delivered  by  one  Moroni, 
an  early  American  historian-prophet; 
which  Joseph  translated  by  the  gift  and 
power  of  God.  And  now  by  this  same 
power  or  by  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  he  (God)  has  specifically  prom- 
ised all  who  will  read  the  book  "with 
a  sincere  heart,  with  real  intent,  having 
faith  in  Christ,"  to  "manifest  the  truth 
of  it  unto  you." 

(5)  God's  way — keeping  the  plates — 
provided  a  precious  key — a  divine  key 
which  if  used  as  many  of  you  have  used 
it,  will  unlock  the  door  to: 

— Knowledge  that  the  "Book  of  Mor- 
mon is  true."  So  said  the  young  mis- 
sionary.  I  add  my  witness. 

— Knowledge  that  the  Bible  contains 
the  word  of  God — the  Book  of  Mormon 
is  its  witness. 

— Knowledge  that  Joseph  Smith  was 
a  prophet  of  God. 

— Knowledge  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the 
Son  of  the  Living  God — the  Book  of 
Mormon  is  his  witness. 

I  believe  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
prophet  of  God,  that  he  was  visited  by 
one  Moroni  an  early  American  historian- 
prophet  who  directed  him  to  a  hidden 
deposit  of  golden  plates.  The  engrav- 
ings thereon  he  [Joseph  Smith],  trans- 
lated by  the  gift  and  power  of  God  and 
thus  produced  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

This  is  my  humble  testimony.  I  bear 
it  gladly,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Wil- 
liam J.  Critchlow,  Jr.,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve.  Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  now  ad- 
dress us. 


37 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


On  a  recent  trip,  I  was  a  guest  in  the 
home  of  a  little  boy  about  six  or  seven 
years  of  age.  He  was  looking  through 
his  older  brother's  Boy  Scout  Handbook. 
He  had  turned  to  the  section  on  tracking, 
where  Scouts  are  taught  to  follow  foot- 
prints of  animals.  He  told  me  that  he 
expects  that  this  coming  summer  he 
will  be  out  tracking,  following  foot- 
prints. 

I  looked  beyond  the  footprints  of  ani- 
mals to  the  footprints  of  human  beings, 
and  wondered  whose  foot  tracks  he 
would  follow  as  he  grew  up.  I  won- 
dered if  they  would  be  good  tracks  or 
bad  tracks,  and  if  the  people  who  would 
make  those  tracks  would  be  uplifting 
or  degrading  in  their  influence  on  him. 

I  picked  up  his  book  and  turned  to 
the  section  where  I  read  the  Boy  Scout 
oath.  You  remember  the  first  few  words 
are,  "On  my  honor  I  will  do  my  best. 
.  .  ."  As  he  grows  up,  what  will  this 
little  boy  learn  about  honor  or  dishonor? 
Who  will  teach  him?  Or  does  it  really 
matter?  How  important  is  honor,  any- 
way? Is  it  something  sacred?  Is  it 
sacred  to  you?  Is  it  sacred  to  very  many 
Americans? 

In  my  opinion,  America  needs  a  re- 
birth of  honor  more  than  it  needs  any 
other  one  thing.  It  needs  honor  more 
than  it  needs  its  atom  bombs  and  nuclear 
submarines.  Put  weapons  in  the  hands 
of  dishonorable  men  and  what  have 
you? 

America  needs  honor  more  than  it 
needs  wealth  and  prosperity.  Put  wealth 
in  the  hands  of  dishonorable  men,  and 
what  have  you? 

America  needs  honor  even  more  than 
it  needs  professions  of  religious  piety. 
What  good  is  a  profession  of  religion  in 
a  man  who  has  no  honor?  Such  men 
lived  in  the  days  of  Jesus.  He  called 
them  scribes  and  Pharisees,  hypocrites. 

Have  you  been  shocked  at  the  public 
display  of  deception  and  dishonesty  we 
have  seen  recently  from  coast  to  coast? 
Are  you  alarmed  at  the  lack  of  char- 
acter which  has  been  exhibited?  Are 
you  frightened  when  the  public  con- 
science is  dimmed  and  when  men  and 
women  alike  strive  in  greed  and  selfish- 


ness to  get  all  they  can  and  give  as 
little  in  return  as  they  can? 

Are  you  alarmed  when  working  men 
laugh  at  the  principle  of  giving  an  hon- 
est day's  work  for  an  honest  day's  pay? 
Are  you  shocked  when  large  industries 
become  involved  in  public  scandals? 
Does  it  scare  you  to  learn  that  our  gov- 
ernment was  defrauded  by  its  own 
citizens  of  five  billion  dollars  in  income 
tax  in  a  single  year? 

Where  will  all  this  lack  of  honor  take 
us?  What  will  be  its  effect  upon  our 
children?  Think  of  my  little  boy  friend 
and  his  Boy  Scout  book:  "On  my  honor 
.  .  ."    What  will  honor  mean  to  him? 

The  uniform  crime  reports  of  the  FBI 
issued  last  September  indicate  that 
adults  are  responsible  for  eighty  percent 
of  the  major  crimes  in  the  United  States. 
Then,  who  is  leading  the  march  of 
dishonor  and  disgrace  in  America  today? 

Not  the  juvenile  delinquents  who  get 
the  headlines. 

This  same  FBI  report  shows  that  the 
age  group  in  which  most  arrests  are 
made  is  the  group  fifty  years  of  age 
and  older.  Think  of  itl  More  arrests 
among  people  fifty  years  of  age  and 
over  than  among  any  other  age  group 
in  the  United  States!  The  next  highest 
age  group  is  made  up  of  persons  from 
thirty  to  thirty-four,  and  the  next  highest 
those  from  thirty-five  to  thirty-nine. 

I  wondered  if  this  picture  had  changed 
in  the  last  five  years  and  looking  in 
the  FBI  report  of  five  years  before,  I 
discovered  that  still,  even  then,  those 
fifty  years  of  age  and  over  accounted  for 
more  crimes  than  any  other  age  group. 

I  was  very  interested  in  last  year's 
report  to  discover  that  only  nineteen 
percent  of  all  the  arrests  for  major 
crimes  in  the  United  States  involved 
people  under  twenty-one  years  of  age. 

Do  you  remember  the  verse  which 
says: 

"  'Twas  a  sheep,  not  a  lamb  that  strayed 
away 

In  the  parable  Jesus  told, 

A  grown-up  sheep  that  had  gone  astray 

From  the  ninety  and  nine  in  the  fold." 


38 

Sunday,  April  3 

Our  leaders  in  crime  detection  tell 
us  that  our  increased  juvenile  crime  is 
largely  due  to  a  great  let-down  in  honor 
and  integrity,  a  great  collapse  in  the 
moral  fiber  of  the  nation.  They  warn 
us  that  when  we  overlook  honesty  on 
such  a  wide  scale,  national  disaster  may 
overtake  us. 

I  recently  read  an  editorial  in  the 
Richmond,  Virginia,  News-Leader,  com- 
menting on  this  moral  breakdown  in 
America,  and  making  special  reference 
to  the  "payola"  scandal.  The  editor 
said: 

"The  fault  lies  wholly  in  ourselves, 
and  in  the  sort  of  shallow,  materialist 
society  we  have  built  for  our  country. 
Here  we  sit  in  our  inner-spring  cocoons, 
fashioned  of  infinite  soft  self-deceptions, 
and  stare  at  the  disc  jockeys  outside. 

"Who  will  cast  the  first  stone? 

"Will  it  be  the  farmer,  paid  for  not 
farming  his  land? 

"Or  will  it  be  the  executive,  padding 
his  expense  account? 

"Will  it  be  the  student  who  cheats? 

"Will  it  be  the  veteran  who  fakes  a 
disability?  The  bureaucrat  who  makes 
useless  work?  The  politicians  who  buy 
votes?  The  special  interests  who  buy 
politicians?  The  merchant  whose  fancy 
package  conceals  a  shoddy  product? 
Who  is  the  condemner,  who  the  con- 
demned? 

"All  this,"  says  the  editorial,  "is  not 
to  condone  for  an  instant  the  greedy, 
cynical  and  irresponsible  conduct  of 
those  persons  in  the  broadcasting  in- 
dustry whose  contempt  for  the  American 
boob  is  now  so  shockingly  revealed. 
They  are  reaping  their  own  whirlwind. 
It  is  merely  to  suggest  that  we  get  this 
scandal  in  perspective,  painful  as  the 
process  may  be.  .  .  . 

".  .  .  When  our  schools  are  crowded 
with  'crib  courses'  and  our  ministers 
are  absorbed  in  the  intricacies  of  ad- 
ministration, and  our  families  have  left 
it  to  somebody  else  to  inculcate  cultural 
values  in  their  children,  and  the  con- 
fiscatory nature  of  tax  laws  has  made 
a  nation  of  devious  contrivers,  no  won- 
der a  quiz  show  contestant  sees  decep- 
tion as  reality  and  fraud  as  accepted 
social  behavior." 

Recently  I  read  an  address  given  in 
Boise,  Idaho,  by  Judge  Philip  Gilliam 
of  Denver,  the  judge  of  the  juvenile 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

court  there.  Among  other  things  he 
said: 

"It  seems  to  me  that  there  has  been 
sweeping  through  America  ...  an  arbi- 
tration between  right  and  wrong. 

".  .  .  you  know,"  he  said,  "you  see  it 
with  the  adults  so  often:  [they  say] 
Don't  be  a  sucker,  why  should  I  pay 
my  taxes  if  there  is  any  way  to  get  out 
of  it?  .  .  . 

"But  you  see  it  in  the  kids,  too,"  he 
said.  "Every  now  and  then  you  talk 
to  one  of  the  kids  we  get  in  our  training 
school  for  delinquent  boys,  and  you  say, 
'Son,  why  did  you  break  the  law?' 
And  he  says,  'I  didn't  want  to  be  a  .  .  . 
chicken.  .  .  .' 

"Can  you  imagine  Thomas  Jefferson 
sitting  back  [in  his  day]  and  saying, 
'I  didn't  want  to  be  a  chicken?' " 

Then  he  continues:  "Golly,  friends,  is 
there  something  wrong  with  being  a  de- 
cent guy,  with  being  a  responsible  citi- 
zen .  .  .  interested  in  community 
betterment  .  .  .  interested  enough  to 
make  the  effort  for  good  government? 
Is  decency  becoming  unpopular  in  this 
country?" 

Then  he  says,  "The  great  challenge 
of  America  is  to  be  a  decent  guy,  a  con- 
structive citizen,  a  responsible  business- 
man, an  honorable  workingman.  .  .  . 

".  .  .  The  test  of  civilization  is  not 
how  many  cars  you  own  or  some  of  the 
things  that  have  been  glorified  on  TV 
and  in  the  movies.  The  test  of  civiliza- 
tion is  the  kind  of  people  we  turn  out." 
And  he  concludes,  "I'm  sure  that  is  ab- 
solutely true." 

My  mind  goes  back  to  the  little  boy 
with  the  Scout  manual.  What  if  every 
American  could  but  leam  the  first  great 
lesson  in  that  manual,  the  lesson  of 
honor?  What  if  every  man  were  as 
honorable  as  he  expects  his  son  to  be? 
What  if  every  woman  were  as  honorable 
as  she  hopes  her  children  will  be?  What 
if  every  boy  and  girl  had  honor  en- 
throned in  their  hearts  and  could  pledge 
to  all  men  that  on  that  sacred  honor  they 
would  do  their  best  in  life? 

There  is  no  happiness  without  honor. 
There  is  little  success  without  doing 
one's  best. 

To  instil  in  the  mind  and  heart  of  a 
child  the  importance  of  honor  and  the 
value  of  doing  his  best,  is  one  of  our 
greatest  tasks.    What  are  we  without 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


39 


good  character?  Can  good  character  ex- 
ist without  honor? 

When  we  look  at  the  lite  and  teach- 
ings of  the  Savior,  it  was  the  hypocrite, 
the  pretentious  hypocrite,  who  received 
his  most  scathing  criticism. 

It  was  the  honest  widow  giving  her 
mite,  who  has  lived  in  our  memories  as 
an  example  to  be  followed. 

Judas  the  traitor  will  forever  be  the 
personification  of  dishonor  at  its  worst. 
The  prayer  in  Gethsemane  will  always 
be  the  criterion  of  devotion. 

In  this  Church  we  have  many  marvel- 
ous character-building  activities.  We 
have  outstanding  organizations  which 
teach  honor  and  integrity  to  our  young 
people.  The  Boy  Scout  movement  is 
one  of  them.  It  is  a  well-established 
fact  that  this  training  in  boys  makes  of 
them  honorable  citizens,  with  good 
character  and  high  ideals. 

Then  in  the  light  of  our  national 
moral  status,  in  the  knowledge  of  our 
great  need  to  teach  honor  and  integrity, 
in  the  interest  of  rearing  the  next  genera- 
tion to  be  better  than  the  present  one, 
do  we  not  need  more  of  scouting  and 
other  agencies  which  teach  honesty  and 
truth? 

Scouting  can  help  make  a  boy  an 
outstanding  man,  a  good  church  mem- 
ber, a  good  student,  a  good  citizen. 
Then  why  are  not  more  parents  inter- 
ested in  this  wonderful  movement? 
Why  is  there  resistance  in  many  homes? 
Why  do  some  officials  who  are  charged 
with  the  welfare  and  development  of 
boyhood  side-step  their  responsibilities 
to  the  scouting  program? 

It  seems  incredible,  in  a  day  when  so 
much  temptation  faces  our  youth,  that 
any  grown  person,  especially  a  parent 
or  worker  with  youth,  would  fail  to  take 
full  advantage  of  the  Scout  program. 

Scouts  are  governed  not  only  by  their 
oath  to  do  their  best  on  their  sacred 
honor,  but  also  by  their  law  which  says 
that  a  Scout  is  trustworthy,  loyal,  help- 
ful, friendly,  courteous.  A  Scout  is 
kind,  obedient,  cheerful,  thrifty,  brave, 
clean,  and  reverent. 


Is  there  a  boy  anywhere  who  would 
not  benefit  by  having  these  traits  of 
character  developed  within  him?  Is 
there  a  home  which  would  not  be 
blessed  by  having  such  a  boy  within  it, 
a  boy  who  is  helpful,  trustworthy,  loyal, 
friendly,  and  kind? 

What  if  every  boy  was  courteous  to 
his  mother?  What  if  every  boy  was 
kind  to  little  sister?  What  if  every  one 
was  obedient  in  the  home  and  obedient 
to  God? 

Would  there  be  any  moral  breakdown, 
if  all  boys  were  clean?  In  this  day  of 
delinquency,  can  we  think  of  any  better 
way  to  prevent  filthy  living  than  to  plant 
a  love  of  cleanliness  in  the  heart  of  a 
boy? 

It  is  time  to  teach  honor  to  America. 
It  is  time  to  acknowledge  that  an  honest 
man  is  the  noblest  work  of  God.  It  is 
time  to  remember  that  when  the  grown- 
up sheep  wander  off  from  the  fold,  they 
usually  lead  the  lambs  astray. 

May  we  awaken  to  our  responsibility 
to  be  honest  and  true,  to  exalt  honor  in 
our  lives  and  in  our  thinking,  I  earnest- 
ly pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  has  just  concluded  speak- 
ing. 

Among  our  honored  guests  present 
this  morning  we  are  favored  with  Mr. 
Sumner  G.  Whittier,  National  Adminis- 
trator of  Veterans  Affairs,  Washington, 
D.C.  He  is  accompanied  by  Dr.  Albert 
H.  Fechner,  Manager  of  Veterans  Admin- 
istration Hospital  here  in  our  own  city, 
and  President  W.  Wallace  McBride, 
who  is  manager  of  the  Veterans  Regional 
Office. 

I  am  sure  the  audience  would  be 
pleased  to  meet  Mr.  Sumner  Whittier. 
Would  you  please  come  forward.  If 
you  feel  to  condemn  me,  you  blame  it  to 
Ezra  Taft  Benson.  Just  say  a  word  to 
the  audience. 


MR.  SUMNER  G.  WHITTIER 

National  Administrator  of  Veterans  Affairs,  Washington  D.  C. 


Mr.  President  and  all  of  those  as- 
sembled here,  I  was  sitting  in  this 
tremendous  auditorium  listening  and 


being  inspired  and  all  of  a  sudden  I 
find  myself  at  this  platform.  But  I  must 
say  to  you  that  coming  in  last  night 


40  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  3 

by  plane  to  this  tremendous  city, 
thinking  of  the  great  struggle  that  men 
went  through  to  achieve  this  mighty 
thing,  knowing  as  I  do  the  dedication 
and  the  devotion  of  those  who  are 
members  of  this  Church,  for  Reed  Ben- 
son was  an  administrative  assistant  in 
my  office,  knowing  the  integrity  of  his 
father  working  for  a  great  President  of 
the  United  States,  seeing  this  kind  of 
strength,  this  devotion,  this  dedication, 
listening  to  the  inspiration  from  this 
great  pulpit  here  this  morning,  and 
listening  to  the  rising  power  of  song  as 
I  listened  to  it  in  great  Constitutional 
Hall  in  Washington  when  the  Choir 
came  there,  knowing  the  love  of  the 
Benson  family — and  one  of  them  can 
do  nothing  without  the  other  joining — 
I  tell  you  for  one  who  comes  from  a  long 
way  across  this  continent,  this  is  a 
moving,  a  thrilling,  and  inspiring  mo- 
ment, the  greatness  of  America,  the 
strength  of  Christianity  here  repre- 
sented. I  have  a  faith  in  all  of  our 
tomorrows. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Thank  you,  Mr.  Whittier. 

We  desire  to  acknowledge  the  pres- 
ence this  morning  also  of  the  following — 
I  have  had  the  names  handed  in  and 
we  may  have  missed  some: 

United  States  Senator  Frank  E.  Moss; 
our  own  Governor,  Governor  George  D. 
Clyde;  Secretary  of  State  Lamont 
Toronto;  President  Ernest  L.  Wilkinson, 
President  of  Brigham  Young  University; 
President  A.  Ray  Olpin,  President  of 
the  University  of  Utah;  President  Wil- 
liam P.  Miller,  Weber  College;  Dr.  E. 
Allen  Bateman,  State  Superintendent  of 
Public  Instruction;  Dr.  M.  Lynn  Ben- 
nion,  Superintendent  of  Salt  Lake  City 
Schools;  Judge  Sherman  B.  Christensen 
of  the  Federal  Court;  and  I  am  sure 
there  are  many  others  who  are  present — 
presidents  of  stakes,  presidents  of  mis- 
sions, bishops  of  wards  too  numerous  to 
name — and  many  others.  We  welcome 
you  wholeheartedly,  not  just  because  we 
appreciate  your  presence,  but  because 
we  know  of  your  interest  in  the  progress 
of  truth  and  the  establishment  of  peace. 

We  are  also  pleased  to  note  that  we 
received  the  following  from  the  Swiss 
Austrian  Mission: 


Second  Day 

"Swiss  Austrian  missionaries  and 
Saints  send  love.  Forty  convert  bap- 
tisms last  month.  President  William 
S.  Erekson." 

From  the  Swedish  Mission:  "The  mis- 
sionaries and  Saints  of  the  Swedish 
Mission  send  you  greetings  on  this,  the 
130th  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church. 
President  and  Sister  Gideon  Omer." 

From  President  and  Sister  Alvin  R. 
Dyer  of  the  European  Mission,  sent  from 
Stockholm:  "The  people  of  Europe  are 
awakening  to  a  great  period  of  con- 
version. Our  love  and  thoughts  are 
with  you  at  Conference  time." 

From  Congressman  David  S.  King: 
"Deeply  regret  that  I  am  unable  to 
attend  the  General  Conference.  Press  of 
legislative  and  committee  work  does  not 
permit  me  to  leave  Washington  at  this 
time.  Will  be  with  you  in  heart  and 
spirit." 

John  L.  Montrose,  Jr.,  Second  Coun- 
selor in  the  Tacoma  Fifth  Ward  bishop- 
ric: "Thirty  soldiers  and  airmen  leaving 
McCord  Air  Force  Base,  Washington, 
to  attend  Conference.  Request  your 
faith  and  prayers."  We  welcome  you 
men,  many  of  whom  I  am  sure  stood 
up  last  evening  in  our  Priesthood 
meeting. 

Our  mission  presidents,  I  repeat,  we 
welcome  and  are  pleased  to  hear  your 
reports — from  the  United  States,  Mexico, 
Central  America,  and  Canada. 

We  desire  to  say  a  word  about  the 
General  Priesthood  meeting  last  evening 
held  here  in  the  Tabernacle,  with  over- 
flow meetings  in  the  Assembly  Hall 
and  Barratt  Hall.  The  proceedings 
were  relayed  by  closed  circuit  to  mem- 
bers of  the  Priesthood  assembled  in  244 
Church  buildings  from  Coast  to  Coast 
and  in  Canada.  It  was  reported  at  the 
conclusion  of  our  meeting  that  53,265 
members  of  the  Priesthood  were  in 
attendance. 

This  morning  at  7:30  o'clock,  Elder 
Howard  W.  Hunter  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve  was  the  speaker  on  the 
Columbia  Broadcasting  System  "Church- 
of-the-Air"  Program.  This  will  be  re- 
broadcast  on  KSL  at  9  o'clock  tonight. 

Any  important  messages  or  calls  that 
come  to  us  for  persons  attending  this 
Conference  will  be  announced  at  the 
dismissal  of  the  meetings  over  the  public 
address  system  on  the  grounds. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


41 


The  lovely  flowers  that  you  see  ar- 
ranged on  the  rostrum  and  pulpit  have 
come  from  the  following  places: 

Five  thousand  daffodils  from  the 
Puyallup  Valley  Daffodil  Festival,  Inc. 
of  Tacoma,  Washington,  in  cooperation 
with  the  presidency  of  the  Tacoma 
Stake.  These  daffodils  come  from  the 
Puyallup  Valley  where  are  found  the 
nation's  and  the  world's  largest  plant- 
ings of  the  Giant  King  Alfred  daffodil. 
The  members  of  the  Tacoma  Stake 
picked  these  flowers. 

The  beautiful  Galla  Lilies  from  the 
High  Priests  Quorum  of  the  Oakland- 
Berkeley  Stake,  California. 

Ten  thousand  sweet  peas  are  from 
Mesa,  Arizona.  They  are  grown  by 
David  M.  Haws  and  picked  by  the  boys 
and  girls  of  the  Mesa  Seminary.  They 
were  up  before  daylight  to  do  this 
work. 

Stocks  from  the  Phoenix  Stake,  East 
Phoenix  Stake,  and  Phoenix  North 
Stake. 

And  I  wish  to  say  a  word  about  the 
sister  and  brother,  whose  names  I  will 
get  later,  for  the  hours  and  hours  they 
have  spent  in  arranging  these  flowers 
from  the  plane,  delivered  without  cost, 
to  the  position  they  now  occupy  for  your 
admiration  and  blessing. 


We  express  appreciation  and  thanks 
for  the  effort  put  forth  by  members  of 
the  Church  and  friends  in  supplying 
these  beauitful  flowers  for  our  enjoy- 
ment. 

The  singing  for  this  morning's  session 
as  you  know,  has  been  furnished  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir.  Richard  P.  Condie 
conducting  and  Alexander  Schreiner  is 
at  the  organ.  We  express  our  apprecia- 
tion to  the  members  and  officers  of  this 
world-famous  organization  for  their 
unselfish  devotion  and  service.  We  have 
been  thrilled  with  their  inspirational 
singing  this  morning. 

The  Choir  will  sing,  "Lord  Now 
Victorius,"  under  the  direction  of 
Elder  Richard  P.  Condie. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  H.  Earl  Stokes,  president  of  the 
Salmon  River  Stake,  after  which  this 
Conference  will  be  adjourned  until  two 
o'clock  this  afternoon. 


The  Choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Lord 
Now  Victorious." 

Elder  H.  Earl  Stokes,  President  of  the 
Salmon  River  Stake,  offered  the  closing 
prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock 
p.m. 


SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  Sunday  afternoon  session  of  the 
great  Conference  convened  in  the  Tab- 
ernacle at  2:00  o'clock  p.m. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  the 
choral  music  for  this  session  of  the  Con- 
ference. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  note  just  handed  to  me  will  be 
of  interest  to  you: 

"Sixty-two  service  men  have  just 
flown  in  from  Fort  Campbell,  Kentucky. 
Some  were  here  yesterday  and  are  here 
with  permission  of  General  Westmore- 
land." We  appreciate  the  cooperation 
of  these  officers  in  the  service. 

This  morning  we  mentioned  apprecia- 
tion for  those  who  have  assisted  in  ar- 
ranging the  flowers.    We  are  indebted 


to  "Brother  and  Sister  Mark  Jorgensen 
of  Granite  Ward  in  cooperation  with 
Brother  Irvin  T.  Nelson,  and  workers 
at  our  greenhouse  on  Temple  Block." 
We  thank  you  for  this  gracious  effort, 
and  for  the  appropriate  arrangement  of 
these  gorgeous  flowers. 

We  are  convened  in  the  Tabernacle 
on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah,  in  the  second  (third  including 
Priesthood  meeting)  General  Session  of 
the  One  Hundred  Thirtieth  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church.  For  those 
who  are  unable  to  enter  the  building 
(and  there  seem  to  be  hundreds  of 
them),  we  announce  that  these  services 
are  being  broadcast  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall  over  television. 

All  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church   are  in  attendance,  excepting 


42 

Sunday,  April  3 

Elder  Alvin  R.  Dyer,  Assistant  to  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  who  is  presiding 
over  the  European  Mission. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  is  Clerk  of  the 
Conference. 

These  services  are  also  being  broad- 
cast as  a  public  service  by  television  and 
radio  stations  throughout  the  West. 
The  names  of  these  stations  were  an- 
nounced to  the  television  and  radio 
audiences  at  the  beginning  of  this 
meeting.  To  the  owners  and  managers 
of  these  various  stations  we  express  our 
sincere  appreciation  for  the  outstanding 
public  service  they  are  rendering. 

We  extend  a  hearty  welcome  to  all 
present  and  to  all  members  and  friends 
listening  in  by  radio  and  television. 

The  music  for  this  afternoon  will  be 
rendered  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with 
Richard  P.  Condie  conducting,  and 
Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ.  We  shall 
begin  this  service  by  the  Choir  singing, 
"O  Be  Joyful,"  conducted  by  Elder  Jay 
E.  Welch,  Assistant  Conductor. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  George  E.  Grover,  president  of 
the  Shelley  Stake. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

The  Choir  sang  the  anthem,  "O  Be 
Joyful,"  conducted  by  Jay  E.  Welch, 
Assistant  Tabernacle  Choir  Conductor. 

Elder  George  E.  Grover,  President  of 
the  Shelley  Stake,  offered  the  opening 
prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  George  E.  Grover,  president  of 
the  Shelley  Stake.  The  Tabernacle 
Choir  will  now  sing,  "By  Babylon's 
Wave,"  conducted  by  Richard  P.  Condie, 
after  which  President  J.  Reuben  Clark, 
Jr.  will  address  us. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir,  with  Richard 
P.  Condie  conducting,  sang  "By  Baby- 
lon's Wave." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the 
First  Presidency  will  be  our  first  speaker 
this  afternoon.  He  will  be  followed  by 
President  Antoine  R.  Ivins. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  am  grate- 
ful to  be  with  you,  difficult  as  it  is  to 
try  to  talk  to  you.  I  thank  the  Lord  for 
his  blessings  to  me  during  the  past 
months,  and  more  recently  until  now.  I 
thank  you  as  I  thanked  the  priesthood 
last  night,  for  your  faith  and  prayers 
which  have  enabled  me  to  be  with  you 
today.  I  hope  that  you  will  be  good 
enough  to  pray  with  me  that  what  I 
may  say  today,  may  be  somewhat  help- 
ful to  all  of  us. 

As  I  have  thought  about  what  I  might 
say  or  try  to  say,  I  have  rather  centered 
on  the  thought  of  the  proud  boast  of 
Rome,  which  was,  "All  roads  lead  to 
Rome."  And  I  have  thought,  and  I  may 
say  I  endorse  all  that  has  been  said 
thus  far  regarding  our  time  and  its 
trends — I  have  thought  how  much  that 
fundamental  idea  in  this  dictum  has 
come  to  mean  among  us.  I  do  not  know 
whether  we  are  in  the  beginning,  in  the 
middle,  or  near  the  end  of  a  time  when 
we  shall  see  what  historians  of  the  fu- 


ture may  call  a  revolution.  And  may 
I  say  here,  and  it  applies  frequently  to 
all  of  us  in  principle,  we  of  the  present 
make  history,  our  successors  away  from 
us  write;  and  out  of  it  they  get  things 
which  we  do  not  now  presently  see. 
I  fear,  as  I  have  talked  and  heard 
others  talk,  that  there  may  be  a  feeling, 
in  fact,  I  know  there  is  among  some, 
that  it  does  not  make  very  much  differ- 
ence to  what  church  we  belong,  what 
creed  we  may  have,  and  not  too  much 
difference,  within  very  broad  limita- 
tions, what  we  do.  We  seem  to  be,  in 
a  way,  in  the  presence  of  a  trend  of 
thought  that  is  national,  indeed  world- 
wide, that  would  have  us  to  believe  that 
all  this  does  not  make  very  much  dif- 
ference, for  we  will  all  go  to  heaven 
anyhow,  do  what  we  will,  think  what 
we  will,  believe  what  we  will,  have 
faith  as  we  may. 

I  find  great  fault  with  that,  great 
fault,  and  I  came  across,  in  connection 
with  this  thought,  some  passages  of 


PRESIDENT  J.  Rl 

scripture  upon  which  I  thought  I  might 
say  a  few  words.  They  are  taken  from 
the  Sermon  on  the  Mount  and  were  re- 
peated by  the  Savior  in  that  great  ap- 
pearance which  he  made  on  this 
continent  after  his  resurrection.  They 
are  identical  in  words.  Remember  that 
he  said  when  he  came  to  this  continent 
that  he  had  come  to  teach  them  the 
things  that  he  taught  in  Palestine.  And 
these  words  are  these: 

"Enter  ye  in  at  the  strait  gate:  for  wide 
is  the  gate,  and  broad  is  the  way,  that 
leadeth  to  destruction,  and  many  there 
be  which  go  in  thereat: 

"Because  strait  is  the  gate,  and  narrow 
is  the  way,  which  leadeth  unto  life, 
and  few  there  be  that  find  it."  (Matt. 
7:13-14;  3  Nephi  14:13-14.) 

I  was  reminded,  as  I  read  that,  of  the 
dream  of  Lehi  recorded  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  dreamed  in  the  early  days  of 
the  life  of  migration  of  Lehi,  where  the 
latter  part  of  that — "few  there  be"  that 
get  into  the  straight  and  narrow  way, 
was  really  prophetic.  For  his  people 
found  application  of  this  principle  in 
Lehi's  own  descendants,  for  there  de- 
veloped in  the  life  of  his  descendants  on 
this  continent,  the  bloody  conflict  of 
the  Nephites  and  Lamanites  that  brought 
about  the  utter  destruction  of  the  one 
by  the  other. 

That  led  me  to  these  thoughts  about 
Christ.  To  Nicodemus  he  said  that 
he  came  not  to  condemn  the  world,  but 
to  save  it.  (John  3:17.)  In  the  great 
prayer  in  the  garden,  he  uttered  the 
great  principle,  "And  this  is  life  eternal, 
that  they  might  know  thee  the  only  true 
God,  and  Jesus  Christ,  whom  thou  hast 
sent."  (John  17:3.) 

And  then  I  remembered  also  what 
Peter  said  to  the  Sanhedrin,  called  before 
them  as  a  judicial  body  in  connection 
with  the  first  miracle,  it  is  said,  per- 
formed in  the  early  Christian  Church 
by  the  apostles.  Being  asked  by  what 
name  he  did  the  miracle,  Peter  an- 
swered: 

".  .  .  by  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  .  .  . 
for  there  is  none  other  name  under 
heaven  given  among  men,  whereby  we 
must  be  saved."  (Acts  4:10-12.) 

Then  I  remembered  also,  that  Christ 
himself  said,  'I  am  the  way,  the  truth, 
the  light,  and  the  life.'  And  to  those 
on  this  continent,  he  added,  "I  am  the 
law."  (3  Nephi  15:9.) 


JBEN  CLARK,  JR.  43 

This,  of  course,  as  we  believe,  indi- 
cates what  we  must  believe  and  think 
and  do,  in  what  we  must  have  faith. 

You  know,  the  Savior  came  in  the 
Meridian  of  Time  to  fulfil  the  law  of 
Moses,  and  he  said  on  more  than  one 
occasion,  'I  want  nothing  to  do  with 
sacrifice  and  burnt  offerings,  I  want 
mercy.'  And  then  you  will  remember, 
he  added  at  various  times,  as  to  the 
sacrifice  he  wished:  "...  a  broken  heart 
and  a  contrite  spirit." 

As  I  reflected  on  this,  I  reflected  a  bit 
on  where  might  I  go  to  find  the  real 
words  of  the  Savior.  I  knew  I  could  not 
go  to  the  Bible.  We  do  not  believe  the 
Bible  is  absolutely  correct.  Students  tell 
us  there  are  4500  different  manuscripts 
of  the  Bible,  and  a  few  years  ago  it  was 
estimated  that  there  were  120,000  varia- 
tions. Then  it  came  to  me  almost  as 
a  revelation:  Why  do  you  not  go  to 
the  Book  of  Mormon?  So  I  took  Third 
Nephi.  I  went  over  it  with  great  care. 
I  parallel-columned  it  with  the  parts  of 
the  New  Testament  concerning  the 
Sermon  on  the  Mount  and  the  Sermon 
on  the  Plain.  In  the  Old  Testament 
I  noted  the  instructions  to  Malachi  as 
they  were  repeated  by  the  Savior,  because 
they  had  no  record  of  Malachi,  who 
lived  after  they  left  Jerusalem. 

I  found  some  differences,  some  omis- 
sions from  the  word  that  he  was  re- 
corded as  having  spoken  in  Palestine. 
But  I  resorted  to  the  Book  of  Mormon 
and  to  Third  Nephi  with  the  feel- 
ing that  I  was  getting  really  what  the 
Savior  said.  I  commend  an  equal  study 
by  you  brethren  of  those  great  books 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  so  far 
as  the  Savior's  immediate  mission  was 
concerned,  Third  Nephi.  There  we 
may  believe  we  have  the  true  teachings, 
for  the  record  was  made  by  inspired  men, 
abridged  by  another  inspired  man,  and 
translated  through  the  inspiration  and 
revelation  of  the  Lord  himself.  Brethren, 
I  commend  that  to  you,  study  it,  if  you 
never  have  done  so,  you  will  find  great 
joy  in  the  doing. 

".  .  .  strait  is  the  gate,  and  narrow  is 
the  way  .  .  .  and  few  there  be  that  find 
it."  (Matt.  7:14.) 

I  repeat,  the  Savior  said,  'I  am  the 
light,  the  life,  the  way,  and  the  truth,' 
and  on  this  continent,  "I  am  the  law." 
If  you  will  go  through  Third  Nephi  with 
care,  and  the  earlier  works,  you  will 


44  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  3 

find  a  very  complete  discussion  of  how 
he  fulfilled  the  law  of  Moses. 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  come 
to  you  with  this  simple  message:  There 
are  not  many  roads  that  lead  to  heaven. 
There  is  one  and  one  only,  and  that  is 
the  road  that  we  profess  to  travel  and 
should  be  traveled.  It  is  the  road  that 
is  restored  to  us  by  the  restoration  of 
the  gospel  and  the  restoration  of  the 
priesthood.  Do  not  be  misled  by  the 
professions  of  men.  And  to  those  verses 
that  I  have  already  read,  I  want  to  add 
another  which  comes  near  the  end  of 
that  part  of  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount 
and  to  the  people  of  the  Land  Bounti- 
ful, which  says: 

"Not  every  one  that  saith  unto  me, 
Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into  the  king- 
dom of  heaven;  but  he  that  doeth  the 
will  of  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven. 

"Many  will  say  to  me  in  that  day, 
Lord,  Lord,  have  we  not  prophesied  in 
thy  name?  and  in  thy  name  have  cast 
out  devils?  and  in  thy  name  done  many 
wonderful  works? 

"And  then  will  I  profess  unto  them, 
I  never  knew  you:  depart  from  me,  ye 
that  work  iniquity."  (Matt.  7:21-23;  3 
Nephi  14:21-23.) 

The  earlier  parts  of  the  Sermon  on 
the  Mount  do  not  contain  teachings 
that  are  too  specific  with  reference  to 
this  last,  "depart  from  me"  and  that 
those  who  had  professed,  and  so  per- 
formed, were  not  his.  But  you  will  find 
rather  a  complete  discussion  of  what 
that  probably  means  in  the  book  of 
Alma,  the  thirty-fourth  chapter,  where 
Amulek  tells  the  things  which  are 
characteristic  of  those  who  worship  our 
Lord  and  Savior  and  our  Heavenly 
Father.  Read  them.  It  is  worth  your 
while. 

Professors  of  religion,  pretenders  of 
being  the  offspring  of  our  Heavenly 
Father's  gospel  and  principles,  pretend- 
ing to  have  the  truth,  beware  of  them, 
brethren.  Beware  of  the  idea  that  you 
do  not  have  to  live  the  gospel  in  order 
to  obtain  the  salvation  and  exaltation 
that  are  promised — not  because  God  has 
imposed  a  penalty  for  your  failure,  but 
because,  as  I  have  already  expressed  to 
you  at  one  time  or  another,  I  believe 
that  the  spirit  grows  or  shrinks,  as  it 
is  here  in  this  mortal  body,  as  it  was 
intended  that  it  should.   I  believe  that 


Second  Day 

bad  acts,  bad  thoughts,  inaccurate  be- 
liefs do  not  develop  the  spirit;  but  on 
the  contrary,  they  may  retard  or  dwarf 
it.  I  believe  that  all  that  we  do  that  is 
good,  builds  us  up,  and  helps  us  to 
"prove"  ourselves,  that  we  really  are 
living  our  second  estate. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  do  not  be  mis- 
led, do  not  stray,  do  not  imbibe  the 
tendency  of  the  age  that  it  does  not 
make  any  difference  what  you  do.  It 
makes  all  the  difference  in  this  world 
and  in  the  hereafter.  It  makes  the  dif- 
ference between  salvation  and  exalta- 
tion and  damnation.  I  examined  the 
books  to  find  out,  if  I  could,  whether 
the  Savior  had  made  any  change  in 
speaking  on  this  continent  and  on  the 
other  side  in  fundamental  sayings  and 
doctrines.  As  I  have  said  to  you,  there 
are  some  omissions,  there  are  some 
changes,  some  of  the  changes  are  most 
important.  Make  the  comparison  I  have 
made  and  find  them  out.  But  I  found 
nothing  whatsoever  that  changed  the 
fundamental  principle  announced  by 
the  Savior  in  Palestine  and  here: 

"He  that  believeth  and  is  baptized 
shall  be  saved;  but  he  that  believeth 
not  shall  be  damned."  (Mark  16:16.) 

Brethren  and  sisters,  do  not  stray,  do 
not  be  misled,  do  not  cuddle  to  your- 
selves the  thought  that  you  can  do  this 
or  that  or  the  other  forbidden  thing, 
that  after  all  these  things  make  no  dif- 
ference. I  bear  you  my  witness  again 
that  all  your  thoughts,  all  your  acts,  all 
your  doings  of  any  kind,  have  an  effect, 
beneficial  or  otherwise,  on  your  souls, 
and  you  cannot  afford  so  to  jeopardize 
the  hereafter. 

May  the  Lord  be  with  us. 

I  renew  my  testimony  to  you  that 
God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that 
the  gospel  and  the  priesthood  were  re- 
stored through  Joseph  Smith,  that  there 
came  also  to  him  certain  other  great 
powers,  that  all  that  he  had,  he  passed 
on  to  those  who  have  succeeded  him,  the 
last  one  of  them  being  President  David 
O.  McKay. 

May  God  bless  him  in  his  hour  of 
tribulation,  may  God  bless  his  wife  and 
restore  her  completely  to  health  and 
strength.  May  he  continue  to  guide 
and  direct  President  McKay,  that  he 
may  guide  and  direct  us,  I  humbly  pray, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


45 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church.  Elder 


Antoine  R.  Ivins  will  now  address  us. 
He  is  a  member  of  the  First  Council  of 
the  Seventy  of  the  Church.  Elder  Ivins 
will  be  followed  by  Elder  EIRay  L. 
Christiansen,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  in  October 
1931,  I  occupied  this  position  for  the 
first  time,  as  your  appointed  servant.  I 
have  occupied  it  at  every  conference 
since,  and  it  gets  no  easier,  brethren  and 
sisters.  There  is  a  sense  of  growing 
responsibility  that  comes  to  one  with 
the  passing  of  the  years  and  the  experi- 
ences that  come  from  this  office,  so  I 
seek  an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers, 
that  perchance  something  I  may  say  may 
be  helpful  to  some  of  us,  for  the  only 
purpose  we  have  is  that  of  helping  to 
come  to  a  betterment  of  our  lives  as 
members  of  the  Church. 

You  have  been  told  that  I  am  a  mem- 
ber of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy. 
It  is  astonishing  how  many  people  think 
that  I  can  be  a  member  of  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy  and  a  high  priest 
in  the  Church,  which  is  not  the  case. 
I  think  it  may  be  appropriate  if  I  can 
gather  from  my  experience,  just  to  tell 
you  a  few  words  about  how  the  seven- 
ties came  into  existence  under  the  in- 
spiration that  was  given  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith. 

Almost  all  of  the  men  who  were  or- 
dained seventies  in  that  first  period,  were 
men  who  had  placed  their  lives  at  the 
disposition  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
Almost  all  of  them  were  men  who  had 
gone  down  in  Zion's  Camp  and  had 
proved  a  willingness,  if  necessary,  to 
give  their  lives  for  the  work  of  the 
Church,  under  the  leadership  of  the 
Prophet. 

Then  there  came  a  time,  shortly  after 
that,  when  the  Prophet  was  inspired 
to  call  and  ordain  twelve  men  to  the 
apostleship  of  the  Church,  that  was  in 
1835  in  the  early  part  of  the  year. 
That  was  followed  within  a  few  weeks 
by  the  ordination  of  a  number  of  men 
as  seventies  in  the  Church,  and  before 
very  many  weeks  had  gone  there  were 
three  full  groups  of  seventy  each  and 
forty  of  a  fourth  group  who  had  been  or- 


dained to  the  office  of  seventy.  Over 
all  of  them  were  placed  seven  men  to 
direct  their  efforts. 

Things  went  along  pretty  well  for  a 
while,  and  then  one  day  there  were  two 
men  working  in  a  brickyard,  one  was 
a  high  priest  and  the  other  was  a  seventy, 
and  the  high  priest  undertook  to  correct 
the  seventy,  and  he  rebuked  him  for 
something  he,  the  seventy,  did,  and  the 
seventy  said,  "You  just  can't  do  that.  I 
hold  a  higher  office  than  you  do  in  the 
priesthood."  That  little  quarrel  re- 
sulted in  their  carrying  the  question  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  as  to  which 
might  be  higher.  I  do  not  know  whether 
the  Prophet  ever  said  which  was  higher, 
but  he  discovered  this,  that  five  of  the 
men  who  had  been  appointed  as  seven- 
ties of  the  Church,  had  already  been 
ordained  high  priests,  and  he  is  quoted 
as  having  said  that  it  is  contrary  to  the 
vision  that  a  high  priest  should  preside 
in  the  quorums  of  the  seventies,  so  those 
five  men  were  withdrawn,  and  another 
five  took  their  place  as  presidents. 

During  the  entire  life  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  there  were  only  those 
seven  men,  under  the  direction  of  the 
twelve,  to  direct  the  work  of  the  seven- 
ties. 

At  the  first  conference  after  the  death 
of  the  Prophet,  a  member  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  presented  a  resolution 
to  the  conference  that  all  elders  under 
thirty-five  years  of  age,  who  were  willing 
to  accept  of  the  responsibility  of  mis- 
sionary work,  should  be  ordained  into 
the  seventies  quorum,  and  enough  men 
were  ordained  to  make  up  twelve  quo- 
rums. Then  this  first  group  of  seventy 
was  broken  down  into  ten  groups  and 
each  seven  became  the  presidents  of 
a  quorum.  The  first  seven  remained 
the  presidency  over  all  the  seventies 
of  the  Church;  the  second,  third,  fourth 
to  the  tenth  became  the  presidents  of 
other  quorums,  the  theory  prevailing,  it 


46 

Sunday,  April  3 

seems,  that  the  first  quorum  was  the 
presiding  quorum  of  all  the  seventies 
in  the  Church. 

Now  the  first  quorum  of  the  seventy 
has  not  been  kept  intact,  except  for  the 
presidency  of  it,  who  are  sustained  as 
members  of  the  General  Authorities  of 
the  Church. 

Now  these  brethren  were  given  a  very 
special  office  in  the  priesthood.  All  elders 
under  thirty-five  who  are  willing  and 
worthy  to  do  missionary  work  should 
be  ordained  seventies,  and  that  is  the 
primary  responsibility  of  the  seventies 
in  the  Church. 

An  appeal  was  made  last  evening  for 
a  great  number  of  missionaries,  a  great 
increase  in  the  number  of  missionaries 
in  the  Church.  It  just  happens  that  I 
have  been  on  that  missionary  committee 
since  coming  into  the  First  Council  and 
realize  the  need  of  it.  We  have  twenty 
thousand  men  in  this  Church  who  are 
seventies,  more  than  twenty  thousand, 
I  believe,  every  one  of  them  committed 
to  the  proclamation  of  the  restored  gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ.  Every  one  of  them 
should  be  qualified  for  that  particular 
purpose.  And  what  should  he  be  will- 
ing to  do?  Every  one  of  them  and 
every  son  that  he  should  rear  with  the 
prospect  of  becoming  a  missionary, 
should  be  able  to  testify  that  he  knows 
that  God  and  Christ  are  Personal  Beings, 
a  testimony  which  I  have  often  said, 
came  back  to  the  world  through  the 
vision  that  was  first  given  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  He  must  be  able  to 
testify  that  through  experience  he  knows 
that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  his 
Son.  He  must  evince  a  faith  that 
will  impel  him  to  respond  to  every 
legitimate  call  that  may  be  made  of 
him  by  proper  leadership  in  the  Church. 

It  happens,  however,  that  many  have 
family  responsibilities  and  their  only  op- 
portunity to  respond  to  this  particular 
mission,  is  in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  a  mis- 
sion which  is  equally  important  with 
those  in  foreign  fields.  It  does  not  re- 
quire the  same  time,  it  does  not  require 
the  same  loss  of  income.  There  are 
many  things  that  are  advantageous  to 
it,  as  compared  to  the  other,  if  you  want 
to  call  it  an  advantage  to  avoid  these 
responsibilities.  But  it  is  an  important 
mission  because  no  man  can  say  that 
a  convert  in  a  stake  is  not  as  important 
as  a  convert  in  any  foreign  mission 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

which  you  might  name.  But  the  fact 
is,  that  we  expect  that  type  of  service  of 
them,  one  way  or  another.  We  expect 
every  one  of  them  to  live  in  such  a  way 
that  his  growing  children  may  grow  up 
with  faith  in  Jesus  Christ  as  the  Son 
of  God,  and  with  an  aspiration  and  an 
ambition  someday  to  be  able  to  declare 
it  to  people  who  have  not  yet  come  to 
understand  it  and  have  the  glorious 
privilege  of  membership  in  the  Church. 

I  wonder  how  well  the  seventies  do 
it.  I  wonder  how  well  the  elders  do 
it,  because  that  is  also  their  problem.  I 
wonder  how  well  the  high  priests  do 
it,  how  well  they  indoctrinate  into  the 
hearts  and  minds  of  their  growing  chil- 
dren the  testimony  that  Jesus  Christ  is 
the  Son  of  God,  that  he  is  our  Elder 
Brother,  and  that  they  live,  that  they 
hear  and  answer  prayers,  and  that  this 
great  work  came  into  existence  because 
God  and  Christ  did  appear  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  because  under 
their  mandate  other  beings  who  had 
lived  upon  this  earth,  as  resurrected 
beings  I  suppose,  celestialized,  whatever 
you  call  it — came  back  to  the  earth 
and  bestowed  a  priesthood  upon  Joseph 
and  Oliver,  and  with  that  authorization 
and  under  direct  inspiration  from  God, 
our  Heavenly  Father,  there  was  brought 
into  existence  a  Church  organization  to 
control  the  use  of  the  privileges  of  the 
priesthood  in  the  ordinances  that  are 
essential  to  exaltation  in  the  kingdom 
of  God. 

Every  boy  who  expects  to  go  on  a 
mission,  every  boy  or  girl  who  aspires 
to  a  mission,  should,  through  the  way 
he  lives  and  through  his  study  and  his 
faith  and  prayer,  come  to  a  position  so 
that  he  can  testify  to  those  things  before 
he  goes  into  the  mission  field. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  is  not 
our  happy  experience  always,  as  direc- 
tors of  this  great  missionary  work.  Too 
often,  inexperienced,  almost  unconverted 
young  people  respond  to  our  suggestion. 
It  is  almost  never  that  they  fail  to  get 
that  testimony,  once  they  get  into  the 
mission  field  and  devote  themselves  to 
the  work.  But  cannot  you  imagine  that 
if  that  testimony  were  implanted  in  their 
hearts  as  growing  young  people,  that 
their  lives  would  be  different,  so  that 
they  would  always  be  entitled  to  the 
Spirit  of  God  to  guide  them  and  direct 
them,  to  help  them  in  their  studies  and 


ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 


47 


preparation  for  this  great  work.  Is  there 
anything  greater  that  people  can  do 
than  to  offer  others  the  opportunity  of 
membership  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  thereby 
give  them  the  privilege  of  earning  an 
exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of  God?  I 
think  that  is  the  greatest  blessing  that 
anybody  can  ever  offer  to  people. 

Now,  the  seventies  have  that  as  a 
special  calling  and  a  special  responsi- 
bility. Just  how  well  we  acquit  our- 
selves of  it,  I  cannot  say.  I  can  say 
this,  however,  that  as  a  member  of  the 
First  Council,  I  am  tremendously  proud 
of  the  lives  that  most  of  our  seventies 
live,  and  of  their  willingness  to  sacri- 
fice for  this  great  and  worthy  purpose. 

But  the  great  thing  that  has  come  out, 
or  one  of  the  great  things  that  has  come 
out,  of  the  interviews  that  we  have  had 
with  the  mission  presidents  over  the 
last  few  days,  is  the  fact  that  some  of 
these  young  people  have  not  been  so 
taught  and  they  have  to  learn  it  under 
the  direction  of  the  mission  presidents. 
It  becomes  a  grave  responsibility  for  a 
mission  president  to  have  to  implant  into 
the  soul  and  heart  of  a  young  man  the 
testimony  that  should  have  been  placed 
there  by  his  father  by  his  own  faith 
and  prayer  and  service  to  the  Church. 

Now,  if  we  could  just  realize  this, 
brethren  and  sisters,  if  we  could  realize 
when  these  tots  are  growing  up,  that 
care  in  the  way  we  live,  care  in  the 
things  we  do,  care  in  the  things  we  teach 
them,  can  so  build  into  their  con- 
sciousness a  testimony  of  the  truth,  that 


at  maturity  they  will  have  been  able  to 
go  through  all  of  the  trials  of  adolescence 
and  come  out  unscathed.  That  is  the 
objective,  brethren  and  sisters,  of  this 
great  work — one  of  them. 

And  as  fathers  of  this  growing  genera- 
tion, and  as  mothers,  we  have  that 
responsibility,  brethren  and  sisters,  to 
prepare  these  young  people  for  that 
service,  because  that  is  one  of  the  three 
major  purposes  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  am 
not  here  to  tell  you  which  is  most  im- 
portant— the  work  for  the  living  mem- 
bers of  the  Church,  the  work  for  our 
dead  ancestors,  or  the  effort  to  give  this 
great  opportunity  to  people  who  have 
not  yet  understood  it.  They  are  three 
major  purposes  of  the  Church,  but  it 
does  not  matter  which  one  of  those 
fields  you  aim  at,  the  problem  is  to 
implant  into  the  hearts  of  those 
youngsters  whom  you  have  brought  into 
this  world,  a  testimony  that  will  make 
their  lives  as  near  perfect  as  possible, 
and  their  service  to  their  fellows  a  tre- 
mendous and  wonderful  one. 

May  God  bless  and  help  us,  I  pray, 
doing  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins,  member  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy.  Elder  EIRay 
L.  Christiansen  will  now  address  us. 
He  is  an  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  have  been  deeply  moved  by  the 
timely  and  appropriate  messages  of  those 
who  have  spoken  in  this  conference,  be- 
ginning last  evening,  and  also  by  the 
beautiful  and  inspiring  music  that  has 
been  rendered  both  last  night  and  to- 
day. 

Now  I  desire  to  discuss  briefly  with 
you,  a  matter  which  should  be  the  con- 
cern of  every  member  of  the  Church 
and  for  which  I  believe  there  is  a  need, 
on  the  part  of  many  of  us,  for  greater 
interest  and  fervor. 

We  live  in  the  period  of  time  spoken 


of  by  the  prophets  of  the  Bible,  when 
all  the  keys  of  the  priesthood,  the  powers, 
the  gifts,  and  the  authority  are  restored 
and  are  now  in  the  hands  of  the  serv- 
ants of  the  Lord  in  this  day,  all  of 
which  is  preparatory  to  the  ushering  in 
of  the  millennial  reign  of  the  Savior. 

The  primary  purposes  of  this  dispen- 
sation are  first,  to  gather  Israel  through 
the  great  missionary  service  of  the 
Church  and  the  proselyting  effort  of  all 
of  us,  that  through  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  they  may  seek  and  find  salvation 
and  exaltation  with  their  families. 


48  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  3 

And  secondly,  the  redemption  and 
salvation  of  the  dead  through  vicarious 
service. 

Section  two  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants contains  the  words  spoken  by 
Moroni,  the  angel  who  appeared  to 
Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet.  While  it 
is  very  brief,  it  is,  nevertheless,  one 
of  the  most  significant  and  important  of 
all  revelations.  Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe 
one  time  had  this  to  say  about  this  sec- 
tion: 

"The  beginning  and  the  end  of  the 
gospel  is  written  in  section  two  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants.  It  is  the  key- 
stone of  the  wonderful  gospel  arch;  and 
if  that  center  stone  should  weaken  and 
fall  out,  the  whole  gospel  structure 
would  topple  down  in  unorganized  doc- 
trinal blocks." 

Let  us  see  what  is  contained  in  this 
momentous  revelation: 

"Behold,  I  will  reveal  unto  you  the 
Priesthood,  by  the  hand  of  Elijah  the 
prophet,  before  the  coming  of  the  great 
and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord. 

"And  he  shall  plant  in  the  hearts  of 
the  children  the  promises  made  to  the 
fathers,  and  the  hearts  of  the  children 
shall  turn  to  their  fathers. 

"If  it  were  not  so,  the  whole  earth 
would  be  utterly  wasted  at  his  coming." 
(D&C  2.) 

Thus  in  this  revelation,  Moroni  reiter- 
ated the  promise  of  the  Lord  made 
through  Malachi,  centuries  before.  (Mai. 
3:5-6.) 

About  twelve  and  a  half  years  after 
these  pronouncements  were  given  by 
Moroni,  Elijah  actually  appeared  to 
Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  and 
committed  into  their  hands  the  keys  of 
the  sealing  power  and  said  unto  them, 
".  .  .  by  this  ye  may  know  that  the  great 
and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord  is  near, 
even  at  the  doors."  (D&C  110:16.) 

Along  with  the  restoration  of  the  keys 
and  the  powers  of  the  priesthood  to  en- 
able the  living  and  the  dead  to  gain 
salvation,  there  came  an  almost  over- 
whelming responsibility  and  obligation 
to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  to  act  as  agents 
of  the  Lord  in  bringing  about  the  pro- 
gram of  salvation  and  redemption  to 
their  fellow  men.  Where  in  all  the 
world  can  you  find  a  people  whose  faith 
teaches  them  to  recognize  the  justice 
and  mercy  of  God  in  granting  to  all 
men,  living  or  dead,  the  same  or  at  least 


Second  Day 

an  equal  opportunity  to  receive  salva- 
tion? Since  God  is  just,  his  divine  plan 
of  salvation  includes  the  means  and  the 
power  by  which  those  who  have  died 
without  a  knowledge  of  the  gospel  may 
hear  it,  and  if  they  will,  receive  it,  and 
thereby  gain  the  gift  of  eternal  life. 

In  a  public  discourse,  President  Wil- 
ford  Woodruff  once  made  this  significant 
and  consistent  statement: 

"Since  God  is  no  respecter  of  persons, 
he  will  not  give  privileges  to  one  genera- 
tion and  withhold  them  from  another. 
The  whole  human  family,  from  Father 
Adam  down  to  our  day,  have  got  to 
have  the  same  privileges  somewhere,  of 
hearing  the  Gospel  of  Christ.  They 
have  to  be  preached  to  in  the  spirit 
world.  But  nobody  will  baptize  them 
there.  Therefore,  someone  must  ad- 
minister to  them  by  proxy  here  in  the 
flesh,  that  they  may  be  judged  accord- 
ing to  man  in  the  flesh  and  have  part 
in  the  first  resurrection." 

And  a  few  years  later,  this  great 
leader  said: 

"We  have  to  enter  these  temples  and 
redeem  our  dead.  This  is  the  great  work 
of  the  last  dispensation,  the  redemption 
of  the  living  and  of  the  dead." 

Now  the  redemption  of  the  dead  car- 
ries a  twofold  obligation  and  mission, 
to  which  we  have  all  been  called  by 
revelation  of  the  Lord.  In  the  journal 
of  President  Woodruff  he  wrote  this: 

"I,  Wilford  Woodruff,  received  the 
following  revelation  from  the  Lord."  In- 
cluded in  that  revelation  which  was 
unanimously  adopted  by  the  Presidency 
and  the  Twelve  of  the  Church  and  by 
the  Church  in  conference  assembled,  is 
found  this  admonition: 

"We  want  the  Latter-day  Saints  from 
this  time  to  trace  their  genealogies  as 
far  as  they  can  and  be  sealed  to  their 
fathers  and  to  their  mothers  and  have 
their  children  sealed  to  their  parents 
and  run  this  chain  through  as  far  as 
you  can  get  it.  This  is  the  will  of  the 
Lord  to  the  people." 

Brothers  and  sisters,  there  can  be  no 
substitute  for  the  Lord's  plan  in  re- 
deeming our  dead  relatives,  and  no 
amount  of  side-stepping  our  individual 
responsibility  will  excuse  us  for  neglect- 
ing to  do  these  two  important  things, 
namely,  identifying  the  dead  from  the 
records  available,  and  then  seeing  to 
it  that  they  have  received  in  the  temples 


ELDER  ELRAY  L. 

by  proxy  the  necessary  ordinances  for 
their  salvation. 

We  as  heads  of  families  must  not 
equivocate  in  this;  we  must  not  pro- 
crastinate; we  must  not  assume  that  Aunt 
Martha  or  some  other  relative  is  doing 
all  that  needs  to  be  done  in  this  respect. 

Members  of  the  Church  are  coming 
to  the  temples  in  ever-increasing  num- 
bers. For  some  time  the  average  number 
of  endowments  administered  on  behalf 
of  the  dead  by  the  good  people  in  this 
temple  district,  has  averaged  1738  en- 
dowments a  day,  besides  the  sealings 
and  the  baptisms.  Nearly  40,000  were 
administered  during  the  month  of  March 
in  the  twenty-three  days  during  which 
the  temple  was  open.  The  same  thing 
is  going  on  in  all  the  temples.  I  see  in 
this  service  one  of  the  greatest  tributes 
to  the  faithfulness  of  the  Saints  on  be- 
half of  others  that  could  be  manifested 
by  anyone,  anywhere.  When  I  see  busy 
men  nearly  equaling  the  number  of 
women,  coming  hurriedly  from  their 
offices  and  from  their  work,  regularly 
by  appointment  to  act  in  behalf  of  these 
who  have  passed  beyond,  it  touches  my 
heart.  The  fervor  of  those  who  come  is 
marvelous,  and  the  love  that  they  mani- 
fest for  the  dead  is  beautiful  to  behold. 
It  is  indeed  the  second  great  command- 
ment in  action. 

The  other  phase  of  our  responsibility, 
however,  that  of  identifying  the  dead 
through  genealogical  research,  is  barely 
keeping  pace  with  the  work  done  in 
the  temples  of  the  Lord.  In  this  temple 
we  have  for  some  time  administered 
many  more  endowments  for  the  dead 
than  we  have  baptisms  for  the  dead. 
That  means  that  we  will  eventually 
run  into  difficulties  if  something  is  not 
done  in  the  matter  of  more  extensive 
research  on  the  part  of  the  individual 
families. 

Some  time  ago  the  First  Presidency 
authorized  the  sending  forth  of  a  letter 
appealing  to  leaders  throughout  the 
Church  to  strengthen  the  genealogical 
committees  in  the  stakes,  in  the  wards, 
and  in  the  missions  and  to  encourage 
those  assigned  to  this  work  to  go  into 
the  homes  of  the  people  and  teach  the 
fundamental  procedures  necessary  to  ac- 
complish this  work  of  genealogical  re- 
search. In  that  letter,  priesthood 
quorum  presidencies  are  urged  to  actu- 
ate this  work  through  their  committees, 


CHRISTIANSEN  49 

through  their  quorum  Church  service 
and  quorum  activity  committees,  par- 
ticularly, and  to  see  to  it  that  each 
family  in  their  quorum  is  attending  to 
this  indispensable  part  of  the  Lord's 
program  and  this  essential  part  of  their 
own  welfare  and  salvation.  For  I  tell  you, 
none  of  us  can  expect  to  bathe  in  glory 
if  we  have  "gone  it  alone"  and  have 
not  reached  out  a  hand  for  others  in 
this  respect. 

In  this  letter,  young  people  are  urged 
to  obtain  training  now  offered  in  the 
various  auxiliary  organizations  through 
the  courses  presented  there,  and  then  to 
cooperate  with  their  parents  in  identify- 
ing their  loved  ones  who  have  departed 
from  this  life. 

The  sisters  are  encouraged  to  co-oper- 
ate with  their  husbands  and  to  the  best 
of  their  ability  and  skills  to  act  as  re- 
searchers. 

But  the  responsibility  lies  directly  in 
the  hands  of  the  bearers  of  the  priest- 
hood, the  heads  of  families  to  motivate, 
organize,  and  carry  this  work  on  through 
to  a  completion.  As  new  temples  are 
built,  there  is  even  a  greater  and  greater 
need  for  research  to  provide  the  neces- 
sary names  for  the  proper  operation  of 
our  temples.  Almost  everyone  can  make  a 
beginning  by  writing  his  own  name,  with 
his  own  genealogical  information,  and 
then  continuing  on  with  his  parents, 
and  his  grandparents,  and  so  forth.  All 
who  will  do  this  will  find  it  a  fascinat- 
ing adventure  and  a  most  compensating 
work. 

Let  us  heed  the  call  of  our  beloved 
leaders!  The  First  Presidency  of  the 
Church,  and  the  other  Brethren  are 
cognizant  of  this  need  and  are  anxious 
about  it  and  are  extremely  temple- 
minded,  themselves.  Let  us  heed  their 
call  and  through  our  efforts  and  re- 
search demonstrate  that  we  have  turned 
our  hearts  to  our  fathers,  that  the  pur- 
poses of  the  Lord  may  be  fulfilled.  For 
this  I  pray  humbly,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  the  Lord.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  EIRay  L.  Christiansen,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
"Oh  Say,  What  Is  Truth?"  will  now  be 
sung  by  the  Choir  and  congregation. 
Brother  Jay  E.  Welch,  Assistant  Con- 


50 

Sunday,  April  3 

ductor,  will  direct  the  singing,  after 
which  we  shall  hear  Elder  Alma  Sonne. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


Singing  by  the  Choir  and  congrega- 
tion, "O  Say,  What  Is  Truth?" 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Alma  Sonne  will  now  address 
us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Hugh 
B.  Brown. 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  believe  the 
audience  in  this  tabernacle  has  never 
looked  so  big  to  me  as  it  does  today, 
unless,  perhaps,  it  was  the  first  time  I 
occupied  this  position  nineteen  years  ago, 
when  I  was  sustained  as  an  Assistant 
to  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles. 
I  have  had  many  experiences  during 
those  nineteen  years.  It  has  been  my 
privilege  to  travel  in  many  of  the  coun- 
tries of  Europe.  I  believe  I  have  borne 
my  testimony  in  every  state  of  the 
Union,  in  every  province  of  Canada; 
in  our  sister  republic  on  the  south,  in 
Mexico,  and  on  the  islands  in  the 
Hawaiian  group. 

I  want  to  say  to  you  that  I  have  been 
greatly  blessed;  that  the  blessings  which 
have  come  to  me  I  could  not  possibly 
have  anticipated  nineteen  years  ago.  We 
have  heard  many  testimonies  today  and 
yesterday,  most  of  them  very  fervent  and 
well  sustained.  These  testimonies  have 
not  come  as  a  result  of  scholarly  re- 
search or  scientific  study,  but  by  prayer- 
ful investigation  and  by  right  living. 

When  Peter  bore  his  testimony  to  the 
Savior,  the  Savior  answered:  ".  .  .  flesh 
and  blood  hath  not  revealed  it  unto 
thee,  but  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven." 
(Matt.  16:17.)  He  said  on  another  occa- 
sion, "If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he 
shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it 
be  of  God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  my- 
self." (John  7:17.)  That  doctrine, 
brethren  and  sisters,  is  sound  and  logical. 
Live  it,  and  you  will  surely  know.  In- 
troduce into  your  lives  the  everlasting 
principles  of  life  and  salvation,  and  you 
will  have  no  doubts.  Testimonies  are 
the  strength  of  the  Church.  They  are 
solid  convictions  based  on  facts  that 
cannot  be  ignored  by  an  honest  investi- 
gator of  the  truth. 

A  few  years  ago  I  rode  in  an  automo- 
bile over  a  well-traveled  highway  down 
in  Syria.  We  traveled  through  a 
country  which  is  not  unlike  our  own 


Rocky  Mountain  region — the  hills,  the 
valleys,  the  vegetation,  the  clear  moun- 
tain streams  were  similar  to  what  we 
see  around  us  here.  For  a  time  every- 
thing we  saw  reminded  us  of  home.  The 
driver  of  the  car  was  well-informed, 
and  kept  us  advised  as  to  the  historical 
background  of  the  localities  through 
which  we  passed. 

At  one  juncture  he  stopped  the  car 
and  pointed  to  a  high  rugged  mountain 
near  the  highway.  "That,"  he  said,  "is 
Mt.  Hermon,  the  Mount  of  Transfigura- 
tion." Of  course,  we  were  immediately 
interested.  He  called  our  attention  to 
the  size  of  this  gigantic  mountain  with 
its  snow-capped  elevations.  He  also 
told  us  in  his  own  way  the  story  of 
the  Transfiguration.  He  explained  that 
the  Savior  had  led  his  three  apostles 
to  the  very  summit  where  they  could 
worship  God  unmolested.  He  reminded 
us  that  they  climbed  to  the  top  of  the 
mountain,  and  to  do  so  required  great 
physical  strength  and  endurance.  Then 
he  remarked:  "They  must  have  been 
strong  men,  physically." 

It  was  an  impressive  story  as  he  told 
it.  It  must  have  been  a  great  event  in 
the  lives  of  Peter,  James,  and  John. 
Matthew  tells  it  in  these  words: 

"And  after  six  days  Jesus  taketh 
Peter,  James,  and  John  his  brother,  and 
bringeth  them  up  into  an  high  moun- 
tain apart, 

"And  was  transfigured  before  them: 
and  his  face  did  shine  as  the  sun,  and 
his  raiment  was  white  as  the  light. 

"And,  behold,  there  appeared  unto 
them  Moses  and  Elias  talking  with  him. 

"Then  answered  Peter,  and  said  unto 
Jesus,  Lord,  it  is  good  for  us  to  be  here: 
if  thou  wilt,  let  us  make  here  three 
tabernacles;  one  for  thee,  and  one  for 
Moses,  and  one  for  Elias.  .  .  . 

"While  he  yet  spake,  behold,  a  bright 
cloud  overshadowed  them:  and  behold 
a  voice  out  of  the  cloud,  which  said, 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


51 


This  is  my  beloved  Son,  in  whom  I  am 
well  pleased;  hear  ye  him."  (Matthew 
17:1-5.) 

He,  the  Lord,  had  been  similarly  in- 
troduced on  the  occasion  of  his  baptism 
in  the  River  Jordan.  These  three  apos- 
tles learned  two  fundamental  things: 
First,  they  learned  on  that  memorable 
occasion  that  Jesus  was  in  reality  and 
actually  the  Son  of  God,  the  Messiah 
about  whom  the  ancient  prophets  had 
spoken.  Second,  they  learned  that  death 
was  not  the  end;  that  through  that 
mysterious  change  we  call  death,  the 
personalities  and  the  identities  of  Moses 
and  Elias  had  been  preserved.  But  the 
Lord  told  these  three  servants,  "Tell  it 
to  no  one  until  I  am  gone." 

Well,  I  am  sure  they  kept  the  secret, 
but  many  years  later  Peter  remembered 
it.  He  referred  to  it  in  his  second  epistle 
written  to  the  Church.  To  me  it  has 
always  been  very  interesting.  Said 
Peter: 

"For  we  have  not  followed  cunningly 
devised  fables,  when  we  made  known 
unto  you  the  power  and  coming  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  but  were  eyewitnesses 
of  his  majesty."  (2  Peter  1:16.) 

Will  you  remember  the  word,  "eye- 
witnesses." These  men  were  not  de- 
ceived. They  knew  whereof  they  spoke. 
They  were  as  certain  and  positive  that 
Jesus  was  the  Christ,  and  that  there 
was  a  life  after  death  as  they  were  that 
they  lived  in  a  world  of  reality,  "For  he 
received  from  God  the  Father  honour 
and  glory,"  said  Peter,  "when  there 
came  such  a  voice  to  him  from  the 
excellent  glory,  This  is  my  beloved 
Son,  in  whom  I  am  well  pleased.  And 
this  voice  came  from  heaven,  we  heard 
when  we  were  in  the  holy  mount." 
(Ibid.,  1:17-18.) 

A  great  and  strong  testimony,  isn't  it, 


my  friends?  We  can  receive  the  leader- 
ship of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  without 
any  doubts  and  without  any  misgivings. 
I  know  of  no  man  in  history  who  has 
made  a  bid  for  world  leadership  except 
only  Jesus  Christ.  He  actually  made 
a  bid  to  lead  the  world  for  he  said: 
"And  other  sheep  I  have,  which  are  not 
of  this  fold:  them  also  I  must  bring,  and 
they  shall  hear  my  voice;  and  there 
shall  be  one  fold,  and  one  shepherd," 
(John  10:16)  and  he,  of  course,  was  to 
be  the  shepherd,  the  only  one  qualified 
to  lead  the  world  back  to  the  place  where 
he  and  God  dwell. 

He  said,  on  another  occasion,  "Come 
unto  me,  all  ye  that  labour  and  are 
heavy  laden,  and  I  will  give  you  rest. 
Take  my  yoke  upon  you, ...  for  my  yoke 
is  easy,  and  my  burden  is  light."  (Matt. 
11:28-30.)  He  then  admonished  his 
disciples — those  twelve  wonderful  men 
who  went  into  the  world  and  preached 
the  gospel,  revolutionizing  the  thinking 
habits  of  men  and  women  everywhere, 
planting  the  seeds  of  freedom  and  de- 
mocracy in  the  hearts  of  men,  "Go  ye 
into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the  gospel 
to  every  creature."  (Mark  16:15.) 

May  we  do  our  part  towards  the  ful- 
filment of  this  great  commission,  for 
today  we  are  doing  exactly  what  they 
did  nineteen  centuries  ago,  and  we  are 
preaching  the  selfsame  gospel,  which  is 
the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  I  so 
testify  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us.  Elder 
Hugh  B.  Brown,  a  member  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve,  will  now  address 
us. 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  with 
you  esteem  it  is  a  great  blessing  to  at- 
tend this  wonderful  conference,  and 
especially  to  listen  to  the  profound  and 
inspiring  opening  address  of  our  Presi- 
dent. I  should  like  to  add  my  tribute  to 
the  Tabernacle  Choir.  It  seems  to  me 
the  choir  reached  new  heights  today. 


I  am  sure  you  all  join  me,  too,  in 
expressing  thanks  to  the  Lord  for  his 
blessing  to  President  Clark  in  that  he 
was  able  to  speak  to  us  despite  his  physi- 
cal illness.  We  are  thankful  that  there  is 
no  diminution  in  his  great  intellect,  his 
wonderful  spirit,  or  his  powerful  voice. 

We  express  appreciation,  too,  for  what 


52 

Sunday,  April  3 

has  been  said  this  afternoon  by  the 
other  Brethren.  But  all  of  it  together 
adds  to  my  timidity  and  makes  the 
necessity  of  following  such  men  a  hum- 
bling experience  indeed. 

As  this  Church  continues  to  extend 
its  boundaries  and  increase  its  member- 
ship, we  receive  an  ever-increasing 
number  of  requests  to  explain  and  dis- 
tinguish some  of  the  tenets  of  Mor- 
monism. 

Perhaps  the  two  most  frequently 
questioned  concepts  of  the  Church  have 
to  do  with,  first,  our  belief  in  a  living, 
personal  God;  and  secondly,  our  un- 
derstanding of  man's  unique  position 
and  part  in  his  divine  plan.  It  is 
necessary  that  one  have  faith  in  the 
first  before  he  can  understand  and  accept 
the  second  of  these  tenets,  namely,  man's 
relationship  to  Deity.  If  that  relation- 
ship be  real,  then  certainly  man  occu- 
pies not  only  a  unique  but  a  Godlike 
status,  and  it  is  to  that  I  should  like 
to  direct  your  attention  for  a  moment. 

The  accomplishments  of  man  in  the 
last  one  hundred  years,  his  ever-widen- 
ing search  for  truth,  his  insatiable  appe- 
tite for  knowledge,  his  discovery  and 
partial  control  of  the  laws  of  nature, 
are  convincing  evidence  of  man's 
supreme  position  among  God's  creations. 
Did  any  animal  ever  gaze  into  the 
heavens  and  wonder? 

We  are  told  that  in  the  last  one  hun- 
dred and  fifty  years,  there  has  been 
more  truth  accumulated,  more  knowl- 
edge gained,  than  the  sum  total  of  all 
truth  previously  gathered.  The  fact  that 
man  has  the  genius  to  discover  and  par- 
tially master  the  elemental  forces  of 
nature  causes  men  to  stand  in  awe  and 
ask  again  the  age-old  question,  "What  is 
man?" 

That  question  was  formulated  by  the 
Psalmist  when  he  said: 

"When  I  consider  thy  heavens,  the 
work  of  thy  fingers,  the  moon  and  the 
stars,  which  thou  hast  ordained; 

"What  is  man,  that  thou  art  mindful 
of  him?  and  the  son  of  man,  that  thou 
visitest  him? 

"For  thou  hast  made  him  a  little 
lower  than  the  angels,  and  hast  crowned 
him  with  glory  and  honour. 

"Thou  madest  him  to  have  dominion 
over  the  works  of  thy  hands;  thou  hast 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

put  all  things  under  his  feet.  (Psalm 
8:3-6.) 

One  wonders  when  he  reads  that,  how 
the  Psalmist  might  have  framed  his 
question  if  he  had  had  the  benefit  of 
modern  facilities  as  he  considered  the 
heavens.  I  am  sure  it  would  have  tended 
to  deepen  and  confirm  his  faith  in  the 
great  Organizer  of  it  all. 

But  as  we  consider  man's  increasing 
knowledge  and  power,  we  must  not  for- 
get that  power  can  be  very  dangerous. 
General  Omar  Bradley,  former  Chief 
of  Staff,  speaking  to  a  graduating  class 
sometime  ago,  sounded  this  warning  in 
the  following  words: 

"With  the  monstrous  weapons  man 
already  has,  humanity  is  in  danger  of 
being  trapped  in  this  world  by  its  moral 
adolescence.  Our  knowledge  of  science 
has  clearly  outstripped  our  capacity  to 
control  it.  (We  have  too  many  men  of 
science;  too  few  men  of  God.)  We  have 
grasped  the  mystery  of  the  atom  and 
rejected  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount.  Man 
is  stumbling  blindly  through  a  spiritual 
darkness  while  toying  with  the  precari- 
ous secrets  of  life  and  death.  The  world 
has  achieved  brilliance  without  wisdom, 
power  without  conscience.  Ours  is  a 
world  of  nuclear  giants  and  ethical  in- 
fants. We  know  more  about  war  than 
we  know  about  peace;  more  about  kill- 
ing than  we  know  about  living.  This 
is  our  20th  Century's  claim  to  distinc- 
tion and  progress  I" 

But  the  question,  "What  is  man?" 
was  answered  long  before  the  Psalmist 
asked  it.  In  the  first  chapter  of  our 
oldest  book  here,  we  read: 

"So  God  created  man  in  his  own 
image,  in  the  image  of  God  created  he 
him;  male  and  female  created  he  them. 

"And  God  blessed  them,  and  God 
said  unto  them,  Be  fruitful,  and  multi- 
ply, and  replenish  the  earth,  and  sub- 
due it:  and  have  dominion  over  the  fish 
of  the  sea,  and  over  the  fowl  of  the 
air,  and  over  every  living  thing  that 
moveth  upon  the  earth."  (Genesis  1:27- 
28.) 

From  this  it  is  evident  that  from  the 
beginning,  man  had  a  unique  status,  an 
image  nature;  and  that  there  was  as- 
signed to  him  a  participative  role  in 
the  great  plan  of  redemption.  The 
statement,  "created  in  the  image  of 
God,"  was  never  made  concerning  any 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


53 


other  of  his  vast  creations.  Only  man  is 
in  his  image:  only  man  is  his  son. 

Sometime  ago,  a  sceptical  student  was 
heard  to  say  that  man  is  nothing  but 
a  fortuitous  combination  of  molecules. 
But  his  older  and  more  modest  teacher 
replied  by  asking  him,  "Did  any  atom 
or  molecule  ever  have  a  thought?  Did 
any  combination  of  elements  ever  give 
birth  to  an  idea?  Did  any  natural  law 
ever  build  a  cathedral  or  a  temple?" 

Within  the  lifetime  of  some  of  us 
there  have  come  into  use  such  marvels 
as  automobiles,  airplanes,  wireless  com- 
munication; and  later  radio,  television, 
radar,  guided  missiles,  atomic  power, 
etc.  As  we  think  of  these  things,  and 
utilize  them,  scientists  and  scholars  are 
turning  their  attention  and  their  instru- 
ments to  a  consideration  of  the  greatest 
phenomenon,  or,  as  President  Clark  has 
said,  God's  greatest  miracle — man. 

We  are  indebted  to  an  internationally 
famous  scientist,  Dr.  Henry  Eyring,  for  a 
learned  discussion  of  man's  world.  He 
said: 

"We  are  living  in  five  different  worlds, 
none  of  which  have  been  fully  explored. 
They  differ  from  each  other  in  the  size 
of  the  units  of  space  and  time. 

"1.  In  our  every-day  practical  world 
we  go  along  nicely  with  such  units  as 
feet  and  seconds. 

"2.  In  the  chemical  world  of  mole- 
cules and  atoms,  the  electrons  complete 
their  revolutions  in  one  hundred  mil- 
lion millionths  of  a  second,  while  one 
hundred  million  atoms  set  side  by  side 
extend  only  a  distance  of  one  inch. 

"3.  Inside  the  nucleus  of  an  atom  we 
enter  a  third  world  where  events  hap- 
pen a  million  times  faster  still  and  dis- 
tances are  a  thousand  times  smaller 
than  in  the  atom. 

"4.  In  the  fourth  world  the  astron- 
omers measure  revolutions  of  planets  in 
years  and  the  unit  of  distance,  the  light 
year,  in  about  ten  thousand  million 
miles. 

"5.  Finally  we  come  to  the  spiritual 
world  where  time  is  measured  in  eterni- 
ties and  space  is  limitless,  thus  in 
thought  we  can  travel  from  almost  in- 
finitesimally  small  to  the  infinitely 
large." 

As  we  consider  the  vastness  of  an 
orderly  universe  governed  by  undeviating 
law,  the  majesty  of  the  Organizer  and 
the  preferred  place  of  man,  we  are  in- 


trigued into  a  re-evaluation  of  the  mean- 
ing and  purpose  of  life. 

Is  it  likely,  for  instance,  that  the  most 
intelligent  creatures  in  the  universe  are 
here  by  chance?  Is  it  possible  that  God 
is  unaware  of  man's  existence  or  un- 
concerned about  his  fate? 

Mormonism  asserts  on  the  authority 
of  divine  revelation  that  man  is  the 
central  figure  of  an  integrated  plan,  and 
as  Dr.  Talmage  has  said,  he  is  poten- 
tially greater  and  more  precious  than 
all  the  planets  and  the  suns  of  space; 
for  him  they  were  created;  they  are 
God's  handiwork;  man  is  his  son.  The 
Lord  said: 

".  .  .  this  is  my  work  and  my  glory — 
to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and 
eternal  life  of  man."  (Moses  1:39.) 

The  injunction  of  Jesus,  "Be  ye  there- 
fore perfect,  even  as  your  Father  which 
is  in  heaven  is  perfect,"  (Matt.  5:48) 
clearly  envisions  an  eternity  for  its 
achievement,  for  no  mortal  man  can 
gain  perfection  during  his  brief  sojourn 
upon  the  earth. 

The  Savior  further  stated,  ".  .  .  this 
is  life  eternal,  that  they  might  know 
thee,  the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus 
Christ,  whom  thou  hast  sent."  (John 
17:3.) 

If,  then,  we  are,  in  fact,  the  sons  of 
God,  and  if  it  is  life  eternal  to  know 
him,  all  men  should  seek  him,  become 
familiar  with  his  laws,  and  bring  their 
lives  into  harmony  therewith. 

The  Apostle  John  caught  the  vision 
of  man's  status  and  exclaimed, 

"Beloved,  now  are  we  the  sons  of 
God,  and  it  doth  not  yet  appear  what  we 
shall  be:  but  we  know  that,  when  he 
shall  appear,  we  shall  be  like  him;  for 
we  shall  see  him  as  he  is."  (1  John  3:2.) 

Man's  spirit  was  with  his  Father  in 
the  beginning;  he  was  designed  to  be 
free,  and  expected  to  gain  wisdom  and 
intelligence  in  the  exercise  of  his 
agency.  His  freedom  is,  next  to  life 
itself,  his  most  priceless  possession.  He 
has  freedom  to  think,  to  explore,  to  dis- 
cover, and  to  act.  We  encourage  men 
to  search  for  truth,  to  be  unafraid  of 
new  ideas  which  are  and  always  have 
been  steppingstones  to  progress. 

According  to  the  holy  scriptures,  our 
earth  life  was  not  accidental,  it  was 
not  only  planned  and  purposeful,  but 
it  was  voluntary.  When  the  Lord  asked 
Job  where  he  was  when  the  founda- 


54  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  3 

tions  of  the  earth  were  laid,  he  clearly 
indicated  a  pre-existent  state  of  man, 
and  asserted  that  all  the  sons  of  God 
shouted  for  joy,  doubtless  at  the  prospect 
of  earth  life. 

When  men  speak  of  ultimate  and 
satisfying  values,  their  concepts  must 
involve  the  relationship  of  the  indi- 
vidual to  others,  to  the  universe,  and 
to  God.  Men  must  not  be  approached 
as  animals  for  they  are  intelligent 
images  of  a  Divine  Father.  He  has 
said,  ".  .  .  the  worth  of  souls  is  great  in 
the  sight  of  God."  (D&C  18:10.) 

Man,  then,  is  a  child  of  God,  created 
in  his  image.  He  is  destined  to  be  free, 
and,  though  subject  to  death,  his  spirit 
will  continue  to  live,  will  again  become 
united  with  his  body,  and  he  will  be- 
come a  living,  immortal  soul.  "What- 
ever principle  of  intelligence  we  attain 
unto  in  this  life,  it  will  rise  with  us 
in  the  resurrection."  (Ibid.,  130:18.) 

While  we  have  complete  freedom  to 
heed  or  disregard  the  promptings  of  the 
spirit  or  the  teachings  of  the  prophets, 
let  us  always  remember  that  we  must 
abide  the  consequences  of  our  choice. 

"For  each  descent  from  fair  truth's  lofty 
way, 

For  each  gross  error  which  delays  the 
soul, 

By  that  soul's  gloom  and  loneliness  we 

pay, 

And  by  the  retarded  journey  to  its  goal." 

While  we  may  draw  near  to  him 
through  intellectual  contemplation  of 
his  handiwork,  it  is  more  important 
that  we  seek  spiritual  communion,  by 
which  alone  we  may  gain  a  testimony 
of  him  and  of  man's  relationship  to 
him.  This  thought  prompts  the  prayer: 
"Help  me,  O  God  to  hold  a  high 
opinion  of  myself." 

This  inspired  doctrine  of  man's  rela- 
tionship to  Deity  involves  communica- 
tion between  them,  without  which 
intelligent  co-operation  is  impossible. 
Continued  revelation  from  our  Heavenly 
Father  is  a  third  unique  doctrine  of 
the  restored  Church.  We  humbly  bear 
witness  to  the  existence  of  a  living,  per- 
sonal God,  to  man's  sonship  and 
heirship,  and  to  continued  revelation 
to  the  Church  through  constituted  au- 
thority, for  which  we  humbly  thank 
God,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


Second  Day 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown,  a  member  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  favor 
us  with,  "Ring  In  the  Christ  That  Is  to 
Be,"  conducted  by  Richard  P.  Condie. 
The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Stephen  L.  Smith,  president  of 
the  Malad  Stake,  after  which  this  Con- 
ference will  stand  adjourned  until  ten 
o'clock  tomorrow  morning. 

The  singing,  as  you  know,  for  this 
afternoon  has  been  furnished  by  the 
members  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with 
Richard  P.  Condie  and  Jay  E.  Welch 
conducting  and  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the 
organ.  We  again  express  our  deep 
appreciation  to  the  members  and  officers 
of  this  world-famous  organization. 
Their  music  has  indeed  been  an  inspira- 
tion to  us. 

We  thank  the  members  of  the  Church 
and  friends  who  have  so  thoughtfully 
remembered  us  with  these  beautiful 
flowers. 

The  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 
Conference  will  convene  in  this  build- 
ing tonight  at  seven  o'clock. 

An  agriculture  meeting  in  connection 
with  the  Welfare  Plan  will  be  held 
Monday  morning  at  7:30  o'clock  in  the 
Assembly  Hall.  All  General  Authori- 
ties, all  stake  presidents  and  bishops,  all 
regional  and  stake  agricultural  repre- 
sentatives, and  all  interested  in  agri- 
culture, are  invited  to  attend. 

Perhaps  not  many  who  are  here  have 
noticed  the  attendance  and  service 
rendered  by  our  ushers.  They  have 
been  in  service,  early  and  late,  in  seat- 
ing the  great  audiences  and  have  done 
it  quietly,  courteously,  successfully.  We 
tender  thanks  to  them. 

We  appreciate  also  the  cooperation 
of  city  officials,  city  traffic  officers,  in 
handling  increased  traffic.  We  express 
appreciation  of  the  attention  given  by 
the  Fire  Department  and  the  Red  Cross 
workers.  In  this  old  life  we  are  de- 
pendent upon  one  another.  Man  could 
not  exist  unless  he  had  the  assistance 
of  his  fellow  beings  and  when  we  add 
to  that  assistance  the  privilege  of  getting 
inspiration  from  our  Creator,  we  have 
no  cause  for  worry. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


55 


The  Choir  will  now  sing,  "Ring  In 
the  Christ  That  Is  to  Be,"  and  Elder 
Stephen  L.  Smith  will  offer  the  bene- 
diction. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  presented  the 


number,  "Ring  In  The  Christ  That  Is  To 
Be,"  following  which  the  benediction 
was  pronounced  by  Elder  Stephen  L. 
Smith,  President  of  the  Malad  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10:00  a.m., 
Monday,  April  4. 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


Monday,  April  4.  Conference  recon- 
vened this  morning  at  10:00  a.m.,  with 
President  David  O.  McKay  presiding 
and  conducting  the  proceedings  of  the 
session. 

The  Mormon  Choir  of  Southern  Cali- 
fornia furnished  the  choral  music  for 
this  session  of  the  Conference,  with 
Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ 
console. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

As  the  sunshine  gladdens  the  earth 
this  morning,  may  the  Holy  Spirit,  the 
spirit  of  true  brotherhood,  fill  our  souls 
with  joy  and  peace  as  we  assemble  here 
this  morning  in  the  Third  Session  of  the 
One  Hundred  Thirtieth  Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church.  The  Tabernacle 
this  morning  is  filled  to  capacity. 

We  wish  to  announce  that  these  serv- 
ices and  all  general  sessions  of  the 
Conference  are  being  broadcast  in  the 
Assembly  Hall,  and  in  Barratt  Hall  by 
television.  This  session  is  being  broad- 
cast also  as  a  public  service  over  tele- 
vision and  radio  stations  throughout  the 
West.  The  names  of  these  stations 
were  announced  to  the  television  and 
radio  audiences  at  the  beginning  of  this 
meeting.  We  thank  the  owners  and 
managers  of  these  various  stations  and 
express  appreciation  for  this  outstanding 
public  service. 

Assembled  in  the  Choir  seats  are 
members  of  the  Mormon  Choir  of 
Southern  California,  who  will  furnish 
music  for  both  sessions  this  day.  We 
welcome  them,  and  express  gratitude 
for  their  presence.  We  also  extend  a 
hearty  welcome  to  this  large  audience 
in  the  Tabernacle,  Assembly  Hall,  the 
audience  and  members  and  friends  who 
are  listening  in  by  radio  and  television. 
We  express  appreciation  for  the  presence 


of  mission  presidents,  stake  presidencies, 
bishoprics,  temple  presidents,  and  other 
General  officers  of  the  Church;  also  to 
our  state  and  city  officials,  and  to  our 
educational  leaders  who  are  sitting  here 
before  us. 

The  singing,  as  already  announced, 
will  be  furnished  by  the  Mormon  Choir 
of  Southern  California,  with  Elder  H. 
Frederick  Davis  conducting  and  Elder 
Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ.  We  shall 
begin  this  session  by  the  Mormon  Choir 
of  Southern  California  singing,  "Al- 
mighty God  of  Our  Fathers,"  conducted 
by  H.  Frederick  Davis.  The  opening 
prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder  Clement 
P.  Hilton,  president  of  the  Young  Stake. 


Singing  by  the  Choir,  "Almighty  God 
Of  Our  Fathers." 

Elder  Clement  P.  Hilton,  President 
of  the  Young  Stake,  offered  the  opening 
prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Brother 
Clement  P.  Hilton,  president  of  the 
Young  Stake.  The  Mormon  Choir  of 
Southern  California  will  now  sing,  "I 
Need  Thee  Every  Hour,"  conducted  by 
Elder  H.  Frederick  Davis.  After  the 
singing,  President  Henry  D.  Moyle  will 
speak  to  us. 


The  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "I  Need 
Thee  Every  Hour." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Henry  D.  Moyle  of  the 
First  Presidency  will  be  our  first  speaker. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Bishop  Thorpe  B. 
Isaacson. 


56 

Monday,  April  4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

PRESIDENT  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


Third  Day 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
know  we  were  all  thrilled  at  the  begin- 
ning of  this  conference  yesterday  morn- 
ing with  the  inspired  remarks  of 
President  David  O.  McKay.  Among 
other  things  he  said:  "Man  holds 
dominion  over  earth,  sea,  and  air,  and 
now  is  intent  upon  conquering  space." 
All  that  man  has  accomplished,  and  all 
further  advancement  in  every  realm  of 
human  activity  made  by  man  will  aid  in 
the  accomplishment  of  God's  ultimate 
purpose  for  us  here  in  mortality — that 
is  to  say,  the  establishment  of  his  Church 
and  kingdom  here  upon  this  earth, 
preparatory  to  the  advent  of  the  second 
coming  of  the  Savior  of  mankind. 

There  may  be  men  who  still  continue 
to  contend  that  there  is  a  conflict  be- 
tween church  and  religion  on  one  side, 
and  science  on  the  other,  but  little  do 
they  understand  that  all  truths  pertaining 
to  science  as  well  as  to  religion  emanate 
from  our  Father  in  heaven.  He  has 
power  over  his  truths.  He  can  withhold 
them  from  men  when  there  is  a  purpose 
in  so  doing,  and  likewise  can  inspire 
men  to  discover  and  recognize  truths, 
and  advocate  them  to  their  fellow  men. 
And  so,  science  and  religion  alike  are 
entirely  obligated  to  God,  and  so  are 
we  all.  Neither  science  nor  religion 
can  successfully  refute  the  second  com- 
ing of  Christ.  The  evidence  is  too  com- 
plete, too  convincing,  too  much  a  part 
of  the  great  eternal  plan  of  God,  as 
much  a  part  and  as  real  as  our  mortal 
earth  existence.  We  might  as  well  deny 
the  one  as  the  other. 

To  me  the  astonishing  fact  is,  that 
recently  in  England  we  were  pointed 
out  as  peculiar  because  we  believe  "that 
Christ  will  reign  personally  upon  the 
earth;  and,  that  the  earth  will  be  re- 
newed and  receive  its  paradisiacal  glory." 
In  spite  of  this  tenth  article  of  faith  of 
ours,  published  to  the  world  for  now  a 
hundred  years,  we  are  characterized  as 
pagan  and  are  said  not  to  be  Christians. 
How  can  anyone  deny  the  second  com- 
ing of  Christ  and  be  a  Christian?  And 
how  can  anyone  know  of  his  second 
coming  and  not  be  his  follower? 

Let  me  read  what  the  Church  of  Eng- 
land's great  expert  on  Mormonism  re- 


cently had  to  say:  "Mormonism  is 
essentially  a  pagan  faith,  and  not  Chris- 
tian at  all." 

The  London  Daily  Sketch,  on  Febru- 
ary 1st,  entitled  an  article  published 
therein,  written  by  Mr.  Neville  Randall, 
"Knock,  Knock — It's  Those  Mormons." 
In  part,  this  article  said: 

"On  a  thousand  doors  in  Britain  dur- 
ing the  week-end  came  a  knock.  .  .  . 
This  week  it  may  be  your  turn  to  open 
your  door  to  a  quiet,  soft-spoken  Ameri- 
can. To  hear  him  say  the  words:  'Will 
you  become  a  Mormon?'  If  you  let  him 
he  will  try  to  persuade  you: 

"To  give  up  smoking  and  drinking — 
even  tea  and  coffee. 

"To  give  a  tenth  of  your  income  to 
the  Mormon  Church. 

"To  accept  a  religion  with  no  prayer 
book  and  no  paid  clergy. 

"To  put  off  baptizing  your  children 
until  they  are  eight. 

"Last  year  1,404  Britons  were  con- 
verted," says  the  article.  "In  Britain 
now  220  American  Mormon  missionaries, 
most  of  them  young  men  in  their  early 
twenties,  are  at  work.  They  call  at 
2,000,000  homes  a  year.  In  December 
they  baptized  237,  more  than  in  any 
month  for  a  hundred  years.  What 
harm — or  good — can  the  Mormons  do 
to  you  if  you  let  them  convince  you? 
This  is  what  they  told  me: 

"You  would  believe  that  Christ  will 
come  to  earth  again.  More  than  a  mil- 
lion Mormons  .  .  .  believe  every  word 
of  this.  About  a  third  of  the  male 
Mormons,  and  quite  a  few  women,  be- 
lieve it  sincerely  enough  to  give  up  two 
years  of  their  lives,  usually  when  they 
are  at  college,  to  serve  on  a  mission. 
They  are  unpaid — expenses  come  from 
their  own  or  their  families'  savings.  The 
Mormons  are  determined  to  give  you  a 
chance  to  judge  for  yourself.  Listen 
for  the  knock." 

We  are  grateful  to  the  newspaper  for 
giving  to  the  people  of  England  that 
challenge — indeed,  that  invitation,  to 
listen  not  alone  to  the  knock,  but  also 
inferentially  to  that  which  they  are  told 
by  our  elders. 

In  the  English  Church,  as  in  many 
others,  the  Lord's  Prayer  is  an  essential 


PRESIDENT  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


57 


part  of  their  religious  service  and  is 
repeated  by  the  congregation.  They 
therefore  pray:  "Our  Father  which  art 
in  heaven,  Hallowed  be  thy  name.  Thy 
kingdom  come.  .  .  ."  (Matt.  6:9-10.) 
Thus  unwittingly  do  they  pray  for  that 
which  they  evidently  do  not  believe 
will  occur. 

The  clergyman  was  right  when  he 
warned  his  neighbors  that  our  elders 
would  teach  them  of  the  second  coming 
of  Christ.  We  will  teach  them  from 
their  own  translation  of  the  Bible  that 
the  white  robed  angels  spoke  to  the 
apostles  of  old  as  the  resurrected  Christ 
ascended  from  their  midst  on  Mount 
Olivet. 

".  .  .  Ye  men  of  Galilee,  why  stand 
ye  gazing  up  into  heaven?  this  same 
Jesus,  which  is  taken  up  from  you  into 
heaven,  shall  so  come  in  like  manner 
as  ye  have  seen  him  go  into  heaven." 
(Acts  1:11.) 

We  know  he  will  come,  even  as  he 
ascended,  a  material  being,  a  living 
Personage,  separate  and  apart  from  the 
Father,  with  an  immortalized  body  of 
flesh  and  bones.  This  is  our  work — 
to  prepare  for  the  second  coming  of 
Christ.  This  is  the  Dispensation  of  the 
Fulness  of  Times,  spoken  of  by  Paul, 
the  Apostle.  We  have  in  our  hands, 
with  which  to  work,  all  that  has  gone 
before  in  all  generations  of  man.  We 
deny  final  consummation  of  his  mission 
here  upon  the  earth  if  we  deny  his 
second  coming.  Thus  only  can  the  re- 
vealed gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  be  pre- 
sented in  its  fulness — by  teaching  the 
world  of  the  second  coming  of  Christ. 

In  our  own  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
we  read:  "Unto  whom  I  have  committed 
the  keys  of  my  kingdom,  and  a  dispensa- 
tion of  the  gospel  for  the  last  times; 
and  for  the  fulness  of  times,  in  the 
which  I  will  gather  together  in  one  all 
things,  both  which  are  in  heaven,  and 
which  are  on  earth."  (D&C  27:13.)  This 
is  part  of  the  second  coming. 

And  again:  ".  .  .  for  it  is  necessary  in 
the  ushering  in  of  the  dispensation  of 
the  fulness  of  times,  which  dispensation 
is  now  beginning  to  usher  in,  that  a 
whole  and  complete  and  perfect  union 
and  welding  together  of  dispensations, 
and  keys,  and  powers,  and  glories  should 
take  place,  and  be  revealed  from  the 
days  of  Adam  even  to  the  present  time. 
And  not  only  this,  but  those  things 


which  never  have  been  revealed  from 
the  foundation  of  the  world,  but  have 
been  kept  hid  from  the  wise  and  prudent, 
shall  be  revealed  unto  babes  and 
sucklings  in  this,  the  dispensation  of  the 
fulness  of  times."  (Ibid.,  128:18.) 

"For  the  hour  is  nigh,  and  that  which 
was  spoken  by  mine  apostles  must  be 
fulfilled;  for  as  they  spoke  so  shall  it 
come  to  pass; 

"For  I  will  reveal  myself  from  heaven 
with  power  and  great  glory,  with  all 
the  hosts  thereof,  and  dwell  in  righteous- 
ness with  men  on  earth  a  thousand 
years,  and  the  wicked  shall  not  stand." 
(Ibid.,  29:10-11.) 

These  are  but  a  sample  of  numerous 
declarations  found  in  modern  scripture 
predicting  the  coming  of  Christ  once 
again  to  complete  his  mission  in  glory 
here  on  the  earth.  We  can  readily  turn 
to  that  which  was  recorded  by  the 
apostles  of  old  and  give  to  you  the  testi- 
monies of  Matthew,  Mark,  Luke,  and 
John,  and  again  repeated  in  more  mod- 
ern revelation  as  in  the  Book  of  Mormon 
in  Third  Nephi,  of  which  President 
Clark  spoke  yesterday. 

The  words  of  Jesus  Christ  recorded 
by  Matthew:  "For  the  Son  of  man  shall 
come  in  the  glory  of  his  Father  with  his 
angels;  and  then  he  shall  reward  every 
man  according  to  his  works."  (Matt. 
16:27.) 

"And  this  gospel  of  the  kingdom  shall 
be  preached  in  all  the  world  for  a  wit- 
ness unto  all  nations;  and  then  shall  the 
end  come. 

"For  as  the  lightning  cometh  out  of 
the  east,  and  shineth  even  unto  the 
west;  so  shall  also  the  coming  of  the 
Son  of  man  be. 

"And  then  shall  appear  the  sign  of 
the  Son  of  man  in  heaven:  and  then 
shall  all  the  tribes  of  the  earth  mourn, 
and  they  shall  see  the  Son  of  man  com- 
ing in  the  clouds  of  heaven  with  power 
and  great  glory. 

"And  he  shall  send  his  angels  with 
a  great  sound  of  a  trumpet,  and  they 
shall  gather  together  his  elect  from  the 
four  winds,  from  one  end  of  heaven  to 
the  other."  (Ibid.,  24:14,  27,  30,  31.) 

"When  the  Son  of  man  shall  come 
in  his  glory,  and  all  the  holy  angels 
with  him,  then  shall  he  sit  upon  the 
throne  of  his  glory."  (Ibid.,  25:31.) 

Matthew  doesn't  leave  any  doubt 
about  this  second  advent,  and  the  words 


58  GENERAL  C 

Monday,  April  4 

of  the  Christ  as  recorded  by  Mark  goes 
on  to  say: 

"Whosoever  therefore  shall  be  ashamed 
of  me  and  of  my  words  in  this  adulterous 
and  sinful  generation;  of  him  also  shall 
the  Son  of  man  be  ashamed,  when  he 
cometh  in  the  glory  of  his  Father  with 
the  holy  angels."  (Mark  8:38.) 

"But  in  those  days,  after  that  tribula- 
tion, the  sun  shall  be  darkened,  and  the 
moon  shall  not  give  her  light, 

"And  the  stars  of  heaven  shall  fall, 
and  the  powers  that  are  in  heaven  shall 
be  shaken. 

"And  then  shall  they  see  the  Son  of 
man  coming  in  the  clouds  with  great 
power  and  glory. 

"And  then  shall  he  send  his  angels, 
and  shall  gather  together  his  elect  from 
the  four  winds,  from  the  uttermost  part 
of  the  earth  to  the  uttermost  part  of 
heaven."  (Mark  13:24-27.) 

And  I  can  assure  you  he  will  not  find 
his  elect  upon  all  of  those  roads  of 
which  President  Clark  spoke  yesterday, 
supposed  to  lead  to  heaven,  but  it  will 
be  in  that  straight  and  narrow  path  of 
which  the  Savior  himself  spoke,  in  which 
the  obedient  will  be  found  and  which 
constitutes  the  only  way  by  which  we 
can  constitute  ourselves  his  elect  and 
be  called  up  and  chosen  to  rule  and 
reign  with  the  Savior  of  mankind  here 
upon  the  earth  for  a  thousand  years. 

In  the  gospel  according  to  Luke  is 
written:  "For  whosoever  shall  be 
ashamed  of  me  and  of  my  words,  of 
him  shall  the  Son  of  man  be  ashamed." 
(Luke  9:26.) 

And  John,  in  the  Revelation,  says: 
"And  he  laid  hold  on  the  dragon,  that 
old  serpent,  which  is  the  Devil,  and 
Satan,  and  bound  him  a  thousand  years. 

"And  I  saw  thrones,  and  they  sat  upon 
them,  and  judgment  was  given  unto 
them:  and  I  saw  the  souls  of  them  that 
were  beheaded  for  the  witness  of  Jesus, 
and  for  the  word  of  God,  and  which  had 
not  worshipped  the  beast,  neither  his 
image,  neither  had  received  his  mark 
upon  their  foreheads,  or  in  their  hands; 
and  they  lived  and  reigned  with  Christ 
a  thousand  years. 

"But  the  rest  of  the  dead  lived  not 
again  until  the  thousand  years  were 
finished.  This  is  the  first  resurrection." 
(Rev.  20:2,  4-5.) 

And  then  in  Third  Nephi  we  read: 
"And  he  did  expound  all  things,  even 


Third  Day 

from  the  beginning  until  the  time  that 
he  should  come  in  his  glory — yea,  even 
all  things  which  should  come  upon  the 
face  of  the  earth,  even  until  the  elements 
should  melt  with  fervent  heat,  and  the 
earth  should  be  wrapt  together  as  a 
scroll,  and  the  heavens  and  the  earth 
should  pass  away."  (3  Nephi  26:3.) 

We  assert  and  testify  today,  not  only 
to  the  English,  but  also  to  all  the  world, 
that  Christ  will  return  to  the  earth  in 
power  and  in  glory,  and  usher  in  an 
era  of  peace,  an  era  during  which  all 
shall  be  committed,  transpire,  and  be 
accomplished  that  yet  remains  to  be 
done  before  our  Savior,  Jesus  Christ, 
can  report  his  mission  completed  here 
upon  this  earth  to  his  Father  in  heaven, 
having  subdued  and  brought  under  his 
feet  all  things. 

This  was  revealed  over  thirty  cen- 
turies ago  to  Enoch  of  old,  for  we  read 
in  the  book  of  Moses,  Pearl  of  Great 
Price:  "And  it  came  to  pass  that  Enoch 
saw  the  day  of  the  coming  of  the  Son  of 
Man,  in  the  last  days,  to  dwell  on  the 
earth  in  righteousness  for  the  space  of 
a  thousand  years."  (Moses  7:65.) 

Now,  our  preaching  the  gospel  is  itself 
essential  prior  to  the  second  coming  of 
Christ.  Matthew  wrote:  "And  this  gos- 
pel of  the  kingdom  shall  be  preached 
in  all  the  world  for  a  witness  unto  all 
nations;  and  then  shall  the  end  come." 
(Matthew  24:14.) 

So  after  the  falling  away  spoken  of 
by  Matthew,  a  restoration  of  the  gospel 
had  to  come,  otherwise  the  words  of 
Matthew  would  be  inconsistent  and 
their  fulfilment  impossible. 

And  then  we  have  that  wonderful 
prophecy  in  Revelation:  To  John  the 
restoration  of  the  gospel  was  foretold 
"And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the 
midst  of  heaven,  having  the  everlasting 
gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell 
on  the  earth,  and  to  every  nation,  and 
kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people, 

"Saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God, 
and  give  glory  to  him;  for  the  hour  of 
his  judgment  is  come:  and  worship  him 
that  made  heaven,  and  earth,  and  the 
sea,  and  the  fountains  of  waters." 
(Revelation  14:6-7.) 

Then  referring  back  to  our  own  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  how  grateful  I 
am  to  the  Lord  for  his  revealed  word 
as  contained  in  this  great  volume  of 
scripture: 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


59 


"And  then  they  shall  look  for  me,  and, 
behold,  I  will  come;  and  they  shall  see 
me  in  the  clouds  of  heaven,  clothed  with 
power  and  great  glory;  with  all  the  holy 
angels;  and  he  that  watches  not  for  me 
shall  be  cut  off.  .  .  . 

"For  the  Lord  shall  be  in  their  midst, 
and  his  glory  shall  be  upon  them,  and 
he  will  be  their  king  and  their  lawgiver." 
(D&C  45:44,  59.) 

Joseph  Smith  once  said:  "When  I  con- 
template the  rapidity  with  which  the 
great  and  glorious  day  of  the  coming 
of  the  Son  of  Man  advances,  when  He 
shall  come  to  receive  His  Saints  unto 
Himself,  where  they  shall  dwell  in  His 
presence,  and  be  crowned  with  glory  and 
immortality:  when  I  consider  that  soon 
the  heavens  are  to  be  shaken,  and  the 
earth  tremble  and  reel  to  and  fro;  and 
that  the  heavens  are  to  be  unfolded  as 
a  scroll  when  it  is  rolled  up;  and  that 
every  mountain  and  island  are  to  flee 
away,  I  cry  out  in  my  heart,  What  man- 
ner of  persons  ought  we  to  be  in  all 
holy     conversation     and  godliness!" 


(Teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  29.) 

The  Lord  grant  that  we  may  fulfil 
this  great  calling  which  is  ours,  and  be 
the  persons  that  we  ought  to  be  to  lay 
the  foundation  for  his  second  coming, 
for  he  lives — he  lives  for  us,  to  hear  and 
answer  our  prayers,  and  his  coming  is 
approaching  closer  and  closer;  and  al- 
though no  man  knoweth  the  hour,  it 
behooves  us  to  watch,  and  so  our  mis- 
sion to  the  world  is  to  watch  and  be 
prepared. 

May  this  be  our  happy  lot  I  humbly 
pray  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
President  Henry  D.  Moyle  of  the  First 
Presidency  of  the  Church.  Bishop 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson  will  be  our  next 
speaker.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Levi  Edgar  Young. 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


President  McKay,  President  Clark, 
President  Moyle,  my  dear  brothers  and 
sisters: 

The  beautiful  song  just  rendered  by 
this  wonderful  choir  entitled,  "I  Need 
Thee  Every  Hour,"  has  struck  a  very 
responsive  chord  in  my  heart.  I  do  need 
"thee"  every  hour,  and  I  need  "thee" 
this  hour.  I  stand  before  you  this 
morning  very  humble,  fasting  and 
prayerful,  praying  that  God  will  sustain 
me  in  this  responsibility. 

It  was  thirteen  years  ago  at  the  April 
conference  when  I  had  my  first  assign- 
ment to  speak  in  general  conference, 
and  every  assignment  since  then  has 
nearly  overwhelmed  me.  I  pray  con- 
stantly that  I  may  have  your  sympathy, 
your  patience,  your  understanding,  and 
above  all,  an  interest  in  your  faith  and 
prayers. 

Sometime  ago  as  I  was  reading  some- 
thing about  Church  history  that  this 
April  conference  is  the  golden  anniver- 
sary for  President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
— that  is,  at  the  April  conference  fifty 


years  ago — half  a  century — President 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith  was  first  sustained 
a  member  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles.  Then  as  I  looked  a  little 
further,  I  found  that  it  was  fifty-four 
years  ago  at  the  April  conference  when 
President  David  O.  McKay  was  sustained 
a  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles — fifty-four  golden  years — golden 
years  for  President  Smith  and  President 
McKay,  but  golden  years  also  for  the 
Church. 

I  am  sure  we  were  all  deeply  impressed 
this  morning  by  the  stirring  address  of 
President  Henry  D.  Moyle.  Saturday 
night  the  priesthood  assembled  received 
some  counsel  and  challenges  that  I  think 
we  can  live  up  to.  His  optimism  and 
his  vigor  in  this  assignment  of  directing 
the  great  Church  missionary  system 
throughout  the  world  is  an  example  for 
all  of  us  to  behold.  He  undertakes  this 
assignment  with  great  enthusiasm  which 
I  am  confident  is  an  inspiration  to  all 
of  us.  I  am  sure  he  is  a  great  blessing 
and  comfort  to  President  McKay  and 
President  Clark,  and  therefore,  a  great 


60  GENERAL  C 

Monday,  April  4 

blessing  and  comfort  to  the  entire 
Church. 

As  I  listened  to  the  opening  address 
of  President  McKay  Sunday  morning,  I 
was  impressed  by  this  quotation  from 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  102:9:  "The 
president  of  the  church,  who  is  also  the 
president  of  the  council,  is  appointed  by 
revelation,  and  acknowledged  in  his  ad- 
ministration by  the  voice  of  the  church." 

In  Numbers  12:6,  we  read,  "And  he 
said,  Hear  now  my  words:  If  there  be  a 
prophet  among  you,  I  the  Lord  will 
make  myself  known  unto  him  in  a  vi- 
sion, and  will  speak  unto  him  in  a 
dream." 

In  Amos  3:7,  we  are  told  that,  "Surely 
the  Lord  God  will  do  nothing,  but  he 
revealeth  his  secret  unto  his  servants  the 
prophets." 

Truly,  the  Lord  does  reveal  himself 
constantly  to  the  prophet,  the  President 
of  the  Church.  President  David  O. 
McKay  is  a  beloved  prophet  of  God,  a 
seer,  and  a  revelator  to  this  people,  loved 
not  alone  by  the  people  of  the  Church, 
but  by  many  in  the  world  who  are  not 
members  of  the  Church. 

I  would  like  to  say  a  few  words  on  a 
subject  that  must  be  giving  all  of  us 
considerable  worry  and  concern,  chang- 
ing values — changing  times. 

I  preface  my  remarks  with  this  quota- 
tion from  the  Prophet  Mormon  9:9  in 
the  Book  of  Mormon:  "For  do  we  not 
read  that  God  is  the  same  yesterday, 
today,  and  forever,  and  in  him  there  is 
no  variableness  neither  shadow  of  chang- 
ing?" 

When  we  consider  this,  we  must 
realize  that,  since  God  himself  is  im- 
mutable, so  are  the  things  that  are  a 
sure  foundation  for  us  to  build  upon. 
We  must  intelligently  and  continuously 
appraise  the  events  that  take  place  in 
the  world  today.  It  would  be  well  if 
we  could  enjoy  and  accept  the  simple 
and  eternal  truths.  We  must  do  our 
best  to  appreciate  values  that  do  not 
change  with  every  passing  season.  If 
values  have  changed,  it  is  because  we 
have  changed  them  or  because  we  have 
changed  our  attitudes  toward  them. 

It  is  reported  that  a  philosopher  from 
a  foreign  country  once  desired  and  sought 
to  learn  what  had  made  America  great. 
He  reviewed  our  rivers,  our  irrigation, 
our  commerce,  but  it  was  not  there; 
he   examined   the   fertile   fields  and 


Third  Day 

boundless  prairies,  but  it  was  not  there; 
he  viewed  our  rich  mines,  our  industry, 
and  it  was  not  there.  Not  until  he 
traveled  from  one  place  to  another 
through  our  country,  saw  the  churches 
of  America,  and  heard  her  pulpits  ablaze 
with  righteousness,  did  he  come  face  to 
face  with  the  secret  of  her  genius  and 
power. 

"America  is  great  because  she  is  good, 
and  if  America  ever  ceases  to  be  good — 
America  will  cease  to  be  great." 

Recently  a  prominent  man  made  some 
very  serious  remarks  regarding  the  soft- 
ness and  decay  which  is  eating  into  the 
moral  fiber  of  the  American  people.  He 
stated  that  "unless  we  as  a  nation  de- 
velop a  greater  responsibility  and  make 
some  right  decisions  instead  of  doing 
what  is  expedient,  we  are  in  trouble, 
serious  trouble." 

He  emphasized  our  problem  is  not 
economic,  it  is  not  military,  it  is  not 
political,  but  it  is  spiritual.  There  prob- 
ably is  too  much  talk  about  rights  and 
not  enough  talk  about  responsibility. 
Individual  responsibility  both  for  the 
young  and  the  old  seems  apparent  and 
badly  needed  today.  We  have  no  right 
passing  individual  responsibilities  on  to 
others. 

Reference  has  been  made  to  scandals, 
cheating,  fake  advertising,  and  misrep- 
resentation from  radio  and  television. 
Chiseling,  deceit,  falsifying,  gossiping, 
and  talebearing  are  not  frowned  upon 
today  as  they  once  were. 

"The  truth,  the  whole  truth,  and  noth- 
ing but  the  truth":  Those  are  the  familiar 
words  of  the  legal  oath  used  in  the  Eng- 
lish-speaking world.  The  whole  truth 
seems  to  be  the  heart  of  the  matter. 
Answering  questions  in  truth  and  noth- 
ing but  the  truth  is  one  thing,  but  vol- 
unteering the  whole  truth  when  it  has 
not  been  asked  for  is  something  else. 

Sometimes  our  thinking  and  our  ac- 
tions drift  into  unfortunate  channels, 
stunting  our  mental  growth  and  neglect- 
ing to  discover  our  own  strength.  It  is 
with  us  as  with  the  soils  of  the  earth 
where  sometimes  there  is  a  vein  of  gold 
of  which  the  owner  is  not  aware.  If  one 
wishes  to  enjoy  the  luxury  of  spiritual 
growth,  social  prestige,  financial  security, 
happiness,  or  peace  of  mind,  begin  pros- 
pecting today  for  that  vein  of  gold 
within  you. 

What  has  happened  to  integrity?  Has 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


61 


it  been  exiled  with  other  great  and  good 
principles?  The  television  pitfalls  and 
constant  unfair  advertising  are  only  a 
sample  of  the  trend  of  the  times.  Per- 
haps this  is  the  first  time  in  modern 
history  that  misrepresentation  has  been 
bought  and  paid  for  and  delivered  into 
millions  of  our  homes  with  scheduled 
regularity.  Dishonesty  is  sometimes 
glossed  over,  and  that  which  we  have 
come  to  look  upon  with  admiration  has 
turned  out  to  be  deceitful. 

Dr.  Richard  H.  Walters  of  Toronto 
University  suggests  that  in  North  Amer- 
ica perhaps  we  have  an  "unexpressed 
code  of  behavior."  Sometimes  society 
verbalizes  one  code  but  lives  by  another. 
When  we  have  a  conflict  of  standards, 
many  times  the  lower  standards  take 
over. 

A  survey  among  college  students  by 
Marvin  L.  Hendricks  of  Indiana  Central 
College  indicated  that  fifty-seven  percent 
had  at  one  time  or  another  cheated  in 
examinations.  It  was  not  so  much  the 
moral  badness  of  these  findings  as  it 
was  the  general  acceptance  of  a  new 
standard  in  which  cheating  was  more  or 
less  acceptable.  Students  are  part  of  a 
system  in  which  the  attainment  of 
knowledge  has  become  secondary  to  the 
completion  of  prescribed  courses.  Only 
thirteen  percent  of  the  students  felt 
cheating  was  wrong  and  less  than 
twenty  percent  felt  any  deep  resentment 
against  cheaters. 

I  could  not  help  wondering  what 
would  happen  or  how  we  as  individuals 
would  feel  knowing  that  we  were  to  be 
operated  on  for  a  serious  illness  by  a 
doctor  who  might  have  cheated  his  way 
through  medical  school. 

These  facts  emphasize  strongly  that 
there  is  a  great  deal  lacking  in  modern 
character.  How  can  we  as  adults  expect 
to  mold  character  in  our  children  if  we 
are  guilty  of  these  indiscretions.  Perhaps 
we  should  spend  more  time  teaching 
honesty.  It  has  not  changed.  It  never 
will  change.  This  is  a  basic  human 
value  that  should  be  taught  with  empha- 
sis. 

Each  of  us  will  need  to  strengthen  his 
own  home  life  and  his  family  ties  if 
he  is  to  combat  these  changing  standards 
in  human  behavior. 

King  Hussein  of  Jordan  is  reported 
to  have  said:  "I  feel  I  have  a  responsi- 
bility, and  there  are  two  things  that  are 


very  important  to  me  in  life.  First,  one 
is  to  be  able  to  live  with  myself.  Sec- 
ond, the  other  is  the  belief  that  if  I  do 
right,  if  I  try  my  best,  God  will  always 
be  with  me." 

In  a  revelation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  the  Lord  emphasized  these  truths: 

"There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed  in 
heaven  before  the  foundations  of  this 
world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are 
predicated — 

"And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing 
from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that 
law  upon  which  it  is  predicated."  (D&C 
130:20-21.) 

Have  times  changed?  Yesl  But  who 
changed  them?  It  may  be  well  for  us 
to  try  sorting  out  the  parts  that  need 
changing  and  putting  them  back  in 
their  proper  light  and  place.  Let  us  re- 
turn to  the  old  principles — love  of  God 
and  love  of  fellow  men.  Love,  like  all 
eternal  principles,  is  infinite. 

Recently,  one  prominent  speaker 
warned  that  constant  scandals  are  "only 
a  symptom  of  a  disease  that  is  eating 
into  the  vitals  of  American  morality." 

We  are  constantly  confronted  with 
tricks,  gimmicks,  superficial  slogans, 
and  falsehoods.  It  may  be  the  result 
of  too  much  commercialism  and  the  in- 
correct estimation  of  values. 

A  recent  survey  by  one  of  our  promi- 
nent statisticians  asked  the  public  this 
question:  "How  do  you  feel  about  tele- 
vision commercials — do  you  think  they 
use  untruthful  arguments,  or  not?" 

Sixty-seven  percent  of  those  contacted 
stated  they  felt  that  untruthful  methods 
and  arguments  were  used.  Some  said 
that  as  a  result  of  these  situations,  crime 
in  the  United  States  has  increased  five 
times  faster  than  our  population  in  the 
last  few  years.  "The  scales  of  justice 
are  getting  out  of  balance." 

"The  image  of  advertising  must  be 
greatly  improved  if  the  American  people 
are  to  have  faith  in  it,"  said  Richard  E. 
Ryan,  president  of  the  Advertising  Asso- 
ciation of  the  West.  He  further  stated 
that  fewer  than  half  believed  fifty  per- 
cent or  more  of  what  they  saw.  "Ninety 
percent  said  they  did  not  generally  be- 
lieve cigarette  advertising,"  and  adver- 
tising of  other  items  got  the  same 
answer.  Yet,  he  stated  that  some  busi- 
ness concerns  "shrug  the  problem  off  on 
the  basis  of  'What's  the  difference.' " 

So  the  question  arises,  "Are  the  Amer- 


62 

Monday,  April  4 

ican  people  getting  soft  physically, 
morally,  and  spiritually?" 

Have  values  changed?  No  I  "People 
have  changed."  Perhaps  we  as  parents 
and  teachers  should  look  to  ourselves 
for  the  change  in  values  of  today's  liv- 
ing.  Are  we  good  examples? 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  once 
stated  so  appropriately:  ".  .  .  After  all, 
all  the  things  that  we  are  asked  to  re- 
frain from  are  things  which  lower  our 
standards  of  joy,  lower  our  standards  of 
life,  lower  our  respect  for  humanity  and 
humanity's  respect  for  us,  and  leave  us 
debtors  to  the  whole  list  of  Christian 
virtues." 

Times  have  changed  only  because  peo- 
ple have  changed  them.  But  eternal 
values  have  not  changed.  Ethics  and 
honesty  and  morality  have  not  changed. 
It  may  be  that  the  attitudes  of  the  people 
have  changed  toward  those  standards, 
but  these  values  remain  unchangeable. 

It  is  gratifying  and  encouraging,  how- 
ever, to  know  that  there  are  still  many 
people  who  place  a  great  value  on 
ethics  and  honesty;  for  instance,  one 
prominent  television  star  recently  re- 
fused to  act  as  if  he  were  smoking  a 
certain  brand  of  cigarets  as  an  advertise- 
ment because  he  did  not  smoke.  He  sin- 
cerely felt  it  would  be  dishonest  to  lead 
the  public  to  believe  that  he  was  smoking 
when  he  did  not  smoke. 

He  further  refused  to  read  commercial 
copy  which  indicated  that  he  used  a 
certain  product  if  he  did  not  use  it. 
That  is  true  honesty  and  ethics. 

It  is  important  how  we  feel  in  our 
own  heart,  and  we  should  all  try  to  be 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

free  from  hard  feelings,  faultfinding, 
and  backbiting.  If  we  have  been  hurt 
or  offended,  it  might  be  well  if  we  would 
try  to  forget  it.  One  good  writer  states, 
"In  the  very  depth  of  your  soul  dig  a 
small  grave,  and  there,  in  the  eternal 
silence  bury  the  wrongs  which  you  may 
think  you  have  suffered.  Your  heart 
will  feel  as  if  a  load  had  fallen  from 
it  and  a  divine  peace  came  to  abide 
with  you." 

If  things  have  gone  wrong,  let  neither 
of  us  point  an  accusing  finger  against 
the  other.  The  one  who  is  to  blame  is 
not  at  all  important.  Only  how  can  we 
set  the  situation  right — that  is  all  that 
matters,  so  that  we  can  go  on  living 
happily  as  long  as  God  shall  give  us 
life. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I  know 
that  God  is  our  Father;  that  he  lives; 
that  he  hears  our  prayers;  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  his  Son,  our  beloved  Savior 
and  Redeemer.  May  we  live  so  the  Lord 
can  speak  to  us  if  he  chooses  to.  We 
might  ask  ourselves:  What  is  our  rela- 
tion with  our  Holy  Father?  Could  he 
speak  to  us  and  could  we  hear  him? 

May  God  bless  us  that  we  may  draw 
nearer  to  him  each  day  of  our  lives, 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  a  member 
of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  of  the  Church, 
has  just  spoken  to  us.  We  shall  now 
hear  from  Elder  Levi  Edgar  Young  of 
the  First  Council  of  Seventy. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


President  McKay,  President  Clark, 
and  President  Moyle,  my  brethren  and 
sisters: 

We  are  here  this  beautiful  day  to 
worship  God  our  Father  and  Jesus 
Christ  our  Redeemer.  I  know  that  every- 
one has  this  feeling  and  will  listen  to 
the  words  of  his  servants  with  joy  and 
thanksgiving.  There  are  so  many 
phases  of  history  that  we  love  to  study 
and  think  about.  During  the  past  year, 
I  have  studied  the  life  of  Christopher 
Columbus.     Historians   tell   us  that 


Columbus  felt  that  beyond  the  western 
sea,  land  could  be  found.  In  the  his- 
torical writings  of  the  Italian  scholar 
Padre  Clementis  he  conserved  a  form 
of  prayer  said  to  have  been  used  by 
Columbus  on  Friday  morning,  October 
12,  as  he  stepped  on  the  land  of  the 
New  World. 

Columbus  declared  in  one  of  his  let- 
ters to  the  king  and  queen  of  Spain  that 
he  was  the  "agent  in  the  hand  of  God 
to  go  forth  upon  the  mighty  deep."  Ac- 
cording to  Washington  Irving,  Colum- 


ELDER  LEVI  I 

bus,  when  he  set  foot  on  the  island  of 
San  Salvador,  uttered  the  following 
prayer,  which  has  been  translated  from 
the  Latin: 

"O  God,  our  Father,  eternal  and  om- 
nipotent, creator  of  heaven  and  earth 
and  sea,  we  glorify  Thy  Holy  name, 
praise  Thy  majesty,  whom  we  serve  in 
all  humility,  we  give  unto  Thy  Holy 
protection  this  new  part  of  the  world." 

Plymouth  Rock  has  long  since  become 
the  emblem  of  American  freedom,  that 
freedom  born  of  a  proper  respect  for  the 
rights  of  all  men  and  the  recognition 
of  the  permanency  of  religion.  The 
Pilgrim  Fathers  were  men  of  deep  faith 
in  the  Providence  of  God.  Their  com- 
ing to  America  over  the  uncharted  deep 
was  an  event  ordered  of  God  for  the 
ultimate  bringing  in  of  his  kingdom  up- 
on the  earth.  Many  centuries  before 
the  birth  of  the  Savior,  the  Prophet 
Nephi  wrote  these  words  as  he  looked 
into  the  future: 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  looked 
and  beheld  many  waters;  and  they  di- 
vided the  Gentiles  from  the  seed  of  my 
brethren. 

"And  I  looked  and  beheld  a  man 
among  the  Gentiles,  who  was  separated 
from  the  seed  of  my  brethren  by  the 
many  waters;  and  I  beheld  the  Spirit 
of  God,  that  it  came  down  and  wrought 
upon  the  man;  and  he  went  forth  upon 
the  many  waters,  even  unto  the  seed  of 
my  brethren,  who  were  in  the  promised 
land. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  beheld 
the  Spirit  of  God,  that  it  wrought  upon 
other  Gentiles;  and  they  went  forth  out 
of  captivity,  upon  the  many  waters. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  Nephi 
beheld  that  the  Gentiles  who  had  gone 
forth  out  of  captivity  did  humble  them- 
selves before  the  Lord."  (1  Nephi  13:10, 
12-13,  16.) 

It  was  by  divine  guidance  that  the 
Pilgrim  Fathers  came  to  America  and 
planted  here  the  institutions  of  civiliza- 
tion. By  the  Mayflower  Compact  they 
established  a  republic,  the  highest  form 
of  political  institution  known  to  man. 
Such  a  republic  was  unknown  up  to 
their  time,  and  this  was  the  only  land 
where  a  nation  of  this  kind  was  possible. 
This  continent  had  been  unknown  until 
the  right  men,  rightly  trained,  could 
build  their  homes  in  the  wilderness  and 
hold  the  ground  for  a  purpose  larger 


~)GAR  YOUNG  63 

than  they  knew.  These  Christians  had 
in  mind  a  new  city  of  God  in  the  wilder- 
ness, and  they  made  the  fish  the  emblem 
of  their  commonwealth,  which  has  from 
old  been  the  symbol  of  Christian  humil- 
ity. 

Pastor  John  Robinson  was  one  of 
the  most  prominent  of  the  Pilgrim 
Fathers,  yet  he  never  set  foot  upon  Amer- 
ican soil.  The  little  group  that  left 
Leyden,  Holland,  in  1620,  received  his 
blessing,  and,  in  his  parting  words  to 
them,  he  said: 

"Brethren,  we  are  now  quickly  to  part 
from  one  another,  and  whether  I  may 
ever  live  to  see  your  faces  on  earth  any 
more,  the  God  of  heaven  only  knows: 
but  whether  the  Lord  hath  appointed 
that  or  not,  I  charge  you  before  God 
and  his  blessed  angels  that  you  follow 
me  no  farther  than  you  have  seen  me 
follow  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  If  God 
reveals  anything  to  you,  by  any  other 
instrument  of  His,  be  as  ready  to  receive 
it,  as  ever  you  were  to  receive  truth, 
by  my  ministry;  for  I  am  fully  per- 
suaded, /  am  very  confident,  that  the 
Lord  has  more  truth  yet  to  break  forth 
out  of  his  holy  word.  For  my  part,  I 
cannot  sufficiently  bewail  the  condition 
of  the  reformed  churches,  who  are  come 
to  a  period  in  religion,  and  will  go  at 
present  no  farther  than  the  instruments 
of  the  reformation." 

That  is  why  we  are  thankful  that  we 
have  been  blessed  with  a  knowledge 
that  the  gospel  was  restored  through 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  that  is 
our  testimony.  The  reason  why  I  am 
speaking  of  it  as  I  do,  is  because  there 
are  a  number  of  people  in  this  con- 
gregation who  are  not  members  of  the 
Church. 

Thousands  of  people  have  accepted 
the  gospel,  and  we  believe  in  the  purity 
of  the  teachings  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  as  nobody  else.  It  is  a  wonder- 
ful thing. 

When  the  time  came  for  the  Saints 
to  move  westward,  they  came  headed 
by  a  prophet  of  God.  They  settled  in 
this  valley.  It  was  a  valley  of  sage- 
brush, very  dry  in  the  summertime,  cold 
in  winter.  They  came  in  the  year  1847, 
and  from  then  on,  all  the  time,  there 
were  companies  of  Latter-day  Saints  on 
the  plains,  coming  to  Utah,  coming  in 
small  numbers  and  then  in  larger 
groups,  until  the  territory  was  settled, 


64  GENERAL  C 

Monday,  April  4 

and  Utah  as  a  state  was  founded. 
A  wonderful  thought  was  expressed  by 
President  Brigham  Young  in  the  First 
General  Epistle  to  the  people  at  the  close 
of  1847.  It  indicated  the  great  love 
and  respect  that  he  and  the  Latter-day 
Saints  had  for  all  people. 

"Come,  then,  ye  Saints;  come,  then, 
ye  honorable  men  of  the  earth;  come, 
then,  ye  wise,  ye  learned,  ye  rich,  ye 
noble,  according  to  the  riches,  and  wis- 
dom, and  knowledge  of  the  great 
Jehovah;  from  all  nations,  and  kindreds, 
and  kingdoms,  and  tongues,  and  people, 
and  dialects  on  the  face  of  the  whole 
earth,  and  join  the  standard  of  Em- 
manuel, and  help  us  to  build  up  the 
Kingdom  of  God,  and  establish  the 
principles  of  truth,  life,  and  salvation, 
and  you  shall  receive  your  reward 
among  the  sanctified,  when  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  cometh  to  make  up  his 
jewels;  and  no  power  on  earth  or  in 
hell  can  prevail  against  you. 

"The  Kingdom  of  God  consists  in 
correct  principles;  and  it  mattereth  not 
what  a  man's  religious  faith  is;  whether 
he  be  a  Presbyterian,  or  a  Methodist,  or 
a  Baptist,  or  a  Latter-day  Saint  or  'Mor- 
mon,' or  a  Campbellite,  or  a  Catholic, 
or  Episcopalian,  or  Mohametan,  or  even 
pagan,  or  any  thing  else,  if  he  will  bow 
the  knee  and  with  his  tongue  confess 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  will  support 
good  and  wholesome  laws  for  the  regu- 
lation of  society,  we  hail  him  as  a 
brother,  and  will  stand  by  him  while 
he  stands  by  us  in  these  things;  for  every 
man's  religious  faith  is  a  matter  between 
his  own  soul  and  his  God  alone;  but  if 
he  shall  deny  the  Jesus,  if  he  shall  curse 
God,  if  he  shall  indulge  in  debauchery 
and  drunkenness,  and  crime;  if  he  shall 
lie,  and  swear,  and  steal;  if  he  shall 
take  the  name  of  the  Great  God  in  vain, 
and  commit  all  manner  of  abominations, 
he  shall  have  no  place  in  our  midst,  for 
we  have  long  sought  to  find  a  people 
that  will  work  righteousness,  that  will 
distribute  justice  equally,  that  will 
acknowledge  God  in  all  their  ways,  that 
will    regard    those   sacred    laws  and 


Third  Day 

ordinances  which  are  recorded  in  that 
sacred  book  called  the  Bible,  which  we 
verily  believe,  and  which  we  proclaim 
to  the  ends  of  the  earth." 

In  conclusion,  I  have  a  word  or  two 
concerning  one  of  my  devoted  friends. 

The  head  of  the  Catholic  Church  in 
Utah,  Bishop  Duane  G.  Hunt,  passed 
away  the  other  day.  He  was  one  of 
the  finest  men,  and  it  is  only  within  a 
year  when  Bishop  Hunt  said  to  a  visitor, 
"One  thing  I  do  know.  The  Mormon 
Church  has  been  gracious  and  kind  to 
every  soul  that  lives.  The  people  have 
gone  forth  giving  and  bearing  their 
testimony  that  God  lives  and  has  re- 
stored the  gospel." 

May  we  all  come  to  the  faith  that 
has  been  this  morning  told  us  by  the 
speakers  and  will  be  told  us  by  the 
speakers  today  and  Wednesday.  Let 
us  grow  because  in  that  growth  is  our 
salvation,  our  joy  of  living,  and  we 
certainly  find  what  life  means. 

God  bless  us  all  through  the  holy 
purposes,  the  priesthood  of  God,  I  ask  in 
in  his  name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Senior  Presi- 
dent of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy. 

The  Choir  and  Congregation  will  now 
join  in  singing,  "Now  Let  Us  Rejoice  In 
The  Day  of  Salvation."  Elder  William 
H.  Gould,  Assistant  Director  of  the 
Mormon  Choir  of  Southern  California, 
will  lead  us.  Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith 
will  follow  the  singing. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  united 
in  singing  the  hymn,  "Now  Let  Us  Re- 
joice In  The  Day  of  Salvation." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to 
the  Church,  will  now  speak  to  us.  He 
will  be  followed  by  Elder  Sterling  W. 
Sill. 


65 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 


I  am  very  grateful  for  the  many  bless- 
ings that  have  been  mine.  I  am  thank- 
ful for  the  prayer  that  was  offered  at 
the  beginning  of  this  session  and  pray 
that  I  shall  receive  my  part  of  its  ful- 
filment, that  the  Lord  will  guide  me 
in  what  I  say. 

I  have  been  very  grateful  for  the 
heritage  that  I  have,  for  the  blessings 
and  the  experiences  that  have  been  given 
to  me  through  my  childhood  and  my 
youth,  in  fulfilling  the  various  offices 
in  the  priesthood  from  deacon,  teacher, 
priest,  elder,  seventy,  high  priest,  and 
bishop,  and  the  privilege  of  filling  a 
mission  and  the  other  offices  that  I  have 
held,  which  have  been  for  my  training 
and  preparation.  And  now,  as  Patri- 
arch to  the  Church,  I  am  indeed  grate- 
ful for  the  privilege  of  fulfilling  this 
position  and  pray  the  Lord  shall  ever 
help  me  so  to  do. 

We  as  a  people  are  greatly  blessed  in 
many  ways,  too  many  to  be  enumerated, 
and  among  these  blessings  we  have  the 
privilege  of  having  patriarchs  pronounce 
blessings  upon  us.  People  ask  often, 
what  I  do  in  the  Church,  or,  what  does 
a  patriarch  do.  The  Lord  says  that 
evangelists  are  patriarchs.  The  name 
"patriarch"  divided  into  two  syllables, 
explains  itself.  "Patri"  means  "father," 
and  "arch"  means  "chief,"  so  "patriarch" 
is  a  "chief  father." 

We  have  two  types  of  fathers  in  the 
Church — those  who  are  natural  fathers, 
or  the  head  of  their  households,  and  we 
have  those  who  are  fathers  as  an  or- 
dained position  in  the  priesthood.  So 
an  ordained  father,  or  an  ordained 
patriarch,  is  a  priesthood  office,  which 
gives  him  the  right  to  perform  such 
things  as  patriarchal  blessings  in  bless- 
ing the  members  of  the  Church. 

Every  holder  of  the  priesthood  who  is 
head  of  a  family,  has  the  right  to  bless 
members  of  his  own  family.  However, 
it  is  not  priesthood  order  for  him  to 
declare  the  blessings  of  the  lineage  of 
Israel.  This  is  the  specific  responsibility 
of  an  ordained  patriarch.  For  that  rea- 
son, among  others,  we  go  to  ordained 
patriarchs  to  receive  those  blessings. 

We  have  in  the  Church  approximately 
four  hundred  such  patriarchs,  ordained 


to  give  patriarchal  blessings.  We  have 
a  representative  group  of  them  here  with 
us  today.  These  men  are  noble  and 
humble,  worthy  men,  especially  or- 
dained priesthood  officers,  whom  the 
Lord  has  placed  in  his  Church  to  serve 
you  in  giving  you  patriarchal  blessings. 

It  is  most  desirable  that  they  do  not 
come  to  you  to  give  you  a  blessing  and 
announce  that  they  have  a  blessing  for 
you.  It  is  more  desirable  that  you  go 
to  them.  They  make  themselves  avail- 
able. There  is  at  least  one  patriarch  in 
each  stake  of  Zion,  so  that  all  the  mem- 
bership of  the  Church  has  the  opportu- 
nity of  receiving  such  blessings.  Those 
who  live  in  the  mission  field,  where 
there  are  no  ordained  patriarchs,  have 
the  privilege  of  coming  to  the  stakes  and 
receiving  blessings  from  stake  patriarchs, 
or  they  may  come  to  my  office.  And 
that  is  the  primary  work  that  I  do — 
give  blessings  to  those  from  the  mission 
field  who  come  to  me. 

Many  people  have  asked  why  we  do 
not  have  patriarchs  in  the  mission  field. 
I  guess  the  only  good  reason  is  the  same 
reason  we  do  not  have  bishops.  Bishops 
and  patriarchs  are  officers  of  a  stake 
organization  and  as  there  are  enough 
members  in  an  area  to  organize  a  stake, 
then  they  are  entitled  to  a  stake  organ- 
ization. As  that  organization  grows 
sufficiently,  there  is  usually  a  patriarch 
ordained  in  that  stake. 

Then  the  question  comes,  what  is  a 
patriarchal  blessing?  It  is  different 
from  any  other  blessing  one  might  re- 
ceive. The  first  requirement  and  that 
which  makes  it  primarily  different  from 
other  blessings,  is  that  the  ordained 
patriarch  has  the  right  to  declare  the 
blessings  of  Israel,  or  the  line  of  Israel 
through  which  the  blessings  shall  come. 
The  blessings  of  Israel  are  leadership 
blessings,  and  leadership  blessings  are 
the  blessings  of  the  priesthood.  This  is 
the  main  difference  between  patriarchal 
blessings  and  blessings  given  by  others. 

I  have  had  many  faith-promoting  ex- 
periences in  declaring  lineage.  The 
majority  of  the  people  who  come  to  me 
for  blessings  are  people  whom  I  do  not 
know.  I  know  nothing  about  their  gene- 
alogy or  their  family  background.  How- 


66  GENERAL  C 

Monday,  April  4 

ever,  a  patriarchal  blessing,  in  declaring 
lineage,  does  not  always  need  to  declare 
genealogy — it  is  not  a  short  cut  to  gene- 
alogy. It  is  the  blessings  that  are  de- 
clared. Genealogy  and  genetics  may 
have  the  effect  in  assisting  their  patri- 
archs, but  we  are  mixtures.  Many  of  us 
are  mixtures  of  several  tribes  of  Israel, 
and  so  it  is  the  right  of  the  patriarch  to 
declare  that  line  through  which  the 
the  blessings  shall  come. 

Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe  has  stated  the 
following: 

"These  blessings  are  possibilities  predi- 
cated upon  faithful  devotion  to  the  cause 
of  truth.  They  must  be  earned,  other- 
wise they  are  but  empty  words.  Indeed 
they  rise  to  their  highest  value  when 
used  as  ideals,  specific  possibilities  to- 
ward which  we  may  strive  throughout 
life.  To  look  upon  a  patriarch  as  a 
fortuneteller  is  an  offense  to  the  priest- 
hood. The  patriarch  only  indicates  the 
gifts  the  Lord  would  give  us,  if  we  labor 
for  them.  He  helps  us  by  pointing  out 
the  divine  goal  which  we  may  enjoy 
if  we  pay  the  price."  (The  Improvement 
Era  45:33.) 

I  am  glad  Brother  Widtsoe  mentioned 
the  fact  that  patriarchs  are  not  fortune- 
tellers because  that  is  the  farthest  thing 
from  the  truth— patriarchal  blessings  are 
not  fortunetelling. 

If  you  can  discover  the  keynote  in 
your  blessing,  it  will  be  an  index  to 
point  the  way  of  life  for  you,  or  the 
path  that  you  should  go  to  serve  God. 
These  blessings  are  an  eternal  anchor 
for  our  soul  with  the  Lord.  They  are 
just  as  eternal  and  binding  upon  us, 
through  our  faithfulness,  as  were  the 
blessings  given  by  Adam,  Abraham, 
Jacob,  or  any  other  patriarch  of  past 
times.  Because  of  their  eternal  nature 
the  Lord  has  required  that  they  be 
recorded  so  that  we  have  a  record  of 
them  in  the  archives  of  the  Church,  and 
each  individual  is  given  a  copy  of  his 
blessing  so  that  he  might  have  it  avail- 
able for  himself.  We  encourage  and 
recommend  that  members  of  the  Church 
receive  only  one  patriarchal  blessing, 
which  blessing  is  recorded  as  an  eternal 
record. 

Now,  if  we  are  going  to  receive  only 
one  blessing,  then  it  is  important  that 
we  get  that  blessing  at  a  proper  time  in 
our  life.    The  question  often  comes  to 


Third  Day 

me,  at  what  age  should  my  children 
receive  their  patriarchal  blessings?  I 
discourage  anyone  under  twelve  years 
of  age.  If  I  were  a  stake  patriarch  and 
giving  blessings  to  people  in  my  com- 
munity, I  think  I  would  raise  that  age. 
I  think  the  best  age  is  between  fifteen 
and  twenty-five.  However,  every  bap- 
tized member  of  the  Church  is  entitled 
to  receive  a  patriarchal  blessing.  He 
should  be  old  enough  to  understand  the 
meaning  and  purpose  and  value  of  a 
patriarchal  blessing  to  the  extent  that 
he  has  a  personal  desire  to  receive  such 
a  blessing,  and  not  because  a  group  is 
getting  blessings,  or  because  friends  or 
neighbors  are  getting  blessings,  or  be- 
cause an  adult  or  parent  has  the  desire 
that  the  child  should  receive  a  blessing. 

Do  not  wait  until  you  are  troubled 
and  then  go  to  the  Lord  through  his 
holy  servants.  The  Lord  does  not  in- 
tend to  solve  our  problems  for  us.  He 
gives  us  special  problems  for  our  good, 
to  teach  us  to  make  decisions,  because 
through  making  those  decisions  and 
through  those  trials  we  have  the  privilege 
of  growing,  and  the  Lord  does  not  in- 
tend to  take  that  privilege  from  us. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  many  blessings 
of  the  Lord  that  have  been  given  to  me 
and  pray  that  the  membership  of  this 
Church  will  avail  themselves  of  the 
opportunities  which  are  theirs  to  receive 
patriarchal  blessings.  I  am  thankful 
for  the  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the 
gospel  which  has  been  given  to  me,  that 
I  know  that  God  lives,  that  he  is  truly 
our  Father  in  heaven.  I  am  grateful 
for  the  knowledge  I  have  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ,  the  son  of  the  Living  God, 
and  that  Joseph  Smith  is  truly  a  proph- 
et of  God,  and  through  him,  this  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  has  been  restored  on  the 
earth  in  these  the  last  days,  in  the  ful- 
ness of  times,  never  to  be  taken  from 
the  earth  again. 

I  pray  the  Lord's  blessings  upon  the 
leadership  of  the  Church,  for  I  know 
that  our  present  leader,  President  David 
O.  McKay,  is  just  as  much  a  prophet  of 
God  as  any  previous  leader  we  have 
ever  had.  I  pray  the  Lord's  blessings 
upon  all  the  leaders  that  they  may  have 
strength  and  health  to  continue  to  serve 
the  Lord  with  us  as  long  as  he  will 
permit  them  to  be  here. 

I  pray  for  these  blessings  on  the  lead- 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 


67 


ers  of  the  Church  and  the  membership 
of  this  Church,  thanking  him  for  the 
blessings  which  have  been  given  to  me, 
and  the  testimony  which  I  have,  and 
I  do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to 
the  Church,  has  just  spoken  to  us.  Elder 
Sterling  W.  Sill,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve, 
will  now  address  us. 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


In  the  year  428  B.C.  a  play  was  being 
presented  in  the  ancient  city  of  Athens 
entitled  Hippolytus.  This  was  a  Greek 
tragedy  written  by  Euripides.  It  was 
centered  around  Theseus,  the  old  king 
of  Athens  and  his  son  Hippolytus. 
Theseus  had  received  from  his  father, 
Poseidon,  the  Greek  god  of  the  sea, 
three  gifts  in  the  form  of  three  curses. 
These  curses  not  only  had  the  power 
of  temporal  destruction,  but  they  would 
also  continue  throughout  eternity  to 
punish  anyone  against  whom  they  were 
invoked. 

The  first  of  these  curses  was  directed 
by  Theseus  against  his  own  son,  Hip- 
polytus. Hippolytus  had  done  no  wrong 
but  Theseus  had  been  deceived  and  did 
not  discover  his  error  until  Hippolytus 
was  on  his  deathbed.  And  while 
Theseus  had  the  power  to  invoke  the 
curse  he  did  not  have  the  power  to  set 
it  aside  once  it  was  in  operation.  And 
so  as  the  father  sat  by  the  bedside  of 
his  dying  son  he  said  through  his  tears, 
"I  weep  for  your  good  heart,  your  true 
and  upright  mind.  The  gods  have 
cheated  me  of  my  good  sense."  And  as 
Hippolytus  lay  their  contemplating 
eternity,  he  said  to  his  father,  "  'Twas 
a  bitter  gift  your  sire  gave."  And  then 
ust  before  he  died  he  pointed  out  that 
le  could  already  see  the  gates  of  hell 
beyond  which  he  would  suffer  his  own 
father's  curse  throughout  eternity. 

If  we  had  been  witnessing  this  tragic 
play  in  ancient  Athens,  we  would  prob- 
ably have  joined  our  tears  with  the 
others  not  only  in  feeling  sorry  for 
Hippolytus,  the  victim  of  this  dread 
curse,  but  also  more  especially  for  his 
father  who  had  set  it  in  motion.  But 
Theseus  was  not  the  first  to  possess  this 
power  to  curse,  nor  is  he  the  only  one 
who  has  turned  it  against  his  own  son. 

Ten  centuries  before  Theseus  was 
born,  God  gave  ancient  Israel  their  law 


E 


from  the  top  of  Mt.  Sinai,  and  out  of 
the  lightnings  and  thunders  of  that 
holy  mountain  came  the  divine  warning 
that  ".  .  .  the  sins  of  the  fathers  shall 
be  visited  upon  the  children."  (See  Exo- 
dus 20:5.)  The  most  effective  way  to 
set  a  curse  in  operation  against  one's 
own  son  is  to  develop  the  cause  of  the 
curse  in  his  own  life.  And  then  as  our 
children  play  with  us  this  interesting 
game  of  "Follow  the  Leader,"  it  will 
not  be  long  before  the  curse  will  begin 
to  appear  in  their  lives — that  is,  the 
power  to  lead,  possessed  by  every  parent, 
is  also  the  power  to  mislead.  The  power 
to  mislead  is  the  power  to  destroy;  it 
is  the  power  to  cause  eternal  suffering. 

It  is  a  little  bit  startling  to  realize 
that  this  father  and  son  tragedy  is  being 
enacted  in  real  life  in  many  of  our  own 
homes.  Let  me  give  you  a  more  up-to- 
date  Theseus  and  Hippolytus  story. 

A  friend  of  mine  recently  called  me 
on  the  telephone  and  told  me  that  his 
young  son  had  the  habit  of  coming  home 
from  Sunday  School  each  week  and  dis- 
cussing his  Sunday  School  lesson  with 
his  father.  Sometimes  the  father  was 
unable  to  handle  the  situation  adequate- 
ly, and  it  became  necessary  for  him  to 
get  outside  help.  And  on  this  particular 
occasion  he  asked  me  if  I  would  help 
him  with  the  right  information.  We 
discussed  the  idea  at  some  length  and 
noted  the  scriptural  references  that  were 
applicable. 

But  I  suggested  to  my  friend  that  he 
could  not  solve  this  problem  with  just 
one  answer.  It  would  be  impossible  to 
keep  his  son  content  for  very  long  with 
the  answers  that  the  father  got  from 
someone  else.  The  son  would  want  the 
father  to  know  the  answers  for  himself. 
Before  the  son  was  very  much  older  he 
would  also  discover  that  his  father  did 
not  go  to  Sunday  School,  and  he  would 
want  to  know  why.   At  Sunday  School 


68 

Monday,  April  4 

they  would  teach  the  son  that  some  of 
the  things  that  the  father  was  doing 
were  contrary  to  the  commandments  of 
God.  Then  this  fine  young  son  would 
be  forced  to  make  some  decisions  of  his 
own.  Should  he  follow  his  father  or 
should  he  follow  the  Church?  The 
father  is  the  one  who  provides  him  with 
his  food  and  his  clothing  and  his  love. 
He  is  the  one  who  takes  him  on  picnics 
and  provides  for  his  general  welfare. 
It  would  be  pretty  difficult  for  the 
Church  to  win  against  that  kind  of 
competition.  And  it  is  pretty  difficult 
to  get  the  curse  stopped  once  it  is  set 
in  motion.  If  this  splendid  young  son 
could  see  the  end  of  his  life  from  its 
beginning,  he  might  say  to  his  father 
as  did  fiippolytus,  that  he  could  al- 
ready see  the  gates  of  hell  beyond  which 
he  would  suffer  eternally  for  his  father's 
bad  example.  This  situation  furnishes 
us  with  a  little  different  setting  for  the 
statement  of  Jesus  that  "...  a  man's  foes 
shall  be  they  of  his  own  household." 
(Matt.  10:36.) 

We  are  greatly  disturbed  whenever 
evil  is  brought  upon  one  person  by 
someone  else;  for  example  we  were  up- 
set when  Russia  closed  her  church  doors 
by  governmental  decree.  Russian  lead- 
ers are  presently  trying  to  terminate 
any  personal  relationship  which  other- 
wise might  exist  between  God  and  the 
people  of  Russia.  But  what  Russia  has 
done  officially,  many  of  us  are  doing 
individually.  That  is,  what  good  does 
it  do  if  our  churches  are  open  if  we 
are  not  in  them?  Or,  how  much  better 
off  are  we  than  the  Russians  if  we  do 
not  manifest  our  faith  by  our  works. 

The  chief  representative  of  the  great 
communist  state  which  is  disputing  our 
way  of  life  was  recently  invited  to  be 
our  guest  in  this  country.  And  as  he 
went  about  among  us,  he  talked  of 
"burying"  us  and  our  way  of  life.  He 
talked  about  competing  with  us  in  the 
manufacture  of  guided  missiles,  inter- 
continental rockets,  and  other  instru- 
ments of  destruction.  He  said  nothing 
about  competing  with  us  in  freedom  or 
human  dignity.  He  said  nothing  about 
competing  with  us  in  the  individual 
welfare  of  people.  And  I  thought  what 
a  stimulating  thing  it  would  be  if  the 
great  nations  were  vigorously  competing 
with  one  another  for  leadership  in  faith 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

in  God  and  the  individual  righteousness 
of  people. 

In  1958  The  U.S.  News  &  World 
Report  carried  an  interesting  headline: 
"What  22  Years  of  U.S.-Soviet  Talks 
Have  Produced."  The  article  pointed 
out  that  during  this  period  3400  meetings 
had  been  held  between  high  diplomatic 
representatives  of  the  United  States  and 
the  Soviet  Union.  During  this  time 
they  had  made  fifty-two  major  agree- 
ments, fifty  of  which  had  already  been 
broken  by  the  Russians. 

Fortunately  for  us  our  eternal  exalta- 
tion does  not  depend  upon  whether 
Russia  keeps  or  breaks  her  international 
agreements.  But  we  might  ask  our- 
selves if  our  upsurge  in  juvenile  crime 
and  delinquency  is  a  satisfactory  result 
of  what  twenty-two  years  of  dealing 
with  our  own  children  and  with  God 
have  produced.  During  the  past  twenty- 
two  years  we  have  also  attended  many 
meetings.  We  have  made  many  major 
agreements  with  each  other  and  with 
God.  Some  of  these  agreements  have 
been  made  at  the  waters  of  baptism; 
others  have  been  made  as  we  have  re- 
ceived and  been  advanced  in  the 
priesthood.  We  have  made  some  im- 
portant agreements  at  the  marriage 
altar.  And  each  week  we  meet  before 
the  Sacrament  table  and  witness  unto 
our  Heavenly  Father  that  we  will  al- 
ways keep  his  commandments.  Wouldn't 
it  be  interesting  if  some  impartial 
statistician  could  determine  how  many 
of  these  important  agreements  we  have 
made  and  how  our  personal  performance 
percentage  compared  with  the  Russians? 

We  should  remember  that  any  dis- 
obedience to  God  or  any  other  offenses 
that  we  pick  up  in  our  own  lives  are 
soon  transmitted  to  others,  particularly 
our  children.  That  is,  the  power  of 
example  is  the  greatest  power  in  the 
world.  That  is  the  way  we  learn  to  walk. 
That  is  the  way  we  learn  to  talk.  That 
is  why  we  speak  with  the  accent  we  do. 
That  is  how  we  learn  to  dress  our- 
selves. That  is  why  we  have  our  hair 
cut  and  our  clothing  tailored  the  way 
we  do. 

I  suppose  that  if  I  had  seen  you  eat 
your  breakfast  this  morning  I  would 
have  discovered  that  most  of  you  ate 
with  a  fork  in  your  right  hand.  But  I 
discovered  the  other  day  that  in  certain 
parts  of  Canada  the  people  eat  with  the 


ELDER  STER 

fork  in  their  left  hand.  I  suppose  the 
reason  is  that  they  have  seen  somebody- 
else  do  it  that  way.  Probably  if  we 
had  been  born  in  China  we  may  not 
have  eaten  with  a  fork  at  all. 

The  other  day  I  attended  a  meeting 
during  which  someone  on  the  platform 
yawned.  Then  I  watched  that  yawn  go 
all  over  the  audience.  The  people  who 
were  yawning  in  the  audience  were  not 
even  aware  of  why  they  were  yawning. 
Unconsciously  they  were  following  the 
example  of  someone  else.  That  is  also 
the  way  we  get  many  of  our  manners, 
our  morals,  and  our  attitudes. 

Thomas  Carlyle  said,  "We  reform 
others  when  we  walk  uprightly."  And 
it  is  just  as  true  that  we  destroy  others 
when  we  walk  unrighteously.  Even 
Jesus  said,  "The  son  can  do  nothing  of 
himself  but  what  he  seeth  the  Father 
do."  (John  5:19.)  Our  children  will 
also  do  what  they  see  us  do.  They  may 
not  follow  our  advice,  but  they  will 
follow  us. 

One  of  the  important  functions  in  the 
life  of  Jesus  was  to  serve  as  a  pattern 
for  us.  He  gave  us  the  greatest  of  all 
the  success  formulas  when  he  said 
simply,  "Come  follow  me."  And  every 
life  must  eventually  be  judged  by  how 
well  we  follow  that  one  instruction.  We 
also  reach  our  highest  rank  while  serv- 
ing as  an  example  for  others,  particu- 
larly our  children.  It  has  been  said  that 
the  first  question  that  God  will  ask 
every  parent  is,  "Where  are  your  chil- 
dren?" Our  responsibility  is  not  just 
to  be  mothers  and  fathers  of  bodies. 
We  are  also  appointed  to  be  mothers 
and  fathers  of  blessings. 

When  Alexander  the  Great  was  twelve 
years  old  his  father,  Philip,  arranged 
to  have  Aristotle,  the  great  Macedonian 
orator  and  philosopher,  become  his 
companion  and  tutor.  Later  Alexander 
said  that  Aristotle  was  his  father.  What 
he  meant  was  that  while  he  had  received 
his  body  from  Philip,  Aristotle  was  the 
father  of  his  mind.  If  you  would  like 
to  take  back  to  your  work  one  of  the  most 
challenging  thoughts  that  I  know  any- 
thing about,  that  is  it.  That  is,  physical 
paternity  by  itself  is  an  ordinary  office, 
that  is  something  that  is  participated 
in  by  all  of  creation  from  the  top  to  the 
bottom.  But  what  about  mental 
paternity  and  spiritual  paternity?  Who 
are  the  fathers  of  our  ideals,  and  what 


ING  W.  SILL  69 

kind  of  fathers  do  we  have  for  our 
children's  spirituality? 

Some  of  those  being  taught  by  Jesus 
kept  saying,  "We  have  Abraham  to  our 
father."  Jesus  said  to  them,  "God  is 
able  of  these  stones  to  raise  up  children 
unto  Abraham."  (Matt.  3:9.)  Jesus 
said,  "Ye  are  of  your  father  the  devil, 
and  the  lusts  of  your  father  ye  will  do." 
(John  8:44.)  We  ought  to  exercise  the 
greatest  care  about  our  own  spiritual 
paternity. 

Fortunately  the  lesson  from  Sinai  did 
not  end  with  the  decree  that  ".  .  .  the 
sins  of  the  fathers  shall  be  visited  upon 
the  children."  (Ex.  20:5.)  It  is  also 
true  that  the  virtues  of  the  fathers  are 
visited  upon  the  children.  Theseus  re- 
ceived from  his  father,  Poseidon,  three 
great  curses.  You  have  received  from 
your  Father  in  heaven  some  great  bless- 
ings which  you  may  direct  as  you 
choose. 

Nancy  Hanks  directed  one  of  her 
blessings  toward  her  son  Abraham  Lin- 
coln. And  later  in  his  life  he  said, 
"All  that  I  am  or  ever  hope  to  be  I  owe 
to  my  angel  mother."  Jesus  conferred 
one  of  his  blessings  upon  Simon  Peter 
and  raised  the  life  of  this  humble  fisher- 
man to  one  of  great  spiritual  power. 

We  may  confer  as  many  blessings  as 
we  like,  on  whomever  we  like,  by  the  in- 
spiration of  our  own  lives.  We  speak 
a  great  deal  in  the  Church  about  our 
right  to  receive  inspiration  from  God, 
and  that  is  a  tremendous  blessing.  But 
the  thing  we  don't  always  understand 
is  our  right  to  give  inspiration.  Yet  if 
there  should  be  subtracted  from  each  of 
us  the  good  that  we  have  received  from 
someone  else,  there  might  not  be  very 
much  of  any  of  us  left. 

Some  time  ago  I  listened  to  a  great 
Sunday  School  teacher  recount  the  thrill- 
ing story  of  creation.  "So  God  created 
man  in  his  own  image."  (Gen.  1:27.) 
And  as  I  listened  to  this  story  unfold,  I 
closed  my  eyes  and  wished  that  I  could 
have  been  there  to  have  seen  this  great 
event  take  place.  Then  I  remembered 
something  that  I  have  tried  not  to  forget, 
and  that  is  that  the  creation  of  man  is 
not  something  that  was  finished  and 
done  with  in  the  Garden  of  Eden  6,000 
years  ago.  The  creation  of  man  is  still 
going  on,  and  we  are  the  creators;  that 
is,  we  are  creating  the  faith  and  the 
enthusiasm  and  the  attitudes  which  will 


70 

Monday,  April  4 

determine  what  men  and  women  will  be 
throughout  all  of  eternity. 

As  parents  we  have  helped  to  create 
bodies,  but  that  is  not  the  end  of  our 
responsibility.  We  must  also  create  in- 
dividual righteousness.  Dr.  Alan  Stock- 
dale  has  called  our  attention  to  an 
interesting  challenge  by  saying,  "God  left 
a  world  unfinished  for  man  to  work  his 
skill  upon.  He  left  the  electricity  still 
in  the  cloud,  the  oil  still  in  the  earth. 
He  left  the  rivers  unbridged  and  the 
forests  unfelled  and  the  cities  unbuilt. 
God  gave  to  man  the  challenge  of  raw 
materials,  not  the  ease  of  finished  things. 
He  left  the  problems  unsolved  and  the 
pictures  unpainted  and  the  music  un- 
sung that  man  might  know  the  joys  and 
glories  of  creation.  God  created  the 
quarries,  but  he  carves  the  statues  only 
by  the  hand  of  man." 

God  has  also  left  the  world  of  men 
unfinished.  He  has  left  the  character 
unformed,  the  lessons  unlearned,  the 
testimonies  unacquired,  and  the  deter- 
mination undeveloped.  Then  as  a 
means  of  our  accomplishment  he  has 
given  us  this  basic,  fundamental  uni- 
versal law  which  says,  "We  reap  as  we 
sow."  But  that  is  only  a  part  of  the 
fact.  Mostly  we  reap  as  others  have 
sown  for  us.  We  reap  as  our  parents 
have  sown.  We  reap  as  our  teachers 
have  sown.  And  one  of  the  most  thrill- 
ing ideas  in  the  world  is  that  our  chil- 
dren will  reap  as  we  sow.  This  is  a 
part  of  the  divine  law  "that  the  virtues 
of  the  fathers  shall  be  visited  upon  the 
children." 

Each  of  us  has  been  given  a  set  of 
the  most  wonderful  blessings,  which  we 
may  confer  upon  whomever  we  choose. 
May  God  help  us  to  use  this  great  eternal 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

power  effectively  which  he  has  placed 
in  our  hands,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  has  just  concluded  speaking. 

The  Mormon  Choir  of  Southern 
California,  at  the  conclusion  of  this 
meeting,  will  favor  us  with  "Glorious 
Everlasting,"  conducted  by  Elder  H. 
Frederick  Davis.  The  closing  prayer 
will  be  offered  by  Elder  Dale  T.  Brown- 
ing, president  of  the  Weber  Stake. 

We  are  very  pleased  to  note  the  pres- 
ence of  others  besides  those  whom  we 
mentioned  this  morning,  presidencies  of 
stakes,  presidents  of  missions,  bishop- 
rics,— we  have  our  own  Governor, 
George  D.  Clyde;  Brother  Lamont  F. 
Toronto,  Secretary  of  State;  President 
Ernest  Wilkinson,  President  of  Brigham 
Young  University;  Dr.  John  L.  Clarke, 
President  of  Ricks  College;  and  others 
who  are  sitting  before  us.  We  are  glad 
of  your  presence  and  appreciate  your 
support. 

The  Choir  from  Southern  California 
will  be  with  us  this  afternoon.  We 
shall  now  listen  to  their  anthem, 
"Glorious  Everlasting."  President  Dale 
T.  Browning  will  offer  the  benediction, 
and  this  Conference  will  be  adjourned 
until  two  o'clock  this  afternoon. 


The  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "Glorious 
Everlasting." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by 
President  Dale  T.  Browning,  President 
of  the  Weber  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock 
p.m. 


THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  fourth  general  session  of  the  Con- 
ference was  held  in  the  Tabernacle  at 
2:00  p.m.,  Monday,  April  4. 

The  Mormon  Choir  of  Southern  Cali- 
fornia furnished  the  choral  numbers 
for  this  session,  with  H.  Frederick  Davis, 
Conductor. 

President  David  O.  McKay,  who  pre- 


sided and  conducted  the  services,  opened 
the  meeting  with  the  following  intro- 
ductory remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Members  of  the  Church  are  convened 
again  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


71 


Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  in  the  Fourth 
General  Session  of  the  One  Hundred 
Thirtieth  Annual  Conference. 

We  are  favored  again  this  afternoon 
by  the  presence  of  the  Mormon  Choir 
of  Southern  California,  with  Elder  H. 
Frederick  Davis  conducting  and  Elder 
Roy  M.  Darley  at  the  organ. 

You  will  be  interested  and  pleased  in 
knowing  that  through  the  efforts  and 
stirring  music  of  this  Choir,  the  Mormon 
Choir  of  Southern  California,  and  also 
with  the  cooperation  of  the  members 
of  the  Church  in  Southern  California,  a 
contribution  of  $25,000  was  made  to  the 
Los  Anegles  Music  Center  Building 
Fund.  This  money  represented  the 
Choir's  net  proceeds  from  two  perform- 
ances of  Handel's  "Messiah,"  given  in 
the  Philharmonic  Auditorium  in  Los 
Angeles  last  December.  In  a  letter  to 
Robert  S.  Stephens,  the  Choir's  Presi- 
dent, Mrs.  Norman  Chandler,  Chairman 
of  the  Los  Angeles  Music  Center  Build- 
ing Fund,  said: 

"The  Choir's  fineness,  with  unity  and 
spiritual  giving  of  the  Mormon  people, 
is  a  rewarding  thing  to  me.  To  my 
knowledge,  this  is  the  first  time  in 
Southern  California  that  a  Church  has 
come  forth  and  given  financial  support 
to  a  cultural  project  like  the  Music 
Center.  Because  of  this  kind  of  shar- 
ing, loyalty,  civic  consciousness,  and 
vision,  a  glorious  Music  Center  will 
rise  as  a  living  memorial  to  the  peace, 
to  live  on  as  your  monument." 


We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Mormon  Choir  of  Southern  California 
singing,  "Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints," 
conducted  by  H.  Frederick  Davis.  The 
opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
Ralph  A.  Richards,  president  of  the 
South  Summit  Stake. 


The  Mormon  Choir  of  Southern  Cali- 
fornia sang  the  hymn,  "Come,  Come  Ye 
Saints." 

Elder  Ralph  A.  Richards,  President  of 
the  South  Summit  Stake,  offered  the  in- 
vocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder 
Ralph  A.  Richards,  president  of  the 
South  Summit  Stake. 

The  Mormon  Choir  of  Southern  Cali- 
fornia will  now  favor  us  with,  "Joseph 
Smith's  First  Prayer,"  conducted  by  H. 
Frederick  Davis,  after  which  President 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith  will  speak  to  us. 


The  hymn,  "Joseph  Smith's  First 
Prayer,"  was  sung  by  the  Choir. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  President 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  will  now 
address  us.  He  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Stapley. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  want  to  thank  this  choir  for  giving 
me  a  text,  "Joseph  Smith's  First  Prayer." 
I  wonder,  brethren,  particularly  you 
brethren,  and  our  sisters,  too,  if  we  have 
fully  realized  the  importance  of  that 
First  Vision,  the  coming  of  the  Father 
and  the  Son  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
just  a  boy. 

The  world  has  not  realized  it,  or  they 
would  repent  of  their  sins.  For  some 
fifteen  hundred  years  or  more,  perhaps, 
the  world  had  lost  the  truth  in  relation 
to  the  Father  and  the  Son  and  in  the 
year  325,  at  a  conclave  that  was  held, 
they  adopted  a  new  idea  entirely  in  re- 
gard to  God  and  confused  the  Father 


and  the  Son,  and  the  Christian  world, 
from  that  day  down  until  now,  has 
looked  upon  the  Father  and  the  Son  as 
being  mysterious — I  cannot  say  indi- 
viduals, nor  can  I  say  substance,  but 
some  sort  of  spirit  without  separation 
and  the  idea  of  the  separate  individuals, 
Father  and  Son,  from  that  day  on  ceased 
to  exist. 

Now,  if  the  Prophet  was  telling  a 
falsehood  when  he  went  into  the  woods 
to  pray,  he  never  would  have  come  out 
and  said  that  he  had  seen  a  vision  of 
the  Father  and  the  Son  and  that  they 
were  separate  Personages,  and  that  the 
Father  introduced  the  Son  and  then  told 


72  GENERAL  C 

Monday,  April  4 

the  Prophet  to  address  his  question  to 
the  Son,  who  would  give  him  the  an- 
swer. The  Prophet  never  would  have 
thought  of  such  a  thing  as  that,  had  it 
been  a  fraud. 

If  he  had  come  out  of  the  woods  say- 
ing he  had  seen  a  vision,  had  it  been 
untrue  never  would  he  have  thought 
of  separating  Father  and  Son,  nor  would 
he  have  ever  thought  of  having  the 
Father  introduce  the  Son  and  for  him 
to  put  his  question  to  the  Son  to  receive 
his  answer.  He  never  could  have  thought 
of  it;  for  that  was  the  farthest  thing 
from  the  ideas  existing  in  the  world  in 
the  year  1820. 

The  very  fact  that  the  Prophet  made 
that  statement  that  he  saw  the  Father 
and  the  Son  and  they  were  glorious 
Personages,  and  that  the  Father  spoke 
to  him  and  introduced  the  Son,  but  did 
not  ask  him  what  he  wanted,  is  one  of 
the  most  significant  things  that  ever 
occurred  in  the  history  of  this  world. 
The  Prophet,  if  he  had  been  telling  an 
untruth,  even  if  he  had  thought  that 
the  Father  and  the  Son  were  separate 
Personages,  would  have  made  another 
very  serious  error,  if  he  had  lied  about 
it.  More  than  likely  he  would  have  said 
he  saw  the  Father  and  the  Son  and  the 
Father  asked  him  what  he  wanted,  and 
the  Father  gave  him  the  answer.  If 
Joseph  Smith  had  said  a  thing  like  that, 
it  would  have  been  fatal  to  his  story. 
He  did  not  make  a  mistake.  It  was 
Jesus  who  answered  his  question,  and 
the  Father  introduced  his  Son,  just  as 
he  did  at  the  baptism  of  the  Savior,  and 
just  as  he  did  to  the  three,  Peter,  James, 
and  John,  on  the  Mount,  and  the  Savior 
gave  the  answer,  as  all  answers  have 
come  from  our  Father  in  heaven  from 
the  beginning,  since  Adam  was  driven 
out  of  the  Garden  of  Eden,  down  to  this 
day.  They  have  all  come  through  the 
Son. 

Now,  the  Prophet  made  no  mistake, 
and  a  boy  of  his  age  would  not  have 
known;  he  would  have  fallen  into  a 
trap,  just  as  sure  as  we  live,  if  it  were 
untrue. 

Do  I  believe  that  the  Prophet  saw  the 
Father  and  the  Son?  I  certainly  do.  I 
know  it.  I  do  not  need  a  vision.  Reason 
teaches  that  to  me.  And  then  I  have 
that  knowledge  also  by  the  guidance  of 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  The  Lord  has 
made  it  known  to  me.  So  I  thanked  the 


Third  Day 

choir,  as  I  sat  here  wondering  what  I 
would  say. 

Now,  let  me  say  a  few  things  more 
about  the  Prophet.  I  have  that  absolute 
confidence  in  every  vision,  in  every  man- 
ifestation, in  every  revelation  that  has 
come  to  us  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  I  know  he  spoke  the  truth.  And 
the  evidence  is  made  manifest  in  every 
act  where  there  has  been  a  manifesta- 
tion from  the  heavens,  either  by  the  Son 
of  God,  himself,  or  by  his  servants  the 
prophets  of  old.  Everything  has  worked 
out  harmoniously  and  according  to  the 
revelations  we  find  in  the  Old  Testament 
and  in  the  New.  There  were  no  mis- 
takes made. 

On  the  3rd  day  of  April,  1836,  certain 
heavenly  messengers  appeared  to  the 
Prophet  and  to  Oliver  Cowdery.  First 
came  the  Son  of  God  himself.  And 
they  described  him.  Then  the  Lord  sent 
certain  messengers  with  keys  to  restore 
pertaining  to  the  restoration  of  all 
things.  Moses  came  and  gave  to  the 
Prophet  the  keys  of  the  gathering  of 
Israel,  otherwise  you  would  not  be  here 
today,  and  through  those  keys  the  gospel 
is  being  preached  in  all  the  world,  and 
scattered  Israel  is  being  gathered  out 
again  according  to  the  fulfilment,  that 
is,  in  fulfilment  of  the  promises  that 
were  made  by  the  Lord  to  his  ancient 
prophets,  that  he  would  gather  Israel 
in  the  latter  days. 

Elias  came  and  restored  the  gospel  of 
Abraham.  Who  was  Elias?  That  ques- 
tion is  frequently  asked.  Well,  Elias 
was  Noah,  who  came  and  restored  his 
keys.* 

Elijah  came  and  restored  his  keys, 
opening  the  way  for  the  preaching  of 
the  gospel  to  the  dead  and  the  performing 
of  the  ordinances  in  the  temples  of  the 
Lord,  for  the  dead.    The  prophecy  of 

*  "The  priesthood  was  first  given  to  Adam;  he  ob- 
tained the  First  Presidency  and  held  the  keys  of  it 
from  generation  to  generation.  He  obtained  it  in 
the  Creation,  before  the  world  was  formed,  as  in 
Gen.  1:26,  27,  28.  He  had  dominion  given  him 
over  every  living  creature.  He  is  Michael  the  Arch- 
angel, spoken  or  in  the  scriptures.  Then  to  Noah, 
who  is  Gabriel;  he  stands  next  in  authority  to  Adam 
in  the  priesthood;  he  was  called  of  God  to  this 
office,  and  was  the  father  of  all  living  in  his  day, 
and  to  him  was  given  the  dominion.  These  men 
held  kevs  first  on  earth,  and  then  in  heaven." 
(D.H.C.  3:385-386.)  It  was  Gabriel  who  appeared  to 
Zacharias  and  promised  him  a  son,  and  who  appeared 
to  Mary  and  announced  the  coming  of  the  Son  of 
God  as  recorded  by  Luke.  It  was  also  Gabriel  as  an 
Elias  who  is  mentioned  in  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, section  27,  verse  7.  It  was  Gabriel,  or  Noah, 
who  stands  next  to  Michael  or  Adam  in  the  priesthood. 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


73 


Malachi  was  fulfilled,  at  least  the  be- 
ginning of  it,  and  the  keys  were  again 
given  through  the  coming  of  Elijah, 
which  turned  the  hearts  of  the  fathers 
to  the  children  and  the  hearts  of  the 
children  to  the  fathers  so  that  we  can 
go  into  the  temple  and  do  the  work  for 
our  dead.  There  is  nothing,  in  my 
judgment,  that  has  been  revealed  that 
is  more  apparent  of  its  fulfilment  than 
the  coming  of  Elijah,  for  this  spirit 
has  gone  forth  into  the  world.  It  is  not 
confined  to  the  members  of  the  Church, 
and  I  am  sorry  to  say,  it  does  not  rest 
upon  the  members  of  the  Church  as 
fully  as  it  ought  to,  but  it  has  gone 
forth  into  the  world  so  that  there  are 
thousands  of  those  who  do  not  belong 
to  the  Church,  whose  hearts  have  been 
turned  to  their  fathers  and  who  are  seek- 
ing out  the  records  of  their  dead,  and 
preparing  them  so  that  we,  their  chil- 
dren, that  is,  the  children  of  the  dead, 
may  go  into  the  temples  of  the  Lord  and 
perform  the  labors  that  will  give  unto 
those  who  had  no  opportunity,  when 
they  were  living,  to  receive  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  to  give  them  that  liberty 


and  the  privilege,  that  they,  too,  might 
be  numbered  in  the  house  of  Israel  and 
receive  the  blessings  of  eternal  life. 

Do  I  love  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith? 
Yes,  I  do,  as  my  father  did  before  me. 
I  love  him  because  he  was  the  servant 
of  God  and  because  of  the  restoration  of 
the  gospel  and  because  of  the  benefits 
and  blessings  that  have  come  to  me  and 
mine,  and  to  you  and  yours,  through 
the  blessings  that  were  bestowed  upon 
this  man  and  those  who  were  associated 
with  him  in  the  restoration  of  the  Dis- 
pensation of  the  Fulness  of  Times. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us,  I  pray,  and 
guide  us  in  all  things  and  help  us  to 
keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve  has  just 
spoken  to  us.  We  shall  now  hear  from 
Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley,  a  member  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  Bishop  Carl 
W.  Buehner  will  be  the  next  speaker. 


ELDER  DELBEi 

Of  the  Council  of 

In  Hawaii,  a  speaker  would  address 
the  people,  "Aloha  nui  loa."  And  in 
Australia  in  an  afternoon  meeting  such 
as  this,  the  speaker  would  address  the 
people,  "Good  afternoon,  brothers  and 
sisters."  I  extend  both  greetings  to  you 
this  afternoon. 

Elder  Marion  G.  Romney  and  I  re- 
turned last  week  from  Australia  where 
we  were  privileged  to  organize  the  first 
stake  in  that  growing  country — the  Syd- 
ney Stake,  which  became  the  293rd  stake 
in  the  Church.  Australia  was  the 
adopted  country  of  my  great-grandfather, 
Charles  Stapley,  who,  with  his  family 
(which  included  my  grandfather)  emi- 
grated there  from  England  in  the  year 
1838.  They  were  among  the  first  con- 
verts after  the  Australian  Mission  was 
established,  which  mission  was  estab- 
lished on  October  30,  in  the  year  1851. 
With  this  background  of  family  history, 
I  am  most  grateful  to  the  First  Presi- 
dency for  the  assignment  with  Elder 


r  L.  STAPLEY 

xe  Twelve  Apostles 

Romney,  a  former  Australian  missionary, 
to  give  Australia  its  first  stake. 

Stake  organization  will  be  a  great 
blessing  to  the  Saints  there,  adding  pres- 
tige to  the  Church,  and  a  tremendous 
upsurge  to  the  proselyting  work.  The 
Saints  are  thrilled  and  happy  for  the 
increased  blessings  stake  organization 
will  provide  them.  They  love  the  Church 
and  the  gospel  very  much.  They  are 
a  devoted  people  of  strong  faith,  testi- 
mony, and  good  works.  The  future  of 
the  Church  there  is  most  promising. 
It  is  a  fruitful  field,  and  a  rich  harvest 
of  converts  are  in  prospect  in  that  far- 
off  country. 

We  are  taking  the  Church  to  the  peo- 
ple in  the  faraway  lands.  I  remember 
the  words  of  President  McKay,  as  the 
New  Zealand  Stake  was  planned,  that 
transportation  has  brought  the  far  places 
of  the  world  close  to  us.  Added  to  that 
are  the  improved  communications  that 
permit  us  almost  instantaneously  to  talk 


74  GENERAL  C 

Monday,  April  4 

to  the  Saints  in  the  far  areas  of  the 
earth.  The  Church  is  being  taken  closer 
to  the  people  because  now  all  the  helps 
of  the  auxiliary  organizations  and  the 
visits  of  General  Authorities  will  be  at 
their  disposal,  and  in  turn  this  will 
bring  the  Saints  of  these  faraway  lands 
closer  to  the  Church.  Truly  it  is  a  great 
blessing  to  the  people  to  have  a  stake 
and  all  the  blessings  that  are  associated 
with  stake  organization. 

I  thought  by  way  of  a  report  of  our 
work  in  Australia  I  should  make  this 
rather  brief  statement.  And  now  in  the 
short  time  remaining,  I  desire,  my  broth- 
ers and  sisters,  to  challenge  each  of  you 
to  have  faith  in  God;  know  that  he  lives, 
that  he  is  the  Father  of  our  spirits,  that 
we  are  created  in  the  image  of  his  Per- 
son, that  we  possess  like  traits,  qualities, 
and  powers,  that  we  are  in  very  deed 
his  children,  that  he  loves  us  and  has 
made  glorious  preparation  in  his  many 
mansions  for  our  eternal  well-being. 

Have  faith  in  life  and  its  purpose; 
know  that  God  has  provided  and  planned 
it  for  our  joy  and  happiness.  Live  each 
day  wisely  and  fruitfully. 

Have  faith  in  Christ,  our  Lord,  as 
the  Son  of  God,  the  Only  Begotten  of 
the  Father  in  the  flesh,  who  is  full  of 
grace  and  truth. 

Have  faith  that  he  is  the  Babe  of 
Bethlehem,  as  chronicled  by  gospel 
writers. 

Have  faith  that  Jesus  is  the  Author  of 
peace  and  salvation  to  the  people  of  the 
world. 

Have  faith  in  his  gospel  plan  of  salva- 
tion, exaltation,  and  glory. 

Have  faith  in  his  matchless  love  in 
giving  his  life  as  an  atoning  sacrifice 
to  ransom  the  souls  of  men  from  the 
grave. 

Have  faith  that  he  is  our  Redeemer, 
Savior,  and  God;  that  there  is  no  other 
name  under  heaven  given  among  men 
whereby  we  must  be  saved. 

Have  faith  in  his  earthly  ministry 
and  divine  teachings  which  lead  to  joy 
and  happiness  in  life. 

Have  faith  in  his  resurrection  and 
ascension  to  glory  and  that  he  now  sits 
on  the  right  hand  of  God  the  Father. 

Have  faith  that  by  his  resurrection  he 
broke  the  bands  of  death,  and  that  resur- 
rection of  the  body  applies  to  all  man- 
kind. 

Have  faith  in  the  First  Vision  of  this 


Third  Day 

dispensation,  just  treated  by  President 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith. 

Have  faith  that  God  the  Father  and 
his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  personally  ap- 
peared to  the  boy  Joseph  Smith  and  re- 
vealed themselves  to  him. 

Have  faith  in  Joseph  Smith  as  a  true 
Prophet  of  God,  called  to  usher  in  this, 
the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of 
Times. 

Have  faith  in  the  Church  and  kingdom 
of  God  established  by  our  Lord  through 
Joseph  Smith. 

Have  faith  in  the  restored  gospel  of 
Christ  as  revealed  anew  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith. 

Have  faith  in  continued  revelation. 
Have  faith  in  all  that  God  has  revealed. 
Have  faith  that  he  will  yet  reveal  many 
great  and  important  things  concerning 
his  work  and  kingdom. 

Have  faith  in  priesthood  authority, 
knowing  that  the  Lord  has  said,  "For  he 
that  receiveth  my  servants,  receiveth 
me."  (D&C  84:36.) 

Have  faith  in  the  power  of  God  and 
the  gift  of  healing  and  miracles. 

Have  faith  in  the  Bible  as  the  word 
of  God,  as  far  as  it  is  translated  cor- 
rectly. 

Have  faith  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  and 
its  inspiring  message  of  truth  and  faith. 

Have  faith  in  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants and  in  its  doctrines  and  teach- 
ings which  apply  to  our  day  and  time. 

Have  faith  in  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price  and  its  valuable  information  and 
teachings  by  two  chosen  prophets  of 
God — Abraham,  the  father  of  the  faith- 
ful, and  Moses,  the  great  law-giver. 

Have  faith  in  your  heritage  as  de- 
scendants of  Abraham,  that  you  belong 
to  the  house  of  Israel  and  are  children 
and  heirs  of  promise. 

Have  faith  in  our  beloved  President, 
David  O.  McKay,  who  is  not  only  the 
President  of  the  Church,  but  is  also 
prophet,  seer,  and  revel  at  or  to  the 
Church  and  the  world  today. 

Have  faith  to  pray  for  and  sustain  him 
in  his  high  calling  and  position. 

Have  faith  to  be  humble  and  believe 
and  not  doubt. 

Have  faith  to  receive  and  obey  the 
truths,  principles,  and  ordinances  of  the 
gospel  of  Christ. 

Have  faith  to  set  aside  your  own 
views  and  personal  desires  to  do  God's 
will  with  confidence  and  good  works. 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 


75 


Have  faith  in  the  value  of  service 
and  be  willing  to  devote  your  time, 
talents,  and  gifts  to  the  building  of  the 
kingdom  and  to  the  blessing  of  people. 

Have  faith  to  be  honest,  true,  chaste, 
benevolent,  virtuous,  and  in  doing  good 
to  all  men. 

Have  faith  that  God  will  bless  and 
reward  the  faithful  who  love  him  and 
serve  him  in  righteousness  and  in  truth 
unto  the  end. 

Have  faith,  my  brothers  and  sisters, 
to  do  these  things,  walking  always  in 


obedience  to  the  commandments,  doing 
those  things  that  will  please  the  Lord 
and  lead  you  back  into  his  presence,  I 
humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Delbert 
L.  Stapley,  a  member  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve.  Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner 
will  now  speak  to  us.  Brother  Tuttle  will 
come  next. 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


Recently,  I  saw  in  a  national  maga- 
zine a  cartoon  depicting  a  master  of 
ceremonies  introducing  the  next  person 
to  take  part  on  the  program,  and  under 
the  cartoon  were  these  words:  "Our  next 
speaker  will  need  all  the  introduction 
he  can  get."  Now,  brethren  and  sisters, 
I  need  all  the  help  from  above  that  I 
can  get. 

We  have  all  been  tremendously  im- 
pressed by  the  spirit  present  in  these 
conference  sessions,  also  by  the  inspiring 
and  uplifting  talks  of  the  Brethren. 

I  was  moved  when  I  learned  that 
President  McKay  has  given  fifty-four 
years  of  valiant  service  in  the  leading 
councils  of  the  Church  and  that  Presi- 
dent Joseph  Fielding  Smith  has  rendered 
fifty  years  of  service  as  a  member  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve.  Others  have 
also  given  many  years  to  the  work  of 
our  Heavenly  Father.  I  would  like  to 
submit  meekly  that  this  is  my  eighth 
anniversary  as  a  member  of  the  Presid- 
ing Bishopric  of  the  Church.  This  has 
been  a  very  rewarding  experience  and 
a  great  blessing  in  my  life. 

Our  work  with  the  Aaronic  Priesthood 
has  prompted  me  to  say  something  con- 
cerning the  origin  and  history  of  this 
priesthood  through  the  ages. 

We  first  came  to  know  of  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  at  the  time  Moses  was  lead- 
ing the  children  of  Israel  out  of  Egyptian 
bondage.  The  Lord  intended  to  have 
Israel  as  a  nation  enjoy  the  blessings  of 
the  Melchizedek  Priesthood.  He  made 
the  following  promise  to  them: 

"Now  therefore,  if  ye  will  obey  my 
voice  indeed,  and  keep  my  covenant, 


then  ye  shall  be  a  peculiar  treasure  unto 
me  above  all  people:  for  all  the  earth 
is  mine: 

"And  ye  shall  be  unto  me  a  kingdom 
of  priests,  and  an  holy  nation."  (Exodus 
19:5-6.) 

But  Israel  as  a  nation  became  wicked 
and  rebellious  and  thus  were  not  worthy 
to  receive  this  blessing.  While  Moses 
was  upon  the  mount  for  forty  days  re- 
ceiving the  law  from  the  Lord,  Israel  was 
guilty  of  backsliding,  returning  to  the 
worship  of  idols.  When  Moses  returned 
and  beheld  them  worshiping  the  golden 
calf,  he  in  his  anger  threw  down  the 
tablets  of  stone,  breaking  them  into 
pieces.  The  Lord  later  called  Moses  to 
return  to  the  mount,  instructing  him  to 
hew  out  other  tablets  of  stone  upon 
which  he  would  write  with  his  finger, 
but  from  the  inspired  version  of  the 
Bible,  as  given  to  us  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  the  Lord  indicated  there 
would  be  changes  from  what  he  had 
originally  written  because  of  Israel's 
forgetting  their  God.  (Inspired  Version. 
Exodus  34:1-2.)  About  this  time  the 
higher  priesthood  was  taken  from  Israel 
as  a  nation,  and  a  carnal  or  lesser  law 
was  given  as  punishment  for  their 
disobedience. 

The  Lord  then  commanded  Moses  to 
appoint  and  ordain  Aaron  and  his  sons, 
Nadab,  Abihu,  Eleazer,  and  Ithamar  to 
receive  the  lesser  priesthood.  (Exodus 
28:1.)  Aaron  and  his  sons  were  set 
apart  to  preside  over  the  lesser  priest- 
hood, and  this  assignment  became  an 
inherited  privilege  to  them  and  their 
posterity  forever.  (Ibid.,  28:43.)  Nadab 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


76 

Monday,  April  4 

and  Abihu  soon  forfeited  this  inheritance 
by  usurping  authority  and  were  stricken 
dead  before  the  congregation  at  the 
altar.  Since  they  had  no  sons,  there 
was  no  extension  of  this  privilege  to 
another  generation  in  their  families. 

Until  the  ordination  of  Aaron  and  his 
sons,  the  first  born  male  in  each  family 
of  each  tribe  was  considered  as  belonging 
to  God  and  was  thus  ordained,  but  now 
the  Lord  called  all  the  males  of  the 
tribe  of  Levi  to  assist  Aaron  and  his 
sons  in  this  priestly  office.  (Numbers 
8:13-19.)  It  was  the  duty  of  Aaron  and 
his  sons  to  preside,  but  the  Levites  were 
limited  in  their  duties  to  perform  the 
ordinance  of  baptism,  assisting  in  the 
offering  of  sacrifice  and  other  duties 
coming  under  the  lesser  or  carnal  law. 
In  addition  they  were  assigned  to  care 
for  the  dismantling  and  setting  up  of 
the  tabernacle  as  they  moved  about  in 
the  wilderness  and  to  keep  it  in  order. 
When  Moses  returned  from  the  mount 
and  found  Israel  worshiping  the  golden 
calf,  it  is  rather  significant  to  note  that 
he  stood  at  the  gate  of  the  camp  and 
indicated  that  all  those  who  were  on 
the  Lord's  side  should  come  to  him. 
".  .  .  and  all  the  sons  of  Levi  gathered 
themselves  together  unto  him."  (Exodus 
32:26.) 

The  Aaronic  Priesthood  embraces  the 
Aaronic  and  Levitical  Priesthood.  While 
Aaron  and  his  sons  were  Levites,  they 
presided  in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  and 
the  Levites  who  were  not  the  sons  of 
Aaron,  held  the  Levitical  Priesthood 
and  served  in  a  lesser  capacity  than  did 
the  sons  of  Aaron.  The  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood continued  to  function  in  this  pat- 
tern until  near  the  time  of  the  birth  of 
the  Savior.  The  Jews  at  this  time  had 
drifted  into  almost  total  apostasy.  No 
longer  were  the  lineal  descendants  of 
Aaron  permitted  to  preside  in  the  tem- 
ple. The  presiding  high  priest  was 
appointed  by  Herod  the  king  and  some- 
times by  Roman  authority,  according  to 
personal  desire,  and  they  were  deposed 
in  the  same  manner.  A  good  example 
of  their  method  of  operation  comes  from 
Zacharias  who  was  a  descendant  of 
Aaron  entitled  to  serve  as  the  presiding 
high  priest.  While  he  was  permitted  to 
officiate  in  the  temple,  it  was  not  in  a 
presiding  capacity.  John  the  Baptist 
likewise  should  have  been  the  presiding 


Third  Day 

priest  in  the  temple  because  he  was  a 
direct  descendant  of  Aaron  through  his 
father  Zacharias  and  his  mother  Elisa- 
beth, but  the  Jews  rejected  him.  It 
should  be  understood  that  those  who 
were  called  high  priests  by  the  apostate 
Jews  were  not  high  priests  bearing  the 
Melchizedek  Priesthood.  They  should 
have  been  designated  as  presiding  priests 
and  not  high  priests. 

John  the  Baptist  was  one  of  the  most 
distinguished  of  God's  servants.  That 
he  found  favor  with  the  Lord  is  empha- 
sized in  the  Angel  Gabriel's  appearance 
in  the  temple  to  his  father,  Zacharias, 
promising  him  that  he  and  his  wife 
were  to  have  a  son  who  should  ".  .  .  be 
great  in  the  sight  of  the  Lord."  (Luke 
1:15.)  The  birth  of  few  men  has  been 
foretold.  He  was  one  of  this  select 
group  whose  coming  was  made  known 
centuries  before  his  birth.  Isaiah  prophe- 
sied concerning  his  mission  approxi- 
mately seven-hundred  years  before  he 
was  born.  (Isaiah  40:3.)  He  was  an 
Elias  in  that  he  was  a  forerunner  of 
Jesus.  He  vigorously  preached  the  gospel 
of  repentance  to  the  Jews.  There  came 
to  him  one  of  the  highest  privileges  ever 
accorded  man — that  of  baptizing  the 
Savior  of  the  world.  He  was  a  personal 
witness  of  one  of  the  greatest  manifesta- 
tions ever  given.  It  came  at  the  time 
of  Jesus'  baptism.  As  Jesus  came  forth 
out  of  the  water,  John  beheld  the  Holy 
Ghost  descend  on  him  like  a  dove, 
and  there  came  from  the  heavens  the 
voice  of  the  Father  giving  divine  ap- 
proval: ".  .  .  This  is  my  beloved  Son, 
in  whom  I  am  well  pleased."  (Matthew 
3:17.) 

Jesus  attested  to  the  fact  that  John 
the  Baptist  was  one  of  the  greatest  of 
his  servants.  He  paid  him  a  glowing 
tribute  when  he  said: 

"For  I  say  unto  you,  among  those  that 
are  born  of  women  there  is  not  a  greater 
prophet  than  John  the  Baptist:  .  .  ." 
(Luke  7:28.) 

The  Lord  repeated  in  this  dispensa- 
tion the  divine  nature  of  John's  mis- 
sion: 

"For  he  was  baptized  while  he  was 
yet  in  his  childhood,  and  was  ordained 
by  the  angel  of  God  at  the  time  he  was 
eight  days  old  unto  this  power,  to  over- 
throw the  kingdom  of  the  Jews,  and  to 
make  straight  the  way  of  the  Lord  be- 


BISHOP  CARL 

fore  the  face  of  his  people,  to  prepare 
them  for  the  coming  of  the  Lord,  in 
whose  hand  is  given  all  power."  (D&C 
84:28.) 

John  faithfully  prepared  the  way  for 
Jesus'  mission.  He  was  instrumental 
in  overthrowing  the  kingdom  of  the 
Jews.  While  the  decline  of  Judah  as 
a  nation  began  long  before  John's  birth, 
it  was  further  weakened  during  his  min- 
istry, and  within  three  decades  after  his 
death  it  was  no  more.  He  stands  with 
Adam,  Enoch,  Noah,  Abraham,  Moses, 
and  Joseph  Smith  as  trusted  and  true 
servants  to  whom  the  Lord  committed 
a  dispensation  of  the  gospel.  He  suffered 
death  as  a  martyr  and  was  beheaded 
through  the  trickery  of  the  wicked 
Herodias.  Like  many  of  the  servants 
of  God,  he  sealed  his  testimony  with 
his  blood. 

Little  is  known  of  the  functions  of 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood  in  the  primitive 
church.  The  offices  of  deacon,  teacher, 
and  priest  are  named,  but  their  duties 
are  not  clarified.  (I  Tim.  3:8;  Eph.  4:11; 
Heb.  10:11.) 

May  15,  1829,  was  a  day  of  para- 
mount importance  to  this  generation. 
On  that  beautiful  occasion,  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  was  restored  to  earth  after 
an  absence  of  many  centuries.  It  was 
the  resurrected  John  the  Baptist  who  was 
the  central  figure  in  this  restoration.  He 
it  was  who  appeared  to  Joseph  Smith 
and  Oliver  Cowdery  on  the  banks  of 
the  Susquehanna  River  as  a  messenger 
sent  from  God  in  answer  to  their  prayers. 
He  told  them  that  he  came  under  the 
direction  of  Peter,  James,  and  John,  and 
he  conferred  upon  them  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  and  the  keys  to  this  sacred 
power.  His  life  and  mission  should  be 
an  inspiration  to  every  bearer  of  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood. 

It  is  the  hope  of  the  Presiding  Bishop- 
ric that  not  only  each  member  of  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  but  also  each  mem- 
ber of  the  Church  will  come  to  realize 
the  greatness  of  Aaron,  his  sons,  and 
their  posterity,  and  John  the  Baptist,  as 
men  who  have  made  a  great  contribu- 
tion to  the  kingdom  in  their  day. 

Because  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  has 
been  designated  as  the  Lesser  Priesthood 
does  not  lessen  or  diminish  its  sacred- 
ness.  It  is  still  the  power  of  God.  Its 
method  of  operation  has  been  com- 
pletely transformed  in  our  day.  From 


W.  BUEHNER  77 

the  time  of  its  institution  in  the  days 
of  Aaron  and  throughout  the  days  of 
the  primitive  church  in  the  Meridian 
of  Time  and  again  during  the  early 
period  of  the  Church  in  this  dispensa- 
tion, only  men  were  called  to  the  offices 
of  this  priesthood.  Before  the  turn  of 
the  last  century,  young  men  were  gradu- 
ally inducted  into  this  program,  and 
today  it  is  chiefly  a  plan  to  give  train- 
ing to  our  young  men  twelve  to  twenty 
years  of  age.  The  training  they  receive 
today  is  a  boon  to  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood.  It  is  one  of  the  primary 
objectives  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  to 
see  that  each  young  man  shall  receive 
this  training.  The  members  of  the 
Aaronic  Presthood  of  today  are  the 
members  of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood 
of  tomorrow,  and  if  they  participate 
actively  in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  they 
establish  a  solid  foundation  on  which 
to  build  once  they  receive  the  higher 
priesthood.  The  advantages  of  today's 
Aaronic  Priesthood  program  have  never 
been  equaled. 

Between  his  19th  and  20th  birthday, 
there  are  at  least  three  important  bless- 
ings that  come  to  a  young  man  who  has 
honored  his  priesthood.  First,  he  is 
recommended  to  be  ordained  an  elder 
and  to  hold  the  high  priesthood.  Sec- 
ond, he  will  more  than  likely  be  invited 
to  serve  on  a  mission  for  the  Church. 
This  is  a  tremendous  and  important  op- 
portunity for  every  young  man.  Third, 
through  his  faithfulness  to  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  and  his  ordination  to  the 
high  priesthood,  he  will  very  likely 
have  the  opportunity  of  taking  his  bride 
into  the  house  of  the  Lord  and  being 
sealed  for  time  and  eternity.  These  are 
only  three  of  the  important  blessings 
that  come  through  faithfulness  in  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood. 

I  trust  that  I  shall  always  be  found 
assisting  our  young  men  in  the  Church, 
even  as  I  was  assisted  by  faithful  breth- 
ren who  presided  over  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  when  I  was  a  boy.  I  recall 
very  vividly  a  wonderful  bishop  by  the 
name  of  Elias  S.  Woodruff,  who  twice 
became  a  mission  president,  who  was 
a  member  of  the  general  Church  wel- 
fare committee,  but  whom  I  think  was 
outstanding  as  a  bishop  and  a  leader 
of  boys.  I  was  one  of  his  priests.  At 
the  time  he  was  bishop,  he  presided 
over  a  very  large  ward.    There  were 


78 

Monday,  April  4 

sixty-three  priests  in  that  priests'  quo- 
rum. I  recall  Bishop  Woodruff's  com- 
ing into  the  room,  taking  off  his  coat, 
hanging  it  over  the  back  of  his  chair, 
and  then  teaching  this  large  group  of 
youngsters  the  gospel.  We  all  learned 
to  love  him.  As  I  recall,  more  than  fifty 
of  those  boys  went  on  missions,  and 
we  had  thirty-two  missionaries  from  our 
ward  in  the  mission  field  at  the  same 
time.  Bishop  Woodruff  was  an  out- 
standing example  of  the  devotion  of  a 
bishop  to  his  Aaronic  Priesthood  quo- 
rums. I  hope  all  bishops  can  learn  from 
an  example  such  as  this. 

May  we  as  parents  and  leaders  of 
our  boys  exert  every  effort  to  bring  the 
full  blessings  of  the  priesthood  to  every 
one  of  them,  to  the  end  that  the  culmi- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

nation  of  their  Aaronic  Priesthood  activi- 
ties will  become  a  steppingstone  to  a 
great  and  marvelous  future. 

May  the  choice  blessings  of  our 
Heavenly  Father  be  with  us  in  our 
efforts  to  serve  him,  I  pray  and  leave 
my  testimony,  along  with  the  wonder- 
ful testimonies  that  have  already  been 
given  to  the  divinity  of  this  great  latter- 
day  work,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner,  member  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric  of  the  Church. 
Elder  A.  Theodore  Tuttle  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  will  now  speak  to  us. 


ELDER  A.  THEODORE  TUTTLE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  since 
the  assignment  that  came  to  me  last 
week,  has  brought  to  a  close  fourteen 
years  of  intimate  association  with  the 
LDS  Department  of  Education  (which 
has  jurisdiction  over  the  seminaries  and 
the  institutes  of  religion  of  this  Church) , 
I  would  like  to  share  with  you  some  of 
my  reflections  and  experiences  concern- 
ing this  program.* 

In  retrospect,  I  see  a  young  boy — a 
common  variety  of  Latter-day  Saint — 
sitting  in  a  seminary  class.  The  teacher 
wonders  whether  he  is  learning  what  is 
being  taught.  He  need  not  have  won- 
dered, however,  for  two  years  later,  and 
two  thousand  miles  from  home,  he  is 
being  induced  by  his  army  companions 
to  follow  their  actions  in  a  decision  that 
would  have  been  detrimental  to  his 
moral  virtue.  I  see  this  young  man  re- 
turn home  on  furlough  and  go  directly 
to  the  home  of  his  seminary  teacher 
to  tell  him  how  he  had  withstood  the 
temptation  and  conclude  with  these 
words:  "Pete,  I  couldn't  let  you  down." 

I  see  a  young  man  in  a  seminary  class 
who  is  having  trouble  at  home  with 
his  father,  trouble  with  his  high  school 
grades,  and  trouble  in  seminary.  I  see 
at  the  end  of  class  a  wise  teacher  chat 
with  this  young  man,  and  in  the  process 

*President  Tuttle  has  been  assigned  to  work  in 
the  missionary  department  of  the  Church. 


of  the  conversation  actually  to  ask  for- 
giveness of  this  boy.  I  see  him  graduate 
from  high  school  and  college,  go  on  a 
mission,  marry  in  the  temple,  and  then 
take  his  bride  up  to  this  small  Idaho 
town,  where  he  picks  up  the  seminary 
teacher  and  drives  down  in  front  of  the 
seminary.  He  then  introduces  his 
teacher  to  his  bride  in  these  words: 
"This  is  the  place  and  this  is  the  man 
who  changed  my  life  and  gave  you  to 
me." 

On  another  occasion  I  see  a  young 
couple  away  at  a  large  university;  their 
marriage  falling  apart,  not  because  of 
any  involvement  on  the  part  of  either 
person,  but  because  of  the  lack  of  funds, 
the  urgency  of  studies,  the  children's 
needs,  and  a  multitude  of  daily  living 
problems  that  could  not  be  met.  As 
they  cross  the  campus  one  evening,  they 
stop  in  at  the  Institute  of  Religion,  al- 
most accidentally.  I  see  the  teacher, 
who  normally  is  very  meticulous  about 
following  his  outline,  depart  from  it, 
for  some  unknown  reason  and  get  on 
another  subject,  which  somehow  touched 
the  hearts  of  this  couple  who  were 
contemplating  divorce.  I  see  them  hap- 
py now,  their  marriage  mended  and 
successful. 

I  hear  a  stake  president  stand  in  a 
large  gathering  and  say:  "All  that  I  am, 
and  the  position  that  I  have  come  to,  I 


ELDER  A.  THEODORE  TUTTLE 


79 


owe  to  an  inspiring  seminary  teacher  and 
eight  months  in  seminary." 

There  are  many  others.  I  bear  testi- 
mony to  the  value  of  this  inspired  pro- 
gram in  the  lives  of  young  people.  Not 
only  is  it  valuable,  but  it  also  fills  a 
daily  need  for  spiritual  food  for  the  youth 
of  this  Church.  In  the  ever-expanding 
program  which  now  includes  over  56,000 
seminary  students  (1800  of  whom  are 
Indian  members,  recently  included  in 
the  religious  education  program  of  the 
Church)  receiving  daily  instruction, 
under  more  than  1000  teachers. 

I  see  8200  college  students,  who,  at 
colleges  other  than  Brigham  Young 
University  and  Ricks  College,  are  at- 
tending Institutes  of  Religion  on  some 
sixty-one  campuses.  I  see,  in  addition 
to  that,  1500  young  people  on  thirty-six 
more  campuses  who  are  under  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Deseret  Club  program. 
Add  to  this  number  of  young  Latter-day 
Saints  approximately  1,000  at  the  Ricks 
College,  over  10,000  at  Brigham  Young 
University,  and  hundreds  more  in  the 
other  units  of  the  Church  school  pro- 
gram. There  is  in  this  Church  a  verita- 
ble army  of  Israel,  who  are  receiving 
weekday  religious  education. 

I  call  this  vast  program  to  your  atten- 
tion for  this  reason:  Valuable  as  it  is, 
the  problem  remains  that  we  are  not 
reaching  all  of  our  young  people,  either 
on  the  high  school  level  or  on  the  col- 
lege level.  Fine  as  the  percentage  of 
enrolment  is  in  our  seminary  program, 
we  still  lack  far  too  many  young  people. 
The  early  morning  seminary  classes  are 
extending  far  and  wide  now.  Six 
months  ago  in  Orlando,  Florida,  I  visited 
an  early  morning  seminary  class  at  six 
o'clock.  About  five  hours  later,  on  the 
same  day  and  incidentally  at  the  same 
hour,  Brother  Boyd  Packer  was  attending 
a  similar  early  morning  seminary  class 
in  the  Hawaiian  Islands.  The  seminaries 
extend  from  Edmonton,  Canada,  to 
Juarez,  Mexico.  I  would  urge  extending 
them  even  further  into  the  stakes  and 
into  the  missions  so  that  all  of  the  young 
people  of  this  Church  can  have  the  op- 
portunity of  daily  religious  instruction. 

Parents,  we  need  your  help.  You  are 
the  ones  who  are  to  see  that  your  chil- 
dren attend  seminary  classes.  Ward 
education  committees  have  been  organ- 
ized to  help  recruit  students.  They 
should  make  visits  particularly  at  this 


time  of  the  year  when  pre-registration 
is  going  forward  for  next  fall.  I  plead 
with  you  to  help  them  make  the  wise 
choice  at  this  time  of  their  lives.  This 
impressionable  age  of  life  is  the  most 
appropriate  time  to  impress  them  with 
the  truths  of  the  gospel.  They  need  the 
daily  association  with  the  message  of 
the  scriptures,  especially  under  the 
pressures  of  the  world  that  would  turn 
them  otherwise,  and  they  need  the 
learning  experiences  in  the  subjects  of 
the  gospel,  where  they  take  Old  Testa- 
ment, New  Testament,  Church  history, 
and  Book  of  Mormon  courses;  where 
they  keep  journals,  take  tests,  answer 
questions,  give  talks,  see  educational 
films,  handle  the  scriptures,  gain  testi- 
monies, and  prepare  for  missions. 

In  the  southern  part  of  this  state,  there 
is  a  stake  president  who  recently  said: 
"We  have  seven  missionaries  to  interview 
this  conference.  The  reason  for  this  is 
that  we  have  kept  them  going  from 
seminary  to  institute.  We  have  found 
that  if  we  can  get  them  in  the  Institute 
of  Religion  we  get  significant  help  in 
preparing  boys  to  be  missionaries."  I 
commend  his  testimony  to  all  of  the 
stake  presidents  in  this  Church. 

There  is  no  finer  program  to  teach 
the  gospel  in  this  Church.  The  youth 
are  under  teachers  who  are  loyal  to 
these  brethren.  They  know  they  are 
prophets  of  God.  These  teachers  are 
skilled.  They  are  proud  of  the  noble 
title  of  teacher.  These  men  are  men  of 
conviction  and  testimony.  They  know, 
as  I  know,  that  God  lives.  They  know 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  our  Redeemer, 
that  he  wrought  out  the  atonement  for 
us.  They  know  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a 
prophet  of  God;  that  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon is  true;  and  that  these  men  who 
direct  this  Church  are  inspired  of  our 
Heavenly  Father. 

Parents,  I  plead  with  you  to  see  that 
your  children  take  advantage  of  the 
opportunities  for  spiritual  education  that 
this  Church  affords.  I  bear  you  my  wit- 
ness that  this  is  a  divinely  inspired  pro- 
gram, and  it  operates  under  divinely 
inspired  men  today,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  A.  Theodore  Tuttle  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  spoken  to 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  4 

us.  The  Choir  and  Congregation  will 
now  join  in  singing,  "Come,  O  Thou 
King  of  Kings,"  conducted  by  William 
H.  Gould,  Assistant  Director  of  the 
Mormon  Choir  of  Southern  California. 

After  the  singing  we  shall  hear  from 
Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  joined  in 
singing  the  hymn,   "Come,  O  Thou 


Third  Day 

King  of  Kings,"  William  H.  Gould,  As- 
sistant Conductor  of  the  Choir,  directing 
the  singing. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  will  now  speak  to 
us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Gordon  B.  Hinckley. 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


Had  Elder  A.  Theodore  Tuttle  been 
clairvoyant,  he  would  have  seen  in  the 
year  1914  a  fourteen-and-a-half-year-old 
stripling  entering  the  first  seminary 
instituted  by  the  Church.  Across  the 
street  from  Granite  High  School  a  build- 
ing had  been  constructed — one  room  in 
size — a  teacher  employed,  and  the  school 
opened  to  students.  I  was  that  stripling. 
There  died  yesterday  the  third  teacher 
of  that  particular  seminary.  The  teacher 
was  John  M.  Whitaker. 

I  should  like  to  make  a  short 
tribute  to  Brother  Whitaker.  He  likely 
did  not  know  the  profound  influence  he 
had  upon  me  as  a  boy,  as  I  studied 
minutely  under  him  and  Guy  C.  Wilson 
before  him,  the  detail  of  the  Bible,  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  and  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants.  I  look  back  upon  it  now, 
realizing  that  there  was  where  I  got  my 
first  detailed  knowledge  of  these  standard 
works.  Could  I  have  enough  influence 
I  would  see  to  it  that  every  boy  and 
every  girl  in  the  Church  had  a  like 
experience  under  a  man  of  faith! 

There  are  other  factors  having  to  do 
with  boys  and  girls.  I  should  like  to 
talk  about  one  of  those  factors. 

I  recognize  that  young  people  are 
faced  with  great  stress  and  strain  in 
these  days.  They  are  under  great 
temptation.  We  accuse  them  of  many 
things,  and  we  think  we  know  a  lot  of 
the  answers  which  could  keep  them  out 
of  trouble.  A  recent  great  meeting 
in  Washington,  I  am  sure,  found  more 
answers. 

But  the  Church  has  had  an  answer 
from  the  beginning.  To  our  first  par- 
ents, after  He  had  married  them  in 
the  holy  bonds  of  eternal  matrimony, 
the  Lord  said,  "Be  fruitful,  and  multiply, 


and  replenish  the  earth."  (Gen.  1:28.) 
In  my  opinion,  what  he  did  when  he 
said  that,  was  to  place  upon  a  father 
and  mother  the  responsibility  of  edu- 
cating their  children  and  keeping  them 
in  the  faith.  Realizing  there  are  other 
influences  which  can  have  effect  upon 
them,  theirs  is  the  prime  responsibility. 

This  was  later  confirmed  through  the 
mouth  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
when  he  reminded  the  people  in  a 
revelation  that  ".  .  .  inasmuch  as  par- 
ents have  children  in  Zion,  or  any  of 
her  stakes  which  are  organized,  that 
teach  them  not  to  understand  the  doc- 
trine of  repentance,  faith  in  Christ  the 
Son  of  the  living  God,  and  of  baptism 
and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  [which 
few  parents  undertake  to  teach  their 
children],  by  the  laying  on  of  the  hands, 
when  eight  years  old,  the  sin  be  upon 
the  heads  of  the  parents."  (D&C  68:25.) 

Now,  I  should  like  to  offer  some 
homely,  practical  suggestions.  They 
have  been  said  before  many  times,  have 
been  thought  before  many  times,  and 
anyone  who  has  been  a  father  has 
exercised  them  many  times.  I  should 
just  like  to  remind  us  of  them. 

Do  we  want  children  to  feel  that  the 
bishop  of  the  ward  is  called  of  God? 
Then  let  us  allow  no  note  of  impatience 
or  disloyalty  to  enter  into  our  voices  as 
we  mention  his  name. 

Do  we  want  our  children  to  learn 
spirituality?   Then  let  us  be  spiritual. 

Do  we  want  them  to  be  able  to  learn 
the  whispering  of  the  Spirit  and  to  hear 
it?  Then  let  them  see  that  decisions 
made  by  us  in  their  behalf  have  been 
reached  because  we  have  heard  that 
whispering. 

Do  we  want  them  to  learn  the  use 


ELDER  GORDC 

of  money  in  the  work  of  the  Lord?  Then 
let  them  participate  with  us  in  the 
tithes  we  pay  and  in  the  offerings  we 
give. 

Do  we  want  them  to  know  that  Presi- 
dent McKay  is  the  prophet,  the  seer, 
and  the  revelator,  for  our  day?  By  our 
loyalty  and  repeated  declaration  of  the 
fact,  they  can  learn  it  best. 

Do  we  want  children  to  grow  up  to 
be  missionaries?  The  parental  attitude 
on  this  service  will  be  reflected  in  the 
preparation  of  the  children. 

Do  we  want  to  teach  them  respect 
for  the  priesthood?  Then  let  us  give 
respect  to  its  every  bearer  of  authority, 
including  the  ward  teachers. 

Do  we  want  them  to  have  unwaver- 
ing respect  for  us,  their  parents?  Then 
let  us  render  unwavering  respect  for 
the  eternal  truths  of  the  gospel,  and 
for  the  men  appointed  to  administer 
its  teachings. 

These  things  consistently  carried  out 
by  parents  in  the  home,  with  others 
which  they  will  think  of  as  problems 
arise,  will  be  the  greatest  factors  that 
can  be  given  in  our  day  to  preserve  our 
children  in  faith. 

I  add  my  testimony  to  those  that 


J  B.  HINCKLEY  81 

have  been  borne  as  to  the  restoration  of 
the  gospel — that  it  has  been  restored 
through  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet,  and 
I  bear  witness  that  I  know  that  President 
McKay  is  a  prophet  of  the  Living  God, 
and  I  would  that  every  child  could 
know  it.  I  would  that  everybody  who 
ever  influences  a  child  could  make  ring 
in  that  child's  ear  what  I  learned  in 
seminary  from  the  mouth  of  John  M. 
Whitaker,  as  each  day  at  the  end  of 
each  class  he  repeated  to  us  his  testi- 
mony, that  he  knew  that  (at  that  time) 
Joseph  F.  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the 
Living  God;  his  voice  following  us  out 
into  the  hall  with  the  final  statement, 
"And  don't  you  boys  and  girls  ever 
forget  itl" 

That  is  my  testimony.  In  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  spoken  to 
us.  We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder 
Gordon  B.  Hinckley,  one  of  the  As- 
sistants to  the  Twelve.  Elder  Spencer 
W.  Kimball  will  follow. 


ELDER  GORDON  B.  HINCKLEY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  seek  the 
inspiration  of  the  Lord. 

I  am  grateful  to  be  associated  with 
the  great  missionary  program  of  the 
Church.  As  I  look  at  you,  I  think  of 
the  six  thousand  men  and  women  who 
are  scattered  over  the  world,  and  who 
this  day  and  this  hour  are  knocking  on 
doors,  being  refused  entrance,  in  most 
cases,  but  getting  in  now  and  again  to 
bear  testimony  of  this  work.  I  think  it 
is  a  singular  and  marvelous  thing  that 
during  the  past  year  they  brought  into 
the  Church  approximately  the  equiva- 
lent of  three  times  the  number  who  now 
are  assembled  in  this  hall.  This  was 
exclusive  of  the  more  than  eight  thou- 
sand converts  of  those  devoted  men  and 
women  who  are  serving  in  the  stake 
missions. 

The  other  day  when  I  was  preparing 
to  leave  for  a  stake  conference  in  Dallas 
the  phone  rang,  and  a  man  said,  "I 


need  a  little  information.  I  know  a 
widow  who  goes  out  every  morning  at 
four  o'clock  to  milk  sixty  cows  to  keep 
her  son  in  the  mission  field.  She  has 
just  received  a  letter  from  her  boy  say- 
ing that  he  needs  a  new  overcoat  and 
a  pair  of  shoes,  and  she  doesn't  know 
where  to  get  the  money  to  buy  them.  Is 
there  some  way  I  can  help?" 

That  procedure,  of  course,  was  very 
easily  worked  out,  but  as  I  traveled  to 
my  conference  I  reflected  on  the  sacri- 
fice of  that  widow,  and  of  many  other 
parents,  to  keep  sons  and  daughters  in 
the  mission  field.  On  Sunday  morning, 
I  rode  around  the  city  of  Dallas  with 
President  and  Sister  Atkerson.  We  saw 
many  large  and  beautiful  churches  and 
a  magnificent  synagogue.  People  were 
gathering  to  these  buildings  in  such 
numbers  that  the  traffic  was  blocked 
in  some  areas.  We  then  went  to  our 
own  building  where  we  met  six  of  our 


82  GENERAL  C 

Monday,  April  4 

missionaries  who  are  laboring  in  that 
area. 

As  I  talked  with  our  elders  and 
thought  of  the  sacrifice  behind  their 
service,  and  then  thought  of  the  people 
we  had  seen  going  to  these  other  mag- 
nificent buildings,  the  question  came 
into  my  mind,  "Why  do  we  make  such 
efforts  at  such  great  cost  to  come  to 
teach  these  people  who  already  have  so 
much  that  is  virtuous  and  good?" 

We  admire  their  great  reverence.  One 
cannot  witness  their  worship  without 
appreciating  their  devotion.  We  admire 
their  faith  in  an  overruling  Providence, 
and  their  great  zeal  in  teaching  the 
brotherhood  of  man.  We  admire  them 
for  all  of  the  tremendous  good  that 
they  accomplish. 

What  do  we  have  to  give  them,  with 
all  that  they  now  have,  that  they  cannot 
get  from  any  other  source  in  all  the 
world?  Is  it  a  recreation  program?  We 
have  a  good  one,  and  I  believe  im- 
plicitly in  it,  but  many  of  them  also 
provide  excellent  recreation.  Is  it  a 
youth  program?  We  have  a  tremen- 
dous program  for  which  I  am  grateful, 
but  in  many  cases  they  likewise  have 
excellent  youth  programs.  Is  it  schools 
and  educational  opportunities?  They 
have  these  also,  and  in  saying  that  I 
am  grateful  for  our  own  great  system. 

Seriously,  what  can  we  give  them 
that  they  do  not  now  have?  May  I 
just  review  four  or  five  items  which 
have  come  to  us  through  the  revelation 
of  the  Lord  and  which  they  can  secure 
from  no  other  source  in  all  this  world? 
I  shall  follow  the  sequence  in  which 
these  came  to  us.  I  think  that  sequence 
is  important. 

To  me  it  is  a  significant  and  marvel- 
ous thing  that  in  establishing  and 
opening  this  dispensation  our  Father 
did  so  with  a  revelation  of  himself  and 
of  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  as  if  to  say  to 
all  the  world  that  he  was  weary  of  the 
attempts  of  men,  earnest  though  these 
attempts  might  have  been,  to  define  and 
describe  him.  Strange  as  it  seems,  we 
alone,  among  all  the  great  organiza- 
tions that  worship  God,  have  a  true 
description  and  a  true  definition  of 
him.  The  experience  of  Joseph  Smith 
in  a  few  moments  in  the  grove  on  a 
spring  day  in  1820,  brought  more  light 
and  knowledge  and  understanding  of 
the  personality  and  reality  and  sub- 


Third  Day 

stance  of  God  and  his  Beloved  Son  than 
men  had  arrived  at  during  centuries  of 
speculation.  Notwithstanding  the  dec- 
laration at  Jordan  at  the  time  of  the 
Savior's  baptism  when  the  voice  of  the 
Father  was  heard,  and  notwithstanding 
the  events  on  the  Mount  of  Transfigura- 
tion when  again  the  voice  of  the  Father 
was  heard,  men  somehow  evidently  had 
been  unable  to  realize  the  separate 
entities  of  the  Father  and  the  Son,  their 
relationship  and  their  reality. 

I  want  to  say  that  when  we  started 
emphasizing  in  our  missionary  program 
the  truth  about  God  as  a  basic  and  funda- 
mental and  primary  principle,  and 
began  to  encourage  those  who  were 
willing  to  listen  to  get  on  their  knees 
and  ask  him  in  the  name  of  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ  concerning  the  truth  of  that 
teaching,  we  began  to  get  converts  in 
such  numbers  as  we  had  not  had  in 
many,  many  years. 

The  second  great  revelation  received 
in  this  dispensation  was  the  testimony 
of  another  nation,  speaking  from  the 
dust,  of  the  divinity  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  as  the  God  of  this  world,  our 
resurrected  Savior  and  Redeemer.  When 
we  have  been  able  to  get  people  to  read 
the  Book  of  Mormon  prayerfully,  we 
have  seen  realized  in  their  lives  the 
fulfilment  of  the  words  of  Moroni  that 
they  would  know  the  truth  of  that 
record — that  it  is  verily  the  word  of 
God,  and  a  testimony  of  Jesus. 

Came  next  the  bestowal  of  the  priest- 
hood, the  authority  to  act  in  the  name 
of  God,  conferred  by  John  the  Baptist, 
and  then  by  Peter,  James,  and  John.  It 
seems  to  me  that  any  man  of  any 
church  who  has  ever  had  administered 
to  him  religious  ordinances  might  well 
ask,  as  many  have  done,  by  what  au- 
thority this  has  been  accomplished. 

When  that  most  significant  conversa- 
tion took  place  between  Peter  and  the 
Savior,  in  which  Peter  declared,  "Thou 
art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living 
God,"  and  Jesus  replied,  "Blessed  art 
thou,  Simon  Bar-jona:  for  flesh  and 
blood  hath  not  revealed  it  unto  thee, 
but  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven,"  the 
Savior  then  went  on  to  say,  among  other 
things: 

"And  I  will  give  unto  thee  the  keys 
of  the  kingdom  of  heaven:  and  whatso- 
ever thou  shalt  bind  on  earth  shall  be 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


83 


bound  in  heaven."  (Matthew  16:16-17, 
19.) 

We  have  to  offer  to  those  of  other 
faiths,  with  all  that  they  now  have,  the 
restoration  of  these  marvelous  keys  and 
the  blessing  of  the  priesthood,  under 
which  every  worthy  man  may  be  a 
priest  in  his  own  right,  with  power  and 
authority  to  bless,  to  teach,  and  to  gov- 
ern in  the  affairs  of  the  kingdom  of 
God. 

Came  next  the  organization  of  the 
Church — the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ — 
"built  upon  the  foundation  of  apostles 
and  prophets,  Jesus  Christ  himself  being 
the  chief  corner  stone,"  all  fitly  framed 
together  in  fulfilment  of  the  words  of 
Paul  to  the  Ephesian  Saints.  (Ephesians 
2:20-21.)  To  me  it  is  a  singular  and 
remarkable  thing  that  with  all  that  our 
friends  have  that  is  wonderful  and  good 
and  true,  there  is  not  a  church  among 
them  to  my  knowledge  led  by  prophets 
who  speak  as  they  are  moved  upon  by 
the  Holy  Ghost,  and  apostles  who  stand 
as  living  witnesses  to  all  the  world  of 
the  divinity  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

Came  after  that  the  great  keys,  of 
which  President  Smith  has  spoken  so 
beautifully  this  afternoon,  which  brought 
about  the  opportunity  of  universal  sal- 
vation and  exaltation.  A  man  said 
rather  smugly  one  day,  "I  am  saved." 
I  asked,  "What  about  your  father?" 

He  said,  "I  guess  he  isn't  saved."  I 
said,  "Can  you  believe  that  in  the  jus- 
tice and  mercy  of  God  he  would  make 
it  possible  for  you  to  enjoy  all  the 
blessings  which  you  claim  you  have  and 
deny  those  same  blessings  to  your  father 
and  your  mother,  who  gave  you  all  that 


you  have  of  life  and  body  and  mind?" 

To  me  it  is  one  of  the  serious  anomalies 
of  our  life  that  the  great  religious  sys- 
tems of  the  world,  which  teach  equity 
and  justice  and  mercy  and  kindness, 
have  in  their  theology  nothing  of  this 
great  principle. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  had 
opportunity  to  study  what  causes  people 
to  join  the  Church.  I  have  come  to  the 
conclusion  that  it  is  testimony,  which 
comes  into  their  hearts  of  the  truth 
of  these  great  revelations,  which  leads 
them  into  the  waters  of  baptism  there 
to  covenant  with  the  Lord  to  keep  his 
commandments  and  to  become  citizens 
in  his  kingdom. 

A  friend  once  asked,  "Why  in  your 
missionary  work  do  you  emphasize  the 
differences  between  your  religion  and 
others?  Why  not  emphasize  what  you 
have  in  common  with  others?"  We 
praise  all  that  others  have  that  is  lovely, 
virtuous,  or  of  good  report  or  praise- 
worthy, and  add  to  those  many  virtues 
which  they  now  have,  the  great  virtues 
which  have  come  of  the  revelations  of 
God  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  this 
dispensation  for  the  blessing  of  their 
lives  and  the  lives  of  all  who  come  after 
them  who  will  keep  the  faith,  of  which 
I  bear  testimony  this  day  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Gordon  B.  Hinckley,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
Our  concluding  speaker  of  this  session 
will  be  Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  this  has 
been  a  great  conference.  I  pray  that  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  attend  me  in 
what  I  shall  say. 

About  fifty  years  ago,  Mr.  F.  M.  Bare- 
ham  wrote  the  following: 

"A  century  ago  men  were  following 
with  bated  breath  the  march  of 
Napoleon  and  waiting  with  feverish  im- 
patience for  news  of  the  wars.  And  all 
the  while  in  their  homes  babies  were 
being  born.  But  who  could  think  about 


babies?  Everybody  was  thinking  about 
battles. 

"In  one  year  between  Trafalgar  and 
Waterloo  there  stole  into  the  world  a 
host  of  heroes:  Gladstone  was  born  in 
Liverpool;  Tennyson  at  the  Somersby 
Rectory,  and  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes  in 
Massachusetts.  Abraham  Lincoln  was 
born  in  Kentucky,  and  music  was  en- 
riched by  the  advent  of  Felix  Mendels- 
sohn in  Hamburg." 

And  we  might  add,  and  Joseph  Smith 


84  GENERAL  C 

Monday,  April  4 

was  born  in  Vermont,  four  years  earlier. 

Quoting  Bareham  further: 

"But  nobody  thought  of  babies,  every- 
body was  thinking  of  battles.  Yet  which 
of  the  battles  of  1809  mattered  more  than 
the  babies  of  1809?  We  fancy  God  can 
manage  his  world  only  with  great  bat- 
talions, when  all  the  time  he  is  doing 
it  with  beautiful  babies. 

"When  a  wrong  wants  righting,  or  a 
truth  wants  preaching,  or  a  continent 
wants  discovering,  God  sends  a  baby 
into  the  world  to  do  it." 

While  most  of  the  thousands  of 
precious  infants  born  every  hour  will 
never  be  known  outside  their  own  neigh- 
borhoods, there  are  great  souls  being 
born  who  will  rise  above  their  sur- 
roundings. We  see  with  ".  .  .  Abraham 
the  intelligences  that  were  organized 
before  the  world  was;  and  among  all 
these  there  were  many  of  the  noble 
and  great  ones,  .  .  ."  and  we  hear  the 
Lord  saying: 

"These  I  will  make  my  rulers.  .  .  . 
Abraham,  thou  art  one  of  them;  thou 
wast  chosen  before  thou  wast  born." 
(Abraham  3:22-23.) 

He  commanded  Adam:  "Be  fruitful 
and  multiply,  and  replenish  the  earth, 
and  subdue  it."  (Gen.  1:28.) 

And  the  Psalmist  sang: 

"Lo,  children  are  an  heritage  of  the 
Lord.  .  .  .  Happy  is  the  man  that  hath 
his  quiver  full  of  them.  .  .  ."  (Psalm 
127:3,  5.) 

Regarding  these  "Men  of  the  Hour," 
Carlyle  said: 

"The  most  precious  gift  that  heaven 
can  give  to  the  earth;  a  man  of  genius, 
as  we  call  it;  the  soul  of  a  man  actually 
sent  down  from  the  skies  with  God's 
message  to  us." 

What  mother,  looking  down  with 
tenderness  upon  her  chubby  infant  does 
not  envision  her  child  as  the  President 
of  the  Church  or  the  leader  of  her  na- 
tion! As  he  is  nestled  in  her  arms,  she 
sees  him  a  statesman,  a  leader,  a  proph- 
et. Some  dreams  do  come  true!  One 
mother  gives  us  a  Shakespeare,  another 
a  Michelangelo,  and  another  an  Abra- 
ham Lincoln,  and  still  another  a  Joseph 
Smith! 

When  theologians  are  reeling  and 
stumbling,  when  lips  are  pretending  and 
hearts  are  wandering,  and  people  are 
"running  to  and  fro,  seeking  the  word 
of  the  Lord  and  cannot,  find  it" — when 


Third  Day 

clouds  of  error  need  dissipating  and 
spiritual  darkness  needs  penetrating  and 
heavens  need  opening,  a  little  infant  is 
born.  Just  a  few  scattered  neighbors 
in  a  hilly  region  in  the  backwoods  even 
know  that  Lucy  is  expecting.  There  is 
no  prenatal  care,  nor  nurses;  no  hospital, 
no  ambulance,  no  delivery  room.  Babies 
live  and  die  in  this  rough  environment 
and  few  know  of  it. 

Another  child  for  Lucy!  No  trumpets 
are  sounded;  no  hourly  bulletins  posted; 
no  pictures  taken;  no  notice  is  given; 
just  a  few  friendly  community  folk  pass 
the  word  along.  It's  a  boy!  Little  do 
the  brothers  and  sister  dream  that  a 
prophet  is  born  to  them;  even  his  proud 
parents  can  little  suspect  his  spectacular 
destiny.  No  countryside  farmers  or 
loungers  at  the  country  store,  nor  vil- 
lage gossips  even  surmise  how  much 
they  could  discuss,  did  they  but  have 
the  power  of  prophetic  vision. 

"They  are  naming  him  Joseph,"  it  is 
reported.  But  not  one  knows,  not  even 
his  parents,  at  this  time,  that  this  infant 
and  his  father  have  been  named  in  the 
scriptures  for  3500  years,  named  for 
and  known  to  their  ancestor  Joseph,  the 
savior  of  Egypt  and  Israel.  Not  even 
his  adoring  mother  realizes,  even  in 
her  most  ambitious  dreaming  and  her 
silent  musings,  that  this  one  of  her  chil- 
dren, like  his  ancestor,  will  be  the  chief 
sheaf  of  grain  to  which  all  others  would 
lean  and  the  one  star  to  which  the  sun 
and  moon  and  the  other  stars  would 
make  obeisance. 

He  will  inspire  hatred  and  admira- 
tion; he  will  build  an  empire  and  re- 
store a  church — the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Millions  will  follow  him; 
monuments  will  be  built  to  him;  poets 
will  sing  of  him;  authors  will  write 
libraries  of  books  about  him. 

No  living  soul  can  guess  that  this 
little  pinkish  infant  will  become  the 
peer  of  Moses  in  spiritual  power  and 
greater  than  many  prophets  before  him. 
He  will  talk  with  God,  the  Eternal 
Father,  and  Jesus  Christ,  his  Son,  and 
angels  will  be  his  guest  instructors. 

His  Vermont  contemporaries  know 
not  that  this  little  one  just  born  will 
live  as  few  men  have  lived,  accomplish 
what  few  men  have  accomplished,  and 
die  as  few  have  ever  died,  in  his  own 
sacred  blood  in  a  prison  at  the  hands  of 


ELDER  SPENCl 

assassins  as  a  martyr  to  everlasting 
truth! 

All  expectations  are  understated. 
Destiny  outdistances  all  imagination  and 
dreams  1 

"God  moves  in  a  mysterious  way 
•  His  wonders  to  perform; 
He  plants  his  footsteps  in  the  sea 
And  rides  upon  the  storm. 

"Deep  in  unfathomable  mines 
Of  never-failing  skill, 
He  treasures  up  his  bright  designs 
And  works  his  sovereign  will." 

— William  Cowper. 

During  the  unfolding  of  this  Smith- 
flower;  during  the  brief  ripening  years 
of  this  fruit  of  the  loins  of  that  other 
Joseph  of  Israel,  the  world  is  preparing 
for  the  greatest  event  since  the  Meridian 
of  Time.  The  triplet  infants,  Liberty, 
Freedom,  and  Justice,  are  contending  for 
life;  a  small  colonial  nation  is  struggling 
to  its  feet;  the  people  from  many  lands, 
squirming  in  the  "melting-pot,"  are 
firming  up,  suffering  labor  pains  toward 
the  birth  of  a  divine  new  program,  "a 
marvelous  work  and  a  wonder,"  the 
restoration  of  the  gospel  in  all  its  far- 
reaching  detail. 

"We  fancy,"  said  Bareham,  "God  can 
manage  his  world  only  with  great  bat- 
talions, when  all  the  time  he  is  doing 
it  with  beautiful  babies." 

O  foolish  men  who  think  to  protect 
the  world  with  armaments,  battleships, 
and  space  equipment,  when  only  right- 
eousness is  needed! 

Having  read  the  pages  of  history,  six 
thousand  years  of  it,  can  we  not  see 
that  God  sent  his  babies  to  become  the 
teachers  and  prophets  to  warn  us  of  our 
threatening  fate?  Cannot  we  read  the 
handwriting  on  the  wall?  History  re- 
peats itself. 

O  mortal  men,  deaf  and  blind!  Can 
we  not  read  the  past?  For  thousands  of 
years,  have  plowshares  been  beaten  into 
swords  and  pruning  hooks  into  spears, 
yet  war  persists.  Ever  since  Belshazzar 
saw  the  finger  writing  upon  the  wall  of 
his  palace,  the  warning  reappears.  It 
seems  to  restate  with  great  forcefulness, 
Daniel's  indictment  of  an  unhumble 
people: 

"God  hath  numbered  thy  kingdom, 
and  finished  it.  .  .  .  Thou  art  weighed 
in  the  balances,  and  art  found  wanting. 


I  W.  KIMBALL  85 

And  thou  his  son,  O  Belshazzar,  hast 
not  humbled  thine  heart,  though  thou 
knewest  all  this;  .  .  .  and  thou  hast 
praised  the  gods  of  silver,  and  gold,  of 
brass,  iron,  wood,  and  stone,  which  see 
not,  nor  hear,  nor  know:  and  the  God 
in  whose  hand  thy  breath  is,  and  whose 
are  all  thy  ways,  hast  thou  not  glorified. 
.  .  .  Blessed  be  the  name  of  God.  ...  he 
removeth  kings,  and  setteth  up  kings." 
(Dan.  5:26-27,  22-23;  2:20-21.) 

The  answer  to  all  of  our  problems — 
personal,  national,  and  international — 
has  been  given  to  us  many  times  by 
many  prophets,  ancient  to  modern.  Why 
must  we  grovel  in  the  earth  when  we 
could  be  climbing  toward  heaven!  The 
path  is  not  obscure.  Perhaps  it  is  too 
simple  for  us  to  see.  We  look  to  foreign 
programs,  summit  conferences,  land 
bases.  We  depend  on  fortifications,  our 
gods  of  stone;  upon  ships  and  planes 
and  projectiles,  our  gods  of  iron — gods 
which  have  no  ears,  no  eyes,  no  hearts. 
We  pray  to  them  for  deliverance  and 
depend  upon  them  for  protection.  Like 
the  gods  of  Baal,  they  could  be  "talking 
or  pursuing  or  on  a  journey  or  per- 
adventure  sleeping"  when  they  are 
needed  most.  And  like  Elijah,  we  might 
cry  out  to  our  world: 

"How  long  halt  ye  between  two  opin- 
ions? if  the  Lord  be  God,  follow  him. 
..."  (1  Kings  18:21.) 

My  testimony  to  you  is,  the  Lord  is 
God.  He  has  charted  the  way,  but  we 
do  not  follow.  He  personally  visited 
Joseph  Smith  in  our  world  in  our  cen- 
tury. He  outlined  the  way  of  peace  in 
this  world  and  eternal  worlds.  That 
path  is  righteousness.  The  Prophet 
Joseph  with  all  his  successor  prophets 
proclaiming  the  ripening  of  this  world 
in  iniquity  and  the  solution  of  all  vex- 
ing problems.  The  Book  of  Mormon 
which  he  brought  into  existence  relates 
the  story  of  two  hundred  years  of  peace 
in  the  old  days,  which  was  the  greatest 
era  of  happiness  of  which  we  have  any 
complete  record. 

God  lives  as  does  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ, 
and  they  will  not  indefinitely  be  mocked. 
May  we  hearken  and  repent  "for  the 
day  of  the  Lord  is  near  in  the  valley 
of  decision.  .  .  .  the  Lord  will  be  the 
hope  of  his  people.  .  .  ."  (Joel  3:14,  16.) 

Joseph  Smith  is  a  true  prophet  of  the 
Living  God  and  his  successors  like- 
wise.   The  mantle  of  authority  and 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  4 

prophecy  and  revelation  and  power  lies 
in  his  choice  servant  who  now  leads  us, 
President  David  O.  McKay,  and  he  is 
God's  prophet  not  only  to  Latter-day 
Saints,  but  to  every  living  soul  in  all 
the  world.  This  is  my  testimony  to  you, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken 
to  us. 

A  special  missionary  conference,  for 
mission  presidents,  stake  presidencies, 
stake  high  councilmen,  stake  mission 
presidents,  stake  missionaries,  and 
others,  will  be  held  in  the  Tabernacle 
this  evening  at  seven  o'clock.  This 
meeting  will  be  under  the  direction  of 
the  First  Presidency  and  General  Mis- 
sionary Committee.  Did  you  hear  the 
bishoprics  named?  You  are  all  invited. 

The  singing  for  this  session  has  been 
furnished  by  the  Mormon  Choir  of 
Southern  California,  under  the  direction 
of  Elder  H.  Frederick  Davis.  Brother 
Roy  M.  Darley  has  been  at  the  organ. 


Third  Day 

We  read  at  the  opening  of  this  meeting, 
members  of  the  Choir,  appreciation  from 
Mrs.  Chandler,  in  which  she  used  the 
term  "fineness."  After  listening  to  your 
inspirational  singing  of  our  hymns,  we 
wish  to  add  to  that  "fineness,"  your 
spirit,  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel.  Thank 
you  for  the  service  you  have  rendered 
this  session  and  the  Church  this  day. 

The  Choir  will  now  sing,  "God  Be 
With  You,"  Brother  Davis  leading,  after 
which  the  benediction  will  be  offered 
by  Elder  Barry  P.  Knudson,  president 
of  the  San  Diego  Stake.  Following  the 
benediction  this  Conference  will  be 
adjourned  until  Wednesday  morning  at 
ten  o'clock,  with  the  missionary  meeting 
in  the  Tabernacle,  as  announced,  to- 
night. 


The  Choir  sang  as  a  concluding  num- 
ber, "God  Be  With  You." 

Elder  Barry  P.  Knudson,  President  of 
the  San  Diego  Stake,  offered  the  closing 
prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock 
a.m.,  Wednesday,  April  6,  1960. 


FOURTH  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  Conference  reconvened  Wednes- 
day morning,  April  6,  at  10  o'clock  a.m., 
with  President  David  O.  McKay  presid- 
ing and  conducting  the  services. 

The  choral  music  for  this  session  of 
the  Conference  was  furnished  by  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Combined 
Choruses,  conducted  by  Newel  B. 
Weight.  Alexander  Schreiner  was  at 
the  organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Members  of  the  Church  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square 
in  Salt  Lake  City  in  the  Fifth  General 
Session  of  the  One  Hundred  Thirtieth 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church.  This 
session  of  the  Conference  is  being  broad- 
cast as  a  public  service  by  television 
and  radio  stations  throughout  the  West. 
The  names  of  these  stations  were  an- 
nounced to  the  television  and  radio 
audiences   at  the   beginning  of  this 


meeting.  These  services  are  also  being 
broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in 
Barratt  Hall  by  television. 

We  welcome  all  present  this  morning 
here  in  the  Tabernacle,  and  all  mem- 
bers and  friends  listening  in  by  radio 
and  television.  We  express  appreciation 
for  the  presence  of  state  and  city  offi- 
cials and  educational  leaders  who  are 
present.  We  appreciate  the  presence  of 
our  stake  presidencies,  mission  and  tem- 
ple presidents,  bishoprics  of  wards,  and 
all  other  general  officers  of  the  Church. 

There  are  seated  in  the  Choir  seats 
a  choice  group  of  young  people,  as  you 
see.  They  are  members  of  the  Brigham 
Young  University  Combined  Choruses. 
Brother  Newel  B.  Weight  will  conduct 
the  singing.  Alexander  Schreiner  is  at 
the  organ.  We  welcome  these  young 
people,  and  want  them  to  know  that 
even  their  presence  is  an  inspiration  to 
us.  They  will  furnish  the  music  also 
this  afternoon. 


PRESIDENT  D 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Combined 
Choruses  rendering,  "Here  Yet  Awhile," 
conducted  by  Newel  B.  Weight.  The 
opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
Walter  W.  Hunter,  president  of  the 
Liberty  Stake. 


The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  sang  as  an  opening 
number,  "Here  Yet  Awhile,"  after  which 
the  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder 
Walter  W.  Hunter,  President  of  the 
Liberty  Stake. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder 
Walter  W.  Hunter,  president  of  the 
Liberty  Stake. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  will  now  favor  us  with, 
"Psalm  150,"  accompanied  by  organ, 
brass  quartet,  and  harp,  conducted  by 
Elder  Newel  B.  Weight. 


The  Combined  Choruses  presented 
the  selection,  "Psalm  150." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

It  has  been  one  hundred  and  thirty 
years  since  the  Church  was  organized 
in  the  house  of  Peter  Whitmer,  Sr., 
Fayette,  Seneca  County,  New  York.  The 
group  assembled  there,  and  six  men 
bowed  in  solemn  prayer  to  their  Heav- 
enly Father,  and  proceeded  in  accord- 
ance with  a  previous  commandment  to 
organize  the  Church.  Each  individual 
was  confirmed  a  member  of  the  Church. 
Joseph  Smith,  Jr.  was  appointed  Prophet, 
Seer,  and  Revelator  of  the  Church. 
They  administered  the  sacrament.  We 
are  told,  and  I  quote:  "The  spirit  of  the 
Lord  was  manifest  in  a  very  great  de- 
gree. Some  prophesied,  all  praised  the 
Lord  and  rejoiced  exceedingly." 

There  were  others  present  at  this 
meeting  who  became  convinced  of  the 
truth,  and  came  forward  shortly  after- 
wards and  were  received  into  the  Church 
by  baptism.  Among  these  were  the 
Prophet's  own  father  and  mother,  who 
were  baptized  and  confirmed  members. 
Martin  Harris  came  forward  later.  He 
had  been  a  witness  to  the  Book  of 


/ID  O.  McKAY  87 

Mormon  and  mortgaged  his  farm  to  pay 
for  the  printing  of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
This  book  had  already  been  published 
before  the  Church  was  organized. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  this 
Conference,  will  now  read  the  vital 
statistical  data  of  the  Church  for  your 
information  and  acceptance. 

After  Brother  Anderson,  Elder  Orval 
W.  Adams  and  the  auditors  of  the 
Church  will  read  the  financial  report 
of  the  leaders  of  the  Church. 


Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the 
Conference,  then  read  statistical  data: 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 
TEMPLE,  MISSION,  STAKE,  WARD, 
AND  BRANCH  ORGANIZATIONS 
SINCE  OCTOBER  CONFERENCE, 
1959 

TEMPLE  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

Arizona  Temple:  James  Robert  Price 
to  succeed  Arwell  L.  Pierce. 

Hawaiian  Temple:  H.  Roland  Tietjen 
to  succeed  Ray  E.  Dillman. 

NEW  MISSIONS  ORGANIZED 

European  Mission. 

North  British  Mission  by  a  division  of 
the  British  Mission. 

CHANGE  IN  MISSION  NAME 

French-Polynesian  Mission,  formerly 
the  Tahitian  Mission. 

MISSION  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

Argentine  Mission:  C.  Laird  Snel- 
grove,  to  succeed  Lorin  N.  Pace. 

European  Mission:  Alvin  R.  Dyer. 

French  Mission:  Edgar  B.  Brossard,  to 
succeed  Milton  L.  Christensen. 

Great  Lakes  Mission:  Clifford  O. 
Gledhill,  to  succeed  John  E.  Carr. 

New  England  Mission:  John  E.  Carr, 
to  succeed  Edgar  B.  Brossard. 

North  British  Mission:  Bernard  P. 
Brockbank. 

North  German  Mission:  Percy  K. 
Fetzer,  to  succeed  Burtis  F.  Robbins. 

Northern  States  Mission:  Richard 
Maycock,  to  succeed  Richard  C.  Strat- 
ford. 

South  African  Mission:  O.  Layton 
Alldredge,  to  succeed  Glen  G.  Fisher. 
South  German  Mission:  T.  Quentin 


88  GENERAL  C 

Wednesday,  April  6 

Cannon  to  succeed  John  A.  Buehner 
and  Samuel  E.  Bringnurst,  who  is  pres- 
ently serving  temporarily  as  acting  mis- 
sion president. 

NEW  STAKES  ORGANIZED 

American  River  Stake  organized 
December  6,  1959  by  division  of  North 
Sacramento  Stake. 

Manchester  Stake  organized  March 

27,  1960  from  a  part  of  the  British  Mis- 
sion. 

New  Jersey  Stake  organized  February 

28,  1960  from  parts  of  the  New  York 
Stake  and  the  Eastern  States  Mission. 

Sydney  Stake  organized  March  27, 
1960  from  a  part  of  the  Australian  Mis- 
sion. 

Tampa  Stake  organized  October  25, 
1959  by  division  of  Orlando  Stake. 

University  West  Stake  organized 
February  7,  1960  by  division  of  Univer- 
sity Stake. 

STAKE  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

American  River  Stake:  Austin  George 
Hunt. 

Hillside  Stake:  Harold  M.  Wright,  to 
succeed  Casper  H.  Parker. 

Manchester  Stake:  Robert  G.  Larson. 

New  Jersey  Stake:  George  Harding 
Mortimer. 

New  York  Stake:  G.  Stanley  McAllis- 
ter, to  succeed  George  H.  Mortimer. 

North  Sacramento  Stake:  Lester  Dobie 
Call,  to  succeed  Austin  G.  Hunt. 

Pasadena  Stake:  Richard  Sterling 
Summerhays,  to  succeed  Howard  W. 
Hunter. 

San  Francisco  Stake:  Irven  Glade  Der- 
rick, to  succeed  Serge  J.  Lauper. 

Sydney  Stake:  Dell  C.  Hunt 

Tampa  Stake:  Edwin  Harold  White. 

Temple  View  Stake:  Maurice  J. 
Taylor,  to  succeed  Percy  K.  Fetzer. 

Twin  Falls  Stake:  Joel  Avon  Tate, 
to  succeed  F.  Lyman  Schenk. 

University  West  Stake:  Lemonte 
Peterson. 

NEW  WARDS  ORGANIZED 

American  River  Stake:  Fulton  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Arden  Ward; 
Placerville  Ward,  formerly  Placerville 
Branch. 

Boise  Stake:  Boise  Twelfth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Boise  Sixth  Ward; 


Fourth  Day 

Boise  Thirteenth  Ward,  formed  by  di- 
vision of  Boise  First  and  Second  Wards. 

Bountiful  Stake:  Bountiful  Eighteenth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Bountiful 
Ninth  Ward. 

Calgary  Stake:  Calgary  Fifth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Calgary  First  and 
Fourth  Wards;  Calgary  Sixth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Calgary  Second 
Ward. 

Cheyenne  Stake:  Cheyenne  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Cheyenne 
Ward;  Greeley  Ward,  formerly  Greeley 
Branch. 

Cottonwood  Stake:  South  Cottonwood 
Fifth  Ward,  formed  by  division  of  South 
Cottonwood  Third  Ward. 

Denver  Stake:  Denver  Tenth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Englewood  Ward. 

El  Paso  Stake:  El  Paso  Fifth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  El  Paso  First 
Ward. 

Granger  Stake:  Granger  Ninth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Granger  Seventh 
Ward;  Granger  Tenth  Ward,  formed 
by  division  of  Granger  Sixth  Ward  and 
Granger  Seventh  Ward;  Granger  Elev- 
enth Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Granger  Third  Ward. 

Hayward  Stake:  Irvington  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Centerville  Ward. 

Juarez  Stake:  Juarez  Second  Ward, 
formerly  Juarez  Branch. 

Las  Vegas  Stake:  Las  Vegas  Eleventh 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Las  Vegas 
Seventh  Ward. 

Lyman  Stake:  Pinedale  Ward,  form- 
erly Pinedale  Branch. 

Maricopa  Stake:  Tempe  Third  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Tempe  Ward. 

Monterey  Bay  Stake:  Salinas  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Salinas 
Ward. 

Monument  Park  West  Stake:  Monu- 
ment Park  Eighth  Ward,  formed  by 
division  of  Monument  Park  Third, 
Fourth,  and  Seventh  Wards. 

New  Jersey  Stake:  New  Brunswick 
and  Trenton  Wards,  formerly  branches 
in  the  Eastern  States  Mission. 

New  Orleans  Stake:  Gulf  port  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Biloxi  Ward. 

New  York  Stake:  Bridgeport  Ward, 
formerly  a  branch  in  the  New  England 
Mission. 

North  Box  Elder  Stake:  Brigham  City 
Fourteenth  Ward,  formed  by  division 


CHANGES  IN  CHURC 

of  Brigham  City  Twelfth  Ward;  Brig- 
ham  City  Thirteenth  Ward,  formed  by 
division  of  Brigham  City  Fourth  Ward. 

North  Jordan  Stake:  North  Jordan 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Granger 
Second  Ward. 

North  Seattle  Stake:  Seattle  Tenth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Seattle 
Eighth  Ward. 

Olympus  Stake:  Holladay  Fifteenth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Holladay 
Twelfth  and  Thirteenth  Wards. 

Phoenix  North  Stake:  Phoenix  Nine- 
teenth Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Glendale  Second  Ward. 

San  Francisco  Stake:  Novato  Ward, 
formerly  Novato  Branch. 

San  Jose  Stake:  Los  Gatos  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Los  Gatos 
Ward. 

San  Mateo  Stake:  Pacifica  Ward, 
formerly  Sharp  Park  Bench. 

Santa  Ana  Stake:  Tustin  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Orange  Ward. 

Santa  Barbara  Stake:  Oxnard  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Oxnard 
Ward. 

Snowflake  Stake:  Holbrook  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Holbrook 
Ward. 

South  Carolina  Stake:  Columbia  Sec- 
ond Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Columbia  Ward;  Sumter  Ward,  form- 
erly Sumter  Branch. 

South  Davis  Stake:  Orchard  Third 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Orchard 
Ward. 

Sydney  Stake:  Bankstown,  Hurstville, 
Newcastle,  Sutherland  and  Sydney 
Wards,  formerly  branches  in  the  Aus- 
tralian Mission. 

Tampa  Stake:  Dunedin  Ward,  form- 
erly Dunedin  Branch;  Lakeland  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Winter  Haven 
Ward;  Plant  City  Ward,  formerly 
Springhead  Branch;  St.  Petersburg 
Ward,  formerly  St.  Petersburg  Branch. 

University  Stake:  University  Sixth 
Ward,  formed  from  various  wards. 

Weber  Heights  Stake:  Ogden  Sixty- 
First  Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Ogden 
Thirty-Fourth  Ward. 

WARDS  AND  BRANCHES 
TRANSFERRED 

American  River  Stake:  Arden,  Car- 
michael,  El  Camino,  Fair  Oaks,  Fulton, 


H  ORGANIZATIONS  89 

and  Orangevale  Wards,  formerly  of 
North  Sacramento  Stake;  Placerville 
Ward,  formerly  of  Sacramento  Stake. 

Gooding  Stake:  Hazelton  Ward,  form- 
erly of  Minidoka  Stake. 

Granite  Park  Stake:  Grant  First  and 
Tenth  Wards,  formerly  of  Grant  Stake. 

New  Jersey  Stake:  Montclair,  North 
Jersey  and  Short  Hills  Wards,  formerly 
of  New  York  Stake;  New  Brunswick, 
and  Trenton  Wards;  Monmouth  and 
Lakehurst  Branches,  formerly  of  the 
Eastern  States  Mission. 

Sydney  Stake:  Bankstown,  Hurstville, 
Newcastle,  Sutherland  and  Sydney 
Wards;  Blacktown,  Parramatta  and 
Wollongong  Branches,  formerly  of  the 
Australian  Mission. 

Tampa  Stake:  Bradenton,  Dunedin, 
Lakeland,  Plant  City,  St.  Petersburg, 
Tampa  and  Winter  Haven  Wards;  and 
Dade  City  Branch,  formerly  of  Orlanda 
Stake. 

University  West  Stake:  Eleventh, 
West  Eleventh,  East  Twelfth,  West 
Twelfth,  North  Thirteenth,  South  Thir- 
teenth, and  University  Wards,  formerly 
of  University  Stake. 

WARD  AND  BRANCH  NAMES 
CHANGED 

Great  Falls  Stake:  Choteau  Branch, 
formerly  Bynum  Branch. 

San  Jose  Stake:  Los  Gatos  First  Ward, 
formerly  Los  Gatos  Ward. 

Tampa  Stake:  Plant  City  Ward, 
formerly  Springhead  Branch. 

INDEPENDENT  BRANCHES 
ORGANIZED 

Ashley  Stake:  Dutch  John  Branch, 
formed  by  division  of  Manila  Ward. 

Atlanta  Stake:  Dublin  Branch,  formed 
by  division  of  Empire  Ward. 

Dallas  Stake:  Killeen  Branch,  form- 
erly dependent  upon  Waco  Ward. 

Fresno  Stake:  Atwater  Branch,  formed 
by  division  of  Merced  Ward. 

Great  Falls  Stake:  Malmstrom  Air 
Force  Branch,  formed  by  division  of 
Great  Falls  and  Great  Falls  Second 
Wards. 

Honolulu  Stake:  Guam  Branch,  for- 
merly a  branch  in  the  Southern  Far 
East  Mission. 


90 

Wednesday,  April  6 

Missoula  Stake:  Phillipsburg  Branch, 
formed  by  division  of  Allendale  Ward. 

Monterey  Bay  Stake:  San  Lorenzo 
Valley  Branch,  formed  by  division  of 
Santa  Cruz  Ward. 

New  Jersey  Stake:  Lakehurst  and 
Monmouth  Branches,  formerly  branches 
in  the  Eastern  States  Mission. 

North  Seattle  Stake:  Anacortes  Branch, 
formed  by  division  of  Oak  Harbor 
Branch. 

Reno  Stake:  South  Tahoe  Branch, 
formed  by  division  of  Carson  City 
Branch. 

Santa  Rosa  Stake:  Sonoma  Branch, 
formed  by  division  of  Napa  Ward. 

Sydney  Stake:  Blacktown,  Parramatta 
and  Wollongong  Branches,  formerly  in 
the  Australian  Mission. 

Walnut  Creek  Stake:  Danville  Branch, 
formed  by  division  of  Walnut  Creek 
Ward. 

WARDS  AND  INDEPENDENT 
BRANCHES  DISCONTINUED 

Deseret  Stake:  Abraham  Branch,  mem- 
bership transferred  to  Sutherland  Ward. 
Gooding    Stake:    Gooding  Second 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Fourth  Day 

Ward,  membership  transferred  to  Good- 
ing Ward. 

Grantsville  Stake:  Lake  Side  Branch, 
membership  transferred  to  various 
wards. 

Lyman  Stake:  Farson  Branch,  now 
dependent  upon  Rock  Springs  Second 
Ward. 

North  Carbon  Stake:  Storrs  Ward, 
membership  transferred  to  Helper  Ward. 

Pioneer  Stake:  Riverview  Ward, 
membership  transferred  to  the  Twenty- 
Fifth  and  Twenty-Sixth  Wards. 

Reno  Stake:  Fernley  Branch,  now  de- 
pendent upon  Fallon  Ward. 

Salmon  River  Stake:  Cobalt  Branch. 

Seattle  Stake:  Seattle  Tenth  Ward, 
membership  transferred  to  Seattle  Fourth 
Ward. 

THOSE  WHO  HAVE  PASSED  AWAY 

Amy  Brown  Lyman,  former  General 
President  of  Relief  Society. 

Blanche  Mendenhall  Condie,  wife  of 
Richard  P.  Condie,  conductor  of  the 
Salt  Lake  Mormon  Tabernacle  Choir. 


STATISTICAL  REPORT  —  1959 

For  the  Information  of  the  Members  of  the  Church: 

The  First  Presidency  issued  the  following  statement  concerning  the  condition  and 
operation  of  the  Church  for  the  year  1959. 

Number  of  Stakes  of  Zion  at  close  of  1959    290 

Number  of  Wards    2,309 

Number  of  Independent  Branches    305 

Total  Wards  and  Indeepndent  Branches  at  close  of  year   2,614 

Number  of  Full-Time  Missions  at  end  of  year   50 

Church  Membership,  December  31,  1959: 

In  the  Stakes    1,336,675 

In  the  Missions    279,413 

Total  Membership    1,616,088 


Church  Growth  during  1959: 

Children  blessed  in  Stakes  and  Missions  .. 
Children  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions  .. 
Converts  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions 

Social  Statistics: 

(based  on  1959  data  from  the  Stakes) 

Birth  rate  per  thousand   

Marriage  rate  per  thousand   

Death  rate  per  thousand   


53,399 
39,201 
33,060 


34.00 
8.01 
5.50 


STATISTICAL  REPORT  —  1959  91 


Priesthood: 

Members  holding  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  December  31,  1959: 

Deacons    74,796 

Teachers    56,904 

Priests    77,017 

Total  holding  Aaronic  Priesthood    208,717 

Members  holding  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  December  31,  1959: 

Elders    151,392 

Seventies    21,883 

High  Priests    46,658 

Total  holding  Melchizedek  Priesthood    219,933 

Grand  total,  members  holding  Aaronic  or  Melchizedek  Priesthood    428,650 


Auxiliary  Organizations: 

Relief  Society  (membership)    203,752 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union  (average  attendance)    594,978 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association  (enrollment)    186,526 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association  (enrollment)    209,275 

Primary  (children  enrolled)    311,240 

Welfare  Plan: 

Number  of  persons  assisted    89,997 

Number  placed  in  remunerative  employment  during  year   9,178 

Man-days  of  work  donated  to  the  Welfare  Plan  during  year   249,106 

Unit-days  of  equipment  use  donated    11,635 

Genealogical  Society: 

Names  cleared  in  1959  for  temple  ordinances    907,109 


Genealogical  records  microfilmed  in  12  countries  during  the  year  were  equivalent 
to  188,411  printed  volumes  of  approximately  300  pages  per  volume. 

Temples: 


Ordinances  performed  during  1959  in  the  12  operating  Temples: 

For  the  living    37,088 

For  the  dead    3,376,533 

Total  number  of  ordinances    3,413,621 

Church  School  System: 

Total  1959  cumulative  enrollments  in  the  Church  School  System 
(including  schools  in  the  Pacific) : 

College  Students    25,054 

Elementary  and  High  School  Students   55,624 


Missionaries: 

Number  of  misisonaries  who  at  the  close  of  1959  were  laboring  under  calls 

from  the  First  Presidency  in  the  full-time  missions    5,500 

Number  of  local  missionaries  (full-time  and  part-time)  who  at  the  close  of  1959 

were  laboring  in  these  missions    1,468 

Number  of  stake  missionaries  at  the  close  of  the  year   6,799 

Total  number  of  missionaries  at  end  of  year   13,767 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  in  the  Missionary  Home  during 

1959    2,793 


92  GENERAL  C 

Wednesday,  April  6 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Brother  Harold  L.  Davis  will  now 
read  the  report  of  the  Church  Auditing 
Department. 


April  6,  1950 

The  First  Presidency 
47  East  South  Temple 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Dear  Brethren: 

We  have  examined  the  1959  annual 
financial  reports  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The  reports 
included  the  balance  sheet  as  of  Decem- 
31,  1959  and  a  statement  of  operations 
for  the  year  then  ended  with  supporting 
exhibits.  The  examination  has  been 
made  in  conformity  with  generally  ac- 
cepted auditing  standards  and  according- 
ly included  such  tests  of  the  accounting 
records  and  such  other  auditing  pro- 
cedures as  we  considered  necessary  under 
the  circumstances. 

In  connection  therewith  we  have  re- 
ferred to  the  1959  Budget  approved  by 
the  Council  on  Disposition  of  Tithes  and 
the  minutes  of  the  Committee  on  Ex- 
penditures. All  financial  records  and 
documents  were  made  available  for  our 
inspection. 

Our  examination,  though  not  entirely 
completed  at  this  date,  indicates  that 
the  1959  annual  financial  reports,  pre- 
pared by  the  Church  Financial  Depart- 
ment, present  fairly  the  financial  opera- 
tions during  1959. 

Operating  expenditures  and  commit- 
ments for  building  projects  and  Church 
program  loans  for  the  year  1959  were 
within  the  income  and  reserves  of  the 
Church.  The  Church  was  free  from 
debt  with  the  exception  of  current  ex- 
penses not  due. 

Respectfully  submitted, 

CHURCH  AUDITING 

DEPARTMENT 
By: 

Harold  L.  Davis 
Charles  Schmidt 

President  David  O.  McKay: 
Elder  Orval  W.  Adams  will  now  pre- 


Fowth  Day 

sent  the  report  of  the  Church  Finance 
Committee. 


April  4,  1960 

The  First  Presidency 
47  East  South  Temple 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Dear  Brethren: 

We  have  made  a  study  of  the  program 
under  which  the  finances  of  the  Church 
are  administered,  with  particular  atten- 
tion to  the  accounting  for  all  funds  re- 
ceived and  the  manner  in  which 
expenditures  are  authorized  and  the  ac- 
counts are  maintained  and  audited.  We 
have  determined  that  all  funds  are  con- 
trolled by  budgetary  procedures;  that  the 
budget  is  authorized  by  the  Council  on 
the  Disposition  of  Tithes  composed  of 
the  First  Presidency,  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve,  and  the  Presiding  Bishopric, 
and  that  all  disbursements  are  approved 
by  a  sub-committee  of  this  Council  or 
authorized  agencies. 

The  Church  utilizes  modern  equip- 
ment and  accounting  procedures  in  its 
record  keeping,  and  the  work  is  done  by 
a  capable  staff.  All  of  the  general 
financial  records  of  the  Church  are 
audited  by  an  auditing  department  which 
is  completely  independent  of  all  other 
departments.  Professional  accounting 
firms  are  employed  to  audit  certain  or- 
ganizations owned  or  controlled  by  the 
Church. 

We  have  discussed  the  financial  re- 
port prepared  by  the  Financial  Depart- 
ment with  the  personnel  of  that 
department,  and  with  the  personnel  of 
the  auditing  department.  Based  upon  the 
reports  so  submitted  to  us,  and  explana- 
tions made  by  the  personnel  we  are  of 
the  opinion  that  the  appropriations  and 
the  expenditures  of  funds  during  the  year 
1959  were  all  made  in  accordance  with 
the  established  procedure  outlined 
herein. 

We  commend  the  General  Authorities 
for  the  manner  in  which  the  finances  of 
the  Church  are  administered,  and  the 
Financial  and  Auditing  Departments  for 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 


93 


the  expert  and  careful  manner  in  which 
all  financial  records  are  maintained  and 
audited. 

Respectfully  submitted 

CHURCH  FINANCE 
COMMITTEE 

Orval  W.  Adams 
Harold  H.  Bennett 
Glenn  L.  Nielson 
Wilford  G.  Edling 
Weston  E.  Hamilton 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the 
First  Presidency  will  now  present  the 
General  Authorities,  General  Officers, 
and  General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the 
Church  for  the  sustaining  vote  of  this 
General  Conference,  following  which 
Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  will  address  us. 


President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  session 
of  our  General  Conference  is  in  some 
respects  the  most  essential  feature  of  the 
Conference.  We  who  are  here  today 
are  the  Church  in  Conference  assembled. 
We  are  a  constituent  assembly  of  the 
Church,  acting  as  the  Church,  and  your 
votes  today  are  the  votes  of  the  Church. 
As  I  present  the  officers  I  wish  you  to 
understand  that  as  you  vote  for  the 
sustaining  or  otherwise  of  the  officers, 
you  vote  as  the  Church.  You  make  a 
solemn  obligation,  as  you  vote  as  the 
Church  that  you  will  sustain  and  uphold 
the  officers  of  the  Church  in  the  posi- 
tions into  which  they  come  as  the  re- 
sult of  your  approving  vote.  There  is 
no  appeal  provided  for  from  your  de- 
cisions, except  the  appeal  that  would  go 
to  our  Heavenly  Father  if  we  did  any- 
thing wrong. 

I  will  now  present,  as  has  been  an- 
nounced, the  following  persons  for  the 
positions  in  which  you  will  vote  to 
sustain  or  otherwise,  of  this  Church. 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  First  Presidency 

David  O.  McKay,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Henry  D.  Moyle,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 


Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
Harold  B.  Lee 
Spencer  W.  Kimball 
Ezra  Taft  Benson 
Mark  E.  Petersen 
Delbert  L.  Stapley 


Marion  G.  Romney 
LeGrand  Richards 
Richard  L.  Evans 
George  Q.  Morris 
Hugh  B.  Brown 
Howard  W.  Hunter 


Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  Patriarch 
to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 


94  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Fourth  Day 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Alma  Sonne  Gordon  B.  Hinckley 

EIRay  L.  Christiansen  Henry  D.  Taylor 

John  Longden  William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr. 

Sterling  W.  Sill  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

Trustee-in-Trust 
David  O.  McKay 

Trustee-in-Trust  for  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  Bruce  R.  McConkie 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Marion  D.  Hanks 

Seymour  Dilworth  Young  Albert  Theodore  Tuttle 

Milton  R.  Hunter 

Presiding  Bishopric 

Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Presiding  Bishop 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  First  Counselor 
Carl  W.  Buehner,  Second  Counselor 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  and  Preston  Nibley  as  Assistants 

Church  Board  of  Education 

David  O.  McKay  Delbert  L.  Stapley 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Marion  G.  Romney 

Henry  D.  Moyle  LeGrand  Richards 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Richard  L.  Evans 

Harold  B.  Lee  George  Q.  Morris 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  Howard  W.  Hunter 
Mark  E.  Petersen 

Administrator,  Board  of  Education 

Ernest  L.  Wilkinson 

Church  Finance  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams 
Harold  H.  Bennett 
Wilford  G.  Edling 
Glenn  E.  Nielson 
Wesley  E.  Hamilton 

Church  Auditors 

Harold  L.  Davis 
Charles  Schmidt 
Fred  W.  Schloss 
John  Marshall 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Tabernacle  Choir 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Conductor 
Jay  E.  Welch,  Assistant  Conductor 
W.  Jack  Thomas,  Tour  Manager 

Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant 

CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 
Advisers 

Harold  B.  Lee  John  Longden 

Delbert  L.  Stapley  Henry  D.  Taylor 

Marion  G.  Romney  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

LeGrand  Richards  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 

Alma  Sonne  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 

EIRay  L.  Christiansen  Carl  W.  Buehner 

and  the  General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 

General  Church  Welfare  Committee 

Marion  G.  Romney,  Chairman 
Henry  D.  Taylor,  Managing  Director 

Paul  C.  Child  LeRoy  A.  Wirthlin 

Mark  B.  Garff  Walter  Stover 

J.  Leonard  Love  A.  Lewis  Elggren 

William  T.  Lawrence  Donald  Ellsworth 

Lorenzo  H.  Hatch  Casper  H.  Parker 
Walter  Dansie 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 
Relief  Society 

Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Louise  Wallace  Madsen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 

George  R.  Hill,  General  Superintendent 

David  Lawrence  McKay,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 

Lynn  S.  Richards,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 

with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Joseph  T.  Bentley,  General  Superintendent 
George  Carlos  Smith,  Jr.,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Marvin  J.  Ashton,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


96 

Wednesday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Fourth  Day 


Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Bertha  S.  Reeder,  President 
Emily  H.  Bennett,  First  Counselor 
LaRue  C.  Longden,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Primary  Association 

LaVern  W.  Parmley,  President 
Arta  M.  Hale,  First  Counselor 
Leone  W.  Doxey,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

President  McKay,  so  far  as  I  could 
judge,  the  vote  was  a  hundred  per  cent 
in  the  affirmative. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  a  report 
from  the  Clerk  of  the  Conference,  Elder 
Joseph  Anderson,  giving  vital  statistics; 
Harold    L.    Davis,    representing  the 


Church  Auditing  Committee;  Orval  W. 
Adams,  representing  the  Church  Finance 
Committee.  President  J.  Reuben  Clark, 
Jr.  of  the  First  Presidency  presented  the 
General  Authorities,  General  Officers, 
and  General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the 
Church.  We  thank  you,  brethren  and 
sisters,  for  your  unanimous  vote  in  the 
affirmative. 

Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  first  speaker 
this  morning.  He  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  George  Q.  Morris. 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  if  the  Lord 
will  bless  me  I  desire  to  say  a  few  words 
about  a  most  serious  world-wide  threat. 
In  the  Old  Testament  we  read:  "My 
people  are  destroyed  for  lack  of  knowl- 
edge." (Hosea  4:6.) 

Thus  spoke  Hosea,  the  prophet.  In 
keeping  with  the  spirit  of  President 
McKay's  masterful  opening  address,  I 
take  these  words  of  warning  as  my  text, 
"My  people  are  destroyed  for  lack  of 
knowledge." 

As  in  Old  Testament  days  we  need 
knowledge  today.  We  need  to  know 
our  enemies.  We  must  assess  clearly 
and  accurately  the  perils  that  face  the 
free  world  as  we  enter  the  Missile  Age. 
At  the  same  time  we  must  assure  our- 
selves of  the  knowledge  which  brings 
confidence  and  trust  in  our  ability  and 
that  of  our  friends  around  the  world 
to  face  the  future — not  in  fear  but  with 
vigilance.      From    knowledge  comes 


strength,  and  from  strength  comes  the 
power  to  preserve  freedom  both  at  home 
and  abroad. 

President  Eisenhower  and  other  dedi- 
cated men  have  worked  tirelessly  to 
help  the  free  world  understand  better 
the  deadly  world  conflict  between  good 
and  evil  which  is  constantly  going  on. 

We  are  now  entering  a  period  of  con- 
ferences, first  at  the  Summit  in  May 
and  again  in  June  when  the  President 
travels  to  Moscow  for  a  ten-day  visit  in 
Russia. 

As  the  President  said  in  his  State  of 
the  Union  Message  last  January,  "We 
will  continue  in  our  search  for  peace 
and  in  our  efforts  to  reach  mutually 
enforceable  agreements." 

We  have  an  enormous  responsibility 
here  in  the  United  States  to  help  main- 
tain peace  and  freedom  and  to  push 
back  the  somber  clouds  of  war-threats 
caused  by  international  tensions. 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


97 


The  power  of  communism  depends  to 
a  large  extent  on  public  ignorance. 
Knowledge  is  a  dangerous  thing — to 
totalitarian  states;  but  knowledge  is 
strength  to  a  free  people. 

There  are  some  fundamental  facts 
which  must  never  be  overlooked,  lest 
it  be  said  of  this  our  land,  "My  people 
are  destroyed  for  lack  of  knowledge." 
(Hosea  4:6.) 

We  must  never  forget  exactly  what 
communism  really  is.  Communism  is  far 
more  than  an  economic  system.  It  is 
a  total  philosophy  of  life — atheistic  and 
completely  opposed  to  all  that  we  hold 
dear. 

We  believe  in  an  all-wise  Creator. 
Communism  teaches  that  everything  in 
existence  came  about  as  a  result  of 
ceaseless  motion  of  the  forces  of  nature. 

We  believe  in  the  dignity  of  man. 
Communism  holds  that  human  beings 
are  but  graduate  beasts.  Hence  com- 
munism does  not  hesitate  to  destroy 
those  who  stand  in  its  way.  The  Rus- 
sian communists  in  their  rise  to  power 
liquidated  millions  of  their  fellow 
countrymen.  The  Chinese  communists 
wiped  out  tens  of  millions — perhaps  as 
many  as  30  million. 

We  believe  in  a  moral  code.  Com- 
munism denies  innate  right  or  wrong. 
As  W.  Cleon  Skousen  has  said  in  his 
timely  book,  The  Naked  Communist: 
The  communist  "has  convinced  himself 
that  nothing  is  evil  which  answers  the 
call  of  expediency."  This  is  a  most 
damnable  doctrine.  People  who  truly 
accept  such  a  philosophy  have  neither 
conscience  nor  honor.  Force,  trickery, 
lies,  broken  promises  are  wholly  justi- 
fied. 

We  believe  in  religion  as  a  mode  of 
life  resulting  from  our  faith  in  God. 
Communism  contends  that  all  religion 
must  be  overthrown  because  it  inhibits 
the  spirit  of  world  revolution. 

Earl  Browder,  a  long-time  leader  of 
the  Communist  Party  in  the  U.  S.  A., 
said,  ".  .  .  we  Communists  do  not  dis- 
tinguish between  good  and  bad  religions, 
because  we  think  they  are  all  bad." 

This  atheistic,  degrading,  but  militant 
philosophy  is  backed  up  with  the 
strength  and  resources  of  a  big  country 
of  210  million  people  and  a  fast-growing 
economy.  In  addition,  communism  has 
built  an  empire  of  700  million  people 


more.  Besides  this,  it  has  agents  in  all 
free  world  countries  whose  ultimate  aim 
is  to  overthrow  the  existing  social  order 
and  bring  these  countries  under  the  red 
flag. 

The  major  communist  objective, 
make  no  mistake  about  it,  is  to  destroy 
any  society  that  adheres  to  the  funda- 
mentals of  spiritual,  economic,  and 
political  freedom — the  integrity  of  man. 

As  the  leading  exponent  of  the  free 
society,  the  United  States  is  thus  the 
primary  target  of  Marxian-Lenin  philos- 
ophy. 

Internationally,  communism  seeks  to 
isolate  us  from  the  rest  of  the  free  world. 
Here  at  home,  communism  ceaselessly 
pursues  the  disintegration  of  the  Ameri- 
can way  of  life.  It  strives  to  use 
education,  science,  literature,  art,  even 
the  churches,  to  undermine  our  free 
society. 

Suppose  for  a  moment  that  this  coun- 
try fell  under  communist  control.  What 
would  be  the  fruits  of  this  calamity? 
First,  the  true  seat  of  government  would 
immediately  be  removed  from  Wash- 
ington to  Moscow.  William  Z.  Foster, 
the  former  head  of  the  Communist  Party 
in  the  United  States,  said  this:  "When  a 
Communist  heads  the  government  of  the 
United  States — and  that  day  will  come 
just  as  surely  as  the  sun  rises — the  gov- 
ernment will  not  be  a  Capitalistic 
government  but  a  Soviet  government, 
and  behind  this  government  will  stand 
the  Red  Army  to  enforce  the  dictatorship 
of  the  proletariat." 

What  would  this  mean  to  you  and 
me  in  our  daily  lives? 

Could  we  own  our  own  homes?  Our 
living  quarters  would  be  assigned  to  us, 
and  we  would  pay  rent  to  the  state  as 
ordered. 

Could  we  own  our  own  farms?  Our 
farms  would  be  collectivized  and  be- 
come the  property  of  the  state  and  we 
would  work  them  under  orders  from 
the  state. 

Could  we  start  a  business  and  hire 
people  to  work  for  us?  To  do  so  would 
make  us  criminals. 

Could  we  work  where  we  pleased?  We 
would  work  when,  where,  and  how  we 
were  told — and  the  government  would 
do  the  telling.  No  labor  unions  as  we 
now  know  them  would  be  permitted 
to  exist.    Neither  would  Chambers  of 


98 

Wednesday,  April  6 

Commerce,  Farm  Organizations,  Rotary 
Clubs,  the  American  Legion,  and  other 
organizations. 

What  would  happen  to  our  bank 
accounts?  All  above  a  small  sum  would 
be  confiscated.  The  rest  would  be 
state-controlled  for  us.  The  state  would 
take  over  our  insurance. 

Except  for  a  few  closely  personal 
items  we  would  have  no  property  to 
leave  to  our  families  when  we  die. 

We  could  travel  around  the  country 
only  with  police  permission. 

We  could  not  travel  abroad  or  marry 
a  foreigner  without  the  specific  approval 
of  the  state. 

We  could  not  even  write  freely  to 
friends  in  other  countries. 

Our  children  would  go  to  the  schools 
selected  for  them,  and  only  so  long  as 
the  state  permitted.  Lenin  said,  "Give 
us  a  child  for  eight  years,  and  it  will 
be  a  Bolshevik  forever." 

Teachers  would  be  free  to  teach  only 
what  the  state  authorized.  William  Z. 
Foster  said,  "Our  teachers  must  write 
new  school  textbooks  and  rewrite  his- 
tory from  the  Marxian  viewpoint." 

To  belong  to  a  church  would  be  sure 
to  bring  discrimination  and  penalties  of 
many  kinds  against  us  and  our  families. 
The  great  majority  of  church  buildings 
would  become  state  museums  or  ware- 
houses. 

No  real  compromise  is  possible  with 
evil  such  as  this. 

Is  there  any  real  danger  that  such  a 
calamity  could  befall  us  here?  My  re- 
sponse to  that  is  merely  to  recite  the 
following  shocking  fact: 

In  forty  years,  communism,  by  trick- 
ery and  force,  has  brought  more  people 
under  its  domination  than  the  total 
number  of  Christians  now  living  in  the 
entire  world — and  Christianity  has  been 
in  existence  for  nearly  2,000  years. 

We  dare  not  underestimate  the  com- 
munists' zeal,  nor  their  aims,  nor  their 
power.  To  do  so  could  mean  our  de- 
struction. 

We  dare  not  accept  communist 
pledges  at  face  value. 

The  German  situation  is  a  dramatic 
example. 

The  Soviet  Union  in  the  1940's  sealed 
off  its  German  occupation  zone — break- 
ing its  promise. 

The  Soviet  Union  built  up  a  power- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Fourth  Day 

ful  East  German  semi-military  police 
force — breaking  another  promise. 

The  Soviet  Union  pledged  Germany 
political  freedom,  as  well  as  freedom  of 
speech  and  press.  Here  again  she  broke 
her  promise. 

The  Soviet  Union  agree4  to  four- 
power  rule  in  Berlin,  then  set  up  a 
separate  East  Berlin — breaking  its  prom- 
ise. 

I  visited  the  Soviet  Union  last  fall, 
spending  much  of  my  time  with  the 
good,  honest,  hard-working  people  of 
the  soil.  I  am  sure  the  Russian  people 
want  peace.  I  am  confident  that  we 
can  look  forward  to  an  era  of  peace  if 
the  governments  of  the  world  respond 
to  the  will  of  the  people.  But  I  saw  no 
evidence  that  the  communist  leaders 
have  altered  their  goal  of  world  con- 
quest— by  economic  if  not  by  military 
means. 

Even  this  short  visit  to  the  Soviet 
Union  clearly  revealed  how  uneven  and 
unbalanced  their  economic  progress 
actually  is.  Their  success  in  the  field 
of  rocketry  is  in  sharp  contrast  to  their 
backwardness  in  general  standards  of 
living.  A  Soviet  wisecrack  of  recent 
vintage  goes  like  this:  "Last  year  we  got 
a  sputnik  and  this  year  a  lunik,  and  one 
of  these  days  we  may  even  get  shoes." 

In  agricultural  efficiency  and  pro- 
ductivity the  Soviet  Union  is  still  a  long 
way  behind  the  United  States.  But  they 
do  have  a  substantial  growth  potential. 

By  means  of  a  great  effort,  including 
better  economic  incentives,  Soviet  agri- 
culture has  increased  production  by  one 
half  or  more  in  the  past  six  years. 

About  fifty  million  persons  work  in 
Russian  agriculture  and  forestry — more 
than  forty  percent  of  their  total  labor 
force — compared  with  a  little  over  seven 
million  persons  in  the  United  States, 
or  less  than  10  percent  of  our  labor  force. 

They  have  relatively  few  farm  ma- 
chines compared  to  the  United  States, 
and  they  use  a  great  deal  of  hand 
labor,  most  of  it  done  by  women.  Some 
sixty  to  seventy-five  percent  of  their  agri- 
cultural labor  force  consists  of  women. 

But  one  farm  worker  in  the  United 
States  produces  enough  food  and  fiber  to 
support  about  twenty-five  persons — one 
farm  worker  in  Russia  produces  enough 
for  only  five  or  six  persons. 

The  typical  Russian  laborer  has  one 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


99 


pair  of  shoes  and  one  suit  of  clothes. 
That's  because  it  takes  a  month's  wages 
to  buy  a  pair  of  shoes  and  two  months 
or  more  to  buy  a  suit  of  clothes. 

They  are  putting  up  a  bold  front  as 
regards  their  ability  to  catch  up.  I  saw 
hundreds  of  posters  in  the  USSR  urging 
farmers  to  surpass  the  United  States  in 
per  capita  production.  I  also  saw 
numerous  posters  forecasting  the  ulti- 
mate victory  of  the  communist  system. 

But  we  in  this  country  are  driving 
ahead  also. 

I  feel  sure  that  the  Soviets  will  not 
equal  nor  surpass  our  productivity  in  our 
lifetime,  if  ever,  under  their  system  of 
agriculture.  Why?  Because  they  can 
never  duplicate  the  levels  of  efficiency 
and  productive  ingenuity  which  are 
called  forth  in  a  free  society. 

But  let  us  not  underestimate  them. 
On  the  contrary,  let  us  strive  harder  to 
make  our  own  free  system  of  agriculture 
and  industry  even  more  efficient.  And 
let  us  constantly  keep  our  guard  up. 

What  can  you  and  I  do  to  help  meet 
this  grave  challenge  from  a  godless, 
atheistic,  cruelly  materialistic  system — 
to  preserve  our  God-given  free  way  of 
life? 

First,  let  us  all  prize  the  treasures 
we  have  in  this  country.  This  is  a 
choice  land — all  of  America — choice 
above  all  others.  Blessed  by  the  Al- 
mighty, our  forebears  have  made  and 
kept  it  so.  It  will  continue  to  be  a  land 
of  freedom  and  liberty  as  long  as  we 
are  able  and  willing  to  advance  in  the 
light  of  sound  and  enduring  principles 
of  right. 

Second,  let  us  all  do  our  part  to  stay 
freel  Let  us  stand  eternal  watch  against 
the  accumulation  of  too  much  power 
in  government.  Here  in  our  free  land 
let  us  preserve  a  true  climate  in  which 
man  can  grow. 

Third,  let  us  all  reaffirm  our  patriot- 
ism, our  love  of  country.  Patriotism  is 
more  than  flag-waving  and  brave 
words.  It  is  how  we  respond  to  public 
issues.  Let  us  rededicate  ourselves  as 
patriots  in  the  truest  sense. 

Fourth,  let  us  all  help  to  build  peace: 
True  peace  springs  from  within.  Its 
price  is  righteousness,  and  to  achieve 
righteousness  we  must  so  conduct  our- 
selves individually  and  collectively  as 


to  earn  the  loyalty  and  devotion  of  other 
men. 

Finally,  let  us  all  rededicate  our  lives 
and  our  nation  to  do  the  will  of  God. 
With  each  of  you,  I  love  this  nation. 
It  is  my  firm  belief  that  the  God  of 
heaven  guided  the  Founding  Fathers  in 
establishing  it  for  his  particular  pur- 
poses. But  God's  purpose  is  to  build 
free  people  of  character,  not  physical 
monuments  to  their  material  accumula- 
tions. 

Nations  that  truly  love  freedom  love 
God.  History  is  replete  with  examples 
of  once  powerful  nations  that  have 
forgotten  God.  No  nation  ripened  in 
iniquity  can  long  endure.  "Righteous- 
ness exalteth  a  nation:  but  sin  is  a 
reproach  to  any  people."  (Proverbs 
14:34.) 

We  in  this  land  have  a  rich  heritage 
of  freedom.  It  has  rewarded  us  beyond 
our  brightest  dreams.  The  key  to 
further  progress — the  key  to  national  se- 
curity— is  the  preservation  of  the  initia- 
tive, vitality,  energy,  and  resourcefulness 
of  our  people.  Our  material  progress 
is  merely  a  by-product  of  our  freedom. 
Our  God-given  freedom,  a  basic  princi- 
ple of  religious  truth,  is  still  the  most 
powerful  force  on  the  face  of  the  earth. 

The  people  of  the  world  long  for 
peace — and  I  specifically  include  the 
people  of  Russia. 

That  is  why  we  can  approach  these 
talks  with  the  Russians  with  inner 
strength  but  without  illusions.  We 
know  that  knowledge  of  the  enemy 
teaches  us  wariness  and  caution;  we 
know  too  that  we  speak  for  millions 
of  suppressed  people  on  the  Soviet  side 
of  the  Iron  Curtain,  all  those  every- 
where who  want  peace  with  human  dig- 
nity. 

May  I  conclude  by  saying  that  any 
system  which  deprives  men  of  their  free 
agency,  which  weakens  the  home  and 
family,  which  depends  on  butchery  for 
power,  which  denies  all  moral  responsi- 
bility, which  holds  that  man  lives  by 
bread  alone,  and  which  denies  the 
existence  of  God,  is  of  the  devil. 

This  is  the  communist  philosophy. 
There  is  no  real  evidence  that  it  has 
been  changed  in  the  last  forty  years. 

Knowledge  of  the  enemy  and  knowl- 
edge of  ourselves  give  us  the  strength 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Wednesday,  April  6 

to  fight  the  good  fight  for  freedom  and 
world  peace. 

May  it  never  come  to  pass  that  "My 
people  are  destroyed  for  lack  of  knowl- 
edge," (Hosea  4:6)  I  humbly  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve,  and  at  present  Secretary 
of  Agriculture  in  the  Cabinet  of  the 
President  of  the  United  States,  has  just 
spoken  to  us. 

The  Choir  and  Congregation  will  now 
sing,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For  a 
Prophet."    The  Choir  is  made  up  of 


Fourth  Day 

the  Combined  Choruses  of  the  Brigham 
Young  University.  Following  the  sing- 
ing Brother  Morris  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  will  speak  to  us. 


The  Combined  Choruses  of  the  Brig- 
ham  Young  University  joined  with  the 
congregation  in  singing  the  hymn,  "We 
Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For  A  Prophet." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Brother  George  Q.  Morris  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  now  speak  to  us. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Marion  D. 
Hanks  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy. 


ELDER  GEORGE  Q.  MORRIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  sin- 
cerely pray  that  the  Lord  will  direct 
me  in  what  I  shall  say  upon  this  occa- 
sion. President  Moyle  Monday  morning 
set  forth  very  clearly  and  effectively  the 
teachings  of  tre  Church  regarding  the 
coming  of  the  Savior,  and  I  thought  I 
would  like  to  mention  three  signs  that 
the  Lord  gave  that  we  might  observe 
and  know  when  we  saw  them  that  he 
had  set  his  hand  again  to  accomplish 
final  preparatory  work  for  the  coming 
of  the  millennium. 

The  first  of  these  was  to  be  the  restora- 
tion of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  That 
has  already  occurred,  and  it  occurred 
130  years  ago.  The  Church  speaks  for 
itself.  Its  literature,  its  scriptures,  its 
martyrs,  over  a  million  testimonies  from 
lips  and  lives  of  members  of  the  Church 
speak  to  the  world  and  bear  witness 
that  this  thing  has  been  accomplished 
that  the  Lord  has  set  his  hand  to  do,  and 
it  is  evident  that  it  is  spreading  all  over 
the  world  rapidly. 

A  week  ago  Sunday  our  representatives 
organized  a  stake  in  Australia  and  on 
the  same  day  another  in  England.  Our 
temples  encircle  the  globe.  Our  people 
are  on  all  continents  and  in  most  of 
the  countries  of  the  world,  and  God  is 
moving  forward  with  this,  his  kingdom. 

Another  sign  of  great  importance  was 
the  rise  of  an  evil  power.  Brother  Benson 
had  already  very  impressively  referred 
to  it — communism.    The  Lord,  in  the 


first  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, officially  and  formally  announced 
to  the  world  the  restoration  of  the  true 
and  living  Church,  and  called  upon 
all  people  to  hear  and  accept  the  mes- 
sages of  his  servants  that  he  was  send- 
ing forth  to  the  world. 

He  also  said:  "For  I  am  no  respecter  of 
persons,  and  will  that  all  men  shall 
know  that  the  day  speedily  cometh; 
the  hour  is  not  yet,  but  is  nigh  at  hand, 
when  peace  shall  be  taken  from  the 
earth" — that  condition,  I  think  we 
readily  understand — "and  the  devil  shall 
have  power  over  his  dominion."  (D&C 
1:35.) 

It  is  that  point  that  I  think  is  very 
significant.  The  Savior  recognized  the 
domination  of  Satan  over  the  world 
generally,  and  called  him  the  prince  of 
the  world,  but  in  a  special  way — in  the 
way  that  Brother  Benson  has  referred 
to — he  has  entered  into  the  politics  of 
the  world  among  the  nations  of  the 
world,  and  already  subjugated  about  one 
billion  people  of  the  world,  and  by  a 
dire,  sanguinary,  and  deadly  philosophy 
has  brought  death  to  millions  and  has 
brought  slavery  to  almost  a  billion 
people. 

I  just  want  to  call  one  point  to  your 
attention.  I  have  not  time  to  name 
others  here.  Brother  Benson  has  said 
that  they  have  declared  for  world 
domination,  their  aim  the  destruction 
of  all  the  governments  in  the  world. 


ELDER  GEORGE  Q.  MORRIS 


101 


I  want  to  read  before  you  God's  dec- 
laration: "And  in  the  days  of  these 
kings  shall  the  God  of  heaven  set  up 
a  kingdom,  which  shall  never  be  de- 
stroyed: and  the  kingdom  shall  not  be 
left  to  other  people,  but  it  shall  break 
in  pieces  and  consume  all  these  king- 
doms, and  it  shall  stand  for  ever." 
(Daniel  2:44) 

I  bear  my  witness  that  that  decree  of 
God  will  hold.  It  remains  for  us — 
members  of  the  kingdom  of  God — to 
devote  ourselves  with  singleness  of  pur- 
pose to  his  service.  To  love  God  with 
all  our  hearts,  and  love  our  fellow  men 
as  ourselves,  and  live  and  proclaim  this 
gospel  of  salvation  to  the  world  is  the 
only  means  that  will  save  it. 

A  third  item  is  God's  promise  that 
he  would  gather  Jews  to  Jerusalem,  and 
I  think  perhaps  we  may  well  now  not 
continue  saying  the  Jews  are  going  to 
gather  in  Jerusalem.  I  think  now  we 
may  well  say  they  have  gathered.  The 
ultimate  returns  will  come  later  as  they 
develop  this  land  and  are  joined  by 
others. 

In  a  writing  issued  recently  this 
statement  was  made:  "About  two  mil- 
lion Jews  have  returned  to  restore  land 
which  has  lain  desolate  for  centuries. 
In  little  more  than  ten  years  fetid 
swamps  have  been  transformed  into 
fertile  valleys.  Orchards  now  blossom 
on  stony  hillsides.  Farms  have  sprouted 
the  desert  and  towns  and  cities  have 
been  built  on  the  site  of  ancient  settle- 
ments."* 

It  goes  on  to  explain — I  do  not  have 
time  to  read  the  details — that  this  move- 
ment started  about  1880  when  pogroms 
against  the  Jews  drove  them  from 
Europe,  and  they  began  to  trickle  into 
Palestine.  In  1909  a  number  of  Jewish 
families  started  homes  on  the  sand 
dunes  outside  of  Jaffa,  working  with 
shovels  and  wheelbarrows.  Thus  began 
the  city  of  Tel  Aviv,  meaning  the  "hill 
of  spring,"  Israel's  biggest  city,  the  first 
all-Jewish  city  built  in  two  thousand 
years.  "Pioneers," — as  they  called  their 
farmers — returned  to  the  land  from 
countries  from  which  the  Jews  had  been 
driven,  in  which  they  could  not  possess 
land.  They  were  armed  farmers;  they 
constituted  the  Army  of  Defense,  re- 
minding one  of  the  Prophet  Nehemiah 
who  said,  "every  one  with  one  of  his 


hands  wrought  in  the  work,  and  with 
the  other  hand  held  a  weapon."  (Neh. 
4:17.) 

In  1948,  with  a  population  of  600,000, 
the  Declaration  of  Independence  was 
issued,  and  the  State  of  Israel  was  estab- 
lished. An  army  of  35,000  Jews  was 
opposed  by  an  army  of  nearly  80,000 
Arabs.  In  about  nine  months  peace 
was  declared  and  they  set  up  their 
government.  They  planted  more  than  53 
million  trees.  Martyrs'  Forest  has  six 
million  trees,  one  for  each  Jewish  life 
lost  in  Nazi  Europe. 

This  statement  by  a  writer  is  very 
interesting: 

"Strangely  enough  when  the  State  of 
Israel  was  reborn  in  1948,  it  was  a  na- 
tion of  600,000,  the  same  number  which 
the  Bible  reports  that  Moses  led  out  of 
bondage  in  Egypt.  It  now  numbers  some 
two  million,  the  same  number  which 
it  is  said  populated  the  ancient  Kingdom 
of  Solomon,  when  Israel  was  in  all  its 
glory."* 

That  is  why  we  may  now  say  that  the 
Jews  have  returned  to  Palestine.  On 
a  land  one-tenth  the  size  of  Utah  they 
have  nearly  a  half  million  more  people 
than  we  have  in  our  whole  Church. 
They  have  about  258  people  for  each 
square  mile  in  Palestine,  which  is  a 
dense  population.  We  have  about  ten 
a  square  mile  in  Utah. 

So  that  this  may  remind  us — I  cannot 
give  further  details — of  the  words  of 
Isaiah: 

"Break  forth  into  joy,  sing  together, 
ye  waste  places  of  Jerusalem:  for  the 
Lord  hath  comforted  his  people,  he  hath 
redeemed  Jerusalem. 

"The  Lord  hath  made  bare  his  holy 
arm  in  the  eyes  of  all  the  nations;  and 
all  the  ends  of  the  earth  shall  see  the 
salvation  of  our  God."  (Isa.  52:9-10.) 

And  this  looks  to  the  time  when  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  to  stand  on  the 
Mount  of  Olives,  and  the  people  will 
gather  about  that  mount,  and  they  will 
say,  "What  are  these  wounds  in  your 
hands  and  in  your  feet?"  And  he  will 
say  unto  them,  "These  are  the  wounds 
received  in  the  house  of  my  friends." 
Then  they  will  recognize  him — Jesus 
Christ,  the  Savior  of  the  world. 

I  declare  to  you,  my  dear  brethren 

'Know  the  World:  Israel,  "Around  the  World  Pro- 
gram" by  Peggy  Mann. 


102 

Wednesday,  April  6 

and  sisters,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world,  the  Son  of  the 
Living  God.  We  cannot  partly  accept 
him — as  a  philosopher,  as  merely  the 
most  perfect  man  who  ever  lived.  When 
we  do  that  we  reject  him.  We  reject  his 
sovereignty  and  his  divinity.  He  is  the 
God  of  Israel,  and  the  God  of  the  whole 
world.  He  is  Jehovah  of  the  ancient 
scriptures,  and  God,  the  Savior  of  the 
new  scriptures.  Into  his  hands  God 
has  placed  all  things,  and  given  him 
power  over  the  nations — all  flesh,  and 
he  is  exercising  that  power. 

Things  seem  to  us,  in  our  short- 
sightedness, all  confusion,  but  a  clear 
pattern  is  marked  out  that  we  can  dis- 
cern. These  three  things  have  been 
accomplished  that  he  told  his  disciples 
would  happen,  as  he  sat  with  them  on 
the  Mount  of  Olives,  and  he  is  to 
accomplish  all  other  things.  We  see 
now  another  rebellion  like  that  which 
occurred  at  the  planning  of  the  world, 
when  Lucifer  stood  up  and  impudently 
proposed  that  he  should  be  the  Savior, 
and  attempted  to  dethrone  God  and 
Jesus  Christ,  and  subject  the  world  to 
slavery. 

Now  these  issues  are  drawn  again — 
the  same  evil  power  has  declared  that 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Fourth  Day 

they  are  to  conquer  the  world.  God 
has  declared  that  his  kingdom  is  to 
consume  all  the  nations  of  the  world. 
The  issues  are  now  clearly  drawn,  and 
the  time  will  come  when  Satan,  again,  by 
the  power  of  the  Only  Begotten,  shall 
be  cast  down,  and  Jesus  Christ  will 
reign  supreme,  and  all  those  who  believe 
and  accept  the  fulness  of  his  gospel 
and  devote  themselves  with  all  their 
hearts  to  the  building  up  of  his  king- 
dom will  be  saved  and  honored  with 
him.  Those  who  will  not  must  of  neces- 
sity be  cast  out. 

I  bear  witness  that  this  is  the  Church 
and  kingdom  of  God  established  by  him, 
and  it  is  never  to  be  thrown  down;  that 
Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  the  Living 
God;  that  David  O.  McKay  is  a  prophet 
of  God  to  this  world  this  day.  I  bear 
this  witness  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  George  Q.  Morris  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Marion 
D.  Hanks  of  the  First  Council  of  the 
Seventy.  Elder  LeGrand  Richards  will 
follow  Brother  Hanks. 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


There  are  three  matters  which  I  would 
mention  this  morning  in  brief  head- 
lines, leaving  to  your  judgment  and 
experience  the  fleshing  in  of  the  story. 

First,  I  express  deep  appreciation  for 
the  clear  and  forthright  and  courageous 
expressions  of  conviction  which  have 
come  from  this  pulpit  at  this  great  con- 
ference. They  have  not  been  intemper- 
ate nor  unloving,  but  they  have  been 
firm  and  understandable  and  impressive. 
I  mention  this  because  there  are  those 
who  seem  to  believe  it  unfashionable  or 
even  unChristian  to  have  unconditional 
convictions,  really  to  believe  in  some- 
thing and  to  devote  one's  life  and  energy 
to  those  convictions.  As  this  conference 
has  proceeded,  I  have  been  increasingly 
grateful  to  belong  to  a  Church,  the 
position  of  which  is  clear  and  the  spokes- 
men for  which  are  convinced  and 
courageous. 


At  a  recent  meeting  I  attended,  a  talk 
was  given  which  seemed  to  be  lacking 
in  real  conviction.  At  its  conclusion 
the  chairman  of  the  day  characterized 
the  experience  as  "the  bland  leading  the 
bland." 

There  is  none  of  this  in  those  who 
speak  here  for  the  Lord. 

A  statement  of  Paul  to  the  Corinthians 
has  been  widely  quoted  recently.  It 
seems  applicable.   He  said: 

"For  if  the  trumpet  give  an  uncertain 
sound,  who  shall  prepare  himself  to 
the  battle?"  (1  Cor.  14:8.) 

Thank  God  for  the  unwavering  note. 

On  the  first  day  of  May  two  important 
events  will  be  celebrated  in  the  United 
States  in  which  Latter-day  Saints  should 
have  special  interest.  While  communist- 
controlled  countries  are  using  May  Day 
to  demonstrate  their  military  might  and 
their  philosophy  of  rule  by  force  and 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


103 


fear,  the  United  States  of  America  will 
be  celebrating  "Law  Day"  under 
proclamation  of  the  President.  Its  ob- 
jectives are: 

(1)  "To  foster  increased  respect  for 
law,  enabling  the  nation  to  grow  in 
moral  strength  as  it  grows  in  population, 
resources  and  world  leadership. 

(2)  "To  provide  an  occasion  for  the 
American  people  to  rededicate  them- 
selves to  freedom  for  the  individual 
under  just  laws  .  .  .  and  to  emphasize 
before  the  world  the  contrast  between 
the  rule  of  law  in  the  U.S.,  and  the 
system  of  totalitarian  lands." 

Members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  are  com- 
mitted to  obeying,  honoring,  and  sus- 
taining the  law.  We  are  under  obligation 
to  obey  the  law,  and  more — to  honor 
and  sustain  it. 

I  count  it  one  of  the  great  privileges 
of  my  life  to  have  been  a  student  of  the 
law  for  some  years  and  to  have  acquired 
through  that  experience  a  great  respect, 
as  my  father  had  before  me,  for  the 
system  of  justice  and  the  body  of  law 
which  we  enjoy  in  this  land.  This  is 
not  to  suppose  that  every  decision,  judg- 
ment, interpretation,  or  application  of 
law  is  good  and  just  altogether.  The 
workings  of  our  appellate  system,  the 
initiation,  revision,  and  abrogation  of 
laws,  testify  that  this  is  not  so.  It  is 
to  suggest  that  freedom  and  liberty  rest 
on  law,  that  our  laws  are  rooted  deeply 
in  religious  principles  and  rest  on  the 
moral  law,  and  ultimately  on  the  law 
of  God,  and  that  it  is  our  responsibility 
at  the  ballot  box,  in  the  jury  box,  in  civic 
responsibility  and  political  leadership, 
in  our  homes  and  on  the  highways,  to 
obey,  honor,  and  sustain  the  law  of  the 
land,  and  to  teach  our  children  to  do 
likewise. 

Also  on  the  first  day  of  May  there 
will  be  celebrated  the  beginning  of  Na- 
tional Youth  Fitness  Week,  and  again 


no  people  in  all  the  world  should  be 
more  concerned  with  the  implications 
of  that  day,  because  God  has  blessed  us 
with  the  principles,  the  programs,  and 
the  inspired  leadership  which  can  lead 
the  young,  if  they  are  willing,  to  the 
physical,  intellectual,  social,  emotional, 
and  spiritual  readiness  which  will  equip 
them  for  the  great  adventure  ahead. 

Recently  I  had  occasion  to  ponder  the 
wonderful  blessing  of  organization  and 
leadership  opportunities  which  the  Lord 
has  given  us,  and  to  consider  what 
might  happen  if  every  Latter-day  Saint, 
called  to  a  position  of  responsibility 
relevant  to  the  young,  would  accept  the 
full  implications  of  his  stewardship. 
Think  of  the  wonderful  work  being  done 
for  our  children  by  faithful  workers 
in  Primary  and  Sunday  School  and  MIA, 
in  scouting  and  exploring,  in  Aaronic 
Priesthood  work,  and  in  seminaries. 
Think  of  the  human  resources  available 
to  the  bishop  and  stake  president,  and 
to  their  counterparts  in  the  missionary 
field,  to  reach  out  for  the  young  and  to 
give  them  what  they  need  of  love,  per- 
sonal interest,  visiting,  good  teaching, 
recreation,  friendship,  testimony,  and 
example.  There  is  no  program  for  youth 
in  all  the  world  in  any  sense  compa- 
rable.  What  great  things  we  could  do! 

God  bless  us  to  have  a  sense  of  our 
responsibility  and  our  opportunity  in 
this  Church  to  provide  the  leadership 
for  our  young  people  which  help  equip 
them  to  be  fit  for  the  great  days  ahead. 

In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks  of  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy.  Elder  LeGrand 
Richards,  a  member  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve,  will  be  the  concluding 
speaker. 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  am  happy,  brothers  and  sisters,  to 
have  the  privilege  of  attending  this  great 
conference  with  you,  and  I  have  been 
thrilled  with  the  wonderful  messages  we 
have  heard.  During  the  conference  great 
stress  has  been  laid  upon  the  great 


missionary  program  of  the  Church,  a 
subject  dear  to  my  heart,  having  been 
a  missionary  most  all  of  my  life  and 
having  had  a  desire  to  be  a  missionary 
long  before  I  was  old  enough  to  go  on 
a  mission,  particularly  when  I  read  the 


104  GENERAL  C 

Wednesday,  April  6 

life  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  by 
George  Q.  Cannon,  for  from  that  time 
on  I  not  only  lived  for  but  also  prayed 
for  the  day  when  I  would  be  privileged 
to  go  into  the  mission  field. 

One  of  those  whom  I  admired  most 
in  my  youth  as  a  great  missionary,  was 
the  Apostle  Paul.  I  liked  his  testimony, 
as  he  stood  before  King  Agrippa  and  the 
most  noble  Festus  and  told  his  story 
how  the  Savior  appeared  to  him  as  he 
was  on  the  way  to  Damascus,  and  you 
remember  Festus  said,  "Paul,  thou  art 
beside  thyself;  much  learning  doth  make 
thee  mad,"  to  which  he  replied,  "I  am 
not  mad,  most  noble  Festus;  but  speak 
forth  the  words  of  truth  and  soberness." 
King  Agrippa  then  said,  "Almost  thou 
persuadest  me  to  be  a  Christian."  (Acts 
26:24-28.) 
And  you  remember  Paul's  reply  was: 
"I  would  to  God,  that  not  only  thou, 
but  also  all  that  hear  me  this  day,  were 
both  almost,  and  altogether  such  as 
I  am,  except  these  bonds."  (Ibid.,  29.) 
He  had  already  asked  them: 
"Why  should  it  be  thought  a  thing 
incredible  with  you,  that  God  should 
raise  the  dead?"  (Ibid.,  8.) 

I  was  reading  a  statement  from  his 
missionary  journey  the  other  day  that 
impressed  me,  and  I  would  like  to  read 
it: 

"For  he  mightily  convinced  the  Jews, 
and  that  publickly,  shewing  by  the 
scriptures  that  Jesus  was  Christ."  (Ibid., 
18:28.) 

And  I  thought  it  would  be  wonderful 
if  we  could  hear  some  of  his  marvelous 
testimonies  as  he  took  the  scriptures  in 
his  hands  to  prove  that  Jesus  was  the 
Christ. 

I  recall  the  words  of  the  Savior  where 
he  said  that  we  should  "Search  the 
scriptures;  for  .  .  .  they  are  they  which 
testify  of  me."  (John  5:39.)  Then  he 
said  to  the  Pharisees  that  they  did  err, 
not  understanding  the  scriptures,  and 
we  have  his  testimony  to  the  two  dis- 
ciples as  he  walked  along  the  way  to 
Emmaus  and  their  eyes  were  holden 
that  they  did  not  recognize  him,  and 
he  listened  to  their  conversation  about 
his  crucifixion  and  he  said,  "O  fools, 
and  slow  of  heart  to  believe  all  that  the 
prophets  have  spoken."  (Luke  24:25.) 

He  explained  the  scriptures  to  them, 
and  he  opened  their  understanding  that 
they  might  understand  the  scriptures. 


Fourth  Day 

(See  ibid.,  13  ff.) 

I  feel  that  we  do  not  place  the  value 
we  should  on  the  scriptures,  and  in  the 
few  moments  I  have  this  morning,  I 
would  like  to  relate  an  experience  I  had 
less  than  a  year  ago.  By  appointment 
from  the  First  Presidency  and  at  their 
request,  I  was  privileged  to  meet  with 
a  group  of  ministers  here  in  Salt  Lake 
City  who  were  holding  a  convention. 
They  gave  me  two  hours  and  a  half  to 
explain  Mormonism  to  them. 

I  explained  the  great  organization  of 
the  Church  and  how  it  came  into  exist- 
ence and  bore  my  testimony  of  its  di- 
vinity. I  thought  of  the  Apostle  Paul, 
if  he  had  the  scriptures  and  was  with  us 
today,  and  had  to  convince  publicly  the 
people  out  of  the  scriptures,  how  much 
more  he  would  have  to  explain  to  them 
pertaining  to  this  latter-day  gospel  dis- 
pensation and  the  second  coming  of  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world  than  he  had  in 
his  day. 

I  used  this  illustration  with  these  min- 
isters: I  told  them  that  when  we  built 
the  Los  Angeles  Temple,  I  was  still  the 
Presiding  Bishop,  and  we  took  the  plans 
and  showed  them  to  the  First  Presi- 
dency one  day,  and  we  had  eighty-five 
pages  about  four  feet  long  and  two  and 
a  half-feet  wide,  and  we  did  not  have 
the  plans  complete  for  the  electrical 
work  or  the  plumbing,  and  yet  there 
were  eighty-five  pages.  Now  I  said  to 
these  men,  "You  could  take  those  plans 
and  go  all  over  this  world  and  try  to  fit 
them  to  any  other  building  in  the  world, 
and  you  could  not  fit  them.  There  is 
only  one  building  that  those  plans  will 
fit  and  that  is  the  Los  Angeles  Temple." 
I  said,  "Of  course,  you  could  find  heat- 
ing plants  and  light  fixtures  and  plumb- 
ing and  cement  in  other  buildings  just 
as  you  do  in  that  temple,  but  you  could 
not  find  a  building  that  would  fit  per- 
fectly those  plans." 

Then  I  took  the  Bible  and  I  said,  "The 
Prophet  Isaiah  tells  us  that  the  Lord 
declared  his  work  from  the  beginning 
and  he  said  that  the  'grass  withereth, 
the  flower  fadeth:  but  the  word  of  our 
God  shall  stand  for  ever.'  (Isa.  40:8.) 
And  as  I  see  it,  the  Bible  is  the  Lord's 
blueprint  of  his  work  from  the  beginning 
until  the  final  winding  up  scene." 

Of  course,  there  is  not  time  for  me  to 
go  into  details  here  today,  but  I  took 
scripture  after  scripture  that  appeared 


ELDER  LEGRJ 

in  the  Bible,  and  I  said  to  these  men, 
"Do  you  know  anywhere  in  all  the 
world  where  you  can  find  a  fulfilment 
of  that  promise?  Take  for  instance 
Peter's  statement  to  those  who  cruci- 
fied the  Christ  that  before  his  coming 
the  heavens  were  to  receive  him,  until 
the  restitution  of  all  things  spoken  by 
the  mouth  of  all  his  holy  prophets  since 
the  world  began.  (See  Acts  3:19-21.) 
Do  any  of  you  know  anywhere  in  this 
world,  in  the  history  of  the  world  or 
the  history  of  the  people  or  churches, 
where  that  promise  has  had  its  fulfil- 
ment, and  yet  people  look  for  his  com- 
ing?" But  if  Peter  was  a  prophet  of 
God,  Christ  cannot  come  until  there  is 
a  restitution,  and  I  had  explained  al- 
ready to  them  the  fulfilment  of  that 
promised  restitution  of  all  things. 

Then  I  took  the  coming  of  the  angel 
that  John  saw,  flying  in  the  midst  of 
heaven.  I  said,  "Do  you  know  any- 
where in  the  world  that  there  is  a  record 
of  the  coming  of  an  angel  with  the 
everlasting  gospel  to  be  preached  in  all 
the  world,  to  every  nation,  kindred, 
tongue,  and  people,  since  the  time  that 
that  prophet's  promise  was  made?" 

Then  I  went  through  many  other  of 
the  passages  of  scripture  pertaining  to 
our  day,  like  the  coming  of  Elijah  the 
prophet,  and  so  forth,  and  then  I  said 
this  to  them,  "Now,  that  Bible  is  just 
as  much  the  Lord's  blueprint  of  what 
he  intended  to  do  in  this  world  as  the 
blueprint  for  that  temple  was  the  plan 
by  which  that  building  was  to  be  built." 

I  said,  "It  is  true  that  you  can  find 
some  of  the  things  that  are  in  the  Bible 
in  the  churches,  that  is  why  we  have 
hundreds  of  them,  but  you  cannot  find 
any  other  church  in  all  the  world  that 
has  all  of  the  things  that  the  Lord  has 
promised." 

I  remember  as  a  boy  hearing  this 
statement  made  that  one  of  the  great 
evangelists  of  the  United  States,  well- 
known  all  over  the  nation,  in  talking  to 
a  Mormon  elder,  was  asked  questions  by 
this  elder,  and  his  answer  was:  "Well, 
if  we  were  to  believe  all  that  is  in  the 
Bible,  we  would  all  have  to  be  Mor- 
mons." 

That  is  my  testimony  to  the  entire 
world:  if  you  believe  all  that  is  in  the 
Bible,  you  would  all  have  to  be  Mor- 
mons, and  I  come  back  again  to  the 


JD  RICHARDS  105 

importance  of  the  scriptures  and  the 
work  of  the  Apostle  Paul, 

"For  he  mightily  convinced  the  Jews, 
and  that  publickly,  shewing  by  the 
scriptures  that  Jesus  was  Christ."  (Ibid., 
18:28.) 

And  we  can  mightily  show  by  the 
scriptures  that  he  was  not  only  the 
Christ,  but  that  he  will  also  come  again 
and  that  he  has  restored  his  kingdom 
to  the  earth,  as  we  have  had  testimony 
after  testimony  in  this  conference,  and 
I  bear  you  that  testimony,  if  Paul  were 
here  today  and  knew  of  the  coming  of 
the  Father  and  the  Son  and  all  the  holy 
angels  that  have  visited  this  earth  to 
give  us  this  restitution  of  all  things, 
think  how  much  more  and  much  greater 
power  he  would  have  to  convince  the 
world,  and  that  publicly. 

I  close  with  this  thought:  We  have 
heard  about  the  marvelous  progress  the 
world  has  made  scientifically.  We  read 
in  the  newspapers  constantly  about  the 
day  when  men  will  make  trips  to  the 
moon — I  have  always  said  that  if  I  were 
going  I  would  want  to  be  sure  I  got  a 
round-trip-ticket — but  you  know,  if  they 
ever  make  a  trip  to  the  moon,  and  they 
come  back  again,  every  newspaper  in  all 
the  world  will  spread  it  on  their  front 
pages  and  tell  what  has  happened.  But 
how  would  such  an  event,  as  marvelous 
as  it  would  be,  compare  with  the  coming 
of  God  the  Eternal  Father  and  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ  to  the  boy  Prophet,  Joseph 
Smith?  And  why,  I  say  in  the  words 
of  Paul,  "Why  should  it  be  thought  a 
thing  incredible  with  you"  (Ibid.,  26:8) 
that  God  should  set  his  hand  to  do  the 
thing  that  he  promised  he  would  do 
and  as  is  detailed  in  the  plans  of  his 
work. 

I  leave  you  my  testimony  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet,  that  President 
McKay  is  his  duly  appointed  successor, 
and  that  the  power  of  Almighty  God  is 
in  this  work.  I  have  seen  it  all  my  life, 
and  I  bear  you  that  witness,  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  LeGrand  Richards  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken  to  us. 

You  who  are  listening  in  over  tele- 
vision have  had  the  opportunity,  as  we 
have  had  here  in  the  Tabernacle,  of 
seeing  this  group  of  young  people  who 


106 

Wednesday,  April  6 

overflow  the  choir  seats  of  the  Salt  Lake 
Tabernacle  Choir.  It  is  a  magnificent 
sight.  All  who  have  been  listening  in 
over  the  radio  have  already  heard  their 
singing.  They  will  be  with  us  this 
afternoon.  They  constitute  the  Com- 
bined Choruses  of  the  Brigham  Young 
University.  They  will  now  sing,  "Christ, 
the  Lord,  Is  Risen  Today."  Brother 
Newel  B.  Weight  is  conducting. 

After  the  singing,  Elder  Max  A.  Bryan, 
president  of  the  East  Long  Beach  Stake, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Fourth  Day 

will  offer  the  benediction,  and  this 
Conference  will  be  adjourned  until  two 
o'clock  this  afternoon. 


Selection  by  the  Combined  Choruses, 
"Christ,  The  Lord,  Is  Risen  Today." 

Elder  Max  A.  Bryan,  President  of  the 
East  Long  Beach  Stake  offered  the  clos- 
ing prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock 
p.m. 


FOURTH  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  concluding  session  of  the  Con- 
ference was  held  in  the  great  Tabernacle 
at  2  o'clock,  Wednesday  afternoon, 
April  6. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  were  present  at  this 
session  and  furnished  the  choral  musi- 
cal numbers.  Don  L.  Earl  directed  the 
Combined  Choruses;  Alexander  Schreiner 
was  at  the  organ  console. 

President  David  O.  McKay,  who  pre- 
sided and  conducted  the  exercises  of  the 
meeting,  made  the  following  intro- 
ductory remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  music  for  this  session  will  be 
rendered  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Combined  Choruses,  with  Pro- 
fessor Don  L.  Earl  conducting,  and 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ.  We 
shall  begin  this  service  by  the  Com- 
bined Choruses  singing,  "He  Watching 
Over  Israel." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Grant  Martin  Bowler,  president 
of  the  Moapa  Stake. 


As  an  opening  number,  the  Combined 
Choruses  sang  the  selection,  "He  Watch- 
ing Over  Israel." 

Elder  Grant  Martin  Bowler,  President 
of  the  Moapa  Stake,  offered  the  opening 
prayer. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Don  L.  Earl  is  conducting  the 
Choruses.  President  Grant  Martin 
Bowler  offered  the  opening  prayer.  The 
Combined  Choruses  will  now  sing, 
"Arise,  O  Glorious  Zion,"  conducted  by 
Professor  Don  L.  Earl.  After  the  singing 
Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  will  speak  to  us. 


The  Combined  Choruses  sang  the 
hymn,  "Arise,  O  Glorious  Zion." 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  first  speaker 
this  afternoon.  He  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Marion  G.  Romney. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  brothers  and  sisters,  for 
these  next  few  moments  I  seek  the  in- 
dulgence of  your  faith  and  prayers  to 
the  end  that,  guided  by  the  Spirit,  I 
might  make  some  small  contribution  to 
the  proceedings  of  this  great  confer- 
ence. 


Because  of  the  desire  expressed  by  the 
Brethren  that  I  say  something  about  the 
history-making  events  of  the  past  week 
in  the  British  Mission,  I  have  put  aside 
the  text  of  that  which  I  might  have 
prepared  otherwise  to  say  on  this  occa- 
sion. I  have  determined  long  since  that 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


107 


the  expressed  desire  of  my  Presiding 
Brethren  is  to  me  as  a  command.  There- 
fore, I  trust  that  I  might  in  some  meas- 
ure, give  you  a  picture  of  some  of  the 
things  which  have  transpired  of  a  mo- 
mentous nature  in  Great  Britain. 

This  assignment  from  the  First  Presi- 
dency returned  us  to  the  scenes  of  some 
of  the  most  soul-stirring  incidents  and 
experiences  in  the  history  of  missionary 
work  in  this  dispensation.  We  were  at 
Preston  in  the  midlands  of  Great  Brit- 
ain where  the  first  missionary  work  was 
done.  As  you  will  remember  the  his- 
tory, the  first  missionaries  were  submitted 
to  one  of  the  greatest  demonstrations  of 
the  power  of  evil  spirits  perhaps  ever 
experienced  by  anyone.  Brother  Heber 
C.  Kimball,  Elder  Willard  Richards, 
Elder  Orson  Hyde  and  Elder  Isaac  Rus- 
sell had,  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  as 
they  timed  the  experience,  an  awful 
demonstration  of  that  power. 

President  Heber  C.  Kimball,  in  writ- 
ing about  it  afterward,  said:  "I  cannot 
even  now  look  back  upon  the  scene 
without  feelings  of  horror;  yet  by  it  I 
learned  the  power  of  the  adversary;  his 
enmity  against  the  servants  of  God,  and 
got  some  understanding  of  the  invisible 
world." 

When  he  returned  home,  he  asked  the 
Prophet  Joseph  what  was  the  matter  with 
them  that  they  had  to  be  subjected  to 
such  an  experience,  and  the  Prophet  sur- 
prised them  when  he  said  something 
to  this  effect:  "When  I  heard  of  it 
[your  experience]  it  gave  me  joy,  for  I 
then  knew  that  the  work  had  taken  root 
in  that  land  [England.]"  Then  he  re- 
lated some  of  his  own  experiences,  and 
made  this  significant  statement:  "The 
nearer  a  person  approaches  the  Lord,  a 
greater  power  will  be  manifested  by  the 
adversary  to  prevent  the  accomplish- 
ment of  his  purposes."  (Life  of  Heber 
C.  Kimball,  1945  ed.,  p.  132.) 

I  have  no  doubt  that  the  Prophet  had 
in  mind  the  terrifying  experience  he 
had  in  the  grove  when  he  prayed  for 
light  and  was  seized  upon  by  this  power 
until  he  was  released  therefrom  by  the 
coming  of  the  Father  and  the  Son.  He 
no  doubt  had  in  mind  the  experiences 
when  he  first  went  to  see  the  plates, 
when,  as  he  sought  to  receive  them,  he 
again  saw  a  demonstration  of  the  evil 
powers. 


We  were  permitted,  as  we  traveled 
in  that  same  vicinity,  to  follow  the 
course  that  Wilford  Woodruff  was  di- 
rected under  inspiration  to  go,  from  the 
potteries  near  Hanley  down  to  Froomes 
Hill,  probably  some  fifty  or  sixty  miles 
to  the  south,  where,  directed  by  the 
Spirit,  he  found  a  people  ready  to  re- 
ceive the  coming  of  the  servants  of  the 
Lord.  Within  two  days  after  his  arrival 
there,  after  having  met  John  Benbow 
and  his  wife  and  those  who  believed  in 
the  sect  called  the  United  Brethren,  he 
had  baptized  six  members,  and  in  thirty 
days  he  had  baptized  forty-five  preachers 
of  the  United  Brethren,  and  one  hun- 
dred sixty  members,  and  obtained  there- 
by the  possession  of  one  chapel  and 
forty-five  houses  for  use  as  meeting 
places.  In  eight  months  he  had  bap- 
tized over  1800— all  600  of  the  United 
Brethren  with  one  exception — and  200 
ministers  of  various  denominations  in 
the  area. 

As  a  true  missionary  would,  without 
boasting,  he  wrote  this  simple  sum- 
mary: "The  power  of  God  rested  upon 
us  and  upon  the  mission  in  our  field  of 
labor.  .  .  .  The  sick  were  healed,  devils 
were  cast  out,  and  the  lame  made  to 
walk." 

The  work  of  these  first  missionaries 
was  not  without  opposition,  and  later 
the  Times  and  Seasons  wrote  about  the 
work  around  Liverpool:  ".  .  .  They  were 
so  good  in  general"  (meaning  the  min- 
isters) "and  so  pure  that  they  had  no 
room  for  the  gospel.  They  were  too 
holy  to  be  righteous,  too  good  to  be  pure, 
and  had  too  much  religion  to  enter  into 
the  Kingdom  of  Heaven."  (Times  and 
Seasons,  Vol.  2,  p.  404.) 

And  then  they  wrote:  "It  seemed  that 
it  almost  required  a  horn  to  be  blown 
from  the  highest  heavens,  in  order  to 
awaken  the  attention  of  the  people." 
(Smith,  Documentary  History  of  the 
Church.)  I  thought  of  that  when,  after 
elaborate  arrangements  had  been  made 
by  President  T.  Bowring  Woodbury  of 
the  British  Mission  for  all  the  publicity 
possible  through  the  great  news-gathering 
wire  services  throughout  the  world  to 
get  a  full  coverage,  including  the  local 
newspapers,  to  find  the  next  day,  hidden 
down  in  an  obscure  place  in  one  of  the 
two  Manchester  papers,  this  brief  refer- 
ence to  our  missionary  conference  where 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Wednesday,  April  6 

we  created  this  stake  and  organized  a 
new  mission.  This  is  what  the  Man- 
chester Guardian  recorded: 

Mormons  Hold  a  Mass  Meeting 

"British  Mormons  formed  their  first 
diocese  in  Europe  yesterday  at  a  mass 
meeting  of  more  than  2000  members  of 
the  Church  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  in 
Manchester,  the  new  center  to  be  built 
without  delay  at  Wythenshawe,  Man- 
chester, at  a  cost  of  about  100,000  pounds. 
The  diocese,  or  stake,  covers  Manchester, 
Halifax,  Huddersfield,  Dewsbury,  and 
Leeds." 

I  felt  like  saying  what  the  other  mis- 
sionaries had  said,  "It  seemed  as  if  it 
almost  required  a  horn  to  be  blown 
from  the  highest  heavens  in  order  to 
awaken  the  attention  of  the  people." 

In  one  year,  1840  to  1841 — one  year 
and  fourteen  days,  to  be  exact — nine 
members  of  the  twelve  were  called  to 
labor  in  the  British  Mission.  If  you 
remember  the  history  here  at  home, 
those  years  marked  the  period  of  some 
of  the  severest  persecution  that  the 
Church  was  to  undergo  in  this  dispen- 
sation. In  that  one  year  and  fourteen 
days  the  nine  members  of  the  twelve, 
with  their  associates,  established  churches 
in  every  noted  town  and  city  in  the 
kingdom  of  Great  Britain.  They  bap- 
tized between  7000  and  8000  converts. 
They  printed  5000  copies  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  3000  hymnbooks,  and  50,000 
tracts,  and  they  published  2500  volumes 
of  the  Millennial  Star  and  emigrated 
1000  souls  to  America. 

These  figures  of  the  summary  of  the 
missionary  work  as  done  in  Great 
Britain  might  give  you  something  of  an 
idea  of  what  has  happened  in  the  past 
123  years  in  that  great  country.  In 
1849  and  1851  over  8000  baptisms  were 
performed  in  each  year,  or  approximately 
1000  converts  to  each  missionary  for 
each  of  those  years.  The  total  number 
of  converts  from  1837,  when  the  work 
was  first  started,  until  the  end  of  1959 
totals  136,026.  The  recorded  number  of 
emigrants  during  that  same  period  was 
57,149,  and  we  have  reason  to  believe 
that  thousands  of  others  •  emigrated 
without  any  record  being  made. 

The  total  number  of  missionaries  who 
have  labored  in  that  field  numbers  7398. 
Twelve  of  our  General  Authorities  were 


Fourth  Day 

British-bom,  including  our  own  Elder 
John  Longden,  who  was  born  at  Old- 
ham, now  an  organized  ward  in  the 
new  Manchester  Stake.  It  is  the  esti- 
mate of  Elder  Richard  L.  Evans,  who 
has  written  an  excellent  history  of  the 
Church  in  Great  Britain  during  the  first 
one  hundred  years,  that  a  very  large 
percent  of  the  total  membership  of  the 
Church  today  trace  their  genealogy  to 
Great  Britain. 

By  assignment  of  the  First  Presidency, 
in  company  with  Elder  Alvin  R.  Dyer, 
president  of  the  European  Mission,  Presi- 
dent T.  Bowring  Woodbury  of  the  Brit- 
ish Mission,  and  President  Bernard 
P.  Brockbank,  now  president  of  the  new 
North  British  Mission,  on  Sunday, 
March  27,  we  organized  the  new  Man- 
chester Stake  with  a  total  membership 
of  2400  members. 

In  the  afternoon  session  there  were 
2026  in  attendance,  in  one  of  the  largest 
theaters  in  the  downtown  Manchester 
City.  This  stake,  including  all  of  the 
Manchester  and  Leeds  Districts  of  the 
mission,  and  part  of  the  Liverpool  Dis- 
trict, is  now  organized  with  nine  wards 
and  two  branches. 

It  was  an  interesting  thing  to  discover 
that  the  leadership  of  the  stake  and 
wards  and  the  branches  had  to  be 
largely  composed  of  brethren  who  were 
baptized  converts  to  the  Church  of  less 
than  five  years.  Fortunately,  and  it 
seemed  as  though  almost  by  the  hand 
of  Providence,  we  found  a  few  "anchor" 
men  who  had  been  trained  in  the  stakes 
here  at  home,  who  will  become  the 
trainers  of  these  new,  able,  but  inexperi- 
enced leaders.  This  stake  becomes  now, 
a  training  ground  for  leaders  of  organ- 
izations yet  to  come. 

This  new  stake  brings  the  full  Church 
program  into  action,  so  that  such  an 
organization  will  be  a  demonstration 
to  the  world  "to  shine  forth  as  a  stand- 
ard unto  the  nations,"  showing  the  work 
of  the  Church  at  full  flower.  Zion, 
which  the  Lord  declared  is  "the  pure 
in  heart"  in  that  land  now,  will  "in- 
crease in  holiness  and  in  beauty."  Zion 
will  now  begin  "to  arise  and  put  on  her 
beautiful  garments."  (See  D8;C  82:14, 
97,  21.)  This  first  stake  will  provide  a 
pattern  for  stakes  yet  to  come  from  these 
great  missions.  We  think  we  have  set 
it  up  in  such  a  way  that  new  leaders 


ELDER  HA1 

so  trained  will  shortly  be  able  to  take 
over  still  other  stakes  in  that  same  vicin- 
ity, and  become  a  pattern  for  leaders  of 
stakes  in  that  and  the  other  European 
missions. 

In  truth,  then,  it  now  begins  to  build 
"a  defense,  a  refuge  from  the  storm,  and 
wrath  when  it  is  poured  out  with  mix- 
ture upon  the  whole  earth,"  (see  ibid. 
115:6)  which  as  the  Lord  declared,  was 
the  purpose  of  a  stake  being  organized. 

At  that  same  conference,  the  new 
North  British  Mission  was  organized, 
with  President  Bernard  P.  Brockbank  as 
the  new  president.  Parenthetically  I 
might  tell  you  that  he  received  his  no- 
tice that  he  had  been  appointed  as  the 
president  of  that  new  mission  only  two 
weeks  before  he  actually  met  us  in  New 
York  to  fly  to  his  new  assignment  in  the 
North  British  Mission,  leaving  his  wife 
and  children  to  make  final  preparations 
and  the  transfer  of  his  business  to  other 
hands. 

We  now  have  organized  in  the  North 
British  Mission  eight  missionary  dis- 
tricts, with  nine  missionary  districts  re- 
maining in  the  British  Mission  which 
will  continue  to  have  headquarters  in 
London,  the  new  mission  to  have  head- 
quarters at  Manchester,  England.  The 
power  of  God  is  resting  again  in  the 
missions  of  Europe,  today,  as  in  the 
century  which  has  passed. 

During  the  month  of  March  alone, 
in  the  British  Mission  they  baptized 
360  new  converts.  In  the  French  Mis- 
sion, there  were  another  114  new  con- 
verts baptized  in  that  mission,  which 
seems  for  the  first  time  in  our  day  to 
give  evidence  that  the  work  is  beginning 
to  take  root  in  France,  after  a  shocking 
demonstration  of  the  power  of  evil  in 
that  mission  only  two  short  years  ago. 
And  from  the  North  German  Mission, 
to  use  another  example,  which  we  have 
usually  thought  of  as  being  behind  the 
Iron  Curtain  in  part,  they  baptized  in 
the  month  of  March  alone  eighty-five 
new  converts. 

So  it  was  likewise,  during  the  three 
months  of  last  fall,  when  we  toured  the 
Latin  American  Missions  of  South  Amer- 
ica and  in  Mexico,  we  saw  evidences 
of  the  giant  of  God's  eternal  power,  if 
I  might  speak  of  it  that  way,  awakening 
among  those  wonderful  people,  where 
in  some  of  those  missions  they  are  hav- 


)LD  B.  LEE  109 

ing  600  to  700  convert  baptisms  each 
year,  as  compared  with  only  fifty  to 
seventy-five  in  previous  years. 

Indeed,  in  the  language  of  Mark's 
testimony  to  the  early  missionaries  of 
the  Apostolic  Period  who  received  the 
divine  commission  of  the  Lord:  "Go  ye 
into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the  gos- 
pel to  every  creature. 

"He  that  believeth  and  is  baptized 
shall  be  saved;  but  he  that  believeth 
not  shall  be  damned. 

"And  these  signs  shall  follow  them 
that  believe;  In  my  name  shall  they 
cast  out  devils;  they  shall  speak  with 
new  tongues; 

"They  shall  take  up  serpents;  and  if 
they  drink  any  deadly  thing,  it  shall 
not  hurt  them;  they  shall  lay  hands 
on  the  sick,  and  they  shall  recover." 
(Mark  16:15-18.) 

And  then  Mark  records  this  significant 
fulfilment:  "And  they  went  forth,  and 
preached  every  where,  the  Lord  working 
with  them,  and  confirming  the  word 
with  signs  following."  (Idem  20.) 

President  McKay,  I  have  been  a  per- 
sonal witness  in  these  last  six  months 
that,  as  the  apostles  of  old  found,  we 
are  finding  today  that  the  servants  of 
the  Living  God  are  going  forth,  the 
Lord  is  working  with  them  confirming 
the  work,  with  the  same  signs  follow- 
ing. 

I  bear  personal  witness  that  the  gift 
of  tongues  to  a  whole  congregation, 
which  I  witnessed,  as  in  the  day  of 
Pentecost,  was  observed  down  in  one 
of  the  Latin  American  Missions,  by 
which  this  congregation  understood  what 
was  said,  although  what  was  being 
spoken  to  them  was  in  a  strange  tongue. 
I  have  witnessed  the  healing  of  an  im- 
potent and  crippled  child  from  birth  in 
the  Brazilian  Mission.  I  have  witnessed 
the  healing  of  a  blind  child  in  the 
Central  American  Mission. 

And  so,  enumerating  all  of  these, 
more  important  than  any  of  these  signs, 
I  have  witnessed  the  reformation  in  the 
personal  lives  of  individuals  who  accept 
the  gospel  and  are  true  to  its  principles, 
which  results  from  a  true  conversion  to 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  bear  you 
my  solemn  witness  to  the  onrolling  of 
the  work  of  the  Lord.  The  work  is 
awakening  everywhere. 

I  know  that  God  lives.    I  bear  per- 


110 

Wednesday,  April  6 

sonal  testimony  to  the  divinity  of  the 
mission  of  the  Savior,  and  that  this  is 
his  work,  and  that  President  David  O. 
McKay  is  his  true  representative  here 
upon  this  earth  in  our  day,  and  I  do 
it  humbly  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Fourth  Day 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  has  just  addressed  us.  We 
shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Marion  G. 
Romney  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 
Brother  John  Longden  will  be  next. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
bear  witness  to  the  truth  of  all  that 
Brother  Lee  has  just  said.  As  he  talked, 
I  was  reminded  that  my  grandfather, 
Miles  Romney,  heard  the  first  mission- 
aries, Heber  C.  Kimball,  Orson  Hyde, 
and  Willard  Richards,  preach  on  the 
streets  in  Preston,  England,  in  1837. 
He  heard  them  on  Market  Square;  he 
followed  them  to  the  Cockpit  where 
they  did  much  of  their  preaching  in 
those  early  days.  He  joined  the  Church 
early  in  1838,  emigrated  to  Nauvoo  in 
1842,  and  now  has  about  2500  descend- 
ants in  the  Church. 

I  am  tempted,  in  a  way,  to  comment 
on  my  missionary  labors  of  recent 
months,  but  will  refrain  from  doing  so 
for  fear  I  might  miss  some  of  them.  In 
the  last  twenty-six  months  I  have  toured, 
for  which  I  am  very  grateful  President 
McKay,  fifteen  missions,  fourteen  of 
them  beyond  the  borders  of  the  United 
States,  eleven  of  them  foreign-speaking 
missions.  Last  October  conference  time 
I  was  in  Vienna.  Last  week  I  was  in 
Sydney,  Australia.  I  testify  to  you  that 
the  spirit  is  on  the  move  in  every  one 
of  the  fifteen  missions  which  I  visited. 

One  thing  I  can  say  about  them  all 
is  that  in  every  one  of  them  I  heard 
fervent  testimony  to  the  mighty  power 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon  in  bringing  souls 
unto  Christ.  In  my  view,  the  Book  of 
Mormon  is  the  most  effective  piece  of 
missionary  literature  we  have. 

I  invite  you  to  pray  with  me  for  a 
rich  outpouring  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  for 
I  would  like  to  stimulate  you  to  resolve 
to  read  the  Book  of  Mormon.  As  I 
speak,  I  shall  have  in  mind  particularly 
this  fine  group  of  young  men  and  women 
who  are  singing  for  us  and  all  others 
of  their  generation. 

There  are  many  reasons  why  we 
should  read  the  Book  of  Mormon.  To 


begin  with,  the  Lord  has  put  us  under 
obligation  to  do  so.  He  said  that  he 
sent  Moroni  to  reveal  it  (D&C  27:5) 
and  that  through  his  mercy  he  had  given 
the  Prophet  Joseph  "power  from  on 
high  ...  to  translate  [it]"  (see  ibid., 
1:29;  20:8);  that  it  contains  ".  .  .  the 
truth  and  the  word  of  God — "  and  "the 
fulness  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to 
the  Gentiles  and  to  the  Jews  also." 
(Ibid.,  19:26;  20:9.) 

Nephi  tells  us  that  its  contents  ".  .  . 
shall  go  from  generation  to  generation 
as  long  as  the  earth  shall  stand;  .  .  .  and 
the  nations  who  shall  possess  them  shall 
be  judged  of  them  according  to  the  words 
which  are  written."  (2  Nephi  25:22.) 

For  me  there  could  be  no  more  im- 
pelling reason  for  reading  the  Book  of 
Mormon  than  this  statement  of  the  Lord 
that  we  shall  be  judged  by  what  is  writ- 
ten in  it. 

Moroni  says  that  the  very  reason  the 
book  has  been  given  to  us  is  that  we 
may  know  the  "decrees  of  God"  set 
forth  therein  and  by  obedience  to  them 
escape  the  calamities  which  are  to  fol- 
low disobedience.  (Ether  2:11.) 

To  the  early  Saints,  the  Lord  spoke 
rather  sharply  about  remembering  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  "Your  minds  in 
times  past,"  he  said  to  them,  "have  been 
darkened  because  of  unbelief,  and  be- 
cause you  have  treated  lightly  the  things 
you  have  received — Which  vanity  and 
unbelief  have  brought  the  whole  church 
under  condemnation.  And  this  con- 
demnation resteth  upon  the  children  of 
Zion,  even  all.  And  they  shall  remain 
under  this  condemnation  until  they  re- 
pent and  remember  the  new  covenant, 
even  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the 
former  commandments  which  I  have 
given  them,  .  .  ."  (D&C  84:54-57.) 
Prior  to  this  he  had  already  told  them 
that  "the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the  holy 


ELDER  MARK 

scriptures  are  given  of  me  for  your  in- 
struction." (Ibid.,  33:16.)  On  another 
occasion  he  had  said,  ".  .  .  the  elders, 
priests  and  teachers  of  this  church  shall 
teach  the  principles  of  my  gospel,  which 
are  in  the  Bible  and  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  42:12.) 

It  is  of  course  obvious  that  unless  we 
read,  study,  and  learn  the  principles 
which  are  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  we, 
the  elders,  priests,  and  teachers  of  "this 
church,"  cannot  comply  with  this  di- 
rection to  teach  them. 

But  there  is  another  reason  why  we 
should  read  it:  By  doing  so  we  will  fill 
and  refresh  our  minds  with  a  constant 
flow  of  that  "water"  which  Jesus  said 
would  be  in  us  "...  a  well  of  water 
springing  up  into  everlasting  life."  (John 
4:14.)  We  must  obtain  a  continuing 
supply  of  this  water  if  we  are  to  resist 
evil  and  retain  the  blessings  of  being 
born  again,  as  we  were  counseled  to  do 
by  President  McKay. 

The  great  over-all  struggle  in  the 
world  today  is,  as  it  has  always  been, 
for  the  souls  of  men.  Every  soul  is 
personally  engaged  in  the  struggle,  and 
he  makes  the  fight  with  what  is  in  his 
mind.  In  the  final  analysis  the  battle- 
ground is,  for  each  individual,  within 
himself.  Inevitably  he  gravitates  to- 
wards the  subjects  of  his  thoughts.  Ages 
ago  the  wise  man  thus  succinctly  put 
this  great  truth:  "For  as  he  thinketh  in 
his  heart,  so  is  he":  (Proverbs  23:7.) 

If  we  would  escape  the  lusts  of  the 
flesh  and  build  for  ourselves  and  for 
our  children  great  and  noble  characters, 
we  must  keep  in  our  minds  and  in  their 
minds  true  and  righteous  principles  for 
our  thoughts  and  their  thoughts  to 
dwell  upon. 

We  must  not  permit  our  minds  to  be- 
come surfeited  with  the  interests,  things, 
and  practices  of  the  world  about  us.  To 
do  so  is  tantamount  to  adopting  and 
going  along  with  them,  for  the  ex- 
perience of  the  race  sustains  the  con- 
clusion of  him  who  said  that 

"Vice  is  a  monster  of  so  frightful  mien, 
As  to  be  hated  needs  hut  to  be  seen; 
Yet  seen  too  oft,  familiar  with  her  face, 
We  first  endure,  then  pity,  and  then 
embrace." 

(Pope,  Essay  on  Man, 
epistle  11,  line  217.) 


/  G.  ROMNEY  111 

If  we  would  avoid  adopting  the  evils 
of  the  world,  we  must  pursue  a  course 
which  will  daily  feed  our  minds  with 
and  call  them  back  to  the  things  of  the 
spirit.  I  know  of  no  better  way  to  do 
this  than  by  reading  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon. 

In  all  dispensations  the  Lord  has 
counseled  his  people  to  keep  in  their 
minds  and  thoughts  the  truths  he  has 
revealed  to  them.  To  the  early  Saints 
of  this  dispensation  he  said:  ".  .  .  let 
the  solemnities  of  eternity  rest  upon 
your  minds."  (D&C  43:34.)  This  coun- 
sel followed  his  statement  to  the  elders: 
".  .  .  Ye  are  not  sent  forth  to  be  taught, 
but  to  teach  the  children  of  men  the 
things  which  I  have  put  into  your  hands 
by  the  power  of  my  Spirit;  And  ye  are 
to  be  taught  from  on  high.  .  .  ."  (Ibid., 
43:15,  16.) 

Instructing  ancient  Israel  not  to  go 
after  ".  .  .  the  gods  of  the  people  which 
[were]  round  about"  you  (Deut.  6:14), 
he  said: 

"Hear,  O  Israel:  .  .  . 

"And  these  words,  which  I  command 
thee  this  day,  shall  be  in  thine  heart: 

"And  thou  shalt  teach  them  diligently 
unto  thy  children,  and  shalt  talk  of 
them  when  thou  sittest  in  thine  house, 
and  when  thou  walkest  by  the  way,  and 
when  thou  liest  down,  and  when  thou 
risest  up. 

"And  thou  shalt  bind  them  for  a 
sign  upon  thine  hand,  and  they  shall 
be  as  frontlets  between  thine  eyes. 

"And  thou  shalt  write  them  upon  the 
posts  of  thy  house,  and  on  thy  gates." 
(Ibid.,  6:4,  6-9.) 

"Search  the  scriptures,"  (John  5:39) 
said  Jesus  to  his  carping  critics,  who, 
being  surfeited  with  the  things  of  this 
world,  rejected  him.  In  the  scriptures 
they  could,  if  they  would,  learn  the 
truth  about  him  and  the  things  of  eternal 
life  which  he  taught  them. 

The  Psalmist  thus  recounts  the  re- 
wards which  follow  knowing  and  medi- 
tating upon  the  word  of  God: 

"O  how  love  I  thy  law!  it  is  my  medi- 
tation all  the  day. 

"Thou  through  thy  commandments 
hast  made  me  wiser  than  mine  ene- 
mies: .  .  . 

"I  have  more  understanding  than  all 
my  teachers:  for  thy  testimonies  are  my 
meditation. 


112  GENERAL  C 

Wednesday,  April  6 

"I  understand  more  than  the  an- 
cients, because  I  keep  thy  precepts. 

"I  have  refrained  my  feet  from  every 
evil  way,  that  I  might  keep  thy  word. 

"I  have  not  departed  from  thy  judg- 
ments: for  thou  hast  taught  me. 

"How  sweet  are  thy  words  unto  my 
taste!  yea,  sweeter  than  honey  to  my 
mouth! 

"Through  thy  precepts  I  get  under- 
standing: therefore  I  hate  every  false 
way. 

"Thy  word  is  a  lamp  unto  my  feet, 
and  a  light  unto  my  path."  (Psalm 
119:97-105.) 

I  am  persuaded,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  it  is  irrational  to  hope  to 
escape  the  lusts  of  the  world  without 
substituting  for  them  as  the  subjects  of 
our  thoughts  the  things  of  the  spirit, 
and  I  know  that  the  things  of  the  spirit 
are  taught  with  mighty  power  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  I  believe  with  all 
my  heart,  for  example,  that  if  our  young 
people  could  come  out  of  our  homes 
thoroughly  acquainted  with  the  life  of 
Nephi,  imbued  with  the  spirit  of  his 
courage  and  love  of  truth,  they  would 
choose  the  right  when  a  choice  is  placed 
before  them. 

How  marvelous  it  would  be  if,  when 
they  must  make  a  decision,  there  would 
flash  into  their  minds,  from  long  and 
intimate  association  with  them,  the 
words  of  Nephi:  "I  will  go  and  do  the 
things  which  the  Lord  hath  com- 
manded, for  I  know  that  the  Lord  giveth 
no  commandments  unto  the  children  of 
men,  save  he  shall  prepare  a  way  for 
them  that  they  may  accomplish  the  thing 
which  he  commandeth  them."  (1  Nephi 
3:7.) 

And  if,  when  the  going  gets  rough 
and  temptation  to  abandon  the  course 
of  righteousness  presses  upon  them,  they 
would  think  of  his  plea  to  his  wayward 
brothers:  ".  .  .  let  us  be  faithful  in  keep- 
ing the  commandments  of  the  Lord  for 
behold  he  is  mightier  than  all  the  earth, 
then  why  not  mightier  than  Laban  and 
his  fifty,  yea,  or  even  than  his  tens  of 
thousands?"  (Ibid.,  3:15  4:1.) 

If  our  young  folks  are  traditioned  in 
the  teachings  of  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
they  will  not  only  be  inspired  with 
righteous  courage  to  choose  the  right 
by  the  example  of  Nephi,  the  "two 
thousand  sons  of  Helaman,"  and  other 


Fourth  Day 

great  characters  of  the  book,  they  will 
also  be  so  schooled  in  the  principles  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  that  they  will 
know  what  is  right. 

From  almost  every  page  of  the  book, 
there  will  come  to  them  a  moving  testi- 
mony that  Jesus  is  indeed  the  Christ, 
the  Son  of  the  Living  God,  our  Re- 
deemer and  Savior.  This  witness  alone 
will  be  a  sustaining  anchor  in  every 
storm.  In  the  Book  of  Mormon,  they 
will  find  the  plainest  explanation  of 
Christ's  divine  mission  and  atonement 
to  be  found  anywhere  in  sacred  writ. 

They  will  be  familiar  with  the  great 
fundamental  basic  virtues;  the  Book  of 
Mormon  is  full  of  instructions  concern- 
ing them.  They  will  have  learned  that 
".  .  .  to  be  carnally-minded  is  death,  and 
to  be  spiritually-minded  is  life  eternal" 
(2  Nephi  9:39),  that  the  Lord  God  de- 
lights in  chastity  and  virtue  which  are 
".  .  .  most  dear  and  precious  above  all 
things,  .  .  ."  (Jacob  2:28,  Moroni  9:9.) 
They  will  know  that  a  violation  of  this 
sacred  principle  is,  in  the  sight  of  the 
Lord,  an  ".  .  .  abomination  .  .  .  above 
all  sins  save  it  be  the  shedding  of  inno- 
cent blood  or  denying  the  Holy  Ghost." 
(Alma  39:5.) 

They  will  have  learned  the  folly  of 
putting  their  trust  in  the  learning  of 
men  or  in  the  riches  of  this  world  (2 
Nephi  9:28-30.)  As  a  matter  of  fact, 
there  is  no  fundamental  virtue  about 
which  they  will  not  be  taught,  for  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  as  has  already  been 
said,  is  to  be  found  "the  fulness  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ."  (D&C  19:26; 
20:9.) 

And  so,  I  counsel  you,  my  beloved 
brothers  and  sisters  and  friends  every- 
where, to  make  reading  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon  a  few  minutes  each  day  a  life- 
long practice.  All  of  us  need  continu- 
ing close  contact  with  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord.  We  need  to  take  the  Holy  Spirit 
for  our  guide  that  we  be  not  deceived. 
I  am  persuaded  by  my  own  experience 
and  that  of  my  loved  ones,  as  well  as 
by  the  statement  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  that  one  can  get  and  keep  closer 
to  the  Lord  by  reading  the  Book  of 
Mormon  than  by  reading  any  other 
book.  Don't  be  content  with  what  some- 
one else  says  about  what  is  in  it.  Drink 
deeply  from  the  divine  fountain  itself. 

I  feel  certain  that  if,  in  our  homes, 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 


113 


parents  will  read  from  the  Book  of 
Mormon  prayerfully  and  regularly,  both 
by  themselves  and  with  their  children, 
the  spirit  of  that  great  book  will  come 
to  permeate  our  homes  and  all  who 
dwell  therein.  The  spirit  of  reverence 
will  increase,  mutual  respect  and  con- 
sideration for  each  other  will  grow. 
The  spirit  of  contention  will  depart. 
Parents  will  counsel  their  children  in 
greater  love  and  wisdom.  Children  will 
be  more  responsive  and  submissive  to 
that  counsel.  Righteousness  will  in- 
crease. Faith,  hope,  and  charity — the 
pure  love  of  Christ — will  abound  in  our 


homes  and  lives,  bringing  in  their  wake 
peace,  joy,  and  happiness. 

That  we  will  seek  these  blessings 
through  reading  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Marion  G.  Romney,  member  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  has  just 
concluded  speaking.  We  will  now  hear 
from  Elder  John  Longden,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve. 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


"Now  behold,  a  marvelous  work  is 
about  to  come  forth  among  the  children 
of  men. 

"Therefore,  O  ye  that  embark  in  the 
service  of  God,  see  that  ye  serve  him 
with  all  your  heart,  might,  mind  and 
strength,  that  ye  may  stand  blameless 
before  God  at  the  last  day. 

"Therefore,  if  ye  have  desires  to  serve 
God  ye  are  called  to  the  work; 

"For  behold  the  field  is  white  already 
to  harvest;  and  lo,  he  that  thrusteth  in 
his  sickle  with  his  might,  the  same 
layeth  up  in  store  that  he  perisheth  not, 
but  bringeth  salvation  to  his  soul; 

"And  faith,  hope,  charity  and  love, 
with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God, 
qualify  him  for  the  work. 

"Remember  faith,  virtue,  knowledge, 
temperance,  patience,  brotherly  kind- 
ness, godliness,  charity,  humility,  dili- 
gence. 

"Ask,  and  ye  shall  receive;  knock,  and 
it  shall  be  opened  unto  you.  Amen." 
(D&C  4.) 

This  is  one  of  my  favorite  scriptures. 
I  have  noted  that  many  of  the  speakers 
during  this  conference  have  called  at- 
tention to  the  revelations  of  the  Lord 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  This  one 
was  received  fourteen  months  before  the 
Church  was  organized,  for  it  was  re- 
corded in  February  of  1829.  What  a 
great  declaration  to  make  to  the  worldl 
Joseph  Smith  knew  there  had  been  spir- 
itual darkness,  and  it  was  revealed  to 
him  that  a  marvelous  work  was  to  come 
forth — not  a  marvelous  thing — you  will 


note  that  the  word  "work"  is  used.  I 
am  thankful  for  that  word — that  four- 
letter  word  "work."  This  is  a  Church  of 
faith  and  works. 

Reference  has  been  made  to  another 
revelation  bearing  on  the  subject  of  the 
restoration  of  the  gospel,  the  first  section 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants: 

"Proclamation  of  warning  and  com- 
mandment to  the  Church  and  to  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth  at  large — The 
authority  of  the  Priesthood  in  this  dis- 
pensation attested — Second  advent  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  foretold — Authenticity 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon  affirmed." 

This  revelation  was  given  November  of 
1831  after  the  Church  had  been  or- 
ganized and  set  up,  as  we  learned  today 
from  President  David  O.  McKay. 

Yes,  a  marvelous  work  has  taken 
place,  and  the  authority  of  the  priest- 
hood in  this  dispensation  has  been  at- 
tested. It  was  humbling  to  hear 
Brother  Lee  speak  of  the  little  town  in 
which  I  was  born  which  is  now  part  of 
a  stake  of  Zion.  I  recall  being  told  of 
the  missionaries  calling  in  this  town  at 
the  home  of  my  parents,  sixty-four  years 
ago.  Elder  Mark  Austin  was  one,  will- 
ing to  leave  his  home  here  and  the 
comforts  and  conveniences  to  carry  this 
glorious  message — this  marvelous  work — 
to  affirm  the  authenticity  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon  to  the  people  of  that  land. 

There  was  another  missionary  who 
had  an  influence  in  the  lives  of  my  par- 
ents— a  Methodist  minister,  who  was 
their  neighbor.  He  told  a  group  at  one 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


114 

Wednesday,  April  6 

time  that  he  was  coming  over  to  Amer- 
ica to  convert  the  Mormons,  and  he  paid 
his  own  expenses  to  try  to  do  that.  He 
became  acquainted  with  Elder  James 
Paxman,  with  whom  I  had  the  oppor- 
tunity to  be  associated  on  the  high 
council  of  the  Highland  Stake.  Elder 
Paxman  was  the  patriarch  of  that  stake. 
Before  coming  to  Salt  Lake  City  he  had 
lived  in  Nephi,  Utah. 

This  Methodist  minister  some  way  got 
to  Nephi,  where  he  had  several  gospel 
conversations  with  James  Paxman  and 
one  or  two  others.  He  was  heard  to 
make  the  statement,  "It  will  be  a  cold 
day  when  I  join  the  Mormon  Church" — 
and  it  was!  It  was  a  day  in  January  in 
Nephi,  Utah.  They  had  to  break  the 
ice  to  baptize  him.  Why?  Because  he 
had  received  a  witness.  He  had  received 
the  light  of  the  glorious  gospel  which 
banished  darkness  and  untruth  and  half 
truths.  The  authenticity  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon  had  been  affirmed  to  him. 
Then  he  was  unashamed  after  he  re- 
ceived that  affirmation  and  witness  to 
be  baptized  and  have  hands  laid  upon 
his  head  to  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  He  was  unashamed  to  return 
to  England  where  he  assisted  Elder  Mark 
Austin  in  the  conversion — or  in  teach- 
ing the  gospel — to  my  parents  that  they 
might  convert  themselves. 

A  marvelous  work  has  come  forth.  In 
years  gone  by  we  have  been  on  the  de- 
fensive because  Satan  has  done  every- 
thing in  his  power  to  thwart  the  work 
of  the  Lord.  We  are  still  on  the  de- 
fensive for  he  is  still  endeavoring  to 
weaken  the  faith  and  testimony  of  those 
whose  lives  have  been  touched  by  the 
gospel.  If  we  continue  working  at 
building  faith  and  testimony,  he  will 
not  have  power  over  this  work.  This  is 
evidenced  by  the  number  of  stakes  that 
have  been  established  in  spite  of  his 
buffetings — 294  stakes,  some  2400  wards, 
over  300  branches,  in  the  stakes  of  Zion; 
fifty-one  missions  and  the  many  branches 
and  districts  contained  therein. 

In  all  parts  of  the  Church  we  have 
many  men  who  are  anxious  and  willing 
to  bear  witness  to  this  marvelous  work, 
that  it  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  not  a 
thing  of  man.  It  was  deeply  stirring  to 
listen  to  the  reports  of  forty-two  mission 
presidents  in  the  temple  a  week  ago 
Tuesday — men  from  all  vocations,  will- 
ing to  serve  the  Lord,  to  be  shepherds, 


Fourth  Day 

if  you  please,  of  your  sons  and  daughters, 
all  of  whom  are  united  in  the  desire  to 
serve  God,  to  thrust  in  their  sickle  that 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  might  be 
warned,  the  authority  of  the  priesthood 
attested,  and  the  authenticity  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon  affirmed.  The  faithfulness 
of  these  fine  men  and  women  who  are 
bringing  to  pass  the  fulfilment  of  latter- 
day  revelation  is  most  heart-warming. 
I  do  not  underestimate  what  has  been 
accomplished  in  the  past — in  fact,  I 
salute  the  leaders  through  the  years — 
since  Joseph  Smith  made  his  declara- 
tion, "a  marvelous  work  is  about  to  come 
forth,"  but  I  recognize  too  that  today 
there  is  just  as  much  faith  and  devo- 
tion in  the  children  of  God  who  are 
willing  to  serve  and  to  spread  these 
glorious  truths  and  to  build  up  his  king- 
dom. 

Just  six  months  ago  last  Sunday  night 
— the  Sunday  night  of  general  confer- 
ence in  October — it  was  our  privilege  to 
be  invited  to  Tooele  to  attend  a  mis- 
sionary farewell.  It  was  a  rich  experi- 
ence. I  learned  that  a  faithful  son  from 
out  there  had  been  called  into  the  serv- 
ice by  Uncle  Sam  after  filling  his  mission 
for  the  Church.  He  became  acquainted 
with  a  young  man  from  Kansas  who  was 
a  staunch  Baptist.  This  young  man 
had  an  inquiring  mind.  He  was  also 
observant,  and  he  was  willing  to  listen 
and  learn.  Several  Latter-day  Saint 
servicemen  taught  him  the  gospel.  He 
received  a  conviction  of  its  truth  and 
was  baptized.  He  and  this  young  man 
from  Tooele  decided  they  would  send 
some  of  their  earnings  from  their  Army 
pay  each  month  back  home  to  a  mis- 
sionary fund,  to  help  support  some 
missionary.  After  they  were  released 
they  learned  that  this  money  had  been 
untouched,  and  the  idea  came  to  them 
that  this  converted  Baptist  might  go 
into  the  mission  field  to  share  with 
others  the  joy  that  had  come  into  his 
life,  so  he  accepted  a  call  to  serve  as 
a  missionary. 

I  shall  always  remember  the  testi- 
mony that  he  bore  that  night  at  his 
farewell.  As  he  looked  down  into  the 
congregation  and  saw  there  many  young 
people  with  whom  he  had  been  affiliated 
while  in  the  service  of  his  country, 
some  of  them  now  married,  one  or  two 
with  babes  in  arms,  he  said,  "I  am 
thankful  tonight  that  I  had  the  oppor- 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


115 


tunity  of  meeting  with  you  and  learning 
of  these  glorious  truths,  but  more  im- 
portant, I  want  to  testify  to  you  that  had 
you  kicked  over  the  traces  just  once,  I 
would  not  be  here  tonight."  They  had 
preached  the  gospel  by  their  actions  as 
well  as  by  their  words! 

Do  we  fully  appreciate  the  influence 
that  we  have  in  the  lives  of  others?  It 
surely  was  called  to  my  attention  as  I 
listened  to  his  witness  and  testimony. 
We  must  continually  work  at  being 
Latter-day  Saints. 

I  bear  you  my  witness  that  a  marvel- 
ous work  truly  has  come  forth.  There 
is  nothing  like  it  in  the  world.  It  is 
the  pattern  for  living.  The  Lord  has 
given  us  a  safeguard,  the  authority  of 
the  priesthood.  We  may  know  of  the 
authenticity  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  if 
we  will  but  study  its  contents.  We 
have  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  which 
will  guide  into  further  light  and  truth 
and  knowledge.  I  humbly  pray  that 
we  will  constantly  recognize  the  im- 
portance of  this  marvelous  work  and 
wonder  and  will  ever  be  found  further- 
ing it,  teaching  it,  living  it,  that  others 
may  see  our  good  works  and  glorify  our 
Father  in  heaven,  and  his  Son,  Jesus 
Christ.  I  bear  witness  that  they  live, 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  a  Prophet 
of  God,  as  are  those  who  have  succeeded 


him  down  to  President  David  O.  McKay 
today. 

May  God  bless  us  with  the  desire  and 
spirit  to  do,  to  accomplish,  with  an  eye 
single  to  his  glory,  I  humbly  pray  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  our 
Savior.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  John  Longden,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  has  just  concluded  speaking. 

The  Congregation  and  the  Brigham 
Young  University  Combined  Choruses 
will  now  sing,  "Redeemer  of  Israel," 
under  the  direction  of  Elder  Don  L. 
Earl.  After  the  singing,  Elder  Milton  R. 
Hunter  will  speak  to  us. 


The  congregation  joined  with  the 
Combined  Choruses  in  singing  the 
hymn,  "Redeemer  of  Israel,"  Don  L. 
Earl  conducting. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter  will  now 
speak  to  us.  He  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Henry  D.  Taylor.  Elder  Milton 
R.  Hunter  is  a  member  of  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy. 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


"If  a  man  die,  shall  he  live  again?" 
(Job.  14:14.) 

From  the  beginning  of  human  history, 
millions  and  millions  of  people  in  all 
nations  of  the  earth  have  been  con- 
fronted with  this  question.  Deep  in  the 
heart  of  every  person  is  the  desire  to 
live — not  only  to  live  a  long  time  here 
in  mortality,  but  also  to  rise  from  the 
grave.  To  have  immortality,  or  to  live 
forever,  is  an  innate  desire  or  belief 
in  the  hearts  of  all  mortals. 

Religions  that  have  offered  great  satis- 
faction to  the  worshipers  are  those  that 
have  had  strong  doctrines  of  the  im- 
mortality of  man.  Especially  in  times 
of  sorrow  and  bereavements  have  they 
been  able  to  offer  comfort  to  those  in 
distress. 

Christianity  has  as  its  center  a  real, 


historical  Personage — a  Savior-God — in 
Jesus  the  Christ,  the  Only  Begotten  Son 
of  the  Eternal  Father.  All  the  pagan 
rivals  of  Christianity  had  mythological 
savior-gods.  According  to  their  myths, 
some  of  the  pagan  gods  were  not  en- 
tirely moral.  Thus  Christianity  had  a 
great  advantage  over  all  contemporary 
religions. 

Jesus  taught,  "I  am  the  light  and  the 
life  of  the  world."  (3  Nephi  11:11;  see 
also  John  8:12.)  "I  am  the  resurrection, 
and  the  life."  (John  11:25.)  "In  him 
was  life;  and  the  life  was  the  light  of 
men."  (Ibid.,  1:4.) 

In  him  we  find  life  and  that  eternally; 
and  for  this  purpose  he  came  into  the 
world. 

These  marvelous  teachings  can  be 
illustrated  by  the  example  of  the  death 


116  GENERAL  C 

Wednesday,  April  6 

of  Lazarus.  As  you  recall,  he  was  the 
brother  of  Martha  and  Mary  whom 
Jesus  loved  greatly.  On  a  certain  occa- 
sion, Lazarus  became  very  ill.  The 
sisters  sent  word  to  Jesus  to  come.  He 
procrastinated  his  coming.  Lazarus 
died  and  was  buried.  Four  days  later 
Jesus  arrived.  Martha  heard  that  he 
was  coming  and  ran  out  to  meet  him. 
She  said: 

"Lord,  if  thou  hadst  been  here,  my 
brother  had  not  died. 

"Jesus  saith  unto  her,  Thy  brother 
shall  rise  again. 

"Martha  saith  unto  him,  I  know  that 
he  shall  rise  again  in  the  resurrection  at 
the  last  day." 

And  then  Jesus  made  this  memorable 
and  marvelous  statement: 

"...  I  am  the  resurrection,  and  the 
life:  he  that  believeth  in  me,  though  he 
were  dead,  yet  shall  he  live: 

"And  whosoever  liveth  and  believeth 
in  me  shall  never  die.  Believest  thou 
this?"  (Ibid.,  11:21,  23-26.) 

Martha  answered,  "Yea,  Lord.  .  .  ." 
And  furthermore  she  said,  "But  I  know, 
that  even  now,  whatsoever  thou  wilt 
ask  of  God,  God  will  give  it  thee." 
(Ibid.,  11:27,  22.) 

Mary  arrived  about  this  time  with 
ideas  similar  to  those  which  had  been 
expressed  by  Martha. 

Jesus  asked  to  be  taken  to  the  grave 
where  Lazarus  was  buried.  When  they 
arrived  at  the  grave,  the  Master  told 
those  present  to  take  the  stone  from 
the  mouth  of  the  cave  in  which  Lazarus' 
body  had  been  placed.  Jesus'  spirit 
groaned  deeply  within  him,  and  then 
he  prayed  in  sincerity  and  humility  to 
his  Father.  After  praying,  "he  cried 
with  a  loud  voice,  Lazarus  come  forth." 
(Ibid.,  11:43.)  Although  Lazarus  had 
been  dead  for  four  days,  he  came  from 
the  tomb.  This  marvelous  event  gives 
definite  evidence  that  if  a  man  die,  he 
is  not  dead — he  will  live  again. 

On  several  occasions  during  Christ's 
ministry,  he  raised  the  dead,  thereby 
giving  additional  evidence  that  man  will 
live  again. 

On  a  beautiful  Sunday  morning,  about 
this  time  of  the  year,  according  to  the 
Gospels  of  Matthew,  Mark,  and  Luke, 
at  the  break  of  day  Mary  Magdalene, 
Mary,  the  mother  of  the  Lord,  and 
other  women  whom  Jesus  loved,  went 
to  the  sepulchre  where  the  Master's  body 


Fourth  Day 

had  been  laid  to  anoint  his  body  with 
spices.  They  desired  to  give  his  body 
a  more  proper  burial.  Upon  arriving  at 
the  tomb,  they  found  that  the  huge  rock 
had  been  rolled  away  and  the  door  was 
open.  They  entered  the  sepulchre  and 
saw  a  young  man — an  angel — sitting 
there.   He  was 

".  .  .  clothed  in  a  long  white  gar- 
ment. .  . . 

"And  he  saith  unto  them,  Be  not 
affrighted:  Ye  seek  Jesus  of  Nazareth, 
which  was  crucified:  he  is  risen;  he  is 
not  here.  .  .  ."  (Mark  16:5-6.) 

They  left  the  sepulchre,  hurried  back 
to  Jerusalem,  and  reported  the  resurrec- 
tion of  Jesus  to  Peter  and  John.  Accord- 
ing to  the  Gospel  of  John,  these  two 
apostles  ran  to  the  tomb,  and  Mary 
Magdalene  followed.  As  Peter  and 
John  entered  the  sepulchre,  they  found 
it  empty.  They  also  found  the  burial 
clothing  folded  neatly.  And  then  the 
apostles  left  the  sepulchre  and  returned 
to  Jerusalem. 

But  Mary  Magdalene  lingered  near 
the  door  of  the  sepulchre  weeping  bit- 
terly. She  felt  the  presence  of  somebody 
near  who  she  thought  was  the  caretaker 
of  the  garden.  The  Personage  near  said, 

"Woman,  why  weepest  thou?  whom 
seekest  thou?" 

And  she  said, 

"Sir,  if  thou  have  borne  him  hence, 
tell  me  where  thou  hast  laid  him,  and 
I  will  take  him  away."  (John  20:15.) 

And  then  in  his  affectionate  and 
beautiful  way,  Jesus  said,  "Mary."  She 
recognized  the  voice  of  the  Master.  She 
brushed  her  tears  away  and,  running 
towards  him,  exclaimed,  "Rabboni." 
As  she  was  about  to  embrace  him,  the 
Master  said, 

"Touch  me  not;  for  I  am  not  yet 
ascended  to  my  Father:  but  go  to  my 
brethren,  and  say  unto  them,  I  ascend 
unto  my  Father,  and  your  Father;  and 
to  my  God,  and  your  God."  (Ibid., 
20:17.) 

Thus  Jesus  Christ  had  come  into 
mortality  and  had  fulfilled  the  purpose 
for  which  he  had  been  foreordained.  He 
had  shed  his  blood  for  the  sins  of  the 
world  both  in  Gethsemane  and  on  the 
cross.  Now  he  had  broken  the  bands 
of  death,  thereby  becoming  the  first 
fruits  of  the  resurrection.  As  he  rose 
from  the  grave,  so  shall  all  people  who 
live  upon  this  earth  rise  from  the  grave. 


ELDER  MILTi 

In  fact,  we  read  in  Matthew,  that  at 
the  time  Jesus  rose  from  the  grave, 

"And  the  graves  were  opened;  and 
many  bodies  of  the  saints  which  slept 
arose, 

"And  came  out  of  the  graves  after  his 
resurrection,  and  went  into  the  holy  city, 
and  appeared  unto  many."  (Matt.  27:52- 
53.) 

Perhaps  the  Book  of  Mormon  gives 
the  most  beautiful  account  of  the  appear- 
ance of  Christ  to  mortals  following  his 
resurrection.  A  terrific  storm  for  three 
hours  and  intense  darkness  for  three 
days  and  nights,  which  occurred  while 
Christ's  body  was  on  the  cross  and  in 
the  tomb,  were  now  over.  It  was  a 
beautiful,  sunny  day,  appropriate  for  the 
symbol  of  Jesus'  being  the  light  and  the 
life  of  the  world. 

The  people  in  the  Land  of  Bountiful 
had  assembled  in  front  of  the  temple. 
They  were  discussing  the  various  marvel- 
ous events  which  had  taken  place  dur- 
ing the  few  previous  days,  especially 
those  things  pertaining  to  Jesus  Christ. 
Suddenly  they  heard  a  voice  speak  as 
though  it  came  out  of  the  heavens.  It 
was  not  a  harsh  voice.  Neither  was  it 
a  loud  voice.  Nevertheless  it  pierced 
them  to  their  very  hearts,  "causing  their 
hearts  to  burn  within  them."  (3  Nephi 
11:3.)  At  first  they  did  not  understand 
what  the  voice  said. 

They  gazed  heavenward  and  heard 
the  voice  the  second  time  and  then  the 
third.  This  time  they  understood  the 
voice,  and  it  said  unto  them: 

"Behold  my  Beloved  Son,  in  whom 
I  am  well  pleased,  in  whom  I  have 
glorified  my  name — hear  ye  him. 

"...  as  they  understood  they  cast 
their  eyes  up  again  towards  heaven; 
and  behold,  they  saw  a  Man  descending 
out  of  heaven;  and  he  was  clothed  in  a 
white  robe;  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  11:7-8.) 

He  descended  from  the  heavens,  and 
stood  in  their  midst,  and  said: 

"Behold,  I  am  Jesus  Christ,  whom  the 
prophets  testified  shall  come  into  the 
world. 

"And  behold,  I  am  the  light  and  the 
life  of  the  world;  and  I  have  drunk  out 
of  that  bitter  cup  which  the  Father  hath 
given  me,  and  have  glorified  the  Father 
in  taking  upon  me  the  sins  of  the 
world,  .  .  .  (Ibid.,  11:10-11.) 

The  people  fell  upon  their  knees  and 


V  R.  HUNTER  117 

worshiped  him.  And  then  Jesus  said 
unto  them: 

"Arise  and  come  forth  unto  me,  that 
ye  may  thrust  your  hands  into  my  side, 
and  also  that  ye  may  feel  the  prints  of 
the  nails  in  my  hands  and  in  my  feet, 
that  ye  may  know  that  I  am  the  God  of 
Israel,  and  the  God  of  the  whole  earth, 
and  have  been  slain  for  the  sins  of  the 
world, . .  ."  (Ibid.,  11:10-11.) 

Thus  Jesus  Christ  presented  himself 
to  the  Nephites  as  the  resurrected  Mes- 
siah and  Savior  of  the  human  family. 

The  people  went  to  Jesus  and  thrust 
their  hands  into  his  side  and  felt  the 
prints  of  the  nails  in  his  hands  and 
feet.  Then  they  shouted,  "Hosanna! 
Blessed  be  the  name  of  the  Most  High 
God!"  (Ibid.,  11:17.)  And  they  fell  at 
Jesus'  feet  and  worshiped  him. 

After  this  occurred,  Jesus  selected 
twelve  men  to  be  his  apostles.  He 
taught  them  and  the  other  Nephites 
the  gospel.  The  resurrected  Savior  per- 
formed many  marvelous  miracles  among 
them,  even  greater  than  he  had  done 
among  the  Jews.  For  several  days  he 
ministered  to  the  inhabitants  of  an- 
cient America. 

On  one  of  these  occasions,  he  asked 
Nephi  to  bring  to  him  the  records  of 
his  people.  After  he  had  glanced 
through  the  records,  he  said: 

"Verily  I  say  unto  you,  I  commanded 
my  servant  Samuel,  the  Lamanite,  that 
he  should  testify  unto  his  people,  that 
at  the  day  that  the  Father  should  glorify 
his  name  in  me  that  there  were  many 
saints  who  should  arise  from  the  dead, 
and  should  appear  unto  many,  and 
should  minister  unto  them.  And  he 
said  unto  them:  Was  it  not  so? 

"And  his  disciples  answered  him  and 
said:  Yea,  Lord,  Samuel  did  prophesy 
according  to  thy  words,  and  they  were 
all  fulfilled."  (Ibid.,  23:9-10.) 

Christ  admonished  the  Nephites  for 
neglecting  to  record  these  important 
predictions  and  their  fulfilment.  He 
commanded  Nephi  that  "it  should  be 
written;  therefore  it  was  written."  Per- 
haps Jesus  desired  that  those  important 
events  should  be  recorded  as  a  testimony 
for  the  people  in  the  latter  days  to  help 
us  know  that  if  a  man  dies,  he  will  live 
again. 

One  of  the  greatest  events,  if  not  the 
most  important  event  that  ever  occurred 
in  ancient  America  was  the  appearance 


118 

Wednesday,  April  6 

of  the  resurrected  Savior  to  the  in- 
habitants of  this  land.  The  story  of  the 
marvelous  events  connected  therewith 
are  beautifully  told  in  Third  Nephi. 

The  Nephites  apostatized  from  the 
true  religion  Christ  taught  them  and 
later  as  a  nation  were  destroyed,  and  the 
Lamanites  became  a  degenerate,  pagan, 
apostate  people.  Yet  from  age  to  age 
many  of  the  principal  ideas  relative  to 
Christ  and  his  visit  to  ancient  America 
persisted. 

Following  the  discovery  of  America, 
the  Europeans  visited  various  tribes  of 
Indians.  From  them  they  learned  that 
practically  every  tribe  had  a  strong 
tradition  regarding  the  appearance  to 
their  ancestors  of  the  white  and  bearded 
God.  He  had  given  the  progenitors  of 
the  American  Indians  their  culture  and 
their  religion.  So  deep  was  the  im- 
pression made  by  Christ  upon  the  minds 
of  the  ancient  Americans,  that  their 
descendants — the  various  Indian  tribes — 
retained  the  principal  details  of  the  his- 
tory and  teachings  of  the  resurrected 
Messiah. 

The  Spanish  Catholic  fathers  found 
that  the  religion  of  the  American  In- 
dians was  so  much  like  Christianity 
that  the  claim  was  made  that  "the 
wicked  devil  had  beaten  the  Catholic 
fathers  to  the  New  World  and  had  put 
a  counterfeit  Christian  religion  in  the 
hearts  of  the  Indians."  A  study  of  the 
religion  of  the  American  Indians  seems 
to  indicate  that  in  some  respects  their 
Christianity  was  almost  as  true  as  that 
of  the  European  conquerors. 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  "...  I 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Fourth  Day 

know  that  my  redeemer  liveth,  and  that 
he  shall  stand  at  the  latter  day  upon 
the  earth.  And  though  after  my  skin 
worms  destroy  this  body,  yet  in  my  flesh 
shall  I  see  God."  (Job  19:25-26.)  I 
know,  as  Amulek  testified,  as  recorded  in 
Alma,  that  every  man,  woman,  and 
child,  male  and  female,  bond  and  free, 
righteous  and  the  wicked,  through  the 
atonement  of  Jesus  Christ — through  his 
grace — will  rise  from  the  grave  and  will 
receive  immortality.  I  am  also  con- 
vinced that  each  person  will  stand  be- 
fore the  judgment  seat  of  the  Messiah 
to  be  judged  for  the  life  lived  here  in 
mortality.  We  will  be  held  accountable 
for  every  action  that  we  commit,  for 
every  word  that  we  speak,  and  for  every 
thought  that  we  think. 

Furthermore,  I  bear  witness  that  Jesus 
Christ  not  only  through  his  atonement 
gave  us  immortality,  but  also  through 
the  gospel  plan  of  salvation  provided  a 
means  whereby  we  may  gain  eternal 
life.  If  we  are  faithful  in  keeping  God's 
commandments,  being  sufficiently  obedi- 
ent in  all  things,  we  shall  rise  in  the 
resurrection  and  return  to  the  presence 
of  the  Father  and  the  Son  and  receive 
a  glorious  exaltation  or  eternal  life.  May 
God  bless  us  that  we  may  do  so,  I  hum- 
bly pray,  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter  of  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy  has  just  spoken 
to  us.  We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder 
Henry  D.  Taylor,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  TAYLOR 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  come 
to  know  how  it  feels  to  be  the  last  leaf 
on  the  tree. 

I  am  grateful  for  my  membership  in 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  with  these  other  Brethren, 
I  bear  my  witness  that  I  know  that  the 
gospel  is  true,  and  that  this  Church  is 
led  by  divine  and  inspired  leadership. 

I  rejoice  in  the  growth  of  the  Church. 
As  Brother  Lee  reported  on  the  organiza- 
tion of  a  stake  in  England,  and  we  heard 
from  Brother  Stapley  and  Brother  Rom-? 


ney  of  the  organization  of  a  stake  in 
Australia,  I  was  reminded  of  some 
prophetic  words  by  President  McKay. 
Sometime  ago,  as  President  and  Sister 
McKay  returned  from  New  Zealand 
after  the  dedication  of  the  temple  there, 
many  of  us  met  them  at  the  Interna- 
tional Airport  in  Los  Angeles.  President 
John  M.  Russon  of  Los  Angeles  Stake 
and  I  were  walking  with  President 
McKay  from  the  plane  toward  the 
terminal,  when  he  stopped  us  and  said, 
"Brethren,,  next  Thursday  when  the  First 


ELDER  HEN1 

Presidency  and  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  meet,  I  am  going  to  recommend 
that  a  stake  be  organized  in  New  Zea- 
land." He  continued,  "You  know,  we 
live  in  a  jet-age,  and  with  these  fast 
planes  it  will  be  possible  for  the  Gen- 
eral Authorities  to  travel  swiftly  to  any 
part  of  the  world,  to  visit  stakes  as  they 
are  organized." 

Now  we  have  seen  those  words  ful- 
filled not  only  in  New  Zealand  but  also 
within  the  last  week  in  England  and 
Australia. 

Rather  recently  I  enjoyed  my  first  ex- 
perience of  traveling  on  a  jet-propelled 
plane.  It  was  amazing  the  speed  at 
which  we  traveled.  Less  than  two  hours 
after  leaving  Denver,  we  were  in  Chi- 
cago. Prior  to  departure  we  were  re- 
quired to  place  our  luggage  on  a  pair 
of  scales.  If  the  weight  was  under  forty 
pounds  the  amount  allowed  each  pas- 
senger, a  green  light  flashed.  But  if 
the  weight  exceeded  forty  pounds,  a  red 
light  flashed,  and  a  bell  rang.  The 
weight  exceeding  the  allowance  is  con- 
sidered excess  baggage  and  a  penalty 
or  additional  charge  is  levied.  When 
the  red  light  flashes,  one  begins  to  con- 
sider the  unnecessary  articles  he  could 
have  left  behind,  such  as  an  extra  pair 
of  shoes,  for  example. 

The  thought  occurred  to  me  that  this 
earth  life  is  also  a  rapid  flight  or  jour- 
ney. We  are  traveling  toward  a  de- 
sirable destination,  that  of  eternal  life 
and  exaltation.  Now  the  Lord  has  said, 
"For  behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my 
glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality 
and  eternal  life  of  man."  (Moses  1:39.) 

Our  goal  should  be  to  become  perfect, 
even  as  our  Father  in  heaven  is  perfect. 
It  would  be  well  in  early  life  to  select 
and  make  secure  the  characteristics  and 
traits  needed  for  this  journey  of  life, 
discarding  the  ones  which  are  harmful 
and  which  might  be  classed  as  excess 
baggage.  We  can  then  be  sure  as  we 
continue  our  journey,  that  the  green 
light  and  not  the  red  one  will  be  flash- 
ing. 

What  are  some  of  the  traits  which 
might  be  regarded  as  excess  baggage  on 
our  journey  toward  perfection?  To 
mention  but  a  few:  hate  and  anger  and 
the  holding  of  grudges,  a  hot  temper 
and  a  quick  tongue,  envy,  jealousy,  and 
greed,  a  critical  attitude  resulting  in 
faultfinding,  backbiting,  and  judging 


'  D.TAYLOR  119 

harshly.  All  these  are  excess  baggage 
and  we  shall  have  to  pay  dearly  for 
them. 

In  contrast  there  are  certain  basic, 
essential  characteristics  or  traits  which 
are  very  desirable.  They  constitute 
legitimate  or  necessary  baggage  on  our 
life's  journey.  One  is  love,  love  for  our 
Father  in  heaven,  love  for  fellow  men 
and  neighbors.  The  Savior  taught,  "But 
I  say  unto  you,  Love  your  enemies,  bless 
them  that  curse  you,  do  good  to  them 
that  hate  you,  and  pray  for  them  which 
despitefully  use  you,  and  persecute  you." 
(Matt.  5:44.) 

Someone  has  said,  "Be  kind  to  your 
enemies,  for  you  are  the  one  who  made 
them." 

One  of  the  most  beautiful  stories  of 
love,  loyalty,  and  devotion,  related  in 
the  scriptures  is  that  of  Ruth.  It  seems 
that  there  was  a  famine  in  the  land  of 
Bethlehem.  A  certain  man  took  his 
wife,  Naomi  and  their  two  sons  and 
journeyed  to  the  land  of  Moab.  The 
husband  became  ill  and  passed  away, 
leaving  his  widow  and  the  two  boys. 
Subsequently  the  two  sons  married  Moab 
girls,  but  within  ten  years'  time,  both 
of  the  sons  also  died.  Naomi  felt  im- 
pressed that  she  should  return  to  her 
homeland  in  Bethlehem.  Her  two 
daughters-in-law  expressed  a  desire  to 
accompany  her.  But  Naomi  encouraged 
them  to  return  to  their  former  homes, 
friends,  and  loved  ones.  One  left,  but 
the  other,  whose  name  was  Ruth,  over- 
came Naomi's  objections,  when  she  ut- 
tered these  tender  and  memorable  words: 
"Intreat  me  not  to  leave  thee,  or  to 
return  from  following  after  thee:  for 
whither  thou  goest,  I  will  go;  and  where 
thou  lodgest,  I  will  lodge:  thy  people 
shall  be  my  people,  and  thy  God  my 
God: 

"Where  thou  diest,  will  I  die,  and 
there  will  I  be  buried:  the  Lord  do  so 
to  me,  and  more  also,  if  ought  but  death 
part  thee  and  me."  (Ruth  1:16-17.) 

Self-control  is  a  very  valuable  asset 
to  possess  on  life's  journey.  The  ability 
to  control  one's  temper,  one's  tongue, 
one's  thoughts  is  highly  commendable. 
As  pointed  out  in  Proverbs: 

"He  that  is  slow  to  anger  is  better 
than  the  mighty;  and  he  that  ruleth  his 
spirit  than  he  that  taketh  a  city."  (Prov. 
16:32.) 


120 

Wednesday,  April  6 

Another  excellent  quality  is  a  forgiv- 
ing nature  and  disposition.  The  Lord 
has  admonished  us  to  be  ever  ready 
and  willing  to  forgive  our  fellow  man. 
In  these  latter  days  he  has  counseled: 

"Wherefore,  I  say  unto  you,  that  ye 
ought  to  forgive  one  another;  for  he 
that  forgiveth  not  his  brother  his  tres- 
passes standeth  condemned  before  the 
Lord;  for  there  remaineth  in  him  the 
greater  sin. 

"I,  the  Lord,  will  forgive  whom  I  will 
forgive,  but  of  you  it  is  required  to  for- 
give all  men."  (D&G  64:9-10.) 

One  of  the  virtues  possessed  by  the 
Savior  so  perfectly  that  we  should 
strive  to  perfect  in  ourselves,  is  that  of 
tolerance,  that  is,  a  willingness  to  be 
long-suffering,  patient,  to  appreciate  an- 
other's point  of  view.  Let  us  be  strict 
and  critical  with  ourselves,  but  lenient 
and  tolerant  with  others. 

With  the  passing  of  each  day  we 
travel  along  our  journey,  some  improve- 
ment should  be  found  in  our  lives.  As 
a  woman  testified  in  a  prayer  meeting, 
"I  ain't  what  I  ought  to  be;  and  I  ain't 
what  I'm  gonna  be;  but  anyway,  I  ain't 
what  I  was." 

The  Savior  set  us  the  example.  We 
should  earnestly  strive  to  pattern  our 
lives  after  his.    If  we  do  this,  we  will 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Fourth  Day 

discard  those  qualities  that  constitute 
excess  baggage.  We  will  carry  with  us 
only  those  characteristics  that  are  essen- 
tial and  that  will  permit  us  to  continue 
our  journey  unencumbered. 

The  poet  Henry  Van  Dyke  has  given 
us  these  words  of  counsel  regarding  our 
way  of  living: 

"To  be  glad  of  life  because  it  gives 
you  the  chance  to  love  and  to  work  and 
to  play,  and  look  up  at  the  stars;  to  be 
satisfied  with  your  possessions,  but  not 
contented  with  yourself  until  you  have 
made  the  best  of  them;  to  despise  nothing 
in  the  world  except  falsehood  and  mean- 
ness and  to  fear  nothing  except  coward- 
ice; to  be  governed  by  your  admirations 
rather  than  by  your  disgusts;  to  covet 
nothing  that  is  your  neighbor's  except 
his  kindness  of  heart  and  gentleness  of 
manners;  to  think  seldom  of  your  ene- 
mies, often  of  your  friends,  and  every 
day  of  Christ;  and  spend  as  much  time 
as  you  can  with  body  and  with  spirit 
in  God's  out-of-doors.  These  are  little 
guide  posts  on  the  footpath  of  peace." 

May  we  all  live  so  that  our  life's 
journey  may  be  pleasant  and  we  can 
obtain  the  peace  of  God  which  passeth 
all  understanding,  I  humbly  pray,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Savior. 
Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  have  furnished  the 
music  for  this  session  and  this  morning's 
session.  We  wish  to  express  our  appre- 
ciation to  these  young  men  and  women 
of  Brigham  Young  University.  We 
know  that  they  have  spent  many  hours 
in  practice  in  the  weeks  that  have  gone 
by  so  that  we  could  enjoy  their  inspira- 
tional singing.  We  thank  you  young 
folks  for  the  efforts  you  have  put  forth. 
We  are  grateful  for  the  inspiration  that 
you  have  given  this  conference,  includ- 
ing all  who  have  been  listening  in  to 
this  program.  We  are  proud  of  you  I 
We  have  reason  to  be  proud  of  all  our 
young  people  with  a  few  exceptions. 

I  have  frequently  said,  and  I  repeat, 
we  have  confidence  in  our  young  folks. 
It  is  our  duty  as  adults  and  their  par- 
ents to  set  them  a  proper  example  in  the 
home  and  in  society.  It  is  our  responsi- 


bility to  impress  our  children  with  our 
sincerity  in  our  belief  in  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Never  should  parents 
teach  one  thing  about  the  gospel  and 
do  another.  Children  are  very  suscep- 
tible to  insincerity. 

Yes,  we  thank  you  young  folk  for  the 
effort  you  have  put  forth.  May  our 
Heavenly  Father  protect  you  as  you  go 
back  to  your  homes,  and  may  he  ever 
bless  you  for  the  unselfish  service  you 
have  rendered.  We  shall  cherish  the 
memory  of  your  inspirational  singing 
that  you  have  given  us  this  day. 

I  should  like  to  express,  also,  our 
appreciation  to  the  approximately  2,000 
singers  from  Utah,  California,  and 
Oregon  who  have  presented  special 
music  for  this  general  conference — two 
thousand  singers  who  have  furnished 
music  for  the  Primary  conference  ses- 
sions, for  the  priesthood  meeting,  and 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


121 


Sunday  School  conferencel  Freely  have 
they  given  of  their  time  and  talents  to 
help  make  this  conference  a  success. 
Many  of  them  traveled  at  their  own 
expense.   Let  me  just  repeat  the  groups: 

Saturday  night  in  this  tabernacle,  we 
had  the  Portland  Stake  priesthood  chorus 
at  the  priesthood  meeting,  under  the 
direction  of  Elder  Bruce  Kelly.  Fifty- 
three  thousand  members  of  the  priest- 
hood heard  their  inspirational  singing 
Saturday  night  over  a  closed  circuit 
in  244  buildings  throughout  the  United 
States,  Canada,  and  Mexico. 

On  Sunday,  we  had  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  at  the  Sunday  sessions,  under  the 
direction  of  Elder  Richard  P.  Condie. 
You  remember  that  inspiring  day. 

On  Monday,  the  Mormon  Choir  of 
Southern  California  sang  at  the  two 
sessions  under  the  direction  of  Elder  H. 
Frederick  Davis. 

Monday  night,  in  the  Tabernacle,  we 
had  the  Salt  Lake  Valley  Regional  Mis- 
sion Choir,  at  the  missionary  meeting. 
This  small  chorus  under  the  direction  of 
Elder  Rudy  Mueller,  sang  hymns  in  the 
different  tongues. 

Today,  the  Brigham  Young  Univer- 
sity Combined  Choruses,  under  the  di- 
rection of  Dr.  Newell  B.  Weight  and 
Don  L.  Earl,  furnished  the  singing.  We 
are  the  recipients  of  inspiration  and 
blessing  from  these  various  groups. 
While  we  thank  the  members  from 
Brigham  Young  University,  we  are  not 
unmindful  of  all  the  others. 

I  wish  also  to  express  appreciation 
and  gratitude  to  all  who  have  in  any 
way  contributed  to  the  success  of  this 
great  conference.  First,  to  the  General 
Authorities  we  express  deep  appreciation 
for  the  inspirational  messages  they  have 
given  us.  The  latest  conference  is  al- 
ways said  to  be  the  best,  but  really  this 
has  been  the  best  conference  I  think  we 
have  ever  held. 

I  should  like  to  express  appreciation 
to  the  public  press  and  the  reporters 
for  their  fair  and  accurate  reports 
throughout  the  sessions  of  the  confer- 
ence. 

Third,  in  your  behalf,  I  express  ap- 
preciation for  the  co-operation  of  the 
city  officials;  the  city  traffic  officers, 
especially,  in  their  expert  handling  of 
the  increased  traffic;  to  the  fire  depart- 
ment, on  hand  for  any  emergency;  to 
the  Red  Cross  members,  whom  you  see 


around,  ready  to  take  care  of  anybody 
who  might  suddenly  be  taken  ill. 

I  have  mentioned  already  our  ushers 
who  have  rendered  service  in  seating  the 
great  audiences  of  these  conference  ses- 
sions. 

We  must  not  forget  to  thank  the  radio 
and  television  stations.  Throughout  our 
own  city  and  the  nation  they  have  car- 
ried the  sessions  of  this  conference,  and 
have  been  the  means  of  permitting  un- 
told thousands  of  people  to  hear  the 
conference  proceedings — the  most  ex- 
tensive television  and  radio  coverage 
ever  given  the  Church. 

Again,  we  express  appreciation  for  the 
lovely  flowers  that  have  beautified  this 
building  during  our  assemblies — scores 
of  members  of  the  Church  have  spent 
many  hours  in  picking  these  flowers  and 
in  getting  them  ready  for  shipment  to 
Salt  Lake  City.  Ten  thousand  sweet 
peas  were  gathered  under  the  direction 
of  David  M.  Hansen  of  Mesa,  Arizona, 
with  the  aid  of  the  youth  of  the  Mesa 
seminaries.  Members  of  the  Church  in 
the  Phoenix  stakes  sent  a  quantity  of 
stocks.  The  Southern  States  Mission  sent 
some  thirty  dozen  gladioli.  The  Oak- 
land-Berkeley Stake  sent  cala  lilies, 
and  the  Tacoma  Stake  sent  fifty  dozen 
daffodils,  through  the  kindness  and 
generosity  of  Puyallup  Valley  Daffodil 
Festival,  Inc.,  Tacoma,  Washington. 

One  day,  two  men  were  walking  near 
Emmaus,  a  town  not  far  from  Jerusalem, 
and  a  man  suddenly  appeared  by  their 
side.  They  did  not  recognize  him. 
After  he  left  them,  they  said,  "Did  not 
our  heart  burn  within  us  .  .  .  ?"  (Luke 
24:32.)  Luke  tells  us  about  that  inci- 
dent, after  he  had  inquired  of  many 
people  who  had  had  some  intimacy  with 
Jesus. 

I  think  that  there  are  many  in  this 
congregation,  and  I  hope  many  who 
have  been  listening  over  radio  and 
television  who  have  had  their  hearts 
"burn  within  them"  as  they  have  lis- 
tened not  only  to  the  inspirational  sing- 
ing, but  to  the  sublime  testimonies,  and 
I  hope  as  their  hearts  have  burned  with- 
in them,  that  they  realized  the  message 
that  went  into  their  hearts.  I  hope  they 
have  an  inkling,  at  least,  of  the  divine 
truth  that  they  are  sons  of  God,  and 
that  that  burning  within  them  was  just 
a  touch  of  harmony  between  them  and 
the  infinite,  the  Spirit  of  God  which 


122 

Wednesday,  April  6 

will  enlighten  our  minds,  quicken  our 
understandings,  and  bring  all  things  to 
our  remembrance. 

If  we  were  just  animals,  we  should 
never  have  a  feeling  of  that  kind.  That 
is  evidence  that  man  has  a  greater 
destiny  than  just  a  mere  animal  life. 
That  is  a  touch  of  the  spirit  I  Every  man 
who  has  sensed  that  has  a  testimony 
himself  and  every  woman  also  has  a 
testimony  herself,  that  man  is  a  dual 
being.  He  has  a  body,  just  as  all  other 
animals  have.  But  he  has  something 
that  comes  only  from  his  Father  in 
heaven,  and  he  is  entitled,  is  susceptible 
to  whisperings,  susceptible  to  influences 
from  his  Divine  Parent,  through  the 
Holy  Ghost,  the  medium  between  us 
and  God  the  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ. 

This  has  been  in  a  remarkable  man- 
ner, an  outstanding  spiritual  conference. 
I  should  like  to  say  a  word  about  that; 
it  came  to  me  last  evening:  The  highest 
acquisition  of  the  soul  we  have  experi- 
enced— the  spiritual,  the  divine  in  man; 
the  supreme  crowning  gift  that  makes 
him  king  of  all  created  beings.  Spiritu- 
ality is  the  consciousness  of  victory  over 
self,  the  consciousness  of  being  above  the 
passions,  whether  in  anger  or  jealousy  or 
envy,  or  hatred.  To  feel  that  you  can 
be  above  those  animal-like  feelings,  is 
to  experience  spirituality,  and  every  man 
and  woman  whose  heart  burned  when 
he  or  she  heard  the  testimony  of  these 
brethren,  experienced  that  spirituality. 

It  is  the  realization  of  communion  with 
Deity.  No  higher  attainment  can  be 
reached  than  that. 

Remember  what  Paul  said?  "This  I 
say  then,  Walk  in  the  Spirit,  and  ye 
shall  not  fulfil  the  lust  of  the  flesh. 

"For  the  flesh  lusteth  against  the 
Spirit,  and  the  Spirit  against  the  flesh: 
and  these  are  contrary  the  one  to  the 
other:  so  that  ye  cannot  do  the  things 
that  ye  would. 

"Now  the  works  of  the  flesh  are  mani- 
fest, which  are  these;  Adultery  (the  Re- 
vised Version  leaves  that  out,  but  it 
does  not  leave  out  fornication),  fornica- 
tion, uncleanness,  lasciviousness. 

".  .  .  hatred,  variance,  emulations, 
wrath,  strife,  .  .  .  heresies  (I  am  not 
reading  it  all), 

"Envyings, . . .  drunkenness,  revellings, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Fourth  Day 

and  such  like:  of  the  which  I  tell  you 
before,  as  I  have  also  told  you  in  time 
past,  that  they  which  do  such  things 
shall  not  inherit  the  kingdom  of  God. 

"But  the  fruit  of  the  Spirit  is  love,  joy, 
peace,  longsuffering,  gentleness,  good- 
ness, faith, 

"Meekness,  temperance:  against  such 
there  is  no  law. 

"And  they  that  are  Christ's  have 
crucified  the  flesh  with  the  affections 
and  lusts. 

"If  we  live  in  the  Spirit,  let  us  also 
walk  in  the  Spirit."  (Gal.  5:1,  16,  17, 
19-25.) 

We  have  had  testimonies  during  this 
conference,  the  testimony  of  the  Spirit, 
that  we  are  children  of  our  Father.  We 
have  had  testimony  that  God  is  a  living 
Being.  We  have  had  testimony  that 
Christ  is  at  the  head  of  his  Church. 
Have  you  not  felt  that  testimony?  We 
have  had  testimony  of  the  Spirit  that 
he  has  revealed  in  this  dispensation  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  Have  you  not  felt  that, 
too,  this  conference?  We  have  never 
held  a  greater  conference. 

I  bear  you  that  testimony  that  I  know 
whereof  I  speak;  that  we  must  live  in 
the  spirit  and  get  power  thereby  to  over- 
come the  lusts  of  the  flesh  as  enumer- 
ated here  by  a  man  who  knew.  And 
you  know,  and  the  happier  you  will 
be  if  you  live  above  the  flesh.  Con- 
quer the  animal  within  you  when  you 
are  tempted  to  scold  or  find  fault  with 
your  wife  or  with  your  husband.  Con- 
trol your  tempers  if  prompted  to  deal 
unjustly  with  a  wayward  child.  Young 
men  and  young  women,  conquer  your 
own  desires  and  obey  your  parents.  Do 
not  think  that  they  are  old-fashioned. 
They  are  more  experienced  than  you. 
Love  them,  be  kind  to  them. 

God  bless  those  who  have  given  the 
messages  of  this  conference.  They  have 
risen  to  heights  sublime. 

May  he  bless  us  all  that  we  may  go 
home  with  a  firmer  resolve  than  we 
have  ever  had  before  to  live  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ;  to  be  kind  to  our  neigh- 
bors, honest  in  our  dealings,  so  that 
men  seeing  our  good  works  may  be  led 
to  glorify  our  Father  which  is  in  heaven, 
I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


123 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  will  now  sing,  "Hallelu- 
jah," from  "The  Mount  of  Olives."  The 
benediction  will  be  offered  by  Elder  R. 
Roscoe  Garrett,  president  of  the  Juab 
Stake,  and  this  Conference  will  be  ad- 
journed for  six  months. 


The  Combined  Choruses  of  the  Brig- 
ham  Young  University  sang,  "Hallelu- 
jah" (From  the  "Mount  of  Olives.") 

Elder  R.  Roscoe  Garrett,  President  of 
the  Juab  Stake,  offered  the  benediciton. 

Conference  adjourned  sine  die. 


The  Portland  Stake  Priesthood  Chorus 
furnished  musical  numbers  for  the  Gen- 
eral Priesthood  Meeting  Saturday  eve- 
ning, April  2,  with  Elder  Bruce  Kelly 
directing  the  singing  of  the  Chorus. 

At  the  Sunday  morning  and  after- 
noon sessions  (April  3)  the  Salt  Lake 
Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  the  choral 
music,  Richard  P.  Condie  conducting, 
assisted  by  Jay  E.  Welch,  Assistant  Tab- 
ernacle Choir  Conductor. 

The  Mormon  Choir  of  Southern  Cali- 
fornia, H.  Frederick  Davis,  Conductor, 
furnished  the  music  for  the  Monday 
morning  and  afternoon  sessions. 

The  music  for  the  Wednesday  morning 
and  afternoon  sessions  was  furnished 
by  the  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Chorus.  Elder  Newell  B.  Weight 
conducted  the  singing  of  the  Choruses 
at  the  morning  meeting  and  Don  L.  Earl 
at  the  afternoon  session. 

Richard  P.  Condie,  Conductor  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  directed  the  singing 
of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  at  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  and  Organ  broadcast  as  also 
on  the  Church  of  the  Air  program,  Sim- 
day  morning.  Alexander  Schreiner  was 
at  the  organ. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on 
the  organ  were  played  by  Alexander 
Schreiner,  Frank  W.  Asper  and  Roy  M. 
Darley. 

Joseph  Anderson 
Clerk  of  the  Conference 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 

Columbia  Broadcasting  System's 
Church  of  the  Air  was  presented  at  8:30 
a.m.,  Sunday,  April  3,  1960.  The  pro- 
gram was  as  follows: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  di- 
rection of  Richard  P.  Condie,  furnished 
the  music  for  this  service,  with  Frank  W. 
Asper  at  the  organ.  Richard  L.  Evans 
was  the  announcer. 

Music:  Organ  and  humming  choir: 
"Sweet  Is  The  Work." 

Announcer:  The  Church  of  the  Air 
is  presented  by  CBS  Radio  so  that  rep- 
resentatives of  many  faiths  may  address 
a  nationwide  congregation.  Today's 
service,  presented  in  association  with 
the  Semi-Annual  General  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  comes  to  you  from  the  Mor- 
mon Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square, 
through  the  facilities  of  Station  KSL  in 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah.  Our  speaker  is 
Elder  Howard  W.  Hunter,  a  member 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
of  the  Church.  Music  is  by  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir,  directed  by  Richard  P. 
Condie,  with  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the 
organ. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sings  the  words 
of  Ellen  Underwood  with  the  music  of 
Stanley  Effinger.  "The  bread  that 
bringeth  strength  I  want  to  give,  the 
water  pure  that  bids  the  thirsty  live;  I 
want  to  help  the  fainting  day  by  day, 
I'm  sure  I  shall  not  pass  again  this  way 
...  I  want  to  give  good  measure  running 
o'er,  And  into  angry  hearts  I  want  to 
pour;  The  answer  soft  that  turneth  wrath 
away  . .  .  I'm  sure  I  shall  not  pass  again 
this  way.  ...  I  want  to  give  to  others 
hope  and  faith,  I  want  to  do  all  that 
the  Master  saith,  I  want  to  live  a-right 
from  day  to  day,  I'm  sure  I  shall  not 
pass  again  this  way.  .  .  ." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "I  Shall  Not  Pass 
Again  This  Way." — Effinger.) 

Announcer:  We  hear  now  J.  R.  Parks 
setting  for  the  24th  Psalm,  with  the 
voice  of  Jessie  Evans  Smith  singing  as 
soloist  with  the  Tabernacle  Choir: 
"Who  shall  ascend  unto  the  hill  of 
the  Lord?  Or  who  shall  stand  in  His 
holy  place?  He  that  hath  clean  hands, 
and  a  pure  heart;  Who  hath  not  lifted 
up  his  soul  unto  vanity,  nor  sworn  de- 
ceitfully." 


124 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


(The  Choir  sang:  "The  King  Of 
Glory."— Parks.) 

Announcer:  We  now  hear  on  this 
Church  of  the  Air  Service  Howard  W. 
Hunter  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 


of  Latter-day  Saints,  frequently  referred 
to  as  the  Mormon  Church.  Elder 
Hunter  came  to  his  recent  Church  call- 
ing as  a  successful  lawyer  and  dis- 
tinguished civic  servant.  Today's  talk 
is  titled:  "As  He  Thinketh." 


ELDER  HOWARD  W.  HUNTER 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Since  the  beginning  God  has  given 
to  every  man  the  power  to  control  his 
thoughts.  He  has  also  given  man  the 
freedom  to  select  the  course  in  life  he 
wishes  to  pursue.  When  Adam  was 
placed  in  the  Garden  of  Eden,  the  Lord 
commanded  him  saying: 

"Of  every  tree  of  the  garden  thou 
mayest  freely  eat;  But  of  the  tree  of 
knowledge  of  good  and  evil,  thou  shalt 
not  eat  of  it;  for  in  the  day  that  thou 
eatest  thereof  thou  shalt  surely  die." 
(Gen.  2:16,  17.) 

Although  Adam  was  thus  admonished 
not  to  partake  of  the  fruit  of  the  tree 
of  knowledge  of  good  and  evil,  never- 
theless he  had  the  right  to  think  for 
himself  and  the  right  to  make  his  own 
choice. 

Scriptures  are  replete  with  God's 
promised  blessings  to  us  if  we  will  keep 
His  commandments  and  comply  with 
His  laws,  but  it  is  a  fundamental  prin- 
ciple that  we  are  never  compelled  to  do 
His  will.  In  ancient  times  the  Lord 
commanded  Israel  to  keep  all  of  His 
commandments  with  the  promise  of  an 
abundant  harvest  if  they  would  do  so, 
but  in  the  event  they  failed,  His  wrath 
would  be  kindled  against  them.  He 
said: 

"Behold,  I  set  before  you  this  day  a 
blessing  and  a  curse;  A  blessing  if  ye 
obey  the  commandments  of  the  Lord, 
your  God,  which  I  command  you  this 
day:  And  a  curse,  if  ye  will  not  obey 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord  your 
God,  but  turn  aside  out  of  the  way 
which  I  command  you  this  day,  to  go 
after  other  gods,  which  ye  have  not 
known."  (Deut.  11:26-28.) 

So  it  has  been  down  through  the  ages. 
Although  God  has  pointed  the  way,  He 
has  given  to  all  men  the  right  to  think 
for  themselves  and  make  their  own 
choices. 

Marcus  Aurelius  once  said,  "A  man's 


life  is  what  his  thoughts  make  of  it." 
Emerson  said,  "A  man  is  what  he  thinks 
about  all  day  long."  Man's  mind  may 
be  likened  unto  a  flower  garden.  It  can 
be  a  thing  of  beauty  and  inspiration 
to  the  gardener  and  all  who  may  gaze 
upon  it,  or  it  may  be  ill  kept  and  over- 
run with  weeds.  As  the  plant  which 
produces  the  beautiful  flower  grows  from 
a  seed,  so  every  act  of  man  springs  from 
the  hidden  seed  of  thought.  As  a  being 
of  power  and  intelligence,  and  master 
of  his  own  thoughts,  man  has  the  di- 
vinely given  ability  to  make  of  himself 
what  he  chooses  to  be. 

Dr.  Robert  A.  Milliken,  well  known 
in  the  circles  of  science,  and  once  win- 
ner of  the  Nobel  Prize,  made  this  sig- 
nificant statement:  "I  think  you  will  not 
misunderstand  me  when  I  say  that  I 
have  never  known  a  thinking  man  who 
did  not  believe  in  God."  George  Wash- 
ington, whom  we  revere  as  the  Father 
of  our  Country,  had  a  deep  and  abiding 
faith  in  God.  Abraham  Lincoln,  on 
many  public  occasions,  made  it  known 
that  his  actions  were  motivated  by  his 
firm  belief  in  God.  We  will  recall  that 
Jesus  was  asked: 

"Master,  which  is  the  great  command- 
ment in  the  law?  Jesus  said  unto  him, 
Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with 
all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul, 
and  with  all  thy  mind.  This  is  the  first 
and  great  commandment.  And  the  sec- 
ond is  like  unto  it,  Thou  shalt  love  thy 
neighbor  as  thyself.  On  these  two  com- 
mandments hang  all  the  law  and  the 
prophets."  (Matthew  22:36-40.) 

As  man's  thoughts  turn  to  God  and 
the  things  that  pertain  to  God,  man 
undergoes  a  spiritual  transformation.  It 
lifts  him  from  the  commonplace  and 
gives  to  him  a  noble  and  Godlike  char- 
acter. If  we  have  faith  in  God,  we  are 
using  one  of  the  great  laws  of  life.  The 
most  powerful  force  in  human  nature 


ELDER  HOW  A. 

is  the  spiritual  power  of  faith.  Jesus 
said: 

"According  to  your  faith  be  it  unto 
you."  (Matthew  9:29.) 

"And  this  is  life  eternal,  that  they 
might  know  thee,  the  only  true  God, 
and  Jesus  Christ,  whom  thou  hast  sent." 
(John  17:3.) 

God  is  our  Father,  and  we  are  his  chil- 
dren. From  father  to  child  there  exists 
that  same  natural  parental  love  that  is 
expressed  by  our  Heavenly  Father  for 
His  children.  When  the  prodigal  boy, 
in  that  parable  which  most  perfectly 
tells  the  story  of  the  sinning,  and  re- 
pentant life,  "came  to  himself,"  his  first 
words  were,  "I  will  arise  and  go  to  my 
father."  (Luke  15:18.)  While  he  is  yet 
afar  off  the  waiting  father  sees  him 
coming  and  is  moved  with  compassion. 
Repentance  is  but  the  homesickness  of 
the  soul,  and  the  uninterrupted  and 
watchful  care  of  the  parent  is  the  fairest 
earthly  type  of  the  unfailing  forgiveness 
of  God.  The  family  is,  to  the  mind  of 
Jesus,  the  nearest  of  human  analogies  to 
that  divine  order  which  it  was  His  mis- 
sion to  reveal. 

Fathers  and  mothers  have  a  great 
responsibility  with  respect  to  the  chil- 
dren which  are  entrusted  to  their  care. 
One  of  the  greatest  needs  of  the  day  is 
for  parents  to  teach  and  encourage  young 
people  to  conduct  themselves  according 
to  Christian  standards.  In  the  Book  of 
Proverbs  we  find  this  admonition  to 
parents: 

"Train  up  a  child  in  the  way  he 
should  go:  and  when  he  is  old,  he  will 
not  depart  from  it."  (Proverbs  22:6.) 

The  greatest  training  that  can  be 
given  to  a  child  is  that  which  comes 
from  the  example  of  parents.  Parents 
need  to  set  the  example  for  young  peo- 
ple to  follow.  Great  strength  comes 
from  the  home  where  righteous  prin- 
ciples are  taught,  where  there  is  love 
and  respect  for  each  other,  where  prayer 
has  been  an  influence  in  the  family  life, 
and  where  there  is  respect  for  those 
things  that  pertain  to  God. 

The  Christian  family  gets  its  unity 
and  stability,  not  by  outward  regulation, 
but  by  the  natural  processes  of  its  in- 
ward life.  It  has  its  troubles  and  sor- 
rows and  they  draw  hearts  together; 
it  has  its  joys,  and  they  are  multiplied 
by  being  shared.    As  the  children  are 


D  W.  HUNTER  125 

taught  the  lessons  concerning  their 
Heavenly  Father  and  the  truths  of  the 
Gospel,  and  of  the  son  whose  return  the 
father  is  waiting — they  will  interpret 
these  truths  as  Jesus  prompted  them  to 
do,  in  the  language  of  their  own  loving 
and  united  home. 

Young  people  need  to  be  taught  by 
parents  in  the  home  to  have  the  desire 
to  live  clean  lives  and  have  clean 
thoughts. 

"For  as  he  thinketh  in  his  heart,  so 
is  he."  (Proverbs  23:7.) 

This  often  quoted  line  from  the  Book 
of  Proverbs  is  as  applicable  to  youth  as 
to  old  age  and  should  be  a  reminder 
to  parents  that  the  acts  and  conduct  of 
young  people  are  motivated  by  their 
thoughts. 

I  am  deeply  impressed  by  the  great 
youth  program  of  the  Church  which  I 
have  the  honor  to  represent.  Thousands 
of  young  people  across  our  nation  are 
meeting  in  fireside  groups  of  their  own 
age  where  they  are  discussing  among 
themselves,  under  the  guidance  of  their 
leaders,  the  problems  of  modern  day 
youth.  Such  problems  as  drinking, 
smoking  and  going  to  questionable 
places;  dating,  chaperonage,  courtship, 
kissing,  petting,  proper  use  of  the  auto- 
mobile; morality,  honesty,  clean  living, 
and  many  other  things  which  will  have 
a  permanent  affect  on  their  lives  as  they 
grow  to  face  marriage  and  parenthood. 
As  our  young  people  discuss  these  prob- 
lems and  arrive  at  their  solutions,  after 
applying  the  moral  principles  of  Chris- 
tianity, they  find  strength  in  their  resolu- 
tions to  live  the  clean  life  their  Heavenly 
Father  would  have  them  live.  The 
whole  idea  behind  this  program  is  to 
help  young  men  and  young  women  de- 
velop right  thinking  for  their  guidance 
so  that  they  will  not  make  mistakes. 

In  order  that  parents  and  children 
may  better  understand  each  other,  a 
plan  has  been  adopted  by  that  church 
known  as  the  "Family  Council."  This 
council  is  called  and  conducted  by  the 
parents  and  attended  by  all  members 
of  the  family.  It  strengthens  family  ties, 
assures  children  they  "belong"  and  con- 
vinces them  that  the  parents  are  in- 
terested in  their  problems.  This  family 
meeting  teaches  mutual  respect  for  each 
other,  eliminates  selfishness,  and  empha- 
sizes the  Golden  Rule  in  the  home  and 


126  CHURCH  C 

living  a  clean  life.  Family  worship  and 
prayer  are  taught,  together  with  the  les- 
sons of  kindness  and  honesty.  The 
problem  of  the  family  usually  confronts 
one  at  such  close  range  that  its  real 
dimensions  and  significance  are  not 
easily  appreciated,  but  when  families 
are  strong  and  united  in  the  endeavor  to 
serve  God  and  keep  His  commandments, 
many  of  our  modern  day  problems 
disappear. 

The  world  would  be  a  better  place  to 
live  if  we  would  think  and  act  as  God 
would  have  us  do.  This  should  be  a 
personal  challenge  to  every  man  and 
woman,  and  every  father  and  mother, 
to  live  according  to  the  commandments 
of  God  and  be  an  example  for  good  to 
boys  and  girls  in  their  years  of  growing 

UP- 

They  are  the  most  happy  whose  lives 
have  been  dedicated  to  the  endeavor  of 
making  the  world  a  better  place  to  live 
by  raising  the  standards  of  thought  and 
action.  This  can  only  be  done  by  strict 
observance  to  the  laws  which  God  has 
laid  down  for  the  conduct  of  man  in  this 
mortal  existence. 

I  know  that  God  lives.  I  bear  witness 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the 
living  God;  that  He  is  the  Savior  of  the 
world  having  given  His  life  as  the  great 
sacrifice  that  we  might  have  life  ever- 
lasting. He  is  your  personal  Savior 
and  my  personal  Savior.  If  we  will 
open  our  hearts  to  his  presence  and  ac- 
cept of  him,  our  lives  will  be  enriched 
by  the  joy  and  happiness  that  comes 
only  to  those  who  do  so  receive  Him. 
May  righteous  thoughts  control  our 
lives  so  that  we  may  always  make 
choices  according  to  the  will  of  God, 
I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Lo,  My  Shepherd 
Is  Divine." — Haydn.) 

Announcer:  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
has  recalled  a  setting  for  the  23rd  Psalm 
by  Franz  Joseph  Haydn:  "Lo,  My  Shep- 
herd Is  Divine." 

And  now,  the  Choir  recalls  the  words 
of  Parley  P.  Pratt  set  to  the  music  of 
George  Careless  in  a  hymn  of  faith  and 
hope  and  solid  assurance:  "The  morning 
breaks,  the  shadows  flee;  Lo,  Zion's 
standard  is  unfurled  I   The  dawning  of 


P  THE  AIR 

a  brighter  day,  Majestic  rises  on  the 
world." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "The  Morning 
Breaks." — Careless. ) 

Music:  Organ  and  humming  choir: 
"Sweet  Is  The  Work." 

Announcer:  Today's  service  came  to 
you  from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square,  through  the  facilities  of 
Station  KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 
Our  speaker  was  Elder  Howard  W. 
Hunter  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  Music  was  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  directed  by  Richard 
P.  Condie.  Frank  W.  Asper  was  at  the 
organ. 


SALT  LAKE  MORMON 
TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN 
BROADCAST 

The  following  broadcast,  written  and 
announced  by  Richard  L.  Evans, 
and  originating  with  Station  KSL,  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah,  was  presented  from 
9:30  to  10:00  a.m.  Sunday,  April  3,  1960, 
through  the  courtesy  of  Columbia 
Broadcasting  System's  network,  through- 
out the  United  States,  parts  of  Canada, 
and  through  other  facilities  to  several 
points  overseas.  The  broadcast  was  as 
follows: 

(The  organ  played,  "As  the  Dew  From 
Heaven  Distilling,"  and  on  signal  the 
Choir  and  organ  broke  into  the  hymn, 
"Gently  Raise  the  Sacred  Strain,"  sing- 
ing the  words  to  the  end  of  the  second 
line,  and  humming  to  end  of  verse  for 
announcer's  background.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome 
you  within  these  walls  with  music  and 
the  spoken  word  from  the  Crossroads 
of  the  West. 

The  CBS  Radio  Network  and  its 
affiliated  stations  bring  you  at  this  hour 
another  presentation  from  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  with  Richard 
P.  Condie  conducting  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  Alexander  Schreiner,  Tabernacle 
Organist,  and  the  spoken  word  by  Rich- 
ard Evans. 

The  Choir  first  turns  to  a  chorus 
from  "The  Creation"  by  Haydn,  of  the 
goodness  and  beauty  of  the  earth  that 
the  Lord  God  has  given:  "Thus  closed 
the  sixth  day  .  .  .  And  God  saw  every- 
thing that  He  had  made,  and  behold, 


CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


127 


it  was  very  good  .  .  .  And  the  heavenly 
Choir,  in  song  divine  .  .  .  Achieved  is 
the  glorious  work  the  Lord  beholds  it, 
and  is  pleased.  In  lofty  strains  let  us 
rejoice,  our  song  let  be  the  praise  of 
God." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Achieved  Is  The 
Glorious  Work." — Haydn.) 

Announcer:  The  Women's  Chorus  of 
the  Tabernacle  Choir  presents  Ernest 
Charles'  impressionistic  picture  of  the 
restless  inconstant  clouds  and  of  their 
likeness  to  the  mystery  of  life:  "Clouds 
adrift  in  the  summer  sky,  resemble  life 
as  they  wander  by.  Whence  they  come 
and  whither  they  go  We  often  wonder 
but  never  know;  One  little  hour  we 
know  their  grace  They  pass  like  shad- 
ows, nor  hold  their  place,  Ever  recurring, 
like  the  dawn,  Never  enduring,  but 
always  gone,  Part  of  the  infinite,  shall 
we  say,  Part  of  the  moment  we  call 
today." 

(The  Women's  Chorus  of  the  Tab- 
ernacle Choir  sang:  "Clouds." — Charles- 
Deis.) 

Announcer:  Alexander  Schreiner, 
Tabernacle  Organist,  turns  today  on 
Temple  Square  to  a  moving  compelling 
cadence  of  chords — a  restless,  urgent 
impression  by  Marcel  Dupre:  "Prelude 
in  B  Major." 

(Organ  Selection:  "Prelude  in  B 
Major." 

Announcer:  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
now  recalls  the  words  of  Orson  F.  Whit- 
ney sung  in  a  setting  by  Edward  P. 
Kimball — a  symbolic  song  of  the  sea- 
sons, as  the  closing  of  the  past  brings  a 
promise  of  the  peace  that  comes  with  re- 
pentance: "The  wintry  day  descending  to 
its  close,  Invites  all  wearied  nature  to 
repose,  And  shades  of  night  are  falling 
dense  and  fast  Like  sable  curtains  closing 
o'er  the  past.  Pale  through  the  gloom  the 
newly  fallen  snow  Wraps  in  a  shroud 
the  silent  earth  below  as  though  'twere 
mercy's  hand  had  spread  the  pall,  A 
symbol  of  forgiveness  unto  all." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "The  Wintry  Day." 
-Kimball.) 

Announcer:  In  the  magnifying  of  so 
much  that  is  mediocre,  some  words  are 
often  overworked — like  great  and  great- 
ness,— for  example — and  associated  syn- 
onyms. Yet  the  true  quality  of  greatness 
is  often  found  in  unpublicized  places,  in 
simple,  modest  settings,  in  the  heroic 


lives  of  humble  men  and  women — the 
greatness  of  goodness  and  of  sincere 
service.  "Goodness  is  richer  than  great- 
ness," said  Edwin  Hubbel  Chapin.  "It 
lifts  us  nearer  to  God. .  . .  It  is  . . .  mani- 
fested according  to  our  abilities,  within 
our  sphere,  .  .  .  and  every  day  I  bless 
God  that  the  great  necessary  work  of  the 
world  is  so  faithfully  carried  on  by 
humble  men  in  narrow  spaces  and  by 
faithful  women  in  narrow  circles,  .  .  . 
performing  works  of  simple  good- 
ness. .  .  ."1  Everywhere  sincere  and  un- 
assuming people  are  performing  sincere 
and  essential  service,  day  by  day,  year 
by  year,  doing  their  share,  carrying 
their  sorrows,  caring  for  their  own,  help- 
ing others,  doing  much  that  is  greatly 
good.  "Not  a  day  passes  over  the  earth 
but  men  and  women  of  no  note  do 
great  deeds,  speak  great  words,  and 
suffer  noble  sorrows" — said  another 
source — "of  these  obscure  heroes,  .  .  . 
the  greater  part  will  never  be  known 
till  that  hour  when  many  that  were 
great  shall  be  small  and  the  small 
great."2  There  is  greatness  in  service 
where  there  is  sickness,  often  under 
disheartening  circumstances.  There  is 
greatness  in  enduring  disappointments, 
greatness  in  meeting  obligations;  great- 
ness in  work  earnestly  and  honestly 
done.  There  is  greatness  in  teaching, 
greatness  in  trying,  greatness  in  trust- 
ing, greatness  in  patient  waiting.  There 
is  greatness  in  understanding,  greatness 
in  forgiving,  greatness  in  repenting. 
There  is  greatness — a  very  great  kind  of 
greatness — in  self-control,  in  tempering 
appetite,  in  tempering  temper.  There 
is  greatness  in  cleanliness  of  life,  in 
keeping  faith,  in  keeping  the  com- 
mandments. "Greatness  .  .  .  [is]  not  so 
much  a  certain  size  as  a  certain  quality 
in  human  lives.  .  .  ."3  And  what  is  not 
good,  is  not  great,  no  matter  how 
glamorous  or  desirable  it  sometimes 
seems.  As  Samuel  Johnson  said  it: 
"Nothing  can  be  truly  great  which  is 
not  right."4  Thank  God  for  heroic  great- 
ness in  humble  lives,  in  humble  hearts 
and  homes,  greatness  in  devotion,  in 
faithfulness,  in  being  true  to  trust,  in 
the  simple  doing  of  duty — a  kind  of 


^dwin  Huhbell  Chapin,  Eulogy  of  Horace  Greeley. 
Charles  Reade. 

3Philips  A.  Brooks,  Sermons:  Purpose  and  Use  of 
Comfort. 
4Samuel  Johnson. 


128  CHOIR  AND  OR 

greatness  which  the  Lord  God  will  not 
forget. 

(Organ  Selection:  "While  Of  These 
Emblems  We  Partake." — Schreiner.) 

Announcer:  We  have  heard  a  hymn 
melody — a  sacramental  song — written 
and  presented  by  Alexander  Schreiner: 
"While  of  These  Emblems  We  Par- 
take." 

And  now  the  Tabernacle  Choir  re- 
calls an  anthem  in  which  Dr.  Schreiner 
has  given  musical  setting  to  these  mean- 
ingful words  of  David  O.  McKay:  "The 
Gospel  is  truly  the  pow'r  of  God  .  .  . 
Bringing  harmony  in  the  home  .  .  . 
And  understanding  .  . .  and  peace  among 
nations  .  .  .  And  salvation,  and  exalta- 
tion, in  the  Kingdom  of  our  Father.  .  .  ." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "The  Gospel  Is 
Truly  The  Power  of  God." — Schreiner.) 

Announcer:  And  now  with  the  words 
of  Emmeline  B.  Wells  and  the  music 
of  Evan  Stephens  in  closing  we  hear  a 
hymn  of  the  western  hills,  of  the  beauty 
and  wonder  of  nature,  and  of  the  hand 
of  God  that  is  over  all:  "Our  mountain 
home  so  dear,  Where  crystal  waters 
clear  Flow  ever  free  .  .  .  While  through 
the  valleys  wide  The  flowers  on  every 
side,  Blooming  in  stately  pride,  Are  fair 
to  see.    We'll  roam  the  verdant  hills, 


AN  BROADCAST 

And  by  the  sparkling  rills  Pluck  the 
wild  flowers  .  .  .  The  fragrance  on  the 
air,  the  landscape  bright  and  fair,  And 
sunshine  everywhere,  Make  pleasant 
hours.  In  sylvan  depth  and  shade,  In 
forest  and  in  glade,  where'er  we  pass  .  .  . 
The  hand  of  God  we  see,  In  leaf  and 
bud  and  tree,  Or  bird  or  humming 
bee,  Or  blade  of  grass." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Our  Mountain 
Home  So  Dear." — Stephens.) 

Announcer:  Again  we  leave  you  with- 
in the  shadows  of  the  everlasting  hills. 
May  peace  be  with  you  this  day — and 
always. 

This  concludes  the  fifteen  hundred 
ninety-eighth  presentation,  continuing 
the  31st  year  of  this  traditional  broad- 
cast from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square,  brought  to  you  by  CBS 
Radio  and  its  affiliated  stations,  originat- 
ing with  Radio  Station  KSL  in  Salt  Lake 
City. 

Richard  P.  Condie  conducted  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  Alexander  Schreiner 
was  at  the  organ.  The  spoken  word  by 
Richard  Evans. 

In  another  seven  days,  at  this  same 
hour,  music  and  the  spoken  word  will 
be  heard  again  from  the  Crossroads  of 
the  West. 


Index 


Page 

Anderson,  Elder  Joseph   87 

Authorities  and  Officers  Present    1 

Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained    93 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft    96 

Brown,  Elder  Hugh  B   51 

Buehner,  Bishop  Carl  W   75 

Changes  in  Church  Organizations    87 

Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast    126 

Christiansen,  Elder  EIRay  L   47 

Church  Auditing  Committee  Report    92 

Church  Finance  Committee  Report    92 

Church  of  the  Air    123 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   20 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   42 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   93 

(Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers) 

Critchlow,  Elder  William  J.,  Jr   34 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   29 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   126 

(Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast) 

Fourth  Day — Morning  Meeting   86 

Fourth  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    106 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Present    1 

General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers  Sustained    93 

General  Priesthood  Meeting   3 

Hanks,  Elder  Marion  D   102 

Hinckley,  Elder  Gordon  B   81 

Hunter,  Elder  Howard  W   123 

(Church  of  the  Air) 

Hunter,  Elder  Milton  R   115 

Isaacson,  Bishop  Thorpe  B   59 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R   45 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W   83 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B   106 

Longden,  Elder  John    113 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R   13 

McKay,  President  David  0   22 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

McKay,  President  David  0   24 

(Opening  Address) 

McKay,  President  David  0   120 

(Closing  Address) 

McKay,  President  David  0   3,  13,  15,  19,  22,  23,  24,  29,  31,  33, 

36,  39,  40,  41,  42,  45,  47,  49,  50,  51,  54,  55,  59,  62,  64, 
67,  70,  71,  73,  75,  78,  79,  80,  81,  83,  86,  87,  92,  93,  96, 

100,  102,  103,  105,  106,  110,  113,  115,  118,  120,  123. 


130 


Index 


Page 


Morris,  Elder  George  Q   100 

Moyle,  President  Henry  D   15 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Moyle,  President  Henry  D   56 

Obituaries    90 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E  _   37 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers    93 

Priesthood  Meeting,  General    3 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand   103 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G   110 

Second  Day — Morning  Meeting    24 

Second  Day — Afernoon  Meeting    41 

Servicemen's  Program  Presentation    3 

Sill,  Elder  Sterling  W   67 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G  _   65 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding    71 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma   50 

Stapley,  Elder  Delbert  L.    73 

Statistical  Report    90 

Sustaining  of  General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers    93 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast    126 

Taylor,  Elder  Henry  D   118 

Third  Day — Morning  Meeting    55 

Third  Day— Afternoon  Meeting    70 

Tuttle,  Elder  A.  Theodore    78 

Whittier,  Mr.  Sumner  G   39 

Wirthlin,  Bishop  Joseph  L   31 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar    62 

Young,  Elder  S.  Dilworth    80 


Printed  by 


in  the  United  States  of  America 


