ONE  HUNDRED  THIRTY-NINTH 
ANNUAL 


CONFERENCE 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

HELD  IN  THE  TABERNACLE 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

APRIL  4,  5,  6,  1969 

WITH  REPORT  OF  DISCOURSES 


Published  by 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


OFFICIAL  REPORT 
of  the 

ONE  HUNDRED  THIRTY-NINTH 
ANNUAL  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

of 

THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

held  in  the 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square 

in 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
April  4,  5,  6, 1969 

+        +  + 


Published  by 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Thirty-Ninth  Annual 
Conference  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Thirty-ninth  An- 
nual Conference  of  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Fri- 
day, April  4,  1969,  at  10  o'clock  a.m. 

The  general  sessions  of  the  confer- 
ence were  held  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00 
p.m.  Friday,  April  4,  Saturday,  April  5, 
and  Sunday,  April  6.  The  General 
Priesthood  meeting  was  held  on  Satur- 
day, April  5,  at  7:00  p.m. 

President  David  O.  McKay  was  not 
present  at  any  of  the  meetings  of  the 
conference.  Under  orders  of  his  doctors 
he  remained  at  home  during  the  con- 
ference sessions,  where  he  received  the 
proceedings  of  the  conference  by  direct 
wire  television.  President  McKay  pre- 
sided at  all  sessions.  Under  his  direc- 
tion his  counselors,  Presidents  Hugh 
B.  Brown,  N.  Eldon  Tanner,  Joseph 
Fielding  Smith,  and  Alvin  R.  Dyer  con- 
ducted the  services  assigned  to  each  of 
them. 

Elder  Robert  R.  McKay,  son  of  Presi- 
dent McKay,  read  the  President's  ad- 
dresses to  the  conference  in  the  opening 
session  on  Friday  and  in  the  closing 
session  on  Sunday  afternoon.  His  son, 
Elder  David  Lawrence  McKay,  read 
President  McKay's  message  in  the  Gen- 
eral Priesthood  meeting  on  Saturday 
evening. 

The  proeeedings  of  all  sessions  of  the 
conference  were  given  extensive  cover- 
age in  the  United  States  and  Canada 
over  many  television  and  radio  stations, 
coast  to  coast,  originating  with  KSL 
Radio  and  Television  in  Salt  Lake  City. 
Countries  in  Europe,  South  and  Central 


America,  Africa  and  parts  of  Asia  re- 
ceived broadcasts  of  the  proceedings 
over  the  Church-owned  international 
short-wave  Radio  Station  WNYW, 
with  studios  in  New  York.  Audio  tape 
and  sound  on  film  recordings  of  this 
conference  were  translated  into  twelve 
different  languages  and  sent  to  the 
countries  of  Europe,  South  and  Central 
America,  and  the  Far  East. 

Re-broadcasts  of  all  sessions  of  the 
conference  were  sent  over  KSL  Radio, 
KIRO  Radio  at  Seattle,  KMBZ  Radio 
at  Kansas  City,  Missouri,  and  WRFM 
in  New  York  City,  beginning  at  mid- 
night on  Friday,  Saturday  and  Sun- 
day, and  were  heard  in  many  parts  of 
the  United  States  and  the  world. 

The  General  Priesthood  meeting 
held  on  Saturday  evening  was  trans- 
mitted over  closed  circuit  from  the 
Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  to  approximately 
150,000  men  of  the  priesthood  assem- 
bled in  500  buildings  throughout  the 
United  States  and  Canada. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
Present 

The  First  Presidency:  Hugh  B. 
Brown,  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner,  Joseph 
Fielding  Smith,  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson, 
and  Alvin  R.  Dyer. 

The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Harold  B.  Lee, 
Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson, 
Mark  E.  Petersen,  Delbert  L.  Stapley, 
Marion  G.  Romney,  LeGrand  Richards, 
Richard  L.  Evans,  Howard  W.  Hunter, 
Gordon  B.  Hinckley,  and  Thomas  S. 
Monson. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Patriarch  to  the  Church:  Eldred  G. 
Smith. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve:  Alma 
Sonne,  EIRay  L.  Christiansen,  John 
Longden,  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Henry  D. 
Taylor,  Franklin  D.  Richards,  Theo- 
dore M.  Burton,  Boyd  K.  Packer, 
Bernard  P.  Brockbank,  James  A.  Culli- 
more,  and  Marion  D.  Hanks. 

The  First  Council  of  Seventy:  Sey- 
mour Dilworth  Young,  Milton  R. 
Hunter,  Bruce  R.  McConkie,  A.  Theo- 
dore Tuttle,  Paul  H.  Dunn,  Hartman 
Rector,  Jr.,  and  Loren  C.  Dunn. 

The  Presiding  Bishopric:  John  H. 
Vandenberg,  Robert  L.  Simpson  and 
Victor  L.  Brown. 


General  Officers  and  Other 
Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  Wil- 
liam Lund  and  Earl  E.  Olson,  assis- 
tants. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of 
Education,  Church  educational  authori- 
ties and  supervisors. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their 
counselors,  Presidents  of  Temples, 
Patriarchs,  bishoprics  of  wards  and 
presidencies  of  branches,  quorum  presi- 
dencies and  members  of  the  Melchize- 
dek  and  Aaronic  Priesthoods. 

Auxiliary  officers,  General,  Stake  and 
Ward,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 


FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


FIRST  SESSION 

The  opening  session  of  the  confer- 
ence convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City  on 
Friday  morning  April  4,  1969,  at  10 
o'clock  a.m.,  with  President  David  O. 
McKay  presiding.  President  Hugh  B. 
Brown,  first  counselor  in  the  First 
Presidency,  conducted  the  services. 

The  Ogden  Institute  of  Religion 
Chorus,  under  the  direction  of  Ladd  R. 
Cropper,  furnished  the  choral  music 
for  this  session.  Alexander  Schreiner 
was  at  the  organ  console. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown  extended 
the  following  greeting  to  the  con- 
ference: 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

At  this  joyful  Easter  time  we  join 
with  Christians  throughout  the  world 
in  celebrating  this  epochal  event. 
Easter  signifies  the  triumph  of  the 
human  spirit  over  darkness  and  death. 

Members  and  friends  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  are 
meeting  in  the  139th  Annual  Confer- 
ence of  the  Church  in  the  Tabernacle 
on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City. 
President  David  O.  McKay  will  pre- 
side at  all  sessions  of  the  conference, 
although,  acting  on  the  advice  of  his 
physician,  he  has  reluctantly  con- 
sented to  view  the  proceedings  from 
his  apartment.  He  has  asked  that  I 
conduct  this  meeting.  We  are  grate- 
ful that  his  health  has  been  such  that 
during  the  past  six  months  he  has 
been  able  to  carry  on  with  his  heavy 
responsibilities  and  high  office. 

During  the  past  two  days,  the  gen- 
eral officers  and  teachers  of  the  Pri- 
mary Association  have  been  convened 
in  their  63rd  Annual  Conference.  We 
have  only  praise  and  commendation 
for  what  these  sisters  are  doing  for 


the  welfare  and  development  of  the 
children  of  the  Church.  May  God 
bless  them  for  their  devotion  and 
loyalty. 

All  of  the  General  Authorities  of 
the  Church  are  in  attendance  this 
morning.  We  extend  to  them,  to  the 
presidents  of  stakes,  mission  presidents, 
temple  presidents,  bishops,  and  all  of 
you  who  are  here  in  attendance,  a 
greeting  and  a  welcome,  and  also  to 
all  who  are  listening  in.  No  doubt 
there  are  millions. 

We  are  pleased  to  announce  that 
the  proceedings  of  this  General  Con- 
ference will  again  be  given  extensive 
coverage  in  the  United  States  and 
Canada  over  many  television  and 
radio  stations,  coast  to  coast,  originat- 
ing with  KSL  Radio  and  Television  in 
Salt  Lake  City. 

Countries  in  Europe,  South  and 
Central  America,  Africa,  and  parts  of 
Asia,  totaling  nearly  two-thirds  of  the 
world,  can  receive  broadcasts  of  these 
proceedings  over  international  short- 
wave Radio  Station  WNYW,  with 
studios  in  New  York. 

Audio  tape  and  Sound  on  film  rec- 
ords of  this  General  Conference  will 
be  translated  into  twelve  different  lan- 
guages and  sent  to  countries  of  Europe, 
South  and  Central  America  and  the 
Far  East. 

Re-broadcasts  of  all  sessions  of  the 
conference  will  be  received  over  KSL 
Radio,  Salt  Lake  City,  KIRO  Radio  at 
Seattle,  KMBZ  Radio  at  Kansas  City, 
Missouri,  WRFM  in  New  York  City, 
and  WNYW  over  international  short- 
wave beginning  at  midnight  tonight, 
and  on  Saturday  and  Sunday,  and 
can  be  heard  in  many  parts  of  the 
United  States  and  the  world,  including 
Canada,  Alaska,  Mexico,  Europe,  South 
and  Central  America,  and  the  islands 
of  the  Pacific. 

We  are  grateful  to  the  owners  and 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  April  4 

operators  of  the  radio  and  television 
stations  for  their  cooperation  in  mak- 
ing possible  such  an  extensive  coverage 
of  the  proceedings  of  this  conference. 

We  should  like  to  express  our  appre- 
ciation for  the  lovely  flowers  which 
decorate  the  rostrum.  For  the  beautiful 
white  calla  lilies  we  are  indebted  to 
the  Oakland-Berkeley  Stake  high  priests 
quorum,  and  to  Brother  Irvin  T.  Nelson 
and  his  associates  for  handling  and 
arranging  these  flowers,  and  also  the 
beautiful  floral  display  at  the  rear 
entrance  of  this  building. 

We  are  pleased  to  welcome  this 
morning  these  young  students  from  the 
Ogden  Institute  of  Religion,  Ogden, 
Utah.  They  will  furnish  the  music 
for  this  session  of  conference. 

We  are  grateful  for  their  presence, 
and  for  their  willingness  to  come  and 
add  their  youthful,  exhilarating  spirit 
and  influence  to  this  meeting.  We 
want  you  young  people  to  know  that 
President  McKay  and  all  of  us  appre- 
ciate you  and  your  conductor,  Brother 
Ladd  R.  Cropper.  He  will  conduct  the 
chorus,  and  Alexander  Schreiner  is  at 
the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  this  session  by  the 
chorus  rendering,  "God  of  Comfort, 
God  of  Courage,"  following  which  the 


First  Day 

invocation  will  be  offered  by  President 
Alma  P.  Burton  of  the  Sharon  Stake. 


The  Ogden  Institute  of  Religion 
Chorus  sang  the  number,  "God  of  Com- 
fort, God  of  Courage." 

Elder  Alma  P.  Burton,  president  of 
the  Sharon  Stake,  offered  the  opening 
prayer. 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

This  wonderful  chorus  from  the 
Ogden  Institute  of  Religion  will  now 
sing,  "I  Need  Thee  Every  Hour." 


The  Ogden  Institute  of  Religion 
Chorus  sang  the  hymn,  "I  Need  Thee 
Every  Hour." 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

President  David  O.  McKay  has  pre- 
pared a  message  and  an  address  for 
the  conference,  but  being  unable  to  be 
present  has  asked  his  son,  Robert,  if 
he  will  read  that  message  now,  please. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 

(Read  by  his  son  Robert  R.  McKay) 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters:  My 
soul  is  deeply  stirred  this  morning,  due, 
I  am  sure,  to  a  combination  of  circum- 
stances and  experiences.  Never  have  I 
been  so  thankful  for  the  blessings  of 
the  Lord,  and  for  the  faith  and  prayers 
of  the  membership  of  the  Church.  I  am 
thankful  for  the  restoration  of  the  gos- 
pel and  for  the  glorious  message  to  all 
the  world  that  accompanied  that  resto- 
ration: that  God  lives  and  that  his 
Beloved  Son  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Re- 
deemer and  Savior  of  the  world,  that 
we  are  his  children,  and  that  he  has 
given  us  a  plan  by  which  we  may 
return  to  his  presence  as  resurrected, 
immortal  beings. 


Progress  of  the  Church 

I  am  grateful  for  the  outstanding 
progress  the  Church  has  made  during 
the  past  year;  for  the  united  and  un- 
stinted support  given  by  the  General 
Authorities  and  general  officers  of  the 
Church;  for  the  loyalty,  faith,  and  de- 
votion of  the  general  auxiliary  boards, 
of  the  officers  in  stakes,  quorums, 
wards,  missions,  and  of  the  Church 
membership  in  general.  Most  of  all, 
I  am  grateful  for  the  assurance  we  have 
of  the  Lord's  guidance  and  overruling 
power. 

I  extend  to  all  present  in  this  historic 
Tabernacle — our  special  visitors,  gov- 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


5 


emmental  and  educational  leaders, 
Regional  Representatives,  our  stake, 
ward,  and  auxiliary  officers  and  teach- 
ers from  far  and  near — and  to  friends 
and  members  tuned  in  by  radio  and 
television  my  heartfelt  greetings  and 
welcome  to  this  one  hundred  thirty- 
ninth  conference  of  the  Church. 

Mankind's  welfare 

During  the  past  months  I  have  been 
most  apprehensive  of  mankind's  wel- 
fare in  a  world  of  tribulation  and  of 
false  ideals.  With  the  increase  in 
crime,  the  disrespect  for  law  and  order, 
the  ever-increasing  divorce  rate,  re- 
sulting in  broken  homes;  the  immoral- 
ity, with  all  its  attendant  evils;  the 
precious  principles  associated  with 
man's  freedom  threatened  with  re- 
pudiation, if  not  abandonment,  it  is 
time  that  men  and  women  the  world 
over  should  become  more  thoughtful, 
more  prayerful,  more  earnest  than 
ever  before  in  seeking  the  causes  of 
this  world's  disaster,  and  bravely  and 
heroically  choose  a  better  course  of  life. 

This  is  a  time  when  mankind  should 
turn  their  thoughts  to  the  teachings 
of  Christ,  our  Lord  and  Savior,  and  in 
larger  numbers  than  the  world  has 
heretofore  witnessed  conform  thereto 
their  attitudes  and  actions.  Unless 
multitudes  of  men  and  women  so 
change  their  hearts  and  lives,  the 
world  will  continue  to  be  in  turmoil, 
and  our  present  civilization  be  threat- 
ened with  disintegration. 

Need  for  more  godliness 

It  is  a  deplorable  but  recognizable 
fact  that  men's  hearts  all  too  generally 
are  turned  from  and  not  toward  God. 
Self-promotion,  not  God's  glorification, 
is  the  motivating  factor  in  most  people's 
lives.  Irreverence  is  all  too  manifest. 

The  world  needs  more  godliness  and 
less  godlessness;  more  self-discipline, 
less  self-indulgence;  more  power  to  say 
with  Christ,  "Father  .  .  .  not  my  will, 
but  thine,  be  done."  (Luke  22:42.) 
Christ  came  to  bring  peace.  Rejection 
of  his  way  of  life  has  made  strife  and 
contention  rampant.  Man,  not  the 
Lord,  has  brought  deadly  conflicts  and 
subsequent  misery.  Wars  spring  from 


wickedness  of  unrighteous  leaders.  Not 
until  freedom  triumphs  and  a  just 
peace  comes  may  we  hope  for  the  end 
of  wars  and  for  goodwill  among  men. 

Today,  when  these  facts  are  so 
strikingly  manifest,  let  all  sincere  men 
recognize  the  evil  conditions  that  have 
caused  wars,  and  resolve  with  God's 
help  to  banish  them  forever.  There 
must  come  a  victory  of  right  and  free- 
dom over  iniquity  and  oppression;  I 
repeat,  war  will  never  be  vanquished 
until  men  change  their  hearts  and  es- 
tablish new  ideals. 

Home,  the  strength  of  a  nation 

An  essential,  fundamental  element 
in  the  building  and  in  the  perpetuity 
of  a  great  people  is  the  home.  The 
strength  of  a  nation,  especially  of  a 
republican  nation,  is  in  the  intelligent 
and  well-ordered  homes  of  the  people. 
In  the  well-ordered  home  we  may  ex- 
perience on  earth  a  taste  of  heaven.  It 
is  there  that  the  babe  in  a  mother's 
caress  first  experiences  a  sense  of  se- 
curity, finds  in  the  mother's  kiss  the 
first  realization  of  affection,  discovers 
in  mother's  sympathy  and  tenderness 
the  first  assurance  that  there  is  love  in 
the  world. 

I  remember  that  during  World  War 
II  conditions  made  it  necessary  that  I 
share  a  Pullman  car  with  40  soldier 
boys.  They  were  gentlemen,  and  a 
credit  to  any  nation.  In  the  course  of 
conversation,  one  of  them  remarked  to 
me:  "My  dad's  hair  is  white  too."  Then 
he  added  in  a  tone  that  expressed  the 
depth  of  his  feeling,  "How  I  should 
like  to  see  that  old  gray  head  this 
morning!"  He  and  his  companions 
were  en  route  for  an  encampment  to 
complete  their  training  before  embark- 
ing for  duty  overseas.  They  had  en- 
listed to  defend  not  only  the  free 
agency  of  man,  but  the  rights  and 
sanctity  of  home  and  loved  ones.  Such 
an  affection  for  home  and  loved  ones 
as  felt  by  that  soldier  boy  will  make 
death  preferable  to  surrender  to  an 
enemy  who  would  destroy  home  and 
all  that  American  soldiers  hold  dear. 

Seeking  the  pleasure  of  conjugality 
without  a  willingness  to  assume  the  re- 
sponsibilities of  rearing  a  family  is  one 


6  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  April  4 

of  the  onslaughts  that  now  batter  at 
the  structure  of  the  American  home. 
Intelligence  and  mutual  consideration 
should  be  ever-present  factors  in  deter- 
mining the  coming  of  children  to  the 
home. 

Intelligent  home  building 

It  is  important  for  young  people  to 
realize  that  intelligent  home  building 
begins  with  a  young  man  and  a  young 
girl  in  their  teens.  Often  the  health 
of  children,  if  a  couple  be  blessed  with 
such,  depends  upon  the  actions  of  par- 
ents before  marriage.  In  the  press,  from 
the  pulpit,  and  particularly  in  the 
home,  there  should  ring  more  fre- 
quently the  message  that  in  their  youth 
boys  and  girls  are  laying  the  founda- 
tion for  their  future  happiness  or 
misery.  Every  young  man,  particularly, 
should  prepare  for  the  responsibility  of 
fatherhood  by  keeping  himself  physi- 
cally clean,  that  he  might  enter  into 
that  responsibility  not  as  a  coward  or 
deceiver,  but  as  one  honorable  and 
fit  to  found  a  home.  The  young  man 
who,  in  unfitness,  takes  upon  himself 
the  responsibility  of  fatherhood  is 
worse  than  a  deceiver.  The  future 
happiness  of  his  wife  and  children 
depends  upon  his  life  in  youth. 

Let  us  also  teach  girls  that  mother- 
hood is  divine,  for  when  we  touch  the 
creative  part  of  life,  we  enter  into  the 
realm  of  divinity.  It  is  important, 
therefore,  that  young  womanhood  real- 
ize the  necessity  of  keeping  their  bodies 
clean  and  pure,  that  their  children 
might  enter  the  world  unhampered  by 
sin  and  disease.  An  unshackled  birth 
and  an  inheritance  of  noble  character 
are  the  greatest  blessings  of  childhood. 
No  mother  has  the  right  to  shackle  a 
child  through  life  for  what  seems  in 
youth  to  be  a  pleasant  pastime  or  her 
right  to  indulge  in  harmful  drugs  and 
other  sinful  practices.  Those  who  are 
to  be  the  mothers  of  the  race  should  at 
least  so  live  as  to  bear  children  who 
are  not  burdened  from  birth  by  sick- 
ness, weakness,  or  deformity,  because 
the  parents,  in  fiery  youth,  as  Shake- 
speare said,  "with  unbashful  forehead 
woo  the  means  of  weakness  and  de- 
bility." 


First  Day 

Unchastity  a  dominant  evil 

A  dominant  evil  of  the  world  today 
is  unchastity.  I  repeat  what  appeared 
over  the  signature  of  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith  while  he  was  living:  "No 
more  loathsome  cancer  disfigures  the 
body  and  soul  of  society  today  than 
the  frightful  affliction  of  sexual  sin. 
It  vitiates  the  very  fountains  of  life, 
and  bequeaths  its  foul  effects  to  the  yet 
unborn  as  a  legacy  of  death."  (The 
Improvement  Era,  Vol.  20,  p.  739.)  He 
who  is  unchaste  in  young  manhood  is 
untrue  to  a  trust  given  him  by  the 
parents  of  the  girl;  and  she  who  is  un- 
chaste in  maidenhood  is  untrue  to  her 
future  husband  and  lays  the  founda- 
tion of  unhappiness,  suspicion,  and  dis- 
cord in  the  home.  Do  not  worry  about 
those  teachers  who  talk  about  inhibi- 
tions. Just  keep  in  mind  this  eternal 
truth  that  chastity  is  a  virtue  to  be 
prized  as  one  of  life's  noblest  achieve- 
ments. It  contributes  to  the  virility  of 
manhood.  It  is  the  crowning  virtue  of 
womanhood,  and  every  red-blooded 
man  knows  that  is  true.  It  is  a  chief 
factor  to  a  happy  home.  There  is  no 
loss  of  prestige  in  maintaining  in  a 
dignified  way  the  standards  of  the 
Church.  You  can  be  "in"  this  world 
and  not  "of  the  world."  Keep  your 
chastity  above  everything  else!  God  has 
commanded  that  we  be  chaste:  "Thou 
shalt  not  commit  adultery!"  said  the 
Lord  at  Sinai.  (See  Exod.  20:14.) 

Degenerating  forces  in  the  world  are 
rampant,  but  they  can  be  resisted  if 
youth  will  cherish  right  thoughts  and 
aspire  to  high  ideals.  The  age-old 
conflict  between  truth  and  error  is 
being  waged  with  accelerating  fury, 
and  at  the  present  hour  error  seems 
to  be  gaining  the  upper  hand.  Increas- 
ing moral  turpitude  and  widespread 
disregard  for  the  principles  of  honor 
and  integrity  are  undermining  influ- 
ences in  social,  political,  and  business 
life. 

Marriage  ordained  of  God 

The  exalted  view  of  marriage  as  held 
by  the  Church  is  given  expressively  in 
five  words  found  in  the  forty-ninth 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants: 
"marriage  is  ordained  of  God."  (D&C 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


7 


49:15.)  That  revelation  was  given  in 
1831  when  Joseph  Smith  was  only  25 
years  of  age.  Considering  the  circum- 
stances under  which  it  was  given,  we 
find  in  it  another  example  among 
hundreds  of  others  corroborative  of  the 
fact  that  he  was  inspired  of  the  Lord. 
Before  us  are  assembled  thousands  of 
presiding  officers  in  stakes,  wards,  quo- 
rums, and  auxiliaries,  to  whom  we  say, 
it  is  your  duty  and  mine  to  uphold  the 
lofty  conception  of  marriage  as  given 
in  this  revelation,  and  to  guard  against 
encroaching  dangers  that  threaten  to 
lower  the  standard  of  the  ideal  home. 

It  is  said  that  the  best  and  noblest 
lives  are  those  which  are  set  toward 
high  ideals.  Truly  no  higher  ideal  re- 
garding marriage  can  be  cherished  by 
young  people  than  to  look  upon  it  as 
a  divine  institution.  In  the  minds  of 
the  young,  such  a  standard  is  a  protec- 
tion to  them  in  courtship,  an  ever- 
present  influence  inducing  them  to 
refrain  from  doing  anything  that  may 
prevent  their  going  to  the  temple  to 
have  their  love  made  perfect  in  an  en- 
during and  eternal  union.  It  will  lead 
them  to  seek  divine  guidance  in  the 
selection  of  their  companions,  upon  the 
wise  choice  of  whom  their  life's  happi- 
ness here  and  hereafter  is  largely  de- 
pendent. It  makes  their  hearts  pure 
and  good;  it  lifts  them  up  to  their 
Father  in  heaven.  Such  joys  are  within 
the  reach  of  most  men  and  women  if 
high  ideals  of  marriage  and  home  be 
properly  fostered  and  cherished. 

Sacredness  of  marriage  covenant 
threatened 

The  signs  of  the  times  definitely 
indicate  that  the  sacredness  of  the  mar- 
riage covenant  is  dangerously  threat- 
ened. There  are  places  where  the 
marriage  ceremony  may  be  performed 
at  any  hour  of  the  day  or  night  without 
any  previous  arrangement.  The  license 
is  issued  and  the  ceremony  performed 
while  the  couple  wait.  Many  couples 
who  have  been  entrapped  by  such  en- 
ticements have  had  their  marriages 
end  in  disappointment  and  sorrow.  In 
some  instances  these  places  are  nothing 
more  than  opportunities  for  legalized 
immorality.  Oh,  how  far  they  fall 
below  the  true  ideal  1  As  far  as  lies 


within  our  power,  we  must  warn 
young  couples  against  secret  and  hasty 
marriages. 

It  is  vital  also  to  counteract  the  in- 
sidious influences  of  printed  literature 
that  speaks  of  the  "bankruptcy  of  mar- 
riage," that  advocates  trial  marriages, 
and  that  places  extramarital  relations 
on  a  par  with  extramarital  friendships. 

Responsibility  of  parenthood 

Parenthood,  and  particularly  mother- 
hood, should  be  held  as  a  sacred  obli- 
gation. There  is  something  in  the 
depths  of  the  human  soul  which  re- 
volts against  neglectful  parenthood. 
God  has  implanted  deep  in  the  souls 
of  parents  the  truth  that  they  cannot 
with  impunity  shirk  the  responsibility 
to  protect  childhood  and  youth. 

There  seems  to  be  a  growing  ten- 
dency to  shift  this  responsibility  from 
the  home  to  outside  influences,  such 
as  the  school  and  the  church.  Im- 
portant as  these  outward  influences 
are,  they  never  can  take  the  place  of 
the  influence  of  the  mother  and  the 
father.  Constant  training,  constant 
vigilance,  companionship,  being  watch- 
men of  our  own  children  are  necessary 
in  order  to  keep  our  homes  intact. 

The  character  of  the  child  is  formed 
largely  during  the  first  12  years  of  his 
life.  During  that  period  he  spends  16 
times  as  many  waking  hours  in  the 
home  as  in  school,  and  126  times  as 
many  hours  in  the  home  as  in  the 
church.  Children  go  out  with  the 
stamp  of  these  homes  upon  them,  and 
only  as  these  homes  are  what  they 
should  be  will  children  be  what  they 
should  be.  Luther  Burbank,  the  great 
plant  wizard  and  scientist,  most  im- 
pressively emphasizes  the  need  for  con- 
stant attention  in  the  training  of  a 
child.   He  says: 

"Teach  the  child  self-respect.  Train 
it  in  self-respect  just  as  you  train  a 
plant  in  better  ways.  No  self-respect- 
ing man  was  ever  a  grafter.  Above  all, 
bear  in  mind  repetition — the  use  of  an 
influence  over  and  over  again,  keeping 
everlastingly  at  it.  This  is  what  fixes 
traits  in  plants,  the  constant  repetition 
of  an  influence  until  at  last  it  is  irre- 
vocably fixed  and  will  not  change.  You 
cannot  afford  to  get  discouraged.  You 


8 

Friday,  April  4 

are  dealing  with  something  far  more 
precious  than  any  plant — the  precious 
soul  of  a  child  I" 

Needs  of  children 

There  are  three  fundamental  things 
to  which  every  child  is  entitled:  (1)  a 
respected  name,  (2)  a  sense  of  security, 
(3)  opportunities  for  development.  The 
family  gives  to  the  child  his  name  and 
standing  in  the  community.  A  child 
wants  his  family  to  be  as  good  as  those 
families  of  his  friends.  He  wants  to 
be  able  to  point  with  pride  to  his 
father,  and  to  feel  an  inspiration  al- 
ways as  he  thinks  of  his  mother.  It  is 
a  mother's  duty  to  so  live  that  her 
children  will  associate  with  her  every- 
thing that  is  beautiful,  sweet,  and 
pure.  And  the  father  should  so  live 
that  the  child,  emulating  his  example, 
will  be  a  good  citizen  and,  in  the 
Church,  a  true  follower  of  the  teach- 
ings of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

A  child  has  the  right  to  feel  that  in 
his  home  he  has  a  place  of  refuge,  a 
place  of  protection  from  the  dangers 
and  evils  of  the  outside  world.  Family 
unity  and  integrity  are  necessary  to 
supply  this  need. 

He  needs  parents  who  are  happy  in 
their  adjustment  to  each  other,  who 
are  working  hopefully  toward  the  ful- 
fillment of  an  ideal  of  living,  who  love 
their  children  with  a  sincere  and  un- 
selfish love — in  short,  parents  who  are 
well-balanced  individuals,  gifted  with 
a  certain  amount  of  insight,  who 
are  able  to  provide  the  child  with  a 
wholesome  emotional  background  that 
will  contribute  more  to  his  develop- 
ment than  material  advantages. 

Evils  of  divorce 

Divorce  almost  invariably  deprives 
children  of  these  advantages.  Just  re- 
cently I  received  a  heartbreaking  letter 
from  a  boy  nearly  eight  years  of  age 
whose  parents  are  divorced,  from  which 
I  quote:  "Dear  David  O.  McKay:  I 
am  having  a  problem  and  it  is  about 
Mom  and  Dad.  They  are  divorced  and 
we  [meaning  his  brother  and  sister] 
want  to  be  back  together.  Can  you 
solve  my  problem?  I  love  you."  What  a 
tragedy  for  that  child,  and  what  un- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

happiness  this  separation  has  caused 
the  children. 

The  increasing  divorce  rate  in  the 
United  States  today  is  a  threatening 
menace  to  this  nation's  greatness.  The 
increase  throughout  the  United  States, 
and  in  our  own  state,  in  the  percentage 
of  divorces  is  alarming. 

In  the  light  of  scripture,  ancient  and 
modern,  we  are  justified  in  concluding 
that  Christ's  ideal  pertaining  to  mar- 
riage is  the  unbroken  home,  and  condi- 
tions that  cause  divorce  are  violations 
of  his  divine  teachings.  Except  in  cases 
of  infidelity  or  other  extreme  condi- 
tions, the  Church  frowns  upon  divorce, 
and  authorities  look  with  apprehension 
upon  the  increasing  number  of  divorces 
among  members  of  the  Church. 

A  man  who  has  entered  into  sacred 
covenants  in  the  house  of  the  Lord  to 
remain  true  to  the  marriage  vow  is  a 
traitor  to  that  covenant  if  he  separates 
himself  from  his  wife  and  family  just 
because  he  has  permitted  himself  to 
become  infatuated  with  a  pretty  face 
and  comely  form  of  some  young  girl 
who  flattered  him  with  a  smile.  Even 
though  a  loose  interpretation  of  the 
law  of  the  land  would  grant  such  a 
man  a  bill  of  divorcement,  I  think  he 
is  unworthy  of  a  recommend  to  have 
his  second  marriage  solemnized  in  the 
temple.  And  any  woman  who  will 
break  up  her  home  because  of  some 
selfish  desire,  or  who  has  been  untrue  to 
her  husband,  is  also  untrue  to  the  cove- 
nants she  has  made  in  the  house  of 
the  Lord.  When  we  refer  to  the  break- 
ing of  the  marriage  tie,  we  touch  upon 
one  of  the  saddest  experiences  of  life. 
For  a  couple  who  have  basked  in  the 
sunshine  of  each  other's  love  to  stand 
by  and  see  the  clouds  of  misunderstand- 
ing and  discord  obscure  the  love-light 
of  their  lives  is  tragedy  indeed.  In  the 
darkness  that  follows,  the  love  sparkle 
in  each  other's  eyes  is  obscured,  and  to 
try  to  restore  it  is  fruitless. 

Marriage  a  sacred  obligation 

To  look  upon  marriage  as  a  mere 
contract  that  may  be  entered  into  at 
pleasure  in  response  to  a  romantic 
whim,  or  for  selfish  purposes,  and 
severed  at  the  first  difficulty  or  mis- 
understanding that  may  arise,  is  an 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


9 


evil  meriting  severe  condemnation, 
especially  in  cases  wherein  children 
are  made  to  suffer  because  of  such 
separation.  Marriage  is  a  sacred  rela- 
tionship entered  into  for  purposes  that 
are  well  recognized — primarily  for  the 
rearing  of  a  family.  A  flippant  atti- 
tude toward  marriage,  the  ill-advised 
suggestion  of  "companionate  marriage," 
the  base,  diabolical  theory  of  "free  sex 
experiment,"  and  the  ready-made  di- 
vorce courts  are  dangerous  reefs  upon 
which  many  a  family  bark  is  wrecked. 

In  order  to  lessen  the  breaking  up  of 
homes,  the  present  tendency  toward  a 
low  view  of  marriage  should  be  substi- 
tuted by  the  lofty  view  of  marriage 
that  Jesus  the  Christ  gives  it.  Let  us 
look  upon  marriage  as  a  sacred  obliga- 
tion and  a  covenant  that  is  eternal,  or 
that  may  be  made  eternal. 

Teach  the  young  of  both  sexes  in 
the  responsibilities  and  ideals  of  mar- 
riage so  that  they  may  realize  that 
marriage  involves  obligation  and  is  not 
an  arrangement  to  be  terminated  at 
pleasure.  Teach  them  that  pure  love 
between  the  sexes  is  one  of  the  noblest 
things  on  earth,  and  the  bearing  and 
rearing  of  children  the  highest  of  all 
human  duties.  In  this  regard  it  is  the 
duty  of  parents  to  set  an  example  in 
the  home  that  children  may  see  and 
absorb,  as  it  were,  the  sacredness  of 
family  life  and  the  responsibilities  as- 
sociated therewith. 

The  number  of  broken  marriages  can 
be  reduced  if  couples  realize  even  be- 
fore they  approach  the  altar  that  mar- 
riage is  a  state  of  mutual  service,  a 
state  of  giving  as  well  as  of  receiving, 
and  that  each  must  give  of  himself  or 
herself  to  the  utmost.  Harriet  Beecher 
Stowe  wisely  writes:  "No  man  or 
woman  can  create  a  true  home  who  is 
not  willing  in  the  outset  to  embrace 
life  heroically,  to  encounter  labor  and 
sacrifice.  Only  to  such  can  this  di- 
vinest  power  be  given  to  create  on 
earth  that  which  is  the  nearest  image 
of  heaven." 

Temple  marriage 

Another  condition  that  contributes 
to  the  permanence  of  the  marriage 
covenant  is  marriage  in  the  temple. 
Before  such  a  marriage  is  performed, 


it  is  necessary  for  the  young  man  and 
young  woman  first  to  obtain  a  recom- 
mend from  the  bishop.  They  should  go 
to  him  in  person,  and  the  bishop  who 
does  his  duty  will  instruct  the  couple 
regarding  the  sacredness  of  the  obliga- 
tion that  they  as  young  people  are 
going  to  assume,  emphasizing  all  the 
safeguards  that  have  been  named 
before.  There,  in  the  presence  of  the 
priesthood,  before  taking  upon  them- 
selves the  obligation  of  marriage,  the 
young  people  receive  instructions  upon 
the  sacredness  of  the  duty  that  is  be- 
fore them;  and,  furthermore,  they 
determine  whether  or  not  they  are  pre- 
pared to  go  in  holiness  and  purity  to 
the  altar  of  God  and  there  seal  their 
vows  and  love. 

Standard  of  purity 

Finally,  there  is  one  principle  that 
seems  to  me  to  strike  right  at  the  base 
of  the  happiness  of  the  marriage  rela- 
tion, and  that  is  the  standard  of 
purity  taught  and  practiced  among  true 
members  of  the  Church.  In  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
there  is  but  one  standard  of  morality. 
No  young  man  has  any  more  right  to 
be  unchaste  than  has  a  young  girl. 
That  young  man  who  asks  for  a  recom- 
mend to  take  a  pure  girl  to  the  altar  is 
expected  to  give  the  same  purity  that 
he  expects  to  receive. 

For  the  proper  solution  of  this  great 
problem  of  the  mounting  divorce  rate, 
we  may  turn  with  safety  to  Jesus  as 
our  guide.  He  declared  that  the  mar- 
riage relation  is  of  divine  origin,  that 
"marriage  is  ordained  of  God"  (D&C 
49:15),  that  only  under  the  most  ex- 
ceptional conditions  should  it  be  set 
aside.  In  the  teaching  of  the  Church  of 
Christ,  the  family  assumes  supreme  im- 
portance in  the  development  of  the 
individual  and  of  the  society.  "Happy 
and  thrice  happy  are  they  who  enjoy  an 
uninterrupted  union,  and  whose  love, 
unbroken  by  any  complaint,  shall  not 
dissolve."  The  marriage  ceremony 
when  sealed  by  the  authority  of  the 
Holy  Priesthood  endures,  as  do  family 
relationships,  throughout  time  and  all 
eternity.  "What  therefore  God  hath 
joined  together,  let  not  man  put 
asunder."  (Mark  10:9.) 


10 

Friday,  April  4 

God  bless  us  to  look  more  earnestly, 
prayerfully,  and  sincerely  upon  the 
sacredness  of  the  home  and  the  mar- 
riage covenant,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

I  am  sure  we  have  all  been  im- 
pressed and  inspired  by  this  great 
message  from  our  beloved  President, 
so  impressively  read  by  his  son 
Robert. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

The  Ogden  Institute  of  Religion 
Chorus  will  now  sing  appropriately, 
"We  Ever  Pray  for  Thee,"  after  which 
Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  speak  to  us. 


The  Ogden  Institute  of  Religion 
Chorus  sang  the  song,  "We  Ever  Pray 
for  Thee,  Our  Prophet  Dear." 


ELDER  EZRA  ' 

Of  the  Council 

Thank  God  for  that  timely  and  in- 
spiring message  from  our  beloved 
leader,  President  David  O.  McKay. 

My  remarks  today  are  directed  to 
the  humble  followers  of  Christ.  I  pray 
that  what  I  have  to  say  will  be  of  help 
to  them. 

One  of  the  grand  promises  which 
the  Lord  made  when  he  restored  his 
Church  in  these  latter  days  was  that 
the  Church  should  never  again  be 
taken  from  the  earth  nor  given  to 
another  people.  This  is  reassuring,  for 
no  matter  how  much  individual  apos- 
tasy we  may  see  occur  among  Church 
members,  the  Church  itself  shall 
endure  and  remain  intact.  Our  task, 
then,  is  to  see  that  we  personally  en- 
dure to  the  end  in  faithful  fellowship 
with  the  Church. 

The  Lord  distinguishes  between  the 
Church  and  its  members.  He  said  he 
was  well  pleased  with  the  restored 
Church,  speaking  collectively,  but  not 
individually.  (D&C  1:30.)  During  his 
ministry  on  earth,  the  Lord  spoke  of 
the  gospel  net  drawing  in  fish.  The 
good  fish,  he  said,  were  gathered  into 
vessels,  while  the  bad  were  cast  away. 

It  is  important  to  realize  that  while 
the  Church  is  made  up  of  mortals,  no 
mortal  is  the  Church.  Judas,  for  a 
period  of  time,  was  a  member  of  the 
Church — in  fact,  one  of  its  apostles — 
bat  the  Church  was  not  Judas. 

Disharmony  of  some  members 

Sometimes  we  hear  someone  refer  to 
a  division  in  the  Church.  In  reality, 


AFT  BENSON 

of  the  Twelve 

the  Church  is  not  divided.  It  simply 
means  that  there  are  some  who,  for  the 
time  being  at  least,  are  members  of  the 
Church  but  not  in  harmony  with  it. 
These  people  have  a  temporary  mem- 
bership and  influence  in  the  Church; 
but  unless  they  repent,  they  will  be 
missing  when  the  final  membership 
records  are  recorded. 

It  is  well  that  our  people  understand 
this  principle,  so  they  will  not  be  mis- 
led by  those  apostates  within  the 
Church  who  have  not  yet  repented  or 
been  cut  off.  But  there  is  a  cleansing 
coming.  The  Lord  says  that  his  ven- 
geance shall  be  poured  out  "upon  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth.  . .  .  And  upon 
my  house  shall  it  begin,  and  from  my 
house  shall  it  go  forth,  saith  the  Lord; 
First  among  those  among  you,  saith 
the  Lord,  who  have  professed  to  know 
my  name  and  have  not  known  me.  . . ." 
(D&C  112:24-26.)  I  look  forward  to 
that  cleansing;  its  need  within  the 
Church  is  becoming  increasingly  ap- 
parent. 

The  Lord  strengthened  the  faith  of 
the  early  apostles  by  pointing  out 
Judas  as  a  traitor,  even  before  this 
apostle  had  completed  his  iniquitous 
work.  So  also  in  our  day  the  Lord  has 
told  us  of  the  tares  within  the  wheat 
that  will  eventually  be  hewn  down 
when  they  are  fully  ripe.  But  until 
they  are  hewn  down,  they  will  be  with 
us,  amongst  us.  The  hymn  entitled 
"Though  in  the  Outward  Church  Be- 
low" contains  this  thought: 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


11 


"Though  in  the  outward  Church  be- 
low 

Both  wheat  and  tares  together  grow, 
Ere  long  will  Jesus  weed  the  crop 
And  pluck  the  tares  in  anger  up.  .  .  . 
We  seem  alike  when  here  we  meet; 
Strangers  may  think  we  are  all 
wheat; 

But  to  the  Lord's  all-searching  eyes, 
Each  heart  appears  without  disguise. 
The  tares  are  spared  for  various  ends, 
Some  for  the  sake  of  praying  friends, 
Others  the  Lord  against  their  will, 
Employs,  his  counsels  to  fulfill. 
But  though  they  grow  so  tall  and 
strong, 

His  plan  will  not  require  them  long; 
In  harvest,  when  he  saves  his  own, 
The  tares  shall  into  hell  be  thrown." 

(Hymns,  No.  102.) 

Tares  among  the  wheat 

Yes,  within  the  Church  today  there 
are  tares  among  the  wheat  and  wolves 
within  the  flock.  As  President  Clark 
stated,  "The  ravening  wolves  are 
amongst  us,  from  our  own  member- 
ship, and  they,  more  than  any  others, 
are  clothed  in  sheep's  clothing  because 
they  wear  the  habiliments  of  the 
priesthood.  .  .  .  We  should  be  careful 

of  them  "  (Era,  May  1949,  p.  268. 

See  also  Conference  Report,  April  1949, 
p.  163.) 

The  wolves  amongst  our  flock  are 
more  numerous  and  devious  today  than 
when  President  Clark  made  this  state- 
ment. 

President  McKay  has  said  that  "the 
Church  is  little,  if  at  all,  injured  by 
persecution  and  calumnies  from  igno- 
rant, misinformed  or  malicious  enemies. 
A  greater  hindrance  to  its  progress 
comes  from  faultfinders,  shirkers, 
commandment-breakers,  and  apostate 
cliques  within  its  own  ecclesiastical 
and  quorum  groups."  (Era,  December 
1967,  p.  35.  See  also  Conference  Report, 
October  1967,  p.  9.) 

Not  only  are  there  apostates  within 
our  midst,  but  there  are  also  apostate 
doctrines  that  are  sometimes  taught  in 
our  classes  and  from  our  pulpits  and 
that  appear  in  our  publications.  And 
these  apostate  precepts  of  men  cause 
our  people  to  stumble.  As  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  speaking  of  our  day,  states: 


".  .  .  they  have  all  gone  astray  save 
it  be  a  few,  who  are  the  humble  fol- 
lowers of  Christ;  nevertheless,  they  are 
led,  that  in  many  instances  they  do  err 
because  they  are  taught  by  the  precepts 
of  men."  (2  Ne.  28:14.) 

The  precepts  of  men 

Let  us  consider  some  of  the  precepts 
of  men  that  may  and  do  cause  some 
of  the  humble  followers  of  Christ  to 
err. 

Christ  taught  that  we  should  be  in 
the  world  but  not  of  it.  Yet  there  are 
some  in  our  midst  who  are  not  so  much 
concerned  about  taking  the  gospel  into 
the  world  as  they  are  about  bringing 
worldliness  into  the  gospel.  They  want 
us  to  be  in  the  world  and  of  it.  They 
want  us  to  be  popular  with  the  worldly 
even  though  a  prophet  has  said  that 
this  is  impossible,  for  all  hell  would 
then  want  to  join  us. 

Through  their  own  reasoning  and  a 
few  misapplied  scriptures,  they  try  to 
sell  us  the  precepts  and  philosophies  of 
men.  They  do  not  feel  the  Church  is 
progressive  enough — they  say  that  it 
should  embrace  the  social  and  socialist 
gospel  of  apostate  Christendom. 

They  are  bothered  that  President 
McKay  believes  that  "the  social  side  of 
the  Restored  Gospel  is  only  an  incident 
of  it;  it  is  not  the  end  thereof."  (Letter 
of  the  First  Presidency  to  Dr.  Lowry 
Nelson,  July  17,  1947.) 

They  attack  the  Church  for  not  being 
in  the  forefront  of  the  so-called  "civil 
rights  movement."  They  are  embar- 
rassed over  some  Church  doctrine,  and 
as  Lehi  foretold,  the  scoffing  of  the 
world  over  this  and  other  matters  will 
cause  some  of  them  to  be  ashamed  and 
they  shall  fall  away.  (See  1  Ne.  8:28.) 

Publishing  differences  with  Church 

Unauthorized  to  receive  revelation 
for  the  Church,  but  I  fear  still  anxious 
to  redirect  the  Church  in  the  way  they 
think  it  should  go,  some  of  them  have 
taken  to  publishing  their  differences 
with  the  Church,  in  order  to  give  their 
heretical  views  a  broader  and,  they 
hope,  a  more  respectable  platform. 

Along  this  line  it  would  be  well  for 
all  of  us  to  remember  these  words  of 
President  George  Q.  Cannon: 


12 

Friday,  April  4 

"A  friend  .  .  .  wished  to  know 
whether  we  .  .  .  considered  an  honest 
difference  of  opinion  between  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Church  and  the  Authorities 
of  the  Church  was  apostasy.  .  .  .  We 
replied  that  we  had  not  stated  that  an 
honest  difference  of  opinion  between  a 
member  of  the  Church  and  the  Author- 
ities constituted  apostasy,  for  we  could 
conceive  of  a  man  honestly  differing 
in  opinion  from  the  Authorities  of  the 
Church  and  yet  not  be  an  apostate; 
but  we  could  not  conceive  of  a  man 
publishing  those  differences  of  opinion 
and  seeking  by  arguments,  sophistry 
and  special  pleading  to  enforce  them 
upon  the  people  to  produce  division 
and  strife  and  to  place  the  acts  and 
counsels  of  the  Authorities  of  the 
Church,  if  possible,  in  a  wrong  light 
and  not  be  an  apostate,  for  such  con- 
duct was  apostasy  as  we  understood 
the  term."  (Deseret  News,  November  3, 
1869.) 

Birth  control 

The  world  teaches  birth  control. 
Tragically,  many  of  our  sisters  sub- 
scribe to  its  pills  and  practices  when 
they  could  easily  provide  earthly 
tabernacles  for  more  of  our  Father's 
children.  We  know  that  every  spirit 
assigned  to  this  earth  will  come, 
whether  through  us  or  someone  else. 
There  are  couples  in  the  Church  who 
think  they  are  getting  along  just  fine 
with  their  limited  families  but  who 
will  someday  suffer  the  pains  of  re- 
morse when  they  meet  the  spirits  that 
might  have  been  part  of  their  posterity. 
The  first  commandment  given  to  man 
was  to  multiply  and  replenish  the  earth 
with  children.  That  commandment 
has  never  been  altered,  modified,  or 
cancelled.  The  Lord  did  not  say  to 
multiply  and  replenish  the  earth  if  it 
is  convenient,  or  if  you  are  wealthy, 
or  after  you  have  gotten  your  schooling, 
or  when  there  is  peace  on  earth,  or 
until  you  have  four  children.  The 
Bible  says,  "Lo,  children  are  an  heri- 
tage of  the  Lord:  .  .  .  Happy  is  the 
man  that  hath  his  quiver  full  of  them. 
.  .  ."  (Ps.  127:3,  5.)  We  believe  God 
is  glorified  by  having  numerous  chil- 
dren and  a  program  of  perfection  for 
them.   So  also  will  God  glorify  that 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

husband  and  wife  who  have  a  large 
posterity  and  who  have  tried  to  raise 
them  up  in  righteousness. 

False  reasoning  in  population 
limitation 

The  precepts  of  men  would  have 
you  believe  that  by  limiting  the  popu- 
lation of  the  world,  we  can  have  peace 
and  plenty.  That  is  the  doctrine  of  the 
devil.  Small  numbers  do  not  insure 
peace;  only  righteousness  does.  After 
all,  there  were  only  a  handful  of  men 
on  the  earth  when  Cain  interrupted 
the  peace  of  Adam's  household  by 
slaying  Abel.  On  the  other  hand,  the 
whole  city  of  Enoch  was  peaceful;  and 
it  was  taken  into  heaven  because  it  was 
made  up  of  righteous  people. 

And  so  far  as  limiting  the  population 
in  order  to  provide  plenty  is  concerned, 
the  Lord  answered  that  falsehood  in 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  when  he 
said: 

"For  the  earth  is  full,  and  there  is 
enough  and  to  spare;  yea,  I  prepared 
all  things,  and  have  given  unto  the 
children  of  men  to  be  agents  unto 
themselves."  (D&C  104:17.) 

A  major  reason  why  there  is  famine 
in  some  parts  of  the  world  is  because 
evil  men  have  used  the  vehicle  of 
government  to  abridge  the  freedom 
that  men  need  to  produce  abundantly. 

True  to  form,  many  of  the  people 
who  desire  to  frustrate  God's  purposes 
of  giving  mortal  tabernacles  to  his  spirit 
children  through  worldwide  birth  con- 
trol are  the  very  same  people  who 
support  the  kinds  of  government  that 
perpetuate  famine.  They  advocate  an 
evil  to  cure  the  results  of  the  wicked- 
ness they  support. 

Subversion  of  educational  system 

The  world  worships  the  learning  of 
man.  They  trust  in  the  arm  of  flesh. 
To  them,  men's  reasoning  is  greater 
than  God's  revelations.  The  precepts 
of  man  have  gone  so  far  in  subverting 
our  educational  system  that  in  many 
cases  a  higher  degree  today,  in  the  so- 
called  social  sciences,  can  be  tanta- 
mount to  a  major  investment  in  error. 
Very  few  men  build  firmly  enough  on 
the  rock  of  revelation  to  go  through 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


13 


this  kind  of  an  indoctrination  and 
come  out  untainted.  Unfortunately,  of 
those  who  succumb,  some  use  their 
higher  degree  to  get  teaching  positions 
even  in  our  Church  educational  sys- 
tem, where  they  spread  the  falsehoods 
they  have  been  taught.  President  Jo- 
seph F.  Smith  was  right  when  he  said 
that  false  educational  ideas  would  be 
one  of  the  three  threats  to  the  Church 
within.  (Gospel  Doctrine,  pp.  312-13.) 

Sex  education  in  the  schools 

Another  threat,  and  he  said  it  is  the 
most  serious  of  the  three,  would  be 
sexual  impurity.  Today  we  have  both 
of  these  threats  combined  in  the  grow- 
ing and  increasingly  amoral  program 
of  sex  education  in  the  schools.  At  the 
last  general  Relief  Society  conference 
of  the  Church,  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee 
quoted  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr., 
in  regard  to  this  matter.  Let  us  listen 
and  learn  from  the  following  wise 
words  of  this  seer,  President  Clark: 

"Many  influences  (more  than  ever 
before  in  my  lifetime)  are  seeking  to 
break  down  chastity  with  its  divinely 
declared  sanctity.  .  .  . 

"In  schoolrooms  the  children  are 
taught  what  is  popularly  called  'the 
facts  of  life.'  Instead  of  bringing  about 
the  alleged  purpose  of  the  teaching, 
that  is,  strengthening  of  the  morals  of 
youth,  this  teaching  seems  to  have  had 
directly  the  opposite  effect.  The  teach- 
ing seems  merely  to  have  whetted 
curiosity  and  augmented  appetite.  .  .  ." 
(Relief  Society  Magazine,  December 
1952,  p.  793.) 

"...  A  mind  engrossed  in  sex  is  not 
good  for  much  else.  .  .  . 

"Already  the  schools  have  taught  sex 
facts  ad  nauseam.  All  their  teachings 
have  but  torn  away  the  modesty  that 
once  clothed  sex;  their  discussions  tend 
to  make,  and  sometimes  seem  to  make, 
sex  animals  of  our  boys  and  girls.  The 
teachings  do  little  but  arouse  curiosity 
for  experience.  .  .  . 

"A  work  on  chastity  can  be  given 
in  one  sentence,  two  words:  Be  chaste! 
That  tells  everything.  You  do  not  need 
to  know  all  the  details  of  the  repro- 
ductive processes  in  order  to  keep 
clean.  .  .  ."  (Era,  December  1949,  p. 


803.  See  also  Conference  Report,  Octo- 
ber 1949,  p.  194.) 

Responsibility  of  parents 

Our  Church  News  editorials  have 
warned  us  about  sex  education  in  the 
schools.  As  the  April  1,  1967,  editorial 
stated: 

"Sex  education  belongs  in  the  home. 
.  .  .  Movements  to  place  sex  education 
in  nearly  all  grades  of  public  schools 
can  end  only  in  the  same  result  which 
came  to  Sweden." 

In  answer  to  inquiries  that  have  been 
received  by  the  First  Presidency  about 
sex  education  in  the  schools,  they  have 
made  the  following  statement:  "We 
believe  that  serious  hazards  are  in- 
volved in  entrusting  to  the  schools  the 
teaching  of  this  vital  and  important 
subject  to  our  children.  This  responsi- 
bility cannot  wisely  be  left  to  society, 
nor  the  schools:  nor  can  the  responsi- 
bility be  shifted  to  the  Church.  It  is 
the  responsibility  of  parents  to  see  that 
they  fully  perform  their  duty  in  this 
respect." 

When  you  make  a  close  study  of 
the  Sex  Information  and  Education 
Council  of  the  United  States  (known  as 
SIECUS),  which  is  the  major  organi- 
zation pushing  sex  education  in  the 
schools,  and  read  their  literature  and 
learn  of  their  amoral  leadership,  you 
can  better  appreciate  why  the  Church 
is  opposed  to  sex  education  in  the 
schools,  whether  it  is  called  family 
living  program  or  by  any  other  name. 
I  commend  the  parents  who  have 
worked  to  keep  it  out  of  their  schools 
and  those  who  have  pushed  it  out  or 
are  attempting  to  do  so.  They  must 
love  their  children. 

Sensitivity  training 

Let  us  consider  another  precept  of 
men:  One  of  the  tragedies  of  the 
Korean  War  was  the  fact  that  the 
enemy  was  able  to  brainwash  some  of 
our  men.  Those  methods,  highly  re- 
fined and  deviously  developed,  have 
been  introduced  on  a  broad  scale  into 
our  own  country  by  some  behavioral 
scientists  through  a  program  com- 
monly called  sensitivity  training. 
While  claiming  otherwise,  the  overall 


14 

Friday,  April  4 

effect  of  this  training  has  been  to  break 
down  personal  standards,  encourage 
immorality,  reduce  respect  for  parents, 
and  make  well  minds  sick. 

As  in  Korea,  the  heart  of  the  training 
involves  trying  to  get  each  member  of 
a  group  to  self-criticize  and  confess  as 
much  as  possible  to  the  group.  Now 
any  informed  holder  of  the  priesthood 
knows  that  this  is  directly  contrary  to 
the  word  of  the  Lord  as  contained  in 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Section 
42,  verses  88-92.  Only  when  a  person 
has  sinned  against  many  people  is  he 
to  make  a  public  confession. 

"If  any  shall  offend  in  secret,  he  or 
she  shall  be  rebuked  in  secret,  that  he 
or  she  may  have  opportunity  to  confess 
in  secret  to  him  or  her  whom  he  or  she 
has  offended,  and  to  God,  that  the 
church  may  not  speak  reproachfully  of 
him  or  her."  (D&C  42:92.) 

As  President  Brigham  Young  put  it, 
".  .  .  if  you  have  sinned  against  your 
God,  or  against  your  selves,  confess  to 
God,  and  keep  the  matter  to  yourselves, 
for  I  do  not  want  to  know  anything 
about  it."  (Discourses  of  Brigham 
Young,  p.  158.) 

But  some  sensitivity  training  doesn't 
stop  there.  They  usually  want  each 
person  to  tell  the  group  about  all  of 
their  innermost  feelings,  their  personal 
secrets,  their  fears,  their  repressed  de- 
sires. They  have  even  conducted  nudity 
sessions  as  a  means  of  supposedly 
breaking  down  their  inhibitions.  They 
want  the  group  to  know  each  other's 
vulgar  thoughts  and  lustful  ideas, 
their  hates,  envies,  jealousies.  But  this 
flies  in  the  face  of  the  counsel  of  the 
Prophet,  who  has  said,  "All  such  evils 
you  must  overcome  by  suppression. 
That  is  where  your  control  comes  in. 
Suppress  that  anger!  Suppress  that 
jealousy,  that  envy!  They  are  all  in- 
jurious to  the  spirit.  .  .  ."  (President 
David  O.  McKay,  Gospel  Ideals,  p. 
356.) 

Standards  attacked 

In  these  sensitivity  sessions  one's 
standards,  religion,  family,  and  friends 
may  be  subjected  to  brutal  and  pro- 
longed attack  by  the  group.  And  when 
it's  all  over,  if  you've  confessed  all  and 
had  your  values  and  ideals  smashed, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

you  may  doubt  if  there  is  much  worth 
believing  or  defending,  and  your 
loyalties  may  now  have  been  realigned 
away  from  your  family  and  church 
toward  the  group — for  on  them  you 
may  now  feel  very  dependent,  and  you 
may  be  more  anxious  to  get  their  con- 
sensus on  a  position  and  their  approval 
than  to  find  out  what's  right  and  do  it. 

When  General  William  F.  Dean 
was  released  from  a  Korean  Commu- 
nist prison  camp,  the  young  Chinese 
psychologists  who  had  been  trying  to 
break  him  said:  "General,  don't  feel 
bad  about  leaving  us.  You  know,  we 
will  soon  be  with  you.  We  are  going 
to  capture  your  country."  Asked  how, 
they  replied:  "We  are  going  to  destroy 
the  moral  character  of  a  generation  of 
your  young  Americans,  and  when  we 
have  finished  you  will  have  nothing 
with  which  to  really  defend  yourselves 
against  us." 

Demoralizing  influences 

And  so  the  precepts  of  men  are  at 
work  on  our  youth  in  so  many  ways. 
Said  President  Clark,  "...  a  tremen- 
dous amount  of  the  modern  art,  of  the 
modern  literature  and  music,  and  the 
drama  that  we  have  today  is  utterly 
demoralizing — utterly."  (Relief  Society 
Magazine,  December  1952,  p.  792.) 

Have  you  been  listening  to  the 
music  that  many  young  folks  are  hear- 
ing today?  Some  of  it  is  nerve-jamming 
in  nature  and  much  of  it  has  been 
deliberately  designed  to  promote  revo- 
lution, dope,  immorality,  and  a  gap 
between  parent  and  child.  And  some 
of  this  music  has  invaded  our  church 
cultural  halls. 

Have  you  noticed  some  of  our 
Church  dances  lately?  Have  they  been 
praiseworthy,  lovely,  and  of  good  re- 
port? "I  doubt,"  said  President  McKay, 
"whether  it  is  possible  to  dance  most 
of  the  prevalent  fad  dances  in  a  man- 
ner to  meet  LDS  standards."  And  what 
about  modesty  in  dress?  When  was  the 
last  time  you  saw  a  high  school  girl 
wearing  a  dress  that  covered  her  knees? 
The  courageous  address  of  Elder  Spen- 
cer W.  Kimball  a  few  years  ago  entitled 
"A  Style  of  Our  Own"  is  certainly  ap- 
plicable today. 


BISHOP  JOHN  H. 

I  want  to  congratulate  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  for  their  attire.  It  was 
noted  that  in  their  broadcast  at  Con- 
stitution Hall  during  the  inaugural 
festivities,  all  the  ladies  seated  on  the 
front  row  had  dresses  that  covered  their 
knees. 

Now  what  kind  of  magazines  come 
into  your  home?  With  perhaps  one  or 
two  exceptions,  I  would  not  have  any 
of  the  major  national  slick  magazines 
in  my  home.  As  President  Clark  so 
well  put  it,  ".  .  .  take  up  any  national 
magazine,  look  at  the  ads  and,  if  you 
can  stand  the  filth,  read  some  of  the 
stories — they  are,  in  their  expressed  and 
suggestive  standards  of  life,  destructive 
of  the  very  foundations  of  our  society." 
(Conference  Report,  April  1951,  p.  79.) 

President  Cannon's  test 

Now  hear  this  test  proposed  by 
President  George  Q.  Cannon:  "If  the 
breach  is  daily  widening  between  our- 
selves and  the  world  ...  we  may  be 
assured  that  our  progress  is  certain, 
however  slow.  On  the  opposite  hand, 
if  our  feelings  and  affections,  our  appe- 
tites and  desires,  are  in  unison  with 
the  world  around  us  and  freely  frater- 
nize with  them  .  .  .  we  should  do  well 
to  examine  ourselves.  Individuals  in 
such  a  condition  might  possess  a 
nominal  position  in  the  Church  but 
would  be  lacking  the  life  of  the  work, 
and,   like  the  foolish   virgins  who 


VANDENBERG  15 

slumbered  while  the  bridegroom  tar- 
ried, they  would  be  unprepared  for  his 
coming.  .  .  ."  (Millennial  Star,  Oct.  5, 
1861  [Vol.  23],  pp.  645-46.) 

To  repeat  again  from  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  ".  .  .  they  have  all  gone 
astray  save  it  be  a  few,  who  are  the 
humble  followers  of  Christ;  neverthe- 
less, they  are  led,  that  in  many  in- 
stances they  do  err  because  they  are 
taught  by  the  precepts  of  men."  (2  Ne. 
28:14.) 

May  we  cherish  God's  revelations 
more  than  man's  reasoning  and  choose 
to  follow  the  prophets  of  the  Lord 
rather  than  the  precepts  of  men  is  my 
humble  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

The  chorus  and  congregation  will 
now  join  in  singing,  "We  Thank  Thee, 
O  God,  for  a  Prophet." 

After  the  singing,  Bishop  John  H. 
Vandenberg,  Presiding  Bishop  of  the 
Church,  will  speak  to  us;  and  he  will 
be  followed  by  Elder  Franklin  D. 
Richards,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 


The  congregation  and  the  chorus 
joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "We 
Thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet." 


BISHOP  JOHN 


Sometime  ago  a  friend  sent  me  a 
short  story  put  in  verse  by  Sam  Walter 
Foss.  Though  it  was  written  several 
decades  ago,  the  message  seems  par- 
ticularly relevant  today.  It  is  entitled 
"The  Calf-Path,"  and  reads  as  follows: 

"One  day  through  the  primeval  wood 
A  calf  walked  home  as  good  calves 
should; 

But  made  a  trail  all  bent  askew, 
A  crooked  path  as  all  calves  do.  .  .  . 

"The  trail  was  taken  up  next  day 
By  a  lone  dog  that  passed  that  way; 


.  VANDENBERG 

Bishop 

And  then  a  wise  bellwether  sheep 
Pursued  the  trail  o'er  vale  and  steep, 
And  drew  the  flock  behind  him,  too, 
As  good  bellwethers  always  do. 
And  from  that  day,  o'er  hill  and  glade, 
Through  those  old  woods  a  path  was 
made. 

"And  many  men  wound  in  and  out, 
And  dodged  and  turned  and  bent 
about, 

And  uttered  words  of  righteous  wrath 
Because  'twas  such  a  crooked  path;  . .  . 

"The  forest  path  became  a  lane 


16  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  April  A 

That  bent  and  turned  and  turned 
again: 

This  crooked  lane  became  a  road, 
Where  many  a  poor  horse  with  his 
load 

Toiled  on  beneath  the  burning  sun, 
And  traveled   some  three  miles  in 
one.  .  .  . 

"The  years  passed  on  in  swiftness  fleet, 
The  road  became  a  village  street; 
And  this,  before  men  were  aware, 
A  city's  crowded  thoroughfare.  .  .  . 

"Each  day  a  hundred  thousand  rout 
Followed  this  zigzag  calf  about 
And  o'er  his  crooked  journey  went 
The  traffic  of  a  continent. 
A  hundred  thousand  men  were  led 
By  one  calf  near  three  centuries  dead. 
They  followed  still  his  crooked  way, 
And  lost  one  hundred  years  a  day; 
For  thus  such  reverence  is  lent 
To  well-established  precedent. 

".  .  .  For  men  are  prone  to  go  it  blind 
Along  the  calf-path  of  the  mind, 
And  work  away  from  sun  to  sun 
To  do  what  other  men  have  done. 
They  follow  in  the  beaten  track, 
And  out  and  in,  and  forth  and  back, 
And  still  their  devious  course  pursue, 
To  keep  the  path  that  others  do. 
They  keep  the  path  a  sacred  groove, 
Along  which  all  their  lives  they  move; 
But  how  the  wise  old  wood-gods  laugh, 
Who  saw  the  first  primeval  calf." 

Many  paths  to  travel 

In  today's  world  there  are  many 
paths  for  people  to  travel.  There  are 
some  who,  like  those  who  followed  the 
calf,  are  pursuing  a  course  in  life  for 
no  other  reason  than  that  others  have 
preceded  them.  They  follow  a  path 
without  thinking  where  it  may  lead 
them  or  even  who  made  the  path. 
They  justify  their  course  because  it  is 
so  well  traveled. 

With  so  many  ways  meandering  in 
so  many  directions,  some  may  be  con- 
fused. Careful  analysis  reveals,  how- 
ever, that  the  solution  is  a  matter  of 
defining  our  objectives  and  then  fol- 
lowing the  path  that  leads  to  them. 
Every  person  should  analyze  the  ulti- 


First  Day 

mate  destination  of  the  way  he  is 
traveling. 

An  unkind  word  spoken  by  a  hus- 
band to  his  wife  may  start  a  conflict 
at  home  that  leads  to  misery,  turmoil, 
and  ultimately  divorce. 

You  can  visualize  the  destination  of 
the  journey  that  begins  with  the 
neglect  of  children  in  order  to  pursue 
worldly  goods.  Yet  many  mothers 
persist  in  traveling  such  a  course. 

What  about  the  path  that  starts  with 
that  first  so-called  social  drink?  This 
could  lead  to  mistrust,  immorality, 
poverty,  broken  homes,  and  broken 
lives. 

Has  good  ever  come  from  walking 
the  path  of  drug  abuse?  No.  It  leads 
rather  to  addiction,  insanity,  immoral- 
ity, suicide,  and  a  dissipated  life. 

Exposure  to  suggestive,  obscene  litera- 
ture and  entertainment,  which  provides 
repeated  examples  of  indiscretion  and 
immorality,  leads  to  a  breakdown  in 
one's  moral  values.  A  person  soon 
finds  that  by  this  subtle  means  he  has 
been  induced  to  tread  the  path  to  the 
point  where  immorality  becomes  a 
common  and  accepted  practice  with 
him,  with  personal  degradation  and 
misery  the  end  products. 

The  strait  gate 

Yet  in  spite  of  their  destinations, 
these  paths  have  many  travelers.  It  is 
of  such  evil  ways  the  Lord  was  speak- 
ing when  he  counseled  against  them 
and  said,  "Enter  ye  in  at  the  strait 
gate:  for  wide  is  the  gate,  and  broad 
is  the  way,  that  leadeth  to  destruction, 
and  many  there  be  which  go  in  there- 
at." (Matt.  7:13.) 

The  idea  that  a  person  would  have 
to  try  each  of  these  paths  before  he 
could  judge  whether  it  be  wrong  is  a 
cunning  plan  laid  by  the  adversary  to 
entrap  the  souls  of  men.  A  continual 
exposure  to  evil  ways  develops  a 
lowered  resistance  to  them,  a  higher 
degree  of  tolerance  for  sin,  which 
eventually  leads  to  the  embracing  of 
the  evil  practices.  Do  not  forget  that 
the  very  ability  which  man  has  to 
learn  from  the  experiences  of  others 
sets  him  above  the  animal  world. 

To  avoid  the  broad  way,  spoken  of 
by  the  Master,  it  is  necessary  for  all 


BISHOP  JOHN  H. 

persons  to  periodically  evaluate  the 
course  of  their  lives  and  to  envision  the 
ultimate  end  toward  which  they  are 
traveling. 

Story  by  Van  Dyke 

In  the  story  "The  Mansion,"  by 
Henry  Van  Dyke,  one  of  the  char- 
acters by  the  name  of  John  Weight- 
man  envisioned  the  ultimate  result  of 
the  path  of  life  on  which  he  traveled. 

One  evening  as  he  prepared  to  retire, 
he  opened  the  Bible  and  read  from 
Matthew,  "Lay  not  up  for  yourselves 
treasures  upon  earth,  where  moth  and 
rust  doth  corrupt,  and  where  thieves 
break  through  and  steal; 

"But  lay  up  for  yourselves  treasures 
in  heaven.  .  .  ."  (Matt.  6:19-20.) 

He  fell  asleep  feeling  comfortable  in 
that  he  had  been  a  benefactor,  since 
he  had  donated  generously  to  charities, 
foundations,  and  other  worthy  causes. 
As  he  slept,  he  dreamed  that  he  visited 
the  life  after  death  and  was  to  receive 
his  mansion.  He  was  dismayed  to  find 
that  his  mansion  in  the  other  world 
was  only  a  hut  in  a  big  field  of  weeds. 
He  complained  to  the  guide,  "Surely, 
sir,  there  is  something  wrong." 

"There  is  no  mistake,"  said  the 
guide.  "Were  not  all  these  endow- 
ments carefully  recorded  on  earth 
where  they  would  add  to  your  credit? 
Verily  you  have  had  your  reward  for 
them.  Would  you  be  paid  twice?" 

Humbled,  Weightman  asked,  "What 
is  it  that  counts  here?" 

The  guide  replied,  "Only  that  which 
is  truly  given.  Only  that  good  which 
is  done  for  the  love  of  doing  it.  Only 
those  plans  in  which  the  welfare  of 
others  is  the  master  thought.  Only 
those  labors  in  which  the  sacrifice  is 
greater  than  the  reward.  Only  those 
gifts  in  which  the  giver  forgets  himself. 
These  are  the  things  that  the  King 
never  forgets;  and  because  there  were 
few  of  them  in  your  life,  you  have  a 
little  place  here." 

Counsel  of  Helaman 

Helaman,  the  Nephite  leader  and 
prophet,  counseled  his  sons  that  they 
might  be  equipped  with  the  discern- 
ment to  select  the  proven  and  eternal 
path.    He  said,  "And  now,  my  sons, 


VANDENBERG  17 

remember,  remember  that  it  is  upon 
the  rock  of  our  Redeemer,  who  is 
Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  that  ye  must 
build  your  foundation;  that  when  the 
devil  shall  send  forth  his  mighty  winds, 
yea,  his  shafts  in  the  whirlwind,  yea, 
when  all  his  hail  and  his  mighty  storm 
shall  beat  upon  you,  it  shall  have  no 
power  over  you  to  drag  you  down  to 
the  gulf  of  misery  and  endless  wo, 
because  of  the  rock  upon  which  ye  are 
built,  which  is  a  sure  foundation,  a 
foundation  whereon  if  men  build  they 
cannot  fall."  (He.  5:12.) 

In  this  day  when  the  adversary  is 
endeavoring  to  lead  mankind  "care- 
fully down  to  hell"  (2  Ne.  28:21),  it 
is  imperative  that  parents  lead  and 
discipline  their  children  in  the  teach- 
ings of  the  gospel.  Our  youth  need 
this  guidance  and  direction,  and  they 
themselves  want  it.  They  plead  within, 
as  did  the  psalmist,  "Make  me  to  go 
in  the  path  of  thy  commandments;  for 
therein  do  I  delight."  (Ps.  119:35.) 

"Narrow  is  the  way" 

The  gospel  is  described  by  the  Savior 
in  this  way:  ".  .  .  strait  is  the  gate,  and 
narrow  is  the  way,  which  leadeth  unto 
life,  and  few  there  be  that  find  it." 
(Matt.  7:14.)  It  requires  discipline  to 
travel  this  narrow  way. 

In  our  modern  world  we  talk  of 
and  use  a  method  to  efficiently  and 
effectively  accomplish  a  project.  It  is 
known  as  the  "critical  path"  method. 
This  method  is  a  way  of  correlating 
the  chain  of  critical  activities  neces- 
sary for  the  completion  of  a  given 
project,  calling  for  high  discipline  in 
timing  and  filling  each  step  in  pro- 
ductive order. 

The  critical  path  is  the  narrow  way, 
and  in  business,  education,  science,  or 
life  we  must  follow  a  critical  path  or 
narrow  way  to  achieve  ultimate  suc- 
cess. Thus  it  becomes  a  matter  for 
you  and  me  to  consider.  Someone 
calls  it  to  our  attention  in  this  manner: 

"Your  greatest  problem  is  yourself. 
You  are  also  your  greatest  treasure.  If 
you  can  get  yourself  determined  upon — 
find  out  what  you  are  and  what  you 
are  for — and  if  you  can  discover  and 
develop  the  elements  of  value  in  your 
nature,  your  life  will  take  on  the 


18 

Friday,  April  4 

beauty  of  orderliness  and  your  need  of 
the  savings  bank  will  be  less  and  less, 
for  you  will  be  your  own  riches.  I  say, 
if  you  can,  for  this  procedure  takes 
wisdom,  and  wisdom  is  the  fruit  which 
ripens  slowly.  Perhaps  you  are  not  yet 
wise;  perhaps  you  are  still  incapable  of 
self-analysis;  perhaps  you  are  confused 
amid  the  surfaces  and  appearances  of 
life;  perhaps  your  code  of  conduct  is 
based  upon  the  customs  of  the  times 
and  the  sayings  of  the  alleged  sages; 
perhaps  you  are  disheartened  and  dis- 
couraged— even  in  frenzy  of  retreat 
before  the  things  in  your  life  which 
seem  to  oppose  you  and  beat  you  back. 
But  even  so,  this  is  but  a  condition  or 
mood  which  is  not  final — the  condi- 
tion will  right  itself,  the  mood  will 
pass."  (Richard  Wightman,  The  Speak- 
ers Desk  Book  [Maxwell  Drake,  1937], 
p.  686.) 

Words  of  a  missionary 

To  this  I  might  add,  you  will  achieve 
ultimate  success  if  you  will  align 
yourself  to  the  discipline  required  by 
the  narrow  way  which  leads  to  eternal 
life.  There  is  great  joy  and  satisfaction 
in  the  realization  of  so  embarking,  as 
evidenced  by  the  words  of  a  missionary 
in  the  mission  field: 

"...  I  have  come  to  an  understand- 
ing of  the  meaning  of  life — why  I  am 
here  and  where  I  want  to  go. 

"It  amazes  me  how  little  I  knew 
about  the  gospel  before.  Sure,  I  had  a 
lot  of  facts  down,  but  I  just  hadn't 
caught  the  vision.  I  had  heard  people 
say  that  the  gospel  was  and  is  a  mes- 
sage of  happiness  and  good  news, 
yet  I  didn't  understand  why.  It  is 
here  that  I  have  begun  to  feel  the  joy 
that  the  gospel  was  established  to 
give  to  man. 

"Here,  material  and  worldly  things 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

have  taken  on  a  second  importance; 
and  because  I  attach  a  greater  im- 
portance to  what  is  important,  I  am 
happier  than  before.  Christ  promised 
that  if  we  seek  first  his  kingdom,  all 
other  things  will  be  added  unto  us.  I 
know  this  is  true. 

"At  home  when  I  didn't  like  some- 
thing, I  went  away  from  it;  here  I 
can't.  I  have  to  face  it,  learn  to  get 
along  in  situations  and  with  people 
that  are  hard  to  get  along  with.  How 
great  it  is  to  find  that  you  have  con- 
quered something  that  you  otherwise 
would  run  away  from! 

"Every  day  is  spent  trying  to  be  more 
successful,  doing  things  that  are  hard, 
and  growing  from  it."  (Willard  Mitt 
Romney,  "Without  a  Worry  in  the 
World,"  Era,  January  1969,  p.  75.) 

The  proven  way 

Many  parents  and  youth  of  the 
Church  are  securing  their  lives  against 
the  forces  of  evil  by  following  the 
counsel  of  the  Savior. 

No  one,  it  would  seem,  would  know- 
ingly follow  a  "calf-path"  through  life, 
yet  carelessly  they  may  do  just  that. 

We  must  not  be  deceived.  That  es- 
tablished by  the  Savior  is  the  only 
proven  way;  it  is  the  only  way  that 
can  stand  the  test  of  the  eternities.  May 
we  follow  him  into  the  joy  of  eternal 
life,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Elder  Franklin  D.  Richards,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  will  now  address  us. 

He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Loren 
C.  Dunn  of  the  First  Council  of  Sev- 
enty, who  in  turn  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve. 


ELDER  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  I  re- 
joice to  be  with  you  today.  I  have  been 
inspired  and  strengthened  by  the  beau- 
tiful music  and  the  messages  of  Presi- 


dent McKay  and  our  other  leaders. 

We  are  living  in  a  remarkable  age, 
the  dispensation  of  the  fullness  of 
times,  and  I  am  grateful  for  the  knowl- 


ELDER  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS 


19 


edge  that  God  lives  and  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ,  our  Savior  and  Redeemer. 

I  also  bear  my  witness  to  you  that 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  been 
restored  in  its  fullness  through  the  in- 
strumentality of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  and  that  there  is  a  Prophet  of 
God  on  the  earth  today,  our  beloved 
President  David  O.  McKay.  May  the 
Lord  bless  and  sustain  him. 

Despite  the  fact  that  we  are  living 
in  a  wonderful  age,  as  has  been  stated, 
we  are  living  in  a  troubled  world  with 
an  abundance  of  problems.  In  reality, 
this  is  one  of  the  great  purposes  of  life, 
to  meet  challenges  and  obstacles  and 
learn  to  overcome  them.  Meeting  ob- 
stacles and  learning  to  overcome  them 
give  us  experience,  and  each  experi- 
ence should  be  for  our  good. 

Today  we  hear  much  about  the  need 
to  "tell  things  as  they  are,"  the  need 
for  honesty  and  consistency  in  living, 
and  the  need  for  greater  freedoms. 

True  and  false  freedoms 

Someone  has  said,  "There  are  two 
freedoms:  the  false  freedom  where 
one  is  free  to  do  what  he  likes,  and  the 
true  freedom  where  one  is  free  to  do 
what  he  ought  to  do." 

I  think  it  is  appropriate  and  timely 
to  discuss  some  things  as  they  are  and 
can  be,  as  well  as  to  consider  the  dif- 
ference between  loyalty  and  disloyalty 
as  pertains  to  the  true  and  false 
freedoms. 

First,  loyalty  to  true  freedom  princi- 
ples or  causes  embraces  love,  dedica- 
tion, faith,  allegiance,  willingness  to 
sacrifice,  and  many  other  qualities  that 
contribute  to  achievement  and  hap- 
piness. 

Disloyalty  to  true  freedom  principles 
or  causes  embraces  betrayal,  unfaith- 
fulness, disaffection,  sedition,  infidelity, 
and  other  qualities  that  contribute  to 
failure,  destruction,  and  unhappiness. 

Loyalty  to  false  freedom  principles 
can  only  bring  delusion,  a  counterfeit 
happiness,  and  eventual  destruction. 
False  freedom  principles  include  such 
things  as  the  abuse  of  one's  body  by 
the  use  of  drugs,  liquor,  and  tobacco, 
as  well  as  sexual  immoralities.  False 
freedom  principles  likewise  include  the 
spread  of  communistic  doctrine  and 


protest  by  force. 

In  reality,  true  freedom  can  only 
exist  in  doing  what  is  right,  in  being 
loyal — yes,  in  doing  what  we  ought 
to  do. 

Principle  of  loyalty 

Let  me  be  more  specific  and  identify 
some  things  we  ought  to  do  to  enjoy 
true  freedom. 

We  should  be  loyal  to  ourselves, 
our  family,  friends,  employers,  our 
God,  church,  and  country. 

Insofar  as  loyalty  to  oneself  is  con- 
cerned, the  great  poet  Shakespeare  gave 
some  sage  advice  when  he  said,  "This 
above  all:  to  thine  own  self  be  true, 
And  it  must  follow,  as  the  night  the 
day,  Thou  canst  not  then  be  false  to 
any  man."  (Hamlet,  Act  1,  Sc.  3.) 

One  is  true  and  loyal  to  himself: 

When  he  develops  himself  mentally, 
physically,  and  spiritually; 

When  he  develops  a  proper  standard 
by  which  all  decisions  are  made  and 
unswervingly  follows  the  standard; 

When  he  keeps  his  self-respect  and 
the  respect  of  others  by  being  noble 
and  consistent  in  his  ideals,  acts,  words, 
and  thoughts; 

When  he  combines  faith  with  works 
in  serving  his  God  and  his  fellowmen. 

Loyalty  to  one's  family  and  friends 
is  likewise  basic  and  paramount.  It 
indicates  love  and  affection. 

President  McKay  has  said  that  no 
other  success  can  compensate  for  failure 
in  the  family. 

The  Church  provides  a  family  home 
evening  program,  which  gives  the  fam- 
ily an  opportunity  to  understand  the 
principle  of  loyalty  and  how  to  make 
it  a  part  of  their  lives. 

President  McKay  has  promised  that 
as  family  home  evenings  are  held, 
great  blessings  will  result,  in  that 
there  will  be  love  at  home,  and  obedi- 
ence to  parents  will  increase,  and  faith 
will  develop  in  the  hearts  of  the  youth. 

Family  loyalty  means  for  each  mem- 
ber to  support  and  sustain  every  other 
member.  Loyalty  in  the  family  em- 
braces love  and  appreciation  and  is 
evidenced  by  a  willingness  to  sacrifice 
for  and  serve  one  another. 

Loyalty  to  friends  makes  it  possible 
for  them  to  rely  on  you  and  you  on 


20  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  April  4 

them,  and  what  a  wonderful  sense  of 
security  this  brings. 

In  one's  business  relations,  loyalty  to 
an  employer  is  most  vital.  Loyalty 
here  means  to  be  faithful  and  trust- 
worthy and  to  give  the  best  of  your 
ability,  recognizing  that  your  em- 
ployer's success  is  reflected  in  your 
welfare.  Loyalty  produces  power  and 
effectiveness.  An  ounce  of  loyalty  is 
worth  a  pound  of  cleverness. 

Loyalty  to  God 

What  does  loyalty  to  God  and 
church  imply? 

Simply  stated,  it  would  seem  to  be 
doing  God's  will  without  reservations. 

Our  Lord  and  Savior  set  the  pattern 
of  loyalty  in  Gethsemane  when  in  his 
prayer  to  the  Father  he  said,  "Father, 
all  things  are  possible  unto  thee;  take 
away  this  cup  from  me:  nevertheless 
not  what  I  will,  but  what  thou  wilt." 
(Mark  14:36.) 

Judas  set  the  pattern  of  disloyalty  as 
he  betrayed  his  Master,  the  Christ.  He 
became  madly  remorseful,  but  under 
the  influence  of  Satan,  he  hanged  him- 
self, the  final  chapter  of  his  disloyalty. 

The  great  dedication  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  and  other  mighty  men 
of  modern  Israel  illustrates  the  mean- 
ing of  loyalty  to  God  and  to  church. 

And  the  Lord  has  told  us:  "Let  no 
man  be  afraid  to  lay  down  his  life  for 
my  sake;  for  whoso  layeth  down  his 
life  for  my  sake  shall  find  it  again. 

"And  whoso  is  not  willing  to  lay 
down  his  life  for  my  sake  is  not  my 
disciple."  (D&C  103:27-28.) 

An  interesting  experience  is  told  of 
Brother  J.  Golden  Kimball  in  speaking 
to  a  meeting  of  Saints  on  the  subject 
of  tithing.  He  said,  "All  of  you  who 
would  be  willing  to  die  for  the  gospel 
please  put  up  your  hands."  Nearly 
every  hand  in  the  congregation  was 
raised. 

Then  he  said,  "All  of  you  who  have 
been  paying  an  honest  tithing  please 
raise  your  hands."  It  seems  that  only 
a  few  hands  were  raised. 

Brother  Kimball  turned  to  the  bishop 
and  said,  "See,  they  would  rather  die 
than  pay  their  tithing." 

Tithing,  of  course,  is  only  one  of 
God's  commandments  that  tests  our 


First  Day 

loyalty.  Loyalty  is  truly  one  of  the 
great  eternal  principles  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ. 

Loyalty  to  country 

Now  with  respect  to  being  loyal  to 
our  country: 

It  is  traditional  that  those  elected  or 
appointed  to  important  governmental 
positions  take  an  oath  of  allegiance. 
Public  servants  must  be  loyal  to  the 
office  to  which  they  are  elected  or  ap- 
pointed. Disloyalty  results  in  distrust 
and  can  result  in  impeachment  or 
dismissal. 

We  know  that  the  Constitution  of 
our  country  is  a  divinely  established 
document,  and  in  the  words  of 
modern-day  scripture  we  recognize  that 
it  "should  be  maintained  for  the  rights 
and  protection  of  all  flesh,  according 
to  just  and  holy  principles."  (D&C 
101:77.) 

The  position  of  the  Church  in  this 
matter  is  clearly  stated  in  the  twelfth 
Article  of  Faith:  "We  believe  in  being 
subject  to  kings,  presidents,  rulers, 
and  magistrates,  in  obeying,  honoring, 
and  sustaining  the  law." 

Choice  for  loyalties 

Now  in  considering  things  as  they 
are,  in  considering  the  need  of  hon- 
esty and  consistency  in  living,  and  in 
considering  the  need  for  greater  free- 
doms, never  let  us  forget  that  we  must 
choose  where  we  place  our  loyalties. 

As  Joshua  of  old  declared,  ".  .  . 
choose  you  this  day  whom  ye  will 
serve;  .  .  .  but  as  for  me  and  my  house, 
we  will  serve  the  Lord."  (Josh.  24:15.) 

There  are  many  today  who  have 
chosen  to  serve  the  Lord  and  are  giv- 
ing much,  yes,  even  their  lives,  for 
true  freedom  principles  that  bring  us 
real  happiness,  growth,  and  develop- 
ment. On  the  other  hand,  there  are 
others  who  are  loyal  to  false  freedom 
principles  that  would,  if  they  prevailed, 
destroy  us  as  individuals  and  as  a 
country. 

Always  remember  that  what  we  do, 
far  more  than  what  we  say,  shows 
where  our  loyalties  are. 

True  freedom 

My  counsel  to  you  is  to  live  for 


ELDER  LOREN  C.  DUNN 


21 


true  freedom,  choose  the  right,  do 
what  you  ought  to  do,  and  make 
the  choice  that  Joshua  did — to  serve 
the  Lord. 

Never  give  your  loyalty  to  a  cause 
•that  will  bring  you  a  false  freedom  of 
delusion,  counterfeit  happiness,  failure, 
and  eventual  destruction.  Your  loyalties 
set  the  pattern  for  your  life  and 
eventually  become  a  way  of  life  for 
you. 

Be  loyal  to  yourself,  your  family, 
your  God  and  church,  your  country, 
friends,  and  employers.  This  will 
assure  you  true  freedom  and  inde- 
pendence and  result  in  peace,  great 
achievement,  happiness,  and  eventually 
eternal  life.  It  has  been  said  by  W.  H. 
Murray  that  until  one  is  committed, 
there  is  hesitancy,  the  chance  to  draw 
back,  always  ineffectiveness.  The  mo- 
ment one  definitely  commits  himself, 


then  Providence  moves  too.  I  know  this 
is  true. 

Let  us  all,  as  in  the  words  of  our 
glorious  hymn,  commit  ourselves  to  be 
"True  to  the  faith  that  our  parents 
have  cherished,  True  to  the  truth  for 
which  martyrs  have  perished,  To  God's 
command,  Soul,  heart,  and  hand, 
Faithful  and  true  we  will  ever  stand." 
(Hymns,  No.  157.) 

In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Elder  Loren  C.  Dunn  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  will  now  address 
us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Marion  D.  Hanks,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  who  will  be  our  concluding 
speaker. 

Elder  Dunn. 


ELDER  LOR 

Of  the  First  Cour 

By  invitation  I  recently  attended  a 
conference  on  drug  abuse  that  was 
called  by  a  group  of  concerned  citizens. 

Speaking  at  this  gathering  were  ex- 
perts in  this  field  from  throughout  the 
United  States.  Their  messages  were 
in  accordance  with  that  which  has 
been  echoed  by  almost  every  group  in- 
vestigating this  problem,  and  that  is: 
Drug  abuse  is  on  the  increase,  espe- 
cially among  our  youth. 

Availability  of  drugs 

Despite  the  valiant  efforts  of  law 
enforcement,  the  availability  of  drugs 
is  increasing.  In  fact,  according  to 
youthful  offenders,  drugs  are  readily 
available  through  what  they  term  as 
"the  underground"  in  most  of  our  high 
schools. 

It  is  evident  that  this  is  a  fast- 
growing  problem  within  the  United 
States  and  Canada,  and  it  is  also  hav- 
ing its  effect  on  many  countries 
throughout  the  world. 

There  is  a  great  need  for  us  as 
Church  members  to  support  efforts  in 
our  communities  to  strengthen  law  en- 


N  C.  DUNN 

:il  of  the  Seventy 

forcement  and  encourage  other  pro- 
grams designed  to  deal  with  the  drug 
abuse  problem. 

In  listening  to  a  group  of  youthful 
former  drug  users,  they  stated  that 
it  frightens  them  to  think  that  possibly 
as  many  as  50  per  cent  of  their  fellow 
high  school  students  might  at  least 
try  marijuana  at  some  time  with  a 
smaller  number  continuing  on  to  other 
drugs. 

These  are  students  who  evidently 
come  from  all  backgrounds  and  eco- 
nomic levels  of  life. 

Should  these  young  people  be  cor- 
rect in  their  estimates,  we  would  have 
to  face  the  realization  that  each  of  our 
children  sometime  is  going  to  be  faced 
with  the  temptation  of  drug  use. 

Reason  for  drug  use 

The  reason  most  youthful  offenders 
start  on  drugs  gives  us  some  idea  as 
to  what  we  might  do  to  prevent  this 
disastrous  situation.  When  one  group 
was  asked  why  they  started,  they  said 
without  exception,  "We  were  alienated 
from  our  parents." 


22  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  April  4 

Somehow,  in  the  home  the  love,  con- 
fidence, and  self-assurance  that  should 
have  been  conveyed  from  parents  to 
children  was  not  conveyed.  Parents 
failed  to  understand  the  children,  and 
the  children  failed  to  understand  the 
parents;  and  in  frustration  and  aliena- 
tion the  children  sought  escape  by 
turning  to  drugs. 

These  youthful  offenders  had  been 
given  material  gifts  by  their  parents, 
but  these  gifts  seemed  to  be  in  place 
of  love  instead  of  an  expression  of  love. 

If  there  are  love  and  unity  at  home, 
and  if  children  feel  comfort  there,  they 
will  know  what  to  do  when  this  prob- 
lem presents  itself.  But  if  there  are 
bitterness  and  disharmony  and  mis- 
trust, then  it  is  possible  that  they  will 
seek  escape  through  any  form  of  vice 
available. 

Importance  of  home  example 

President  McKay  has  the  following 
to  say  about  the  importance  of  exam- 
ple in  our  homes: 

"I  believe  that  parents  generally  are 
teaching  their  children  the  gospel,  yet 
I  am  convinced  that  there  is  still  much 
opportunity  for  improvement  in  this 
regard.  I  am  not  thinking  of  the  set 
hours  in  which  you  sit  down  to  teach 
these  doctrines  to  your  children,  but 
of  the  example  fathers  and  mothers 
give  to  their  children  regarding  the 
faith  that  is  dear  to  your  hearts.  Your 
example  will  teach  these  principles 
more  effectively  than  what  you  say. 
Out  of  our  homes  come  the  future 
leaders  of  the  government.  If  our  homes 
were  all  they  should  be,  the  nation 
would  be  safe."  (Gospel  Ideals,  p. 
482.) 

I  believe  that  the  example  of  which 
President  McKay  speaks  is  most  im- 
portant. 

Faith  in  Heavenly  Father 

It's  a  simple  step  for  a  young  person 
to  go  from  faith  and  love  and  confi- 
dence in  an  earthly  father  to  faith  and 
love  and  confidence  in  our  Heavenly 
Father,  and  what  better  heritage  can 
we  give  him  than  the  ability  to  com- 
municate with  God. 

From  Alma  we  read: 


First  Day 

"Counsel  with  the  Lord  in  all  thy 
doings,  and  he  will  direct  thee  for 
good;  yea,  when  thou  liest  down  at 
night  lie  down  unto  the  Lord,  that 
he  may  watch  over  you  in  your  sleep; 
and  when  thou  risest  in  the  morning 
let  thy  heart  be  full  of  thanks  unto 
God;  and  if  ye  do  these  things,  ye 
shall  be  lifted  up  at  the  last  day." 
(Al.  37:37.) 

Intelligent  obedience 

On  another  occasion  President  Mc- 
Kay said: 

"Children  deserve  to  be  taught  intel- 
ligent obedience.  Unhappiness  in  the 
child's  life,  as  in  the  adult  life,  springs 
largely  from  nonconformity  to  natural 
and  social  laws.  The  home  is  the  best 
place  in  which  to  develop  obedience, 
which  nature  and  society  will  later 
demand.  ...  I  do  not  mean  getting 
control  by  cruelty,  nor  by  foolish 
threats,  but  merely  by  letting  the  child 
know  that  he  is  part  of  a  community  in 
the  home;  and  that  the  other  children 
have  their  rights  and  each  child  must 
respect  those  rights. 

"There  is  the  beginning  of  democ- 
racy, and  it  is  in  the  home."  (Gospel 
Ideals,  p.  488.) 

And  again  the  Prophet  has  said: 

"Homes  are  made  permanent  through 
love.  Oh,  then,  let  love  abound.  If 
you  feel  that  you  have  not  the  love 
of  those  little  boys  and  girls,  study  to 
get  it.  Though  you  neglect  some  of  the 
cattle,  though  you  fail  to  produce  good 
crops,  ever  study  to  hold  your  children's 
love."  (Gospel  Ideals,  p.  484.) 

Responsibility  of  communication 

The  responsibility  of  communication 
is  not  alone  on  the  shoulders  of  par- 
ents. The  youth  also  have  a  responsi- 
bility to  contribute  love  and  strength 
to  the  family  organization. 

I  recall  a  stage  play  that  recently 
was  made  into  a  movie.  It  dealt  with 
parents  whose  only  child,  a  son,  re- 
turned from  military  service.  The 
father  and  son  had  never  been  close. 
It  was  a  situation  in  which  both 
father  and  son  loved  each  other  but 
were  unable  to  find  ways  to  express 
themselves,  and  therefore  hostilities 
arose  because  each  thought  the  other 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 


23 


did  not  like  him.  It  was  a  breakdown 
of  communication. 

But  now  the  son  was  home  from  the 
army,  and  things  were  different.  The 
father  and  son  began  to  establish  a 
whole  new  relationship.  The  high 
point  of  the  play  came  when  the  boy 
said  to  his  father  something  like  this: 

"Dad,  I  always  resented  you  when  I 
was  younger  because  you  never  told 
me  that  you  loved  me,  but  then  I 
realized  that  I  had  never  told  you  that 
I  loved  you  either.  Well,  Dad,  I'm  tell- 
ing you  now:  I  love  you." 

For  one  electrifying  moment  the 
father  and  son  embraced  each  other  as 
the  pent-up  love  and  appreciation  of 
years  came  flooding  out.  This  probably 
would  never  have  happened  had  the 


son  not  realized  that  he  was  as  guilty 
of  lack  of  expression  as  his  parents. 

Love  in  the  home 

So  young  people  can  make  a  differ- 
ence. They  can  contribute  to  the  love 
in  their  own  home  by  expressing  their 
love  for  parents  and  in  supporting  the 
family.  May  the  Lord  bless  us  to  know 
that  it  is  not  our  material  heritage  that 
can  meet  and  defeat  this  problem  of 
drug  abuse,  but  our  spiritual  heritage  as 
expressed  in  the  sanctity  of  the  home 
and  the  strength  of  the  family.  May  our 
homes  be  havens  of  spiritual  strength 
and  may  we  constantly  bear  witness  to 
our  children  in  word  and  deed  of  those 
truths  that  make  a  difference. 

In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


I  have  two  commitments  today  that 
I  should  like  to  fulfill.  One  I  under- 
took upon  reading  a  letter  yesterday 
from  one  of  our  choice  chaplains  serv- 
ing a  second  tour  of  duty  in  Vietnam, 
once  again  moving  among  those 
engaged  in  the  most  serious  of  the 
fighting.  His  letter  asks,  "Will  you  ask 
the  brethren  specifically  to  mention 
the  wives  and  the  children  of  the 
servicemen  over  here  from  time  to  time. 
They  have  it  harder  than  we  do." 

I  pledge,  and  ask  you  to  join  me, 
that  I  will  remember  and  seek  to  put 
actively  into  effect  my  interest  in  the 
wives  and  children  and  parents  of  those 
who  are  far  away,  giving  what  has  to 
be  given  to  preserve  the  high  ideals  of 
this  land,  and  thus  to  express  to  all 
mankind  their  own  concern  for  the 
well-being  of  those  who  are  not  able 
to  take  care  of  themselves. 

The  second  commitment  I  carry  out 
for  a  young  Scotsman  who  a  few  days 
ago  in  Britain  at  a  meeting  of  students 
expressed  his  love  for  President  McKay, 
and  then  said,  "President  McKay,  will 
you  nae  come  back  again?" 

If  the  Lord  will  bless  me  in  these 
few  moments  I  would  like  to  talk  about 
the  meaning  of  this  day  that  we  cele- 


brate with  all  Christians  everywhere, 
a  day  signal  and  significant,  a  day 
pivotal  in  the  whole  history  of  man- 
kind. 

Convictions  of  early  Christians 

Perhaps  I  can  do  that  best  by  read- 
ing a  few  words  that  came  to  my  mind 
as  I  stood  not  long  ago  in  the  cata- 
combs outside  Rome  on  the  Appian 
Way,  where  multitudes  of  Christians 
gave  their  lives  rather  than  relinquish 
their  convictions  or  their  faith.  This 
is  one  of  the  things  I  remembered  and 
was  pleased  to  look  up  and  read  again 
on  my  return.  It  is  a  letter  written  by 
Cyprian,  a  martyr  in  the  third  cen- 
tury, to  his  friend  Donatus.  He  wrote 
from  Carthage: 

"This  seems  a  cheerful  world,  Dona- 
tus, when  I  view  it  from  this  fair 
garden  under  the  shadow  of  these  vines. 
But  if  I  climbed  some  great  mountain 
and  looked  out  over  the  wide  lands, 
you  know  very  well  what  I  would  see — 
brigands  on  the  high  roads,  pirates  on 
the  seas,  in  the  amphitheaters  men 
murdered  to  please  applauding  crowds; 
under  all  roofs  misery  and  selfishness. 
It  is  really  a  bad  world,  yet  in  the 
midst  of  it  I  have  found  a  quiet  and 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


24 

Friday,  April  4 

holy  people.  They  have  discovered  a 
joy  which  is  a  thousand  times  better 
than  any  pleasure  of  this  sinful  life. 
They  are  despised  and  persecuted,  but 
they  care  not.  They  have  overcome  the 
world.  These  people,  Donatus,  are  the 
Christians  and  I  am  one  of  them." 

And  then  in  a  magazine  some  years 
ago  I  read  and  was  deeply  moved  by  an- 
other account.  It  had  come  freshly  to 
view  after  centuries  of  being  hidden. 

On  May  13,  303  a.d.,  in  the  Algerian 
city  of  Cirta  (now  Constantine),  one 
Munatus  Felix,  high  priest  of  the  em- 
peror, personally  led  a  raid  on  a 
Christian  worship  service.  He  took  with 
him  a  stenographer,  whose  report, 
taken  in  shorthand,  sounds  disconcert- 
ingly familiar  to  modern  ears. 

"Bring  out  whatever  scriptures  you 
have  got,"  commanded  Felix,  after  his 
men  had  collected  all  the  evidence 
they  could  find.  A  subdeacon  brought 
only  one  large  book,  explaining  that 
the  lectors  kept  the  rest.  Felix  said  to 
them:  "Identify  the  lectors."  They  said: 
"We  are  not  informers.  Here  we  stand. 
Command  us  to  be  executed."  Felix 
said,  "Put  them  under  arrest." 

And  the  editorialist  noted,  "No  one 
knows  how  many  thousands  were 
rounded  up  in  such  raids  and  executed. 
They  could  easily  have  saved  their  skins 
by  staying  home  and  saying  their 
prayers  in  comfortable  privacy.  But 
they  insisted  on  the  right  to  come  to- 
gether [in  the  name  of  Christ]." 

Reasons  for  total  commitment 

Easter  is  a  time  when  those  who  be- 
lieve in  and  accept  his  name  gratefully 
worship  the  risen  Redeemer.  Men  of 
goodwill  everywhere  join  in  the  solemn 
celebration.  What  was  so  important 
about  him?  Why  the  total  commitment 
of  Cyprian  and  the  saints  at  Cirta?  In 
these  few  brief  moments,  in  outline 
form,  let  me  offer  an  answer. 

His  was  a  redemptive  story. 

"For  God  so  loved  the  world,  that  he 
gave  his  only  begotten  Son,  that  who- 
soever believeth  in  him  should  not  per- 
ish, but  have  everlasting  life."  (John 
3:16.) 

He  was  a  God,  a  member  of  the 
godly  council,  the  Son  delegated  by  his 


first  Day 

Father  for  a  holy  mission.  He  was  a 
God  who  came  to  earth  and  walked 
among  men  and  suffered  more  than 
any  man  could  suffer,  because  this  was 
his  mission,  and  in  him  was  the  love 
which  made  it  possible  for  him  to  do 
what  he  had  to  do. 

He  was  a  creator,  indeed  the  creator 
of  this  world,  under  the  direction  of 
his  Father. 

"And  there  stood  one  among  them 
that  was  like  unto  God,  and  he  said 
unto  those  who  were  with  him:  We 
will  go  down,  for  there  is  space  there, 
and  we  will  take  of  these  materials, 
and  we  will  make  an  earth  whereon 
these  may  dwell."  (Abr.  3:24.) 

"For  by  him  were  all  things  created, 
that  are  in  heaven,  and  that  are  in 
earth."  (Col.  1:16.) 

"God  .  .  .  Hath  in  these  last  days 
spoken  unto  us  by  his  Son,  whom  he 
hath  appointed  heir  of  all  things,  by 
whom  also  he  made  the  worlds."  (Heb. 
1:1-2.) 

Firstborn  and  Only  Begotten 

He  was  the  Firstborn  in  the  spirit. 

"...  I  was  in  the  beginning  with  the 
Father,  and  am  the  Firstborn."  (D&C 
93:21.) 

His  mission  was  prophesied  long  be- 
fore he  was  born  into  the  world. 

".  .  .  Behold,  a  virgin  shall  conceive, 
and  bear  a  son,  and  shall  call  his  name 
Immanuel."  (Isa.  7:14.) 

He  was  the  Only  Begotten  in  the 
flesh,  on  this  earth  the  only  one  be- 
gotten of  a  divine  Father  and  an  earthly 
mother. 

"...  I  beheld  his  glory,  as  the  glory 
of  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father. . . ." 
(D&C  93:11.) 

He  was  alone  without  blemish,  and 
yet  he  learned. 

"Though  he  were  a  Son,  yet  learned 
he  obedience  by  the  things  which  he 
suffered."  (Heb.  5:8.) 

His  temptation 

He  was  tempted,  but  would  not 
yield.  It  isn't  so  hard  for  us  to  identify, 
is  it,  with  one  who  was  tempted,  even 
as  we  are  tempted? 

"For  in  that  he  himself  hath  suffered 
being  tempted,  he  is  able  to  succour 
them  that  are  tempted."  (Heb.  2:18.) 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 


25 


After  Christ  had  fasted  for  40  days 
and  nights,  he  was  invited  to  use  his 
marvelous  powers  to  serve  himself,  to 
satisfy  himself,  to  save  his  own  life,  to 
turn  stones  into  bread,  and  he  would 
not. 

The  tempter  said  to  him,  in  effect, 
"Win  the  plaudits  of  the  crowd;  it 
will  be  easy  for  you.  Please  them,  gain 
their  acceptance.  Cast  yourself  down. 
Then  they  will  listen  to  your  important 
message."  But  he  would  not. 

He  was  offered  power  and  glory  in 
exchange  for  his  soul,  and  he  would 
not. 

We  have  similar  temptations  in  our 
own  time,  and  so  we  can  identify. 

The  servant  of  all 

He  was  the  servant  of  all.  One  of  his 
last  earthly  acts  was  to  wash  the  feet 
of  his  disciples. 

He  suffered  both  body  and  spirit. 

"For  behold,  I,  God,  have  suffered 
these  things  for  all,  that  they  might 
not  suffer  if  they  would  repent."  (D&C 
19:16.)  _ 

He  died  willingly,  alone,  for  this 
was  how  it  must  be.  There  had  to  be 
a  propitiation,  by  one  of  his  unique 
qualifications,  for  the  sins  of  men — 
our  sins — payment  for  which,  through 
the  love  of  God  and  the  love  of  his 
Son,  was  made  on  Calvary's  hill. 

"Thinkest  thou  that  I  cannot  now 
pray  to  my  Father,  and  he  shall  pres- 
ently give  me  more  than  twelve  legions 
of  angels? 

"But  how  then  shall  the  scriptures 
be  fulfilled,  that  thus  it  must  be?" 
(Matt.  26:53-54.) 

"My  God,  my  God,  why  hast  thou 
forsaken  me?"  (Matt.  27:46.) 

Commitment  to  Christ 

I  bear  testimony  and  thank  God  for 
this  Good  Friday,  tragic  as  are  the 
events  which  it  commemorates,  and  for 
what  it  means  to  me  and  to  all  men, 
for  what  it  lays  before  men  of  a  future, 
for  this  day  had  to  happen  in  order 
that  Easter  and  its  glorious  events 
could  come  to  pass. 

The  pure  in  heart  shall  see  God. 
Those  who  become  the  manner  of  man 
he  was,  who  walk  in  the  Spirit,  will 
see  him,  and  will  be  his. 


I  pray  God  to  bless  us,  that  all  the 
good  and  wholesome  and  sweet  feel- 
ings of  the  Christian  world  at  this 
sacred  season  may  motivate  us  and  all 
who  worship  his  name  and  seek  to  do 
his  will  to  the  kind  of  commitment 
spoken  by  Cyprian,  to  the  kind  of 
courage  and  devotion  known  by  those 
who  died  in  the  catacombs  so  long 
ago — they  who  loved  him  well  and 
paid  whatever  price  was  necessary  to 
demonstrate  that. 

In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Will  you  kindly  heed  the  following 
announcement : 

The  semi-annual  conference  of  the 
Deseret  Sunday  School  Union  will  be 
held  this  evening  (Friday)  at  7:30  in 
this  Tabernacle.  This  is  a  change  from 
the  traditional  Sunday  evening  session 
which  will  not  be  held.  All  Sunday 
School  workers  will  wish  to  be  in  at- 
tendance. The  public  is  also  cordially 
invited. 

Sunday  School  superintendents  and 
Junior  Sunday  School  coordinators  will 
meet  in  the  Federal  Heights  Ward  at 
4:30  today.  Sunday  School  assistant 
superintendents  and  secretaries  will 
meet  in  the  17th  Ward  at  4:30  today. 

We  wish  again  to  express  our  appre- 
ciation to  this  wonderful  chorus  who 
have  added  so  much  to  the  spirit  of 
this  occasion.  We  congratulate  them 
and  their  conductor,  and  ask  God's 
blessings  upon  all  of  them.  They  will 
now  sing  for  us,  "Almighty  God  of 
Our  Fathers,"  conducted  by  Ladd  R. 
Cropper,  with  Alexander  Schreiner  at 
the  organ. 

Following  the  singing,  the  benedic- 
tion will  be  offered  by  Elder  James 
Saville  McCloy,  president  of  the  South 
Cottonwood  Stake,  after  which  this 
conference  will  be  adjourned  until  two 
o'clock  this  afternoon. 


The  Ogden  Institute  of  Religion 
Chorus  sang  "Almighty  God  of  Our 
Fathers,"  after  which  the  closing 
prayer  was  given  by  President  James 
Saville  McCloy  of  the  South  Cotton- 
wood Stake. 

The  conference  adjourned  until  2 
o'clock  p.m. 


26 

Friday,  April  4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


First  Day 


SECOND  SESSION 

The  second  session  of  the  conference 
convened  at  2  p.m.  Friday,  April  4, 
1969. 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith, 
counselor  in  the  First  Presidency,  con- 
ducted the  services. 

The  University  of  Utah  Institute  of 
Religion  Chorus,  Salt  Lake  City,  with 
Douglas  W.  Stott  conducting,  furnished 
the  choral  music  for  this  session.  Roy 
M.  Darley  was  at  the  organ  console. 

President  Smith  made  the  following 
introductory  remarks: 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Members  of  the  Church  are  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City  in  the  second 
general  session  of  the  139th  Annual 
Conference  of  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

President  McKay  is  at  home  but  lis- 
tening in  to  these  services. 

Through  the  generous  cooperation  of 
their  owners  and  managers  over  250 
television  and  radio  stations  will  carry 
to  practically  every  state  in  the  Union, 
including  Hawaii  and  Alaska,  and  to 
many  foreign  countries,  the  proceed- 
ings of  some  sessions  of  this  confer- 
ence. The  names  of  the  stations 
carrying  the  proceedings  were  an- 
nounced to  the  television  and  radio 
audiences  just  prior  to  the  opening  of 
this  session.  Again  we  express  our 
appreciation  and  thanks  to  those 
owners  and  managers  for  their  courtesy 
in  broadcasting  the  program  of  the 
conference. 

Sessions  of  the  conference  are  being 
televised  in  color  and  will  be  received 


by  many  in  color  in  the  United  States 
and  Canada  over  most  of  these  tele- 
vision stations  cooperating  to  provide 
the  extensive  coverage  of  the  confer- 
ence. 

We  extend  a  most  cordial  welcome 
to  our  television  and  radio  audience 
and  also  to  all  who  are  gathered  in 
this  historic  Tabernacle. 

We  are  favored  this  afternoon  by 
the  presence  of  students  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  Utah  Institute  of  Religion,  Salt 
Lake  City,  with  Douglas  W.  Stott  con- 
ducting and  Roy  M.  Darley  at  the 
organ. 

We  shall  now  begin  these  services 
by  the  chorus  singing  "How  Lovely 
Are  The  Messengers,"  after  which  the 
invocation  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
Glen  Obid  Hamblin,  president  of  the 
Young  Stake  of  Zion. 


The  University  of  Utah  Institute  of 
Religion  chorus  sang  the  number, 
"How  Lovely  Are  the  Messengers." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
President  Glen  O.  Hamblin  of  the 
Young  Stake. 


President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

The  University  of  Utah  Institute 
Chorus  will  now  favor  us  with  "I  Know 
That  My  Redeemer  Lives,"  and  Elder 
Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  first  speaker 
this  afternoon. 


The  Institute  Chorus  sang  the  hymn, 
'I  Know  That  My  Redeemer  Lives." 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


27 


ELDER  SPENCE 

Of  the  Council 

My  beloved  brothers  and  sisters  and 
friends,  I  hope  that  all  of  you  were  as 
uplifted  as  I  was  this  morning  by  the 
inspired  messages  of  our  Prophet  and 
the  other  brethren. 

This  is  Easter  time,  when  the  minds 
of  many  people  are  centered  upon  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  may  we  speak 
again  of  his  glorious  resurrection.  I  join 
my  testimony  with  that  of  these  fine 
singers  in  the  theme  "I  know  that  my 
Redeemer  lives." 

The  paths  that  Jesus  walked 

One  Christmas  time  some  years  ago, 
we  walked  the  paths  that  Jesus  walked. 
We  spent  some  precious  hours  in  what 
is  said  to  be  the  Garden  of  Gethsemane 
and  tried  to  imagine  the  sufferings 
through  which  he  moved  in  anticipa- 
tion of  his  crucifixion  and  resurrection. 
We  were  near  the  places  where  he 
prayed,  where  he  was  taken  prisoner, 
where  he  was  tried  and  condemned. 

Outside  the  city  walls,  we  climbed 
the  caliche  hill,  pockmarked  with  little 
caves,  making  the  rounded  end  look 
like  a  skull,  and  we  were  told  that  this 
was  Golgotha,  the  place  where  he  was 
crucified.  We  zigzagged  down  the  back- 
side of  the  hill  around  to  the  sheer 
cliff-side  of  it  and  entered  the  small 
window-size  aperture  into  a  rough- 
hewn  cave  in  which  it  is  said  the  body 
had  lain. 

Some  hours  we  spent  in  the  little 
garden  outside  this  tomb  and  absorbed 
flie  gospel  story  of  his  burial  and  of 
his  resurrection,  which  here  had  taken 
place.  We  read  thoughtfully  and 
prayerfully  of  the  coming  of  the  women 
to  the  sepulchre,  the  angel  of  the  Lord 
rolling  away  the  stone,  and  the  dis- 
comfiture of  the  recreant  keepers. 

"He  ...  is  risen" 

We  could  almost  imagine  we  saw 
the  two  angels  in  shining  garments 
who  spoke  to  Mary,  saying,  "Why  seek 
ye  the  living  among  the  dead? 

"He  is  not  here,  but  is  risen.  .  .  ." 

The  Lord  had  predicted:  ".  .  .  The 


R  W.  KIMBALL 

of  the  Twelve 

Son  of  Man  must  be  delivered  into  the 
hands  of  sinful  men,  and  be  crucified, 
and  the  third  day  rise  again."  (Luke 
24:5-7.) 

We  remembered  the  dialogue  be- 
tween Mary,  the  angels,  and  the  Lord: 

".  .  .  Woman,  why  weepest  thou? 
She  saith  unto  them,  Because  they  have 
taken  away  my  Lord,  and  I  know  not 
where  they  have  laid  him." 

She  turned  and  "saw  Jesus  stand- 
ing, and  knew  not  that  it  was  Jesus. 

"Jesus  saith  unto  her,  Woman, 
why  weepest  thou?  whom  seekest  thou? 
She,  supposing  him  to  be  the  gardener, 
saith  unto  him,  Sir,  if  thou  have  borne 
him  hence,  tell  me  where  thou  hast 
laid  him,  and  I  will  take  him  away. 

"Jesus  saith  unto  her,  Mary.  She 
turned  herself,  and  saith  unto  him, 
Rabboni;  which  is  to  say,  Master. 

"Jesus  saith  unto  her,  Touch  me  not; 
for  I  am  not  yet  ascended  to  my  Father: 
but  go  to  my  brethren,  and  say  unto 
them,  I  ascend  unto  my  Father,  and 
your  Father;  and  to  my  God,  and  your 
God."  (John  20:13-17.) 

The  Mount  of  Olives 

We  then  walked  laboriously  up  the 
rather  steep  Mount  of  Olives,  possibly 
the  approximate  path  he  walked,  a 
prelude  to  his  ascension  after  having 
spent  40  days  after  resurrection  on  the 
earth  and  having,  by  many  infallible 
proofs,  brought  sureness  to  the  hun- 
dreds of  people  who  had  come  now 
to  realize  his  resurrection  was  real. 

And  now  he  was  on  the  top  of  the 
Mount  of  Olives  and  was  saying  to 
these  greatly  concerned  and  loved  men, 
".  .  .  ye  shall  be  witnesses  unto  me 
both  in  Jerusalem,  and  in  all  Judaea, 
and  in  Samaria,  and  unto  the  uttermost 
part  of  the  earth."  (Acts  1:8.) 

As  we  sat  at  the  trunk  of  an  ancient 
olive  tree  there  and  read  these  scrip- 
tures, we  could  easily  imagine  the  Lord 
standing  near  this  spot  in  the  group  of 
worried,  loving,  wondering  men;  and 
then  the  fog  rolled  in,  the  cloud  settled 
down  over  the  top  of  the  hill,  and  he 
was  gone.  Then  we  could  almost  hear 


28  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  April  4 

the  angels  in  white  apparel  saying: 

".  .  .  Ye  men  of  Galilee,  why  stand 
ye  gazing  up  into  heaven?  this  same 
Jesus,  which  is  taken  up  from  you  into 
heaven,  shall  so  come  in  like  manner 
as  ye  have  seen  him  go  into  heaven." 
(Acts  1:11.) 

And  now  we  consulted  Paul's  writ- 
ings to  the  Ephesians: 

"Wherefore  he  saith,  When  he 
ascended  up  on  high,  he  led  captivity 
captive. ... 

"He  that  descended  is  the  same  also 
that  ascended  up  far  above  all  heavens, 
that  he  might  fill  all  things."  (Eph. 
4:8,  10.) 

Significance  of  Easter 

Sometimes  our  celebrations  of  notable 
occurrences  seem  to  take  on  earthly 
color,  and  we  do  not  fully  realize  the 
significance  of  the  reason  for  the  cele- 
bration. This  is  true  of  Easter, 
when  too  often  we  celebrate  the  holi- 
day rather  than  the  deep  significance 
of  the  resurrection  of  the  Lord.  They 
must  be  unhappy  indeed  who  ignore 
the  godship  of  Christ,  the  sonship  of 
the  Master.  We  feel  sorry  indeed  for 
those  who  call  the  supreme  miracle  of 
the  resurrection  "but  a  subjective  ex- 
perience of  the  disciples  rather  than  an 
actual  historical  event." 

We  know  truly  that  all  this  is  real. 
Christ  spoke  of  himself  to  Nicodemus: 

".  .  .  We  speak  that  we  do  know, 
and  testify  that  we  have  seen;  and  ye 
receive  not  our  witness."  (John  3:11.) 

And  then  we  remember  that  Peter 
testified: 

"Therefore  let  all  the  house  of  Israel 
know  assuredly,  that  God  hath  made 
that  same  Jesus,  whom  ye  have  cruci- 
fied, both  Lord  and  Christ."  (Acts 
2:36.) 

"But  ye  denied  the  Holy  One  and 
the  Just.  .  .  . 

"And  killed  the  Prince  of  life,  whom 
God  hath  raised  from  the  dead;  where- 
of we  are  witnesses."  (Acts  3:14-15.) 

Boldly,  Peter  and  John  stood  before 
the  council  and  said  again: 

"Be  it  known  unto  you  all,  and  to  all 
the  people  of  Israel,  that  by  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Nazareth,  whom  ye 
crucified,  whom  God  raised  from  the 
dead,  even  by  him  doth  this  man  [the 


First  Day 

former  lame  man]  stand  here  before 
you  whole. .  .  . 

"Neither  is  there  salvation  in  any 
other:  for  there  is  none  other  name 
under  heaven  given  among  men, 
whereby  we  must  be  saved."  (Acts 
4:10,  12.) 

When  the  council  chastised  the  two 
apostles  and  commanded  them  not  to 
speak  or  teach  such  things  in  the  name 
of  Jesus,  they  answered  and  said: 
"Whether  it  be  right  in  the  sight  of 
God  to  hearken  unto  you  more  than 
unto  God,  judge  ye. 

"For  we  cannot  but  speak  the  things 
which  we  have  seen  and  heard."  (Acts 
4:19-20.) 

"And  with  great  power  gave  the 
apostles  witness  of  the  resurrection  of 
the  Lord  Jesus:  and  great  grace  was 
upon  them  all."  (Acts  4:33.) 

Witness  of  Peter 

We  also  know  the  resurrection  is 
real.  The  living  Peter  said  to  the 
council  of  persecutors: 

"The  God  of  our  fathers  raised  up 
Jesus,  whom  ye  slew  and  hanged  on  the 

trGG.  •  •  • 

"And  we  are  his  witnesses  of  these 
things;  and  so  is  also  the  Holy  Ghost, 
whom  God  hath  given  to  them  that 
obey  him."  (Acts  5:30,  32.) 

We  stand  in  awe  before  the  great 
Peter,  who  had  so  completely  received 
his  total  assurances  and  who  had  so 
graciously  donned  the  robe  of  leader- 
ship and  the  mantle  of  authority  and 
the  courage  of  the  inspired  and  assured. 
What  strength  he  had  come  to  have  as 
he  led  the  saints  and  faced  the  world 
with  all  its  persecutors,  unbelievers, 
and  difficulties.  And,  as  he  rehearsed 
over  and  over  his  absolute  knowledge, 
we  glory  in  his  stamina  as  he  faced 
mobs  and  prelates,  officials  who  could 
take  his  life,  and  as  he  boldly  pro- 
claimed the  resurrected  Lord,  the 
Prince  of  Peace,  the  Holy  One  and  the 
Just,  the  Prince  of  Life,  the  Prince  and 
Savior.  Peter  certainly  now  was  sure, 
impregnable,  never  to  falter.  We  should 
gain  much  sureness  by  his  certainty. 

It  is  significant  to  read  the  words 
and  the  testimony  of  Stephen,  a  holy 
martyr,  who  gave  his  life  for  his  faith. 

Stephen  "looked  up  steadfastly  into 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


29 


heaven,  and  saw  the  glory  of  God,  and 
Jesus  standing  on  the  right  hand  of 
God, 

"And  said,  Behold,  I  see  the  heav- 
ens opened,  and  the  Son  of  man 
standing  on  the  right  hand  of  God." 
(Acts  7:55-56.) 

Stephen  was  a  martyr  and  will  in- 
herit eternal  life.  His  testimony  reveals 
that  Christ  was  not  dead,  but  was  still 
living,  and  was  in  an  exalted,  glorified 
condition  with  his  Father. 

Paul's  testimony 

The  testimony  of  Paul  seems  most 
conclusive.  He  heard  the  voice  of  the 
risen  Christ: 

"Saul,  Saul,  why  persecutest  thou 
me?"  And  to  be  sure  of  identity, 
Saul  said,  "Who  art  thou,  Lord?"  and 
received  the  assurance,  "I  am  Jesus 
whom  thou  persecutest:  it  is  hard  for 
thee  to  kick  against  the  pricks."  (Acts 
9:4-5.) 

And  now  that  same  Paul,  who  had 
recovered  his  strength,  who  had  been 
administered  to  by  the  priesthood,  who 
had  received  his  lost  eyesight,  went 
about  in  the  synagogues  confounding 
the  Jews  in  Damascus,  proving  "that 
this  is  very  Christ."  (Acts  9:22.) 

And  later,  Paul  came  to  the  apostles 
in  Jerusalem,  and  Barnabas,  speaking 
for  Paul,  "declared  unto  them  how  he 
had  seen  the  Lord  in  the  way,  and  that 
he  had  spoken  to  him,  and  how  he  had 
preached  boldly  at  Damascus  in  the 
name  of  Jesus."  (Acts  9:27.) 

Then  Paul  continues: 

"And  when  they  had  fulfilled  all 
that  was  written  of  him,  they  took 
him  down  from  the  tree,  and  laid  him 
in  a  sepulchre. 

"But  God  raised  him  from  the  dead: 

"And  he  was  seen  many  days  of  them 
which  came  up  with  him  from  Galilee 
to  Jerusalem,  who  are  his  witnesses 
unto  the  people.  .  .  . 

"God  hath  fulfilled  the  same  unto 
us  their  children,  in  that  he  hath 
raised  up  Jesus  again.  .  .  . 

"And  as  concerning  that  he  raised 
him  up  from  the  dead,  now  no  more  to 
return  to  corruption.  .  .  ."  (Acts  13:29- 
31,  33-34.) 


Testimony  on  Mars  Hill 

Paul's  testimony  on  Mars  hill  in 
Athens  was  a  significant  one.  The 
Greeks  accepted  any  and  all  gods  that 
were  proposed.  They  had  inscribed 
one  altar  "To  the  Unknown  God," 
and  Paul  used  this  text  to  tell  them 
that  with  all  their  gods  of  wood 
and  stone  they  did  not  know  the  real 
"God  that  made  the  world  and  all 
things  therein,  seeing  that  he  is  Lord 
of  heaven  and  earth,  dwelleth  not  in 
temples  made  with  hands; 

".  .  .  seeing  he  giveth  to  all  life, 
and  breath,  and  all  things; 

".  .  .  and  hath  determined  the  times 
before  appointed,  and  the  bounds  of 
their  habitation.  .  .  . 

".  .  .  he  hath  given  assurance  unto 
all  men,  in  that  he  hath  raised  him 
from  the  dead."  (Acts  17:24-26,  31.) 

Paul  told  again  of  his  own  conver- 
sion and  bore  his  testimony  and  said 
he  heard  the  voice  of  Christ  saying, 
"I  am  Jesus  of  Nazareth,"  and  he 
was  promised  by  Ananias:  "For  thou 
shalt  be  his  witness  unto  all  men  of 
what  thou  hast  seen  and  heard."  (Acts 
22:8,  15.) 

And  then  came  his  pertinent  ques- 
tion to  King  Agrippa:  "Why  should 
it  be  thought  a  thing  incredible  with 
you,  that  God  should  raise  the  dead?" 
(Acts  26:8.) 

And  again  Paul  bore  witness: 

"Am  I  not  an  apostle?  am  I  not 
free?  have  I  not  seen  Jesus  Christ  our 
Lord?  are  not  ye  my  work  in  the  Lord? 

".  .  .  for  the  seal  of  mine  apostle- 
ship  are  ye  in  the  Lord."  (1  Cor.  9:1-2.) 

The  risen  Lord  "was  seen  of  above 
five  hundred  brethren  at  once.  . .  . 

"After  that,  he  was  seen  of  James; 
then  of  all  the  apostles. 

"And  last  of  all  he  was  seen  of  me 
also,  as  of  one  born  out  of  due  time." 
(1  Cor.  15:6-8.) 

Then  Paul  launches  into  the  beauti- 
ful treatise  on  the  resurrection  of  the 
dead,  as  he  spoke  to  the  Corinthians. 

I  have  a  great  admiration  and  affec- 
tion for  our  brother  Paul,  our  fellow 
apostle.  He  was  so  dedicated,  so  hum- 
ble, so  straightforward.  He  was  so 
eager,  so  interested,  so  consecrated.  He 
must  have  been  personable  in  spite  of 


30  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  April  4 

his  problems,  for  the  people  hung  onto 
him  with  great  affection  when  he  was 
about  to  leave  them. 

I  love  Paul,  for  he  spoke  the  truth. 
He  leveled  with  people.  He  was  inter- 
ested in  them.  I  love  Paul  for  his 
steadfastness,  even  unto  death  and 
martyrdom.  I  am  always  fascinated 
with  his  recounting  of  the  perils 
through  which  he  passed  to  teach  the 
gospel  to  member  and  nonmember. 

Testimony  of  Eyewitnesses 

Perhaps  one  of  the  last  of  Peter's 
testimonies  was  borne  to  all  the  people, 
both  those  who  had  been  converted  to 
the  gospel  and  those  who  would  in  the 
future  be  influenced  by  his  statement, 
throughout  all  time  a  memorial  to  be 
remembered. 

As  this  great  prophet  faced  his  death 
and  knew  that  it  would  not  be  long 
until  he  would  discard  this  body  taber- 
nacle and  pass  into  the  other  world, 
he  determined  to  write  his  testimony 
message  so  that  coming  generations 
might  all  have  his  witness.  It  has 
been  read  and  heard  by  countless  mil- 
lions.  He  said: 

"For  we  have  not  followed  cunningly 
devised  fables,  when  we  made  known 
unto  you  the  power  and  coming  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  but  were  eyewit- 
nesses of  his  majesty. 

"For  he  received  from  God  the  Father 
honour  and  glory,  when  there  came 
such  a  voice  to  him  from  the  excel- 
lent glory,  This  is  my  beloved  Son,  in 
whom  I  am  well  pleased. 

"And  this  voice  which  came  from 
heaven  we  heard,  when  we  were  with 
him  in  the  holy  mount."  (2  Pet. 
1:16-18.) 

Witness  of  Joseph  Smith 

We  are  lifted  by  the  witness  of  the 
modern  prophet,  Joseph  Smith,  when 
he  reassures  the  people  of  the  resur- 
rection. Elder  George  A.  Smith  quotes 
the  last  public  address  of  Joseph  Smith 
in  June  1844,  only  days  before  his 
cruel  assassination: 

"...  I  am  ready  to  be  offered  a  sac- 
rifice for  this  people;  for  what  can 
our  enemies  do?  Only  kill  the  body 
and  their  power  is  then  at  an  end. 
Stand  firm  my  friends.  Never  flinch. 


First  Day 

Do  not  seek  to  save  your  lives,  for  he 
that  is  afraid  to  die  for  the  truth  will 
lose  eternal  life.  Hold  out  to  the  end; 
and  we  shall  be  resurrected  and  become 
like  Gods,  and  reign  in  celestial  king- 
doms, principalities  and  eternal  do- 
minions. .  .  ." 

Sureness  of  resurrection 

The  sureness  of  the  divine  resur- 
rection is  believed  by  numerous  people 
in  the  Christian  world.  Victor  Hugo 
wrote: 

"I  feel  in  myself  the  future  life.  The 
nearer  I  approach  the  end,  the  plainer 
I  hear  around  me  the  immortal  sym- 
phonies of  the  worlds  which  invite  me. 
When  I  go  down  to  the  grave  I  can  say 
like  many  others:  'I  have  finished  my 
day's  work.'  But  I  cannot  say,  'I  have 
finished  my  life.'  My  day's  work  will 
begin  in  the  next  morning.  The  tomb 
is  not  a  blind  alley,  it  is  a  thorough- 
fare. It  closes  on  the  twilight.  It 
opens  on  the  dawn." 

And  some  unknown  writer  has  ex- 
pressed in  verse  this  natural  feeling  of 
and  unexplainable  longing  for  immor- 
tality. 

"Else  when  this  pleasing  hope,  this 
fond  desire, 

This  longing  for  immortality, 

Or  whence  this  secret  dread,  and  in- 
ward horror 

Of  falling  into  naught?  Why  shrinks 
the  soul 

Back  on  herself,  and  startles  at  de- 
struction? 

'Tis  the  divinity  that  stirs  within  us; 
'Tis  heaven  itself,  that  points  out  an 

hereafter 
And  intimates  eternity  to  man." 

Question  and  answer  of  Job 

The  question  asked  by  Job  has  been 
asked  by  millions  who  have  stood  at 
the  open  bier  of  a  loved  one:  "If  a 
man  die,  shall  he  live  again?"  (Job 
14:14.) 

And  the  question  has  been  answered 
acceptably  to  numerous  of  them  as  a 
great,  sweet  peace  settles  down  upon 
them  like  the  dews  of  heaven.  And 
innumerable  times  hearts  that  were 
weary  in  agonizing  suffering  have  felt 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


31 


the  kiss  of  that  peace  which  knows  not 
understanding. 

And  when  a  deep  tranquility  of  soul 
has  brought  a  new  warm  assurance  to 
minds  that  were  troubled  and  hearts 
that  were  torn,  those  numerous  could 
repeat  with  beloved  Job: 

"For  I  know  that  my  redeemer  liveth, 
and  that  he  shall  stand  at  the  latter  day 
upon  the  earth: 

"And  though  after  my  skin  worms 
destroy  this  body,  yet  in  my  flesh  shall 
I  see  God: 

"Whom  I  shall  see  for  myself,  and 
mine  eyes  shall  behold.  .  .  ."  (Job 
19:25-27.) 

Job  had  expressed  the  wish  that  his 
testimony  could  be  printed  in  books 
and  cut  into  stone  for  the  generations 
following  him  to  read.  His  wish  was 
granted,  for  peace  has  come  into  many 
souls  as  they  have  read  his  strong 
testimony. 

Vision  of  John 

And  in  conclusion,  let  me  read  the 
vision  of  John  the  Revelator: 

"And  I  saw  the  dead,  small  and 
great,  stand  before  God;  and  the  books 


were  opened:  and  another  book  was 
opened,  which  is  the  book  of  life:  and 
the  dead  were  judged  out  of  those  things 
which  were  written  in  the  books,  ac- 
cording to  their  works. 

"And  the  sea  gave  up  the  dead  which 
were  in  it;  and  death  and  hell  de- 
livered up  the  dead  which  were  in 
them:  and  they  were  judged  every  man 
according  to  their  works."  (Rev.  20:12- 
13.) 

And  as  the  living,  verdant  spring 
follows  the  dismal,  death-like  winter, 
all  nature  proclaims  the  divinity  of 
the  risen  Lord,  that  he  was  Creator, 
that  he  is  the  Savior  of  the  world,  that 
he  is  the  very  Son  of  God. 

And  this  I  testify,  also,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Spen- 
cer W.  Kimball  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve. 

Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  will  now  address  us.  He  will 
be  followed  by  Elder  Victor  L.  Brown, 
second  counselor  in  the  Presiding 
Bishopric. 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


Someone  has  said,  "The  character 
of  Jesus  is  a  picture  that  stands  by 
itself."  There  is  no  one  with  whom 
he  can  be  compared.  He  said  and  did 
the  right  thing  at  the  right  time  and 
in  the  right  way.  He  made  no  mis- 
takes in  his  teachings.  He  was  great 
in  action  and  in  moral  excellence.  His 
Sermon  on  the  Mount  will  live  for- 
ever, for  it  is  founded  on  truth.  His 
message  to  the  world  is  the  gospel  of 
salvation. 

Leadership  of  Jesus  Christ 

His  life  had  been  an  open  book,  his 
public  ministry  was  to  the  rich  and 
the  poor,  his  miracles  were  performed 
before  eyewitnesses,  and  his  testimony 
had  been  heard  throughout  Galilee  and 
Judea.    He  was  the  Messiah  about 


whom  the  prophets  had  spoken,  but 
he  was  rejected  by  his  own.  He  is  still 
rejected,  even  by  many  of  those  who 
claim  to  be  his  followers. 

The  true  Christian  Church  accepts 
without  reservation  the  leadership  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Many  things  have  been 
said  and  written  about  him.  His 
memory  is  everywhere,  and  his  words 
are  quoted  by  believers  and  unbelievers. 
He  cannot  and  will  not  be  expelled 
from  the  earth.  He  made  this  clear 
during  his  ministry  among  the  Jews 
in  the  meridian  of  time. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  believe  in  the 
divine  mission  of  the  Savior.  The  very 
first  principle  of  the  restored  gospel  is 
faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  It  is 
the  foundation  of  true  worship.  With- 
out him  there  could  be  no  gospel  of 


32  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  April  4 

salvation.  He  is  its  author.  His  gospel 
is  the  same  yesterday,  today,  and  for- 
ever. It  originated  in  the  heavens  and 
was  restored  to  the  earth  in  these 
modern  times  through  Joseph  Smith, 
the  Prophet. 

A  plan  of  life 

At  this  Easter  time  we  remind  our- 
selves of  his  resurrection;  that  he  sub- 
mitted a  plan  of  life,  and  chose  12 
apostles  and  authorized  them  to  preach 
his  gospel  of  salvation  and  to  establish 
his  Church  upon  the  earth.  He  de- 
livered the  greatest  sermon  ever 
preached,  broad  and  comprehensive 
enough  to  reach  the  heart  of  humanity. 
It  applies  to  all  classes,  for  "God  is  no 
respecter  of  persons."  (Acts  10:34.)  No 
one  will  escape  his  loving  watchcare. 
His  commandments  are  guideposts. 
They  are  solemn  reminders  of  our  rela- 
tionships to  our  Heavenly  Father.  We 
are  his  children,  his  offspring,  and  are 
accountable  to  him.  He  said  to  Abra- 
ham: "And  we  will  prove  them  here- 
with, to  see  if  they  will  do  all  things 
whatsoever  the  Lord  their  God  shall 
command  them."  (Abr.  3:25.) 

Individual  salvation 

We  believe  in  individual  salvation. 
In  other  words,  man  must  strive  for  a 
place  in  the  hereafter  if  he  wishes  to 
obtain  the  salvation  promised  to  the 
faithful.  It  will  not  come  without 
effort,  without  prayerful  searching  and 
diligent  application  of  those  principles 
and  procedures  outlined  in  the  holy 
scriptures. 

The  other  day  I  talked  with  a  man 
who  was  not  of  us.  He  was  glib  and 
talkative  in  his  ridicule  of  the  Word 
of  Wisdom.  "A  curtailment,"  he  said, 
"of  our  personal  liberties."  He  justi- 
fied, for  instance,  the  use  of  tobacco. 
"Do  you  know  what  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom says  about  tobacco?"  I  asked.  He 
was  not  sure.  I  quoted  from  the  eighth 
verse  of  Section  89  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  in  which  it  states  that  "to- 
bacco ...  is  not  good  for  man." 

This  is  but  one  of  the  truths  taught 
by  the  Church.  We  teach  a  gospel  of 
truth.  Its  very  foundation  is  truth.  It 
is  not  only  necessary  to  know  the  truth. 


First  Day 

It  must  also  be  accepted  and  introduced 
into  the  lives  of  those  who  aspire  to 
eternal  life.  To  deny  the  truth,  there- 
fore, is  to  deny  God's  power  in  the 
universe. 

We  often  sing  the  well-known  hymn 
authored  by  John  Jaques,  "OI  Say, 
What  Is  Truth?" 

"Then  say,  what  is  truth?  'Tis  the  last 

and  the  first, 
For  the  limits  of  time  it  steps  o'er. 
Though  the  heavens  depart  and  the 

earth's  fountains  burst, 
Truth,   the   sum  of  existence,  will 

weather  the  worst, 
Eternal,  unchanged,  evermore." 

(Hymns,  No.  143.) 

A  gospel  of  truth 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  restored 
to  earth  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  is  a  gospel  of  truth.  It  has 
survived  much  opposition  and  criticism, 
but  no  compromises  have  been  neces- 
sary. It  stands  like  a  bulwark  against 
error  and  falsehood.  Jesus  knew  this 
when  he  told  Peter  that  the  "gates  of 
hell  shall  not  prevail  against  it."  (Matt. 
16:18.)  Also,  he  said:  "Heaven  and 
earth  shall  pass  away:  but  my  words 
shall  not  pass  away."  (Mark  13:31.) 

The  millennial  reign  will  be  ushered 
in  when  God's  program  has  reached  a 
certain  point,  known  to  him  alone. 
There  is  much  to  do,  brothers  and 
sisters.  The  warnings  to  the  nations 
must  continue  to  go  forth,  for  even- 
tually every  knee  shall  bow  and  every 
tongue  confess  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ. 
God's  work  will  not  fail.  Truth  will 
triumph  even  against  tremendous  odds. 

Missionary  enterprise 

Christ's  teachings  are  sound  and 
soul  inspiring;  they  were  confined  to 
no  worldly  ambitions.  His  program 
makes  for  peace  and  good  will,  and  he 
advocated  a  faith  that  creates  courage 
and  strength.  His  missionary  enter- 
prise was  the  greatest  project  ever 
launched.  I  quote:  "All  power  is  given 
unto  me  in  heaven  and  in  earth. 

"Go  ye  therefore,  and  teach  all  na- 
tions, baptizing  them  in  the  name  of 
the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the 
Holy  Ghost: 


BISHOP  VICTOR  L.  BROWN 


33 


"Teaching  them  to  observe  all  things 
whatsoever  I  have  commanded  you: 
and,  lo,  I  am  with  you  alway,  even  unto 
the  end  of  the  world."  (Matt.  28:18- 
20.) 

Or,  as  Mark  puts  it:  "Go  ye  into  all 
the  world,  and  preach  the  gospel  to 
every  creature."  (Mark  16:15.) 

Gospel  can  redeem  mankind 

Nothing  short  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  can  redeem  mankind.  The  Lord 
Jesus  set  before  us  the  only  pattern  of 
life  which  will  save  and  exalt  his 
children.  His  words  are  always  timely 
and  authoritative.  The  truths  he 
taught  and  all  he  did  constitute  the 
gospel  in  its  fullness. 

The  atonement  wrought  out  by  the 
Lord  on  Calvary  is  the  greatest  contri- 
bution ever  made  to  the  human  race. 
It  opened  the  door  to  life  everlasting.  It 


gave  men  and  women  the  chance  to 
possess  their  bodies  forever.  John,  in  his 
testimony  to  the  world,  made  it  clear 
when  he  said:  ".  .  .  all  that  are  in  their 
graves  shall  hear  his  voice, 

"And  shall  come  forth;  they  that 
have  done  good,  unto  the  resurrection 
of  life;  and  they  that  have  done  evil, 
unto  the  resurrection  of  damnation." 
(John  5:28-29.) 

May  we  walk  in  the  light  with  him 
I  pray  humbly  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

We  have  just  heard  from  Elder  Alma 
Sonne,  Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve. 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder 
Victor  L.  Brown,  second  counselor  in 
the  Presiding  Bishopric. 


BISHOP  VICTOR  L.  BROWN 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


A  letter  came  to  my  desk  yesterday 
addressed  to  me  from  some  wonder- 
ful teenagers.  I  would  like  to  read  just 
one  line  from  that  letter:  "We  wish 
you  the  best  of  luck  with  your  talk  in 
conference,  and  hope  that  you  will 
relate  your  address  to  us  as  young 
people  in  some  way." 

I  pray  that  my  message  may  be  re- 
lated to  the  young  people  as  well  as 
the  older  people. 

Widow's  tithing 

The  other  day  I  received  a  telephone 
call  from  one  of  our  bishops.  He  said 
his  clerk  had  opened  a  donation  enve- 
lope containing  a  check  of  many  hun- 
dreds of  dollars.  It  was  from  a  young 
mother  who  had  recently  been  widowed 
through  an  automobile  accident.  This 
was  the  second  time  she  had  been 
widowed,  even  though  she  was  still  a 
young  woman.  She  had  been  injured 
in  the  accident  that  took  her  husband's 
life,  and  had  not  yet  completely  recov- 
ered her  health.  She  had  a  family  of 
young  children.  The  check  represented 
a  tithe  on  the  insurance  settlement  she 


had  received  from  her  husband's  death. 
The  clerk  questioned  the  bishop,  sug- 
gesting she  needed  the  money  more 
than  the  Church,  and  asked  if  it  would 
be  proper  to  return  the  check  to  permit 
her  to  use  the  money  for  her  own  needs. 

Perhaps  many  would  ask  the  same 
question.  May  I  suggest  an  answer  by 
asking  another  question:  What  did 
this  young  mother  need  more  than 
money?  She  needed  a  blessing,  the 
kind  money  cannot  buy,  a  blessing  of 
peace  and  comfort,  of  assurance,  of 
faith,  of  security.  She  obviously  was 
acquainted  with  this  scripture: 

"Bring  ye  all  the  tithes  into  the 
storehouse,  that  there  may  be  meat  in 
mine  house,  and  prove  me  now  here- 
with, saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  if  I  will 
not  open  you  the  windows  of  heaven, 
and  pour  you  out  a  blessing,  that  there 
shall  not  be  room  enough  to  receive 
it."  (Mai.  3:10.) 

Yes,  she  was  more  than  acquainted 
with  this  promise.  She  was  converted. 
She  accepted  the  Lord  at  his  word. 
Another  scripture,  I  believe,  had  great 
meaning  to  her: 


34  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  April  4 

"There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed 
in  heaven  before  the  foundations  of 
this  world,  upon  which  all  blessings 
are  predicated — 

"And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing 
from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that 
law  upon  which  it  is  predicated." 
(D&C  130:20-21.) 

Principle  of  tithing 

Tithing  is  not  a  new  principle.  We 
are  told  that  tithing  was  practiced  as 
early  as  Abraham's  time.  The  prophet 
Alma,  in  his  discourses  to  his  people, 
told  them: 

"And  it  was  this  same  Melchizedek 
to  whom  Abraham  paid  tithes;  yea, 
even  our  father  Abraham  paid  tithes 
of  one-tenth  part  of  all  he  possessed." 
(Al.  13:15.) 

We  read  in  another  sacred  scripture 
what  the  Lord  said  to  a  modern-day 
prophet: 

"Verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord,  I  re- 
quire all  their  surplus  property  to  be 
put  into  the  hands  of  the  bishop  of  my 
church  in  Zion, 

"For  the  building  of  mine  house,  and 
for  the  laying  of  the  foundation  of  Zion 
and  for  the  priesthood,  and  for  the 
debts  of  the  Presidency  of  my  Church. 

"And  this  shall  be  the  beginning  of 
the  tithing  of  my  people."  (D&C 
119:1-3.) 

This,  then,  was  the  beginning  of 
tithing  in  our  day.  It  is  not  expected 
that  we  now  give  all  of  our  surplus. 
The  Lord  goes  on  to  tell  us  what  is 
expected  of  us  now: 

"And  after  that,  those  who  have 
thus  been  tithed  shall  pay  one-tenth 
of  all  their  interest  annually;  and  this 
shall  be  a  standing  law  unto  them 
forever,  for  my  holy  priesthood,  saith 
the  Lord."  (D&C  119:4.) 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith's 
explanation 

Many  ask  what  is  one  tenth  of  all 
our  interest.  Perhaps  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith  can  help  us  understand.  He 
said,  among  other  things,  as  he  de- 
livered his  concluding  address  in  the 
closing  session  of  general  conference 
April  9,  1899,  in  speaking  of  Abraham's 
willingness  to  sacrifice  his  son  Isaac 
on  the  altar: 


First  Day 

"He  [meaning  the  LordJ  wanted  to 
put  His  servant  to  the  test;  to  know 
whether  he  was  willing  to  sacrifice 
himself  or  not  in  obedience  to  the 
requirements  of  heaven.  That  is  what 
God  wants  in  relation  to  this  principle 
of  tithing.  He  wants  to  know  whether 
we  will  do  our  duty  or  not,  and 
whether  we  will  be  honest  or  dishonest 
with  Him.  Every  man  is  left  to  be  his 
own  judge  as  to  what  he  calls  his 
tithing,  and  there  is  a  great  variety  of 
opinion  as  to  what  a  tithing  is.  A 
man  who  works  for  wages  and  devotes 
his  whole  time  to  the  service  of  his 
employer;  and  receives  $1,000  or  $2,000 
a  year  for  his  salary,  it  is  an  easy  mat- 
ter for  him  to  tell  how  much  he  owes 
for  tithing.  If  I  earned  $2,000  a  year, 
I  should  know  that  my  tithing  was  just 
one-tenth  of  that.  And  I  would  not 
take  out  what  it  had  cost  me  to  feed 
and  clothe  myself  and  to  pay  all  the 
expenses  necessary  to  the  maintenance 
of  my  family  before  I  reckoned  with 
the  Lord  as  to  what  belonged  to  Him. 
Two  hundred  dollars  would  be  my 
honest  tithing,  would  it  not?  That  is 
the  way  I  look  at  it." 

He  then  goes  on  to  discuss  how  a 
farmer  might  compute  his  tithing  and 
how  some  people  subtract  their  living 
expenses,  tithing  only  their  net  in- 
come. Then,  continuing  in  the  words 
of  President  Smith: 

"Now,  you  are  at  liberty  to  do  as  you 
please  in  regard  to  this  matter.  You 
can  choose  whichever  course  you  wish. 
But  let  me  say  to  you  that  as  we 
measure  out,  so  will  it  be  measured 
back  unto  us  again.  When  we  go  to 
dickering  with  the  Lord,  probably  He 
will  dicker  with  us,  and  if  He  under- 
takes to  do  so,  we  shall  get  the  worst 
of  it."  (Conference  Report,  April  1899, 
pp.  68-69.) 

As  President  Smith  tells  us,  the 
burden  of  responsibility  as  to  whether 
or  not  we  are  full,  honest  tithepayers 
rests  squarely  on  our  shoulders.  If  it 
were  not  so,  how  could  the  Lord  really 
know  of  our  true  character  and  love 
for  him? 

Testimonies  on  tithepaying 

Sometime  ago  a  stake  president  bore 
his  testimony  to  me  regarding  tithing. 


BISHOP  VICTOR  L.  BROWN 


35 


He  said  that  during  World  War  II  he 
had  been  a  prisoner  of  war  in  China. 
He  held  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  at  that 
time.  He  promised  the  Lord  he  would 
pay  his  obligations  to  him  for  the 
rest  of  his  life  if  only  his  life  were 
spared.  Upon  release  from  the  prison 
camp,  he  collected  his  accumulated 
military  pay,  reported  to  his  bishop, 
and  paid  tithing  on  all  prior  earnings. 
He  then  said,  "I  have  paid  ten  percent 
on  everything  I  have  earned  since,  and 
I  pay  ten  percent  of  that  for  fear  I 
might  have  missed  something." 

A  few  years  ago  I  was  a  counselor 
in  a  stake  presidency.  The  stake  presi- 
dent, in  reviewing  the  tithing  record 
of  ward  and  branch  officers,  noticed 
what  appeared  to  be  an  excessively 
high  tithe  paid  by  a  man  of  very  hum- 
ble circumstances.  He  was  a  wonder- 
ful Spanish-American  brother  who  had 
a  large  family.  He  was  sustaining  a 
son  on  a  mission.  His  only  source  of 
income  was  a  small  ditch-digging  busi- 
ness. Thinking  that  he  might  not 
understand  the  principle  of  tithing,  we 
called  him  in  to  explain.  At  the  con- 
clusion of  our  discussion,  he  said:  "Yes, 
brethren,  I  understand;  but,  you  see, 
the  Lord  has  been  so  good  to  me  and 
my  family  that  I  pay  ten  percent  of 
the  income  of  my  business,  not  the 
money  I  take  from  it.  You  wouldn't 
deny  me  the  blessing  of  trying  to  re- 
pay the  Lord,  would  you?" 

Lesson  on  tithing 

President  George  Albert  Smith 
teaches  a  very  interesting  and  basic 
lesson  on  tithing  in  the  story  of  a 
generous  man.  He  tells  us  that  a 
boyhood  friend  whom  he  had  not  seen 
for  some  time  accompanied  him  to  a 
stake  conference.  Over  the  years  his 
friend  had  achieved  success  in  the 
financial  world.  As  they  were  driving 
home,  he  turned  to  President  Smith 
and  said: 

"'You  know,  I  have  heard  many 
things  in  this  conference,  but  there  is 
only  one  thing  that  I  do  not  understand 
the  way  you  do.' 

"I  said:  'What  is  it?' 

"  'Well,'  he  said,  'it  is  about  paying 
tithing.' 

"He  thought  I  would  ask  him  how 


he  paid  his  tithing,  but  I  did  not.  I 
thought  if  he  wanted  to  tell  me,  he 
would.  He  said:  'Would  you  like  me 
to  tell  you  how  I  pay  my  tihing?' 

"I  said,  'If  you  want  to,  you  may.' 

'"Well,'  he  said,  'if  I  make  ten 
thousand  dollars  in  a  year,  I  put  a 
thousand  dollars  in  the  bank  for  tith- 
ing. I  know  why  it's  there.  Then  when 
the  bishop  comes  and  wants  me  to 
make  a  contribution  for  the  chapel  or 
give  him  a  check  for  a  missionary  who 
is  going  away,  if  I  think  he  needs  the 
money,  I  give  him  a  check.  If  a  fam- 
ily in  the  ward  is  in  distress  and  needs 
coal  or  food  or  clothing  or  anything 
else,  I  write  out  a  check.  If  I  find  a 
boy  or  a  girl  who  is  having  difficulty 
getting  through  school  in  the  East, 
I  send  a  check.  Little  by  little  I  exhaust 
the  thousand  dollars,  and  every  dollar 
of  it  has  gone  where  I  know  it  has 
done  some  good.  Now,  what  do  you 
think  of  that?' 

"  "Well,'  I  said,  'do  you  want  me  to 
tell  you  what  I  think  of  it?' 

"He  said,  'Yes.' 

"I  said:  'I  think  you  are  a  very  gener- 
ous man  with  someone  else's  property.' 
And  he  nearly  tipped  the  car  over. 

"He  said,  'What  do  you  mean?' 

"I  said,  Tou  have  an  idea  that 
you  have  paid  your  tithing?' 

"'Yes,'  he  said. 

"I  said,  'You  have  not  paid  any 
tithing.  You  have  told  me  what  you 
have  done  with  the  Lord's  money,  but 
you  have  not  told  me  that  you  have 
given  anyone  a  penny  of  your  own. 
He  is  the  best  partner  you  have  in  the 
world.  He  gives  you  everything  you 
have,  even  the  air  you  breathe.  He  has 
said  you  should  take  one-tenth  of  what 
comes  to  you  and  give  it  to  the  Church 
as  directed  by  the  Lord.  You  haven't 
done  that;  you  have  taken  your  best 
partner's  money,  and  given  it  away.' 

"Well,  I  will  tell  you  there  was 
quiet  in  the  car  for  some  time.  We 
rode  on  to  Salt  Lake  City  and  talked 
about  other  things. 

"About  a  month  after  that  I  met  him 
on  the  street.  He  came  up,  put  his 
arm  in  mine,  and  said:  'Brother  Smith, 
I  am  paying  my  tithing  the  same  way 
you  do.'  I  was  very  happy  to  hear  that. 

"Not  long  before  he  died,  he  came 


36 

Friday,  April  4 

into  my  office  to  tell  me  what  he  was 
doing  with  his  own  money."  (George 
Albert  Smith,  Sharing  the  Gospel  with 
Others,  pp.  44-47.) 

The  earth  is  the  Lord's 

The  psalmist  has  said: 

"The  earth  is  the  Lord's,  and  the 
fulness  thereof;  the  world,  and  they 
that  dwell  therein."  (Ps.  24:1.) 

All  he  asks  is  that  we  return  to  him 
ten  percent  of  that  which  is  already 
his,  adding  that  he  will  open  the  win- 
dows of  heaven  and  pour  out  blessings, 
that  we  shall  not  have  room  enough  to 
receive  them.  It  is  my  witness,  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  that  this  is  a  divine  law 
and  that  many  blessings  from  on  high 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

come  through  obedience  to  it,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

The  brother  to  whom  we  have  just 
listened  is  Brother  Victor  L.  Brown  of 
the  Presiding  Bishopric. 

The  congregation  and  chorus  will 
now  join  in  singing  "High  on  the 
Mountain  Top,"  after  which  Elder 
Henry  D.  Taylor,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  will  be  our  speaker. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn, 
"High  on  the  Mountain  Top." 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  TAYLOR 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


From  its  beginning,  the  Church  has 
constantly  stressed  the  importance  of 
the  home.  Homes  can  be  heaven  here 
on  earth.  Where  love  is  present  in  a 
home,  it  can  and  will  be  a  happy  home. 

The  principle  of  love 

When  the  Savior  was  here  filling  his 
earthly  mission,  he  gave  strong  empha- 
sis to  the  principle  of  love.  At  one  time 
a  learned  man,  a  lawyer,  approached 
him  and  asked:  "Master,  which  is  the 
great  commandment  in  the  law? 

"Jesus  said  to  him,  Thou  shalt  love 
the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart, 
and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy 
mind. 

"This  is  the  first  and  great  com- 
mandment. 

"And  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou 
shalt  love  thy  neighbour  as  thyself." 

Then,  to  give  added  strength  to  his 
words,  he  added:  "On  these  two  com- 
mandments hang  all  the  law  and  the 
prophets."  (Matt.  22:36-40.) 

On  another  occasion  the  Lord  taught 
that  in  addition  to  loving  God  our 
Father  in  heaven  and  our  neighbor,  we 
should  also  love  even  our  enemies. 
With  our  human  frailties  and  preju- 


dices, that  becomes  a  real  challenge. 
Here  is  the  counsel  of  the  Lord:  "Love 
your  enemies,  bless  them  that  curse 
you,  do  good  to  them  that  hate  you, 
and  pray  for  them  which  despitefully 
use  you,  and  persecute  you."  (Matt. 
5:44.) 

An  American  statesman  once  made 
this  remark:  "Destroy  your  enemies  by 
making  friends  of  them." 

Then  another  has  said:  "You  should 
be  kind  to  your  enemies,  because  you 
are  the  one  who  made  them." 

The  Lord  has  given  strong  counsel 
to  husbands  concerning  their  wives. 
Here  is  his  command:  "Thou  shalt  love 
thy  wife  with  all  thy  heart,  and  shalt 
cleave  unto  her  and  none  else."  (D&C 
42:22.) 

Charity  and  love 

Consider  now  another  phase  of  this 
great  virtue — love — and  its  relation- 
ship to  charity. 

Charity  and  love,  in  some  respects, 
seem  to  be  synonymous.  The  ancient 
prophet  Moroni  made  this  point  clear 
when  he  quoted  his  father,  Mormon: 
".  .  .  if  ye  have  not  charity,  ye  are 
nothing.  .  .  .  But  charity  is  the  pure 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  TAYLOR 


37 


love  of  Christ,  and  it  endureth  forever; 
and  whoso  is  found  possessed  of  it  at 
the  last  day,  it  shall  be  well  with  him." 
(Moro.  7:46-47.) 

Charity  can  and  should  mean  not 
only  the  pure  love  of  Christ,  but  it 
should  also  mean  pure  love  for  him 
and  his  love  for  us. 

The  Savior  has  demonstrated  that 
his  words  concerning  love  are  not 
empty,  for  he  has  shown  his  love  for 
us  in  his  willingness  to  lay  down  his 
life,  thus  making  it  possible  for  us  to 
receive  salvation  through  his  atoning 
sacrifice  and  to  achieve  exaltation  and 
eternal  life  through  our  obedience  to 
his  commandments.  His  atonement 
gave  meaning  to  his  teaching  that 
"greater  love  hath  no  man  than  this, 
that  a  man  lay  down  his  life  for  his 
friends."  (John  15:13.)  No  man  could 
willingly  give  his  life  for  a  friend 
without  sincerely  loving  him. 

The  Lord's  unselfish  act  added  great 
weight  to  his  further  words:  "A  new 
commandment  I  give  unto  you,  That 
ye  love  one  another;  as  I  have  loved 
you,  that  ye  also  love  one  another." 
(John  13:34.) 

Missionary  experience 

A  lonely  young  Persian  student  was 
in  Munich,  Germany,  struggling  to 
find  a  meaning  to  life.  He  was  deeply 
disturbed  by  the  materialism  and 
selfishness  that  seemed  to  fill  the 
world,  and  especially  postwar  Europe. 
He  heard  a  knock  at  the  door,  and  two 
humble  Mormon  elders  stood  before 
him.  He  was  not  the  least  interested 
in  religion.  In  fact,  cynicism  and  doubt 
had  filled  his  soul  until  he  was  very 
nearly  persuaded  that  there  was  no  God 
nor  any  real  meaning  to  life.  The 
only  thing  that  interested  him  about 
these  two  young  men  was  their  English 
accent.  He  had  mastered  four  lan- 
guages, but  English  was  not  one  of 
them. 

He  invited  them  in,  but  as  they 
started  their  discussion,  he  cautioned: 
"I  don't  want  to  hear  about  your  God, 
nor  do  I  want  to  hear  about  how  your 
religion  got  started.  I  only  want  to 
know  one  thing:  what  do  you  people 
do  for  one  another?"  He  waited,  and  a 


look  of  doubt  crossed  his  dark  features, 
as  the  elders  exchanged  glances. 

Finally,  the  spokesman  for  the  two 
said  softly,  "We  love  one  another." 

Nothing  he  could  have  said  would 
have  been  more  electrifying  than  this 
simple  utterance  had  upon  this  young 
Persian,  for  the  Holy  Ghost  imme- 
diately bore  testimony  to  his  soul  that 
these  missionaries  were  true  servants 
of  the  Lord.  Shortly  thereafter  he  was 
baptized,  and  he  presently  is  in  this 
country  receiving  his  doctorate  degree 
at  a  local  university — all  because  a 
young  Mormon  missionary  declared  a 
simple  truth,  "We  love  one  another." 

Ways  to  demonstrate  love 

Virtually  all  religions  tell  us  to  love 
one  another,  but  the  restored  Church 
tells  us  how  to  love  one  another.  The 
home  teaching  visits,  the  inspired  Wel- 
fare Program,  the  unselfish  service 
performed  in  the  temples,  and  the 
worldwide  missionary  system  demon- 
strate in  a  very  practical  way  the 
teaching  of  the  Savior:  "Thou  shalt 
love  thy  neighbour  as  thyself."  (Matt. 
22:39.) 

At  this  Easter  time  we  are  mindful 
of  the  Redeemer's  sacrifice  and  ac- 
knowledge with  heartfelt  gratitude  and 
appreciation  our  debt  to  him. 

In  granting  approval  for  the  Savior's 
atonement,  our  Father  in  heaven  has 
manifested  his  love  for  us,  his  children. 
A  prophet  has  made  this  plain  in  this 
statement:  "For  God  so  loved  the 
world,  that  he  gave  his  only  begotten 
Son,  that  whosoever  believeth  in  him 
should  not  perish,  but  have  everlast- 
ing life."  (John  3:16.) 

How  do  we  show  our  love  for  our 
Heavenly  Father,  and  our  love  and  ap- 
preciation for  the  Savior?  The  Lord 
has  given  us  the  key.  Listen  to  his 
admonition:  "If  thou  lovest  me  thou 
shalt  serve  me  and  keep  all  my  com- 
mandments." (D&C  42:29.) 

Love  an  eternal  principle 

Love  is  an  eternal  principle,  an 
everlasting  virtue.  It  operated  before 
this  earth  life  and  will  continue  to  do 
so  throughout  the  eternities.  President 


38  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  April  4 

McKay  has  made  it  clear  in  this  mag- 
nificent declaration:  "Love  is  the  most 
divine  attribute  of  the  human  soul, 
and  if  you  accept  the  immortality  of 
the  soul,  that  is,  if  you  believe  that 
personality  persists  after  death,  then 
you  must  believe  that  love  also  lives." 
(Man  May  Know  for  Himself,  p.  221.) 

However,  love  is  a  virtue  that  can 
be  lost.  It  may  wither  up  and  die  as  a 
result  of  neglect,  carelessness,  and  in- 
difference. So  President  McKay  has 
beautifully  cautioned  with  the  follow- 
ing words:  "Love  must  be  fed  .  .  . 
love  must  be  nourished;  love  can  be 
starved  to  death  just  as  literally  as 
the  body  can  be  starved  without  daily 
sustenance."  (Ibid.,  p.  221.) 

Solution  for  major  ills 

Many  of  the  major  ills  and  dis- 
turbances that  plague  mankind  in  this 
unsettled  world  today  and  are  caus- 
ing unhappiness  and  sorrow  would 
disappear  if  the  principle  of  love  were 
manifested  and  practiced. 

If  we  would  love  the  Lord  our  God, 
and  show  that  love  by  keeping  his 
commandments,  we  would  be  law- 
abiding  citizens,  and  there  would  be 
no  need  for  law  officers  nor  for 
prisons. 

If  we  would  but  love  one  another 
and  our  neighbors  as  ourselves,  there 
would  be  no  need  for  conventions  and 
gatherings  to  be  held  behind  barbed 
wire  fences  and  protected  by  guards 
with  rifles  and  bayonets. 

If  we  truly  loved  those  who  perse- 
cute us,  they  would  no  longer  be 
enemies,  but  friends,  and  there  would 
be  no  wars  or  bloodshed. 

If  men  sincerely  loved  their  wives, 
wives  loved  their  husbands,  parents 
loved  and  understood  their  children, 
and  children  loved  and  respected  their 
parents,  there  would  be  no  infidelity 
and  unfaithfulness,  no  quarreling  or 
bickering  found  among  mankind;  di- 
vorce, juvenile  delinquency,  broken 
homes,  and  frustration  of  youth  would 


First  Day 

be  eliminated;  and  other  social,  moral, 
and  economic  ills  would  cease.  Peace 
would  abide  in  the  world. 

General  Eisenhower  was  a  person 
who  not  only  expressed  his  love,  but 
also  demonstrated  it  in  behalf  of  others. 
Among  his  last  words  were  these:  "I 
have  always  loved  my  wife,  I  have  al- 
ways loved  my  children,  I  have  always 
loved  my  grandchildren,  and  I  have 
always  loved  my  country." 

Power  to  change  world 

Some  years  ago  President  McKay 
told  the  brethren  assembled  in  this 
building  that  if  the  9,000  or  so  priest- 
hood bearers  present  would  go  forth 
from  here  and  fully  live  the  teachings 
of  the  Master,  they  would  have  the 
power  to  change  the  world.  This  I 
believe.  And  I  also  believe  that  if 
those  of  us  who  are  here  and  those  of 
you  of  the  vast  television  and  radio 
audience  would  live  fully  the  princi- 
ple of  love — and  there's  no  greater 
principle — we  would  have  the  power 
to  change  our  lives,  our  homes,  our 
neighborhoods,  then  this  nation,  and 
eventually  the  world,  for  in  the  words 
of  that  stirring  contemporary  song,  "Let 
there  be  peace  on  earth,  and  let  it 
begin  with  me."  We  do  have  the 
power  to  change  our  lives  and  sur- 
roundings by  first  realizing  our  own 
worth  and  loving  and  valuing  our- 
selves, and  then  by  loving  those  with 
whom  we  live  and  labor. 

May  we  have  the  desire  and  courage 
to  so  act,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder 
Henry  D.  Taylor,  one  of  the  Assistants 
to  the  Twelve. 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder 
EIRay  L.  Christiansen,  who  also  is  an 
Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  and  he  will  be 
followed  by  Elder  James  A.  Cullimore, 
another  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 


39 


ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  should  like 
to  say  something  that  might  be  helpful 
to  those  among  us  who  are  weighed 
down  with  trials  and  difficulties  and 
disappointments  and  tribulations,  and 
to  them  I  say,  "Doubt  not,  fear  not." 

The  gospel  plan 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  embraces 
every  principle,  every  law,  and  every 
ordinance  necessary  for  us  to  meet  any 
condition  in  life  and  for  the  ultimate 
success  of  each  of  us. 

The  teachings  of  Jesus  warm  the 
human  heart.  His  doctrines  enlighten 
the  mind.  They  designate  the  proper 
course. 

Foremost  among  his  teachings  is  the 
recognition  of  God  as  our  Father.  Jesus 
prayed  to  our  Father  and  asked  that 
all  men  do  likewise,  and  that  we  live 
"by  every  word  that  proceedeth  out  of 
the  mouth  of  God."  (Matt  4:4.)  He 
taught  that  by  conformance  to  the  plan 
of  our  Father,  given  through  Jesus 
Christ,  each  of  us  can  achieve  a  divine 
destiny. 

It  is  the  only  plan  by  which  genuine 
peace  of  mind  can  be  found.  Indeed,  it 
is  the  only  plan  that  leads  men  to 
salvation  and  exaltation.  This  plan 
was  presented  to  us  in  our  preexistent 
state,  and  each  of  us  gladly  accepted 
it.  As  part  of  it,  we  understood  that 
in  mortality  we  would  most  likely 
experience  sorrow  as  well  as  joy,  pain 
as  well  as  comfort,  disappointment 
along  with  success,  sickness  as  well  as 
health.  Because  it  is  necessary  for  our 
development,  the  Lord  permits  the 
bitter  to  be  mixed  with  the  sweet.  He 
knows  that  our  individual  faith  must 
be  tested  in  adversity  as  well  as  in 
serenity.  Otherwise,  that  faith  may  not 
be  sufficiently  developed  when  a  con- 
dition arises  that  can  be  met  through 
faith  alone. 

Encouragement  in  adversity 

The  Bible  says:  "If  thou  faint  in  the 
day  of  adversity,  thy  strength  is  small." 
(Prov.  24:10.)  Even  in  times  of  trouble 


and  tribulation,  the  gospel  of  Christ 
offers  encouragement  and  gives  assur- 
ance. 

I  am  always  lifted  in  spirit  and  given 
greater  hope  by  the  words  of  the  great 
hymn: 

"How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of 
the  Lord, 

Is  laid  for  your  faith  in  his  excellent 
wordl 

What  more  can  he  say  than  to  you  he 
hath  said, 

You  who  unto  Jesus,  for  refuge  have 
fled? 

"When  through  the  deep  waters  I  call 

thee  to  go, 
The  river  of  sorrow  shall  not  thee  o'er- 

flow, 

For  I  will  be  with  thee,  thy  troubles 
to  bless, 

And  sanctify  to  thee  thy  deepest  dis- 
tress. 

"Fear  not,  I  am  with  thee,  O  be  not 
dismayed, 

For  I  am  thy  God  and  will  still  give 
thee  aid; 

I'll  strengthen  thee,  help  thee,  and 

cause  thee  to  stand, 
Upheld  by  my  righteous,  omnipotent 

hand." 

(Hymns,  No.  66.) 

Brothers  and  sisters,  you  and  I  are 
never  alone.  The  Lord  will  not  for- 
sake us.  Let  us  not  forsake  himl 

We  are  God's  children,  and  he,  our 
Father,  has  a  personal  concern  for  each 
of  us.  He  has  promised  that  they  who 
are  faithful  in  tribulation  and  adver- 
sities shall  be  more  greatly  blessed. 
(See  D&C  58:24.) 

Teachings  from  Liberty  Jail 

Let  us  consider  for  a  moment  the 
plight  of  Joseph  and  Hyrum  Smith, 
who,  with  their  companions,  were  in- 
carcerated in  Liberty  Jail  through  the 
winter  of  1838  and  1839.  They  were 
confined  in  one  room  with  two  small 
windows.  No  provision  had  been  made 


40  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  April  4 

to  heat  the  room;  there  was  no  chim- 
ney to  draw  out  the  smoke.  The  breth- 
ren slept  on  piles  of  straw  on  the  floor. 
Their  food  was  of  the  coarsest  kind. 
And  yet,  from  that  prison  came  some 
of  the  most  beautiful  and  sublime 
thoughts  and  writings  ever  given  to  the 
world.  They  will  endure  among  sa- 
cred literature  of  the  Church  for  all 
time.  Here  are  some  of  the  words  of 
the  Lord  to  Joseph  Smith  at  that  time 
as  they  are  recorded  in  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  Section  122: 

"If  thou  art  called  to  pass  through 
tribulation;  if  thou  art  in  perils  among 
false  brethren;  .  .  . 

"If  thou  art  accused  with  all  manner 
of  false  accusations;  if  thine  enemies 
fall  upon  thee;  .  .  . 

".  .  .  know  thou,  my  son,  that  all 
these  things  shall  give  thee  experience, 
and  shall  be  for  thy  good. 

"The  Son  of  Man  hath  descended 
below  them  all.  Art  thou  greater  than 
he? 

"Therefore,  hold  on  thy  way,  and 
the  priesthood  shall  remain  with  thee; 
for  their  bounds  are  set,  they  cannot 
pass.  Thy  days  are  known,  and  thy 
years  shall  not  be  numbered  less; 
therefore,  fear  not  what  man  can  do, 
for  God  shall  be  with  you  forever  and 
ever."  (D&C  122:5-9.) 

My,  what  a  lesson!  What  assurance! 

Strength  comes  by  courageously  ad- 
justing our  lives  to  our  trials,  and  by 
so  doing  we  are  brought  closer  to  God. 

Elder  James  E.  Talmage  gave  this 
promise:  "No  pang  that  is  suffered  by 
man  or  woman  upon  the  earth,  will 
be  without  its  compensating  effect  .  .  . 
if  it  be  met  with  patience." 

Trials  can  bring  blessings 

We  cannot  afford  to  meet  adversities 
with  impatience  or  bitterness.  President 
Brigham  Young  taught  that  "if  the 
Saints  could  realize  things  as  they  are 
when  they  are  called  to  pass  through 
trials,  and  to  suffer  what  they  call 
sacrifices,  they  would  acknowledge 
them  to  be  the  greatest  blessings  that 
could  be  bestowed  upon  them.  .  .  . 

".  .  .  without  the  opposite  and  they 
could  not  know  enjoyment;  they  could 
not  realize  happiness.  ...  If  they 
should  not  taste  the  bitter,  how  could 


First  Day 

they  realize  the  sweet?  They  could 
not!"  (Journal  of  Discourses,  Vol.  2, 
pp.  301-2.) 

If  our  existence  terminated  with 
death,  adversities  might  tend  to  over- 
whelm us.  But  with  the  gospel  as  a 
foundation  and  with  faith  in  a  just 
God  who  watches  over  all,  each  one 
may  receive  the  comfort  and  acquire 
the  fortitude  to  meet  the  vicissitudes  of 
life. 

Doubt  not  fear  not 

To  you  who  are  discouraged,  to 
you  who  are  sorrowing,  to  you  who 
doubt,  to  you  who  need  help,  may  I 
say:  Doubt  not — fear  not! 

The  Lord  gives  to  you  and  to  me  as- 
surance in  these  words: 

"Draw  near  unto  me  and  I  will  draw 
near  unto  you;  seek  me  diligently  and 
ye  shall  find  me;  ask,  and  ye  shall  re- 
ceive; knock,  and  it  shall  be  opened 
unto  you. 

"Whatsoever  ye  ask  the  Father  in 
my  name  it  shall  be  given  unto  you, 
that  is  expedient  for  you."  (D&C 
88:63-64.  Italics  added.) 

But  the  gospel  teaches  also  that  each 
of  us  has  obligations.  Hear  also  the 
words  of  the  apostle  Paul  to  the  saints 
in  Rome: 

"Let  love  be  without  dissimulation 
[pretense].  Abhor  that  which  is  evil; 
cleave  to  that  which  is  good. 

"Be  kindly  affectioned  one  to  an- 
other with  brotherly  love;  in  honour 
preferring  one  another;  .  .  . 

"Rejoicing  in  hope;  patient  in  tribu- 
lation, continuing  instant  in  prayer; . .  . 

"Bless  them  which  persecute  you: . . . 

"Rejoice  with  them  that  do  rejoice, 
and  weep  with  them  that  weep."  (Rom. 
12:9-15.) 

Build  upon  the  rock 

Yes,  indeed,  the  teachings  of  the 
gospel  enlighten  the  mind  and  warm 
the  heart.  They  give  encouragement 
to  the  sorrowing  and  replace  fear  with 
courage.  With  Helaman,  I  say: 

"And  now,  my  sons,  remember,  re- 
member that  it  is  upon  the  rock  of  our 
Redeemer,  who  is  Christ,  the  Son  of 
God,  that  ye  must  build  your  founda- 
tion; that  when  the  devil  shall  send 
forth  his  mighty  winds,  yea,  his  shafts 


ELDER  JAMES  A.  CULLIMORE  41 

in  the  whirlwind,  yea,  and  when  all  the  rock  upon  which  ye  are  built,  which 

his  hail  and  his  mighty  storm  shall  is  a  sure  foundation,  a  foundation 

beat  upon  you,  it  shall  have  no  power  whereon  if  men  build  they  cannot 

over  you  to  drag  you  down  to  the  gulf  fall."  (He.  5:12.) 

of  misery  and  endless  wo,  because  of  In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JAMES 

Assistant  to  the  ( 

One  of  our  hymns  we  sing  most  fre- 
quently and  with  great  fervor  is: 

"We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet 
To  guide  us  in  these  latter  days. 
We  thank  thee  for  sending  the  gospel 
To  lighten  our  minds  with  its  rays. 

"We  thank  thee  for  every  blessing 
Bestowed  by  thy  bounteous  hand. 
We  feel  it  a  pleasure  to  serve  thee, 
And  love  to  obey  thy  command." 

(Hymns,  No.  196.) 

One  of  the  most  important  features 
of  the  last  line  is,  "We  love  to  obey 
thy  command."  The  members  of  the 
Church  have  listened  to  the  counsel 
of  their  leaders  and  followed  it  quite 
implicitly  from  the  very  organization 
of  the  Church.  Those  who  did  not 
heed  the  counsel  of  the  brethren  and 
were  disobedient  to  the  laws  of  the 
gospel  usually  apostatized  and  left  the 
Church. 

Although  there  have  been  periods 
of  great  trial  among  the  people  in  the 
history  of  the  Church,  the  revelations 
of  the  Lord,  through  the  counsel  of 
his  leaders,  have  guided  the  people 
constantly  in  both  their  material  and 
spiritual  lives. 

Guidance  for  the  Church 

The  guidance  for  the  Church  con- 
tinues to  come  through  the  President, 
the  prophet,  seer,  and  revelator,  to  the 
present  day.  The  basic  principle  of 
the  restored  gospel  is  that  God  reveals 
his  mind  and  will  to  his  established 
Prophet  on  earth  for  the  guidance  of 
the  Church.  The  Church  is  founded 
on  revelation.  On  the  day  of  the 
organization  of  the  Church,  the  Lord 
gave   a  revelation   to  the  Church: 


A.  CULLIMORE 

ouncil  of  the  Twelve 

"Wherefore,  meaning  the  church,  thou 
shalt  give  heed  unto  all  his  [the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church]  words  and  com- 
mandments which  he  shall  give  unto 
you  as  he  receiveth  them,  walking  in 
all  holiness  before  me; 

"For  his  word  ye  shall  receive,  as 
if  from  mine  own  mouth,  in  all  pa- 
tience and  faith. 

"For  by  doing  these  things  the  gates 
of  hell  shall  not  prevail  against  you; 
yea,  and  the  Lord  God  will  disperse 
the  powers  of  darkness  from  before  you, 
and  cause  the  heavens  to  shake  for  your 
good,  and  his  name's  glory. 

"For  thus  saith  the  Lord  God:  Him 
have  I  inspired  to  move  the  cause  of 
Zion  in  mighty  power  for  good,  and 
his  diligence  I  know,  and  his  prayers 
I  have  heard."  (D&C  21:4-7.) 

Today,  more  than  ever  before,  we 
have  need  for  implicit  faith  in  God 
and  his  appointed  leaders  and  their 
inspired  counsel.  In  this  day,  when 
many  doubt  the  very  existence  of  God 
and  the  divinity  of  Christ,  as  we 
learn  of  the  "new  morality,"  see  a 
general  breakdown  in  moral  standards, 
witness  common  use  of  drugs  and  dis- 
regard for  parents  and  home,  see  in- 
crease in  juvenile  delinquency  and  the 
tendency  to  break  marriage  vows, 
riots,  violence,  and  great  disturbances 
everywhere,  there  is  justification  for 
great  concern. 

Man's  free  agency 

Yet,  no  matter  how  sure  the  dan- 
gers and  how  great  the  need  for  coun- 
sel and  guidance,  there  can  be  no 
coercion  in  the  Church.  Man's  free 
agency  is  held  by  the  Church  to  be  his 
first  right.  Every  man  must  be  free 
to  act  for  himself.  The  Lord  has  de- 
clared: "For  the  power  is  in  them, 


42  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  April  4 

wherein  they  are  agents  unto  them- 
selves." (D&C  58:28.) 

Brigham  Young  said:  "All  rational 
beings  have  an  agency  of  their  own. . .  . 
The  volition  of  the  creature  is  free; 
this  is  a  law  of  their  existence.  .  .  ." 
(Discourses  of  Brigham  Young,  1943 
ed.,  p.  62.) 

Commenting  on  this,  John  A.  Widt- 
soe  has  said:  "Coercion,  which  is  in 
direct  opposition  to  free  agency,  must 
not  be  applied  in  any  form"  in  the 
Church.  This  is  the  plan  of  the  adver- 
sary. 

".  .  .  There  must  be  no  attempt  to 
force  even  a  needed  gift  upon  another. 
It  is  better  that  one  live  in  darkness 
than  to  be  forced  into  light.  There  is 
ample  place  among  men  for  teaching 
but  none  for  compelling  others  to 
accept  what  is  taught.  Every  person  is 
under  obligation  to  respect  the  free 
agency  of  every  other  individual.  .  .  ." 

He  states  further:  "The  application 
of  these  principles  to  daily  affairs 
sometimes  leads  to  misunderstandings. 
Certain  Church  members  may  feel  that 
a  Church  official  is  invading  their 
personal  liberties  when  he  gives  coun- 
sel. .  .  .  Advice  on  .  .  .  matters  of 
conduct  by  the  constituted  leadership 
of  the  Church  may  be  questioned  by 
those  who  are  affected  by  the  advice. 

"The  first  answer  to  such  a  person 
is  that  all  advice  is  given  for  the  good 
of  the  individual  concerned,  and  that 
it  is  wise  to  follow  those  who  have 
had  experience  and  are  unselfishly  giv- 
ing help  to  others.  .  .  .  The  Church 
which  exists  for  the  welfare  of  man, 
would  be  derelict  to  its  divinely  im- 
posed obligations  did  it  not  exercise 
its  responsibility  as  a  guardian  against 
all  evil  and  for  all  good. 

"The  second  answer  is  that  under  the 
law  of  free  agency  no  one  is  obliged 
to  obey  .  .  .  the  counsel  given.  Man  is 
always  free  to  act  for  himself.  But, 
to  members  of  the  Church,  this  answer 
may  be  misleading.  They  are  under 
the  necessity  of  acknowledging  that 
consistency  requires  them  to  conform 
to  counsel  given  and  regulations  set  up. 

".  .  .  Every  member  of  the  Church 
upon  terms  of  faith  and  repentance,  has 
entered  the  waters  of  baptism.  By  this 


First  Day 

ordinance  he  has  pledged  acceptance 
of  the  doctrine  and  practice  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  The  divinity 
of  the  work  of  the  Church  has  be- 
come his  settled  conviction.  Upon  this 
foundation  he  henceforth  regulates  his 
life.  Among  the  basic  principles  [we 
accept  as  members]  are  the  inspira- 
tion and  authority  residing  in  the  liv- 
ing priesthood.  When,  therefore,  the 
President  of  the  Church  speaks,  au- 
thoritatively, and  we  disobey,  we  are 
repudiating  one  of  the  foundation 
principles  of  the  gospel.  .  .  ."  (John  A. 
Widtsoe,  Gospel  Interpretation,  pp.  70- 
72.) 

Need  for  guidance 

With  our  freedom  of  agency  in  the 
Church,  we  need  the  constant  guidance 
of  our  leaders  to  help  us  in  our  de- 
cisions. It  seems  to  me  that  no  mem- 
ber of  the  Church  can  risk  becoming 
involved  in  any  questionable  activity 
or  association  with  extreme,  radical 
groups,  whose  teachings  and  actions 
run  counter  to  the  gospel,  without  seek- 
ing advice  from  his  spiritual  leader. 
Your  bishop  or  branch  president,  stake 
president  or  mission  president  has  been 
duly  appointed  as  your  spiritual  adviser 
and  has  the  right  of  inspiration  to  give 
you  counsel  and  guidance  you  might 
need. 

In  a  letter  to  all  stake  leaders  in 
September  of  1966  the  First  Presidency 
said:  "The  Lord  has  so  organized  His 
Church  that  there  is  accessible  to  every 
member — man,  woman,  and  child — a 
spiritual  advisor,  and  a  temporal  coun- 
selor as  well,  who  knows  them 
intimately  and  who  knows  the  cir- 
cumstances and  conditions  out  of 
which  their  problems  come,  and  who, 
by  reason  of  his  ordination,  is  en- 
titled to  an  endowment  from  our 
Heavenly  Father  of  the  necessary  dis- 
cernment and  inspiration  of  the  Lord 
to  enable  him  to  give  the  advice  which 
the  one  in  trouble  so  much  needs.  We 
refer  to  the  bishop  or  branch  presi- 
dent in  the  first  instance  and  to  the 
stake  or  mission  president  if  the  bishop 
or  branch  president,  for  any  reason, 
feels  the  need  of  assistance  in  giving 
his  counsel."  (Letter  from  the  First 
Presidency,  September  22,    1966,  to 


ELDER  JAMES 

stake  presidents,  bishops,  mission  presi- 
dents, and  branch  presidents.) 

Responsibility  in  following  counsel 

How  should  we  regard  and  interpret 
counsel  in  the  Church?  Is  there  a  dis- 
tinction between  the  law  of  the  gospel 
and  counsel?  Does  the  counsel  of  the 
priesthood  differ  from  that  which 
emanated  from  secular  fields?  Do  we 
have  a  responsibility  in  following  the 
counsel  of  the  brethren? 

President  Stephen  L  Richards  an- 
swers these  questions  in  this  manner: 

"...  a  moment's  reflection  will  con- 
vince you  of  the  rather  serious  regard 
in  which  we  hold  counsel.  While  it 
is  true  that  we  characterize  infractions 
of  the  law  as  sin  and  we  do  not  apply 
quite  that  drastic  a  terminology  to 
failure  to  follow  counsel,  yet  in  the 
Church,  under  the  priesthood,  counsel 
always  is  given  for  the  primary  purpose 
of  having  the  law  observed,  so  that 
it  does  occupy  a  place  of  standing  and 
importance,  almost  comparable  to  that 
law  of  the  gospel."  (Address  at  Brig- 
ham  Young  University,  February  26, 
1957,  p.  1.) 

As  we  believe,  there  is  at  the  head 
of  the  Church  today  a  living  prophet, 
to  whom  the  Lord  reveals  his  mind  and 
will  for  the  guidance  of  the  Church, 
and  we  sustain  the  Council  of  Twelve 
as  prophets,  seers,  and  revelators  who 
are  also  divinely  chosen  and  inspired 
to  watch  over  the  Church  and  keep  it 
in  order  and  to  be  special  witnesses  of 
Christ;  when  you  sustain  your  stake 
president  and  bishop,  your  mission 
president  and  branch  president  as 
God's  divinely  appointed  representa- 
tives to  preside  over  you  in  your  re- 
spective area  and  then  fail  to  obey 
their  counsel,  you  deny  yourself  the 
blessings  of  the  gospel  and  personal 
blessings  and  direction.  The  counsel 
of  the  leaders  of  the  Church  usually  is 
but  a  repetition  of  the  laws  of  the 
gospel,  encouragement  to  follow  the 
teachings   of   the  Church,   to  keep 


A.  CULLIMORE  43 

the  covenants  we  made  as  we  entered 
the  waters  of  baptism,  and  in  the  house 
of  the  Lord. 

Obedience  brings  happiness 

The  following  of  this  counsel  can 
only  bring  eventual  happiness.  Dis- 
obedience to  counsel  can  only  accrue 
to  our  detriment.  It  often  leads  to 
fault-finding,  lack  of  activity  in  the 
Church,  breaking  the  commandments, 
and  even  loss  of  faith. 

Some  most  sincere  counsel  was  given 
the  members  of  the  Church  by  Oliver 
Cowdery  when  he  came  before  the 
Church  at  Pottawatamie  and  requested 
that  he  be  restored  to  the  Church.  He 
said:  "Follow  the  Twelve:  they  are  the 
men  with  whom  the  Priesthood  rests. 
If  you  follow  the  main  channel  of  the 
stream,  you  will  go  right;  but  if  you 
run  into  a  bayou,  you  will  find  your- 
selves among  snags."  (From  a  talk  by 
Elder  George  A.  Smith,  Journal  of 
Discourses,  Vol.  7,  p.  117.) 

I  can  think  of  no  better  counsel  for 
us  today  than  to  follow  the  main  chan- 
nel of  the  stream,  to  keep  from  extremes 
to  the  right  or  the  left,  through  obedi- 
ence to  the  continual  direction  of  the 
Lord  for  the  guidance  of  the  Church. 

This  testimony  I  leave  with  you  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be  our 
concluding  speaker. 

The  sessions  tomorrow  morning, 
Saturday,  will  be  broadcast  direct  by 
numerous  radio  and  television  stations, 
and  recorded  for  transmission  on  Sun- 
day morning  to  many  television  sta- 
tions in  the  eastern  and  central  part 
of  the  United  States. 

A  video  tape  of  Saturday  morning's 
session  of  the  conference  will  be  flown 
from  the  Mainland  and  televised  Sun- 
day morning  in  all  the  islands  of  the 
Pacific.  .  .  . 


44 

Friday,  April  4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


First  Day 


My  beloved  brothers  and  sisters  and 
friends:  In  my  heart  I  am  fully  con- 
vinced that  more  attention  must  be 
given  to  matching  gospel  principles, 
standards,  and  ideals  with  Christlike 
examples  in  our  personal  lives  if  truth 
and  righteousness  are  to  prevail  in  the 
present  decaying  moral  and  spiritual 
world.  We  cannot  afford  to  depart 
from  solid  spiritual  moorings  and 
stumble  down  an  evil  course  that  can 
only  lead  to  depravity  of  life. 

The  world  needs  more  men  and 
women  of  good  moral  and  spiritual 
character  who  will  stand  firm,  stead- 
fast, and  immovable  in  keeping  the 
commandments  of  God  and  be  living 
examples  of  truth  and  righteousness. 

The  power  of  example 

The  power  of  example  exhibits  its 
strength  when  men  and  women  live 
the  gospel.  For  such  persons,  the  light 
of  the  glorious  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
shines  forth  from  their  countenance  as 
a  beacon  light  to  draw  others  into  vir- 
tue's path. 

Recently,  returning  home  by  plane 
from  a  stake  conference,  a  young 
stewardess,  off  duty,  sat  down  beside 
me.  After  introduction,  she  informed 
me  that  one  of  her  roommates  is  a  girl 
from  Salt  Lake  City.  I  asked  if  the 
roommate  belonged  to  the  Mormon 
Church.  She  answered,  "Yes."  I  in- 
quired if  she  lived  her  religion.  Again 
the  answer  was  a  positive  yes.  She 
expressed  admiration  and  respect  for 
the  faith,  behavior,  and  good  example 
of  her  newfound  Mormon  friend. 

A  wise  man,  when  asked  to  list  three 
cardinal  points  that  exemplified  the 
lives  of  the  great  teachers  of  all  time 
and  that  would  be  a  guide  to  new 
teachers,  said:  "First,  teach  by  example. 
Second,  teach  by  example.  Third, 
teach  by  example." 

Our  Savior,  Jesus  Christ,  is  the 
greatest  example  the  world  has  ever 
known,  and  his  teachings  endure 
throughout  the  ages  because  the  pre- 
cepts he  taught  were  emphasized  by 
the  example  of  his  own  life. 


To  be  an  example  from  a  religious 
point  of  view,  someone  or  some  group 
must  serve  as  a  model  and  set  a  pattern 
of  conduct  and  moral  behavior  in  life 
that  can  safely  be  imitated  and  fol- 
lowed by  others  with  benefit  and 
blessing  to  them.  "No  period  of  history 
has  ever  been  great  or  ever  can  be  that 
does  not  act  on  some  sort  of  high, 
idealistic  motives,  and  idealism  in  our 
time  has  been  shoved  aside,  and  we  are 
paying  the  penalty  for  it."  (Alfred 
North  Whitehead.) 

High-sounding  thoughts  and  words 
without  an  appropriate  example  are  as 
sounding  brass  and  tinkling  cymbal, 
therefore  meaningless. 

"What  you  are,"  said  Emerson, 
"thunders  so  loudly  in  my  ears,  I  can- 
not hear  what  you  say." 

"I  am  the  light" 

".  .  .  Behold,"  said  Jesus,  "I  am  the 
light;  I  have  set  an  example  for  you." 
(3  Ne.  18:16.) 

This  challenging  statement  by  our 
Redeemer  can  be  taken  at  face  value 
with  safety  and  assurance. 

The  apostle  Peter  emphasized  this 
truth  when  he  declared:  "For  even 
hereunto  were  ye  called:  because 
Christ  also  suffered  for  us,  leaving  us 
an  example,  that  ye  should  follow  his 
steps: 

"Who  did  no  sin,  neither  was  guile 
found  in  his  mouth: 

"Who,  when  he  was  reviled,  reviled 
not  again;  when  he  suffered,  he 
threatened  not;  but  committed  himself 
to  him  that  judgeth  righteously." 
(1  Pet.  2:21-23.) 

It  has  been  said,  "The  Christian 
ideal  has  not  been  tried  and  found 
wanting;  it  has  been  found  difficult 
and  left  untried."  (Gilbert  K.  Chester- 
ton.) 

Value  of  good  example 

To  the  members  of  the  Church  today 
are  applicable  the  words  of  our 
Savior:  "Let  your  light  so  shine  before 
men,  that  they  may  see  your  good 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


45 


works,  and  glorify  your  Father  which 
is  in  heaven."  (Matt.  5:16.) 

This  scripture  stresses  the  importance 
and  value  of  good  example. 

President  David  O.  McKay,  in  a 
general  conference  message,  gave  this 
counsel:  "If  we  would  face  the  future, 
no  matter  what  it  may  be,  with  calm- 
ness of  spirit,  with  an  assurance  that 
God  governs  in  the  affairs  of  men,  let 
us  as  individuals  and  as  a  group  live 
exemplary  lives."  (The  Improvement 
Era,  May  1948,  p.  338.) 

This  plea  from  our  beloved  Presi- 
dent is  as  timely  today  as  it  was  21 
years  ago,  and  perhaps  more  so,  because 
of  today's  increased  wickedness  and 
pervasive  corruptness. 

Gospel  standards  and  ideals 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  pro- 
claimed that  people  should  be  taught 
correct  principles  and  then  govern 
themselves.  The  gospel  teaches  correct 
principles,  standards,  and  ideals,  but 
there  are  so  many  who  disregard  these 
teachings,  and  thus  fail  to  rightly 
govern  themselves.  In  keeping  with 
this  concept  of  teaching  correct  prin- 
ciples, the  Lord  warned  the  inhabitants 
of  his  kingdom: 

"And  Zion  cannot  be  built  up  un- 
less it  is  by  the  principles  of  the  law 
of  the  celestial  kingdom;  otherwise  I 
cannot  receive  her  unto  myself."  (D&C 
105:5.) 

Nephi,  a  Book  of  Mormon  prophet, 
being  grieved  by  the  hardness  of  the 
hearts  of  his  older  brothers  Laman  and 
Lemuel,  spake  unto  them,  saying: 

"Behold,  ye  are  mine  elder  brethren, 
and  how  is  it  that  ye  are  so  hard  in 
your  hearts,  and  so  blind  in  your  minds, 
that  ye  have  need  that  I,  your  younger 
brother,  should  speak  unto  you,  yea, 
and  set  an  example  for  you? 

"How  is  it  that  ye  have  not  heark- 
ened unto  the  word  of  the  Lord? 

".  .  .  Wherefore,  let  us  be  faithful 
to  him."  (1  Ne.  7:8-9,  12.) 

"Follow  thou  me" 

We  learn  in  the  writings  of  Nephi 
that  Christ  "humbleth  himself  before 
the  Father,  and  witnesseth  unto  the 
Father  that  he  would  be  obedient  unto 
him  in  keeping  his  commandments. 


"And  ...  it  showeth  unto  the  chil- 
dren of  men  the  straightness  of  the 
path,  and  the  narrowness  of  the  gate, 
by  which  they  should  enter,  he  having 
set  the  example  before  them. 

"And  he  said  unto  the  children  of 
men:  Follow  thou  me.  Wherefore,  my 
beloved  brethren,"  said  Nephi,  "can 
we  follow  Jesus  save  we  shall  be  will- 
ing to  keep  the  commandments  of  the 
Father?" 

And,  challenged  the  Christ  to  all 
mankind,  ".  .  .  follow  me,  and  do  the 
things  which  ye  have  seen  me  do." 
(2  Ne.  31:7,  9-10,  12.) 

This  admonition  was  confirmed  to 
Nephi  by  the  voice  of  God,  saying: 

"Yea,  the  words  of  my  Beloved  are 
true  and  faithful.  He  that  endureth  to 
the  end,  the  same  shall  be  saved. 

"And  now,  my  beloved  brethren," 
said  Nephi,  "I  know  by  this  that  un- 
less a  man  shall  endure  to  the  end,  in 
following  the  example  of  the  Son  of 
the  living  God,  he  cannot  be  saved." 
(2  Ne.  31:15-16.) 

These  teachings  constitute  a  sum- 
mons to  all  men  to  live  righteously. 
It  is  the  only  path  that  leads  one  back 
to  the  presence  of  God. 

Men  believe  what  they  see 

Corianton,  son  of  a  Nephite  prophet, 
while  engaged  in  missionary  service, 
foolishly,  and  to  the  great  sorrow  of  his 
father,  followed  after  the  harlot  Isabel. 
Alma,  disappointed  by  his  son's  actions, 
reproved  him  and  said: 

".  .  .  for  when  they  saw  your  con- 
duct they  would  not  believe  in  my 
words."  (Al.  39:11.) 

Truly,  example  is  greater  than  pre- 
cept. 

Billy  Martin,  the  new  manager  of 
the  Minnesota  Twins  baseball  team,  is 
quoted  as  saying:  "We  represent  the 
state  of  Minnesota,  and  I  want  us  to 
look  like  gentlemen.  .  .  .  The  youth  of 
America  is  watching,  and  I  am  con- 
cerned about  that.  I  want  our  guys  to 
be  a  good  example."  I  thought  that 
statement  was  a  very  interesting  ob- 
servation. 

The  writer  Thoreau  philosophized: 
"If  you  would  convince  a  man  that  he 
does  wrong,  do  right.  Men  will  believe 
what  they  see — let  them  see." 


46  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  April  4 

Dr.  Albert  Schweitzer  expressed  this 
thought:  "Example  is  not  the  main 
thing  in  influencing  others — it  is  the 
only  thing!" 

"There  is  a  transcendent  power  in 
example.  We  reform  others  uncon- 
sciously when  we  walk  uprightly." 
(Madame  Swetchine.) 

Parental  example 

Jacob,  the  brother  of  Nephi,  speak- 
ing to  parents,  counseled:  ".  .  .  ye  shall 
remember  your  children,  how  that  ye 
have  grieved  their  hearts  because  of 
the  example  that  ye  have  set  before 
them;  and  also,  remember  that  ye  may, 
because  of  your  filthiness,  bring  your 
children  unto  destruction,  and  their 
sins  be  heaped  upon  your  heads  at  the 
last  day."  (Jac.  3:10.) 

This  reminds  us  of  the  teachings  of 
our  Lord  to  parents  in  this  latter  day: 
the  responsibility  we  have  of  teaching 
our  children  the  principles  of  the  gos- 
pel— to  see  that  they  are  baptized, 
taught  to  pray,  to  walk  uprightly  before 
the  Lord,  and  to  observe  the  Sabbath 
day  and  keep  it  holy.  (See  D&C  68: 
27-29.) 

President  McKay  declared:  "It  is  as 
futile  to  attempt  to  teach  honesty,  and 
to  act  dishonestly  before  a  child,  as  to 
attempt  to  heat  water  in  a  sieve." 
(Pathways  to  Happiness,  p.  307.) 

How  important  it  is  for  parents  to 
live  clean  lives  and  obey  God's  laws 
and  commandments.  To  do  so  will 
permit  them  to  use  the  example  of 
their  own  lives  in  the  teaching  of  their 
children.  To  fail  to  do  so  creates  per- 
sonal inhibitions  that  prevent  parents 
from  discussing  intimate  and  delicate 
questions  and  problems  about  life  with 
which  their  children  are  deeply  con- 
cerned. 

Children  gain  balance,  judgment, 
and  wisdom  on  the  foundation  and 
platforms  of  their  exemplary  parents. 

The  prophet  Jacob  again  admonished 
the  Nephites: 

".  .  .  Ye  have  broken  the  hearts  of 
your  tender  wives,  and  lost  the  confi- 
dence of  your  children,  because  of  your 
bad  examples  before  them;  and  the 
sobbings  of  their  hearts  ascend  up  to 
God  against  you.  .  .  ."  (Jac.  2:35.) 

In   President   David   O.  McKay's 


First  Day 

message  this  morning,  he  gave  timely 
advice  to  parents  regarding  their  chil- 
dren. 

Brigham  Young's  Counsel 

May  I  share  with  you  President 
Brigham  Young's  counsel  for  parents 
to  teach  their  children  by  example. 
Said  President  Young:  ".  .  .  if  parents 
will  continually  set  before  their  chil- 
dren examples  worthy  of  their  imitation 
and  the  approval  of  our  Father  in 
heaven,  they  will  turn  the  current,  and 
the  tide  of  feelings  of  their  children, 
and  they,  eventually,  will  desire 
righteousness  more  than  evil."  (Journal 
of  Discourses,  Vol.  14,  p.  195.) 

".  .  .  we  should  never  permit  our- 
selves to  do  anything  that  we  are  not 
willing  to  see  our  children  do.  We 
should  set  them  an  example  that  we 
wish  them  to  imitate.  .  .  .  How  often 
we  see  parents  demand  obedience,  good 
behavior,  kind  words,  pleasant  looks, 
a  sweet  voice  and  a  bright  eye  from  a 
child  or  children,  when  they  them- 
selves are  full  of  bitterness  and 
scoldingl  How  inconsistent  and  un- 
reasonable this  is  I"  (Ibid.,  p.  192.) 

".  .  .  parents  should  govern  their 
children  by  faith  rather  than  by  the 
rod,  leading  them  kindly  by  good  ex- 
ample into  all  truth  and  holiness." 
(JD,  Vol.  12,  p.  174.) 

"Our  children  will  have  the  love  of 
the  truth,  if  we  but  live  our  religion. 
Parents  should  take  that  course  that 
their  children  can  say,  'I  never  knew 
my  father  to  deceive  or  take  advantage 
of  a  neighbor;  I  never  knew  my  father 
to  take  to  himself  that  which  did  not 
belong  to  him  .  .  .  but  he  said,  .  .  . 
"be  honest,  true,  virtuous,  kind,  in- 
dustrious, prudent  and  full  of  good 
works.'"  Such  teachings  from  parents 
to  their  children  will  abide  with  them 
for  ever."  (]D,  Vol.  14,  p.  195.) 

Examples  from  scripture 

Speaking  of  examples  from  the 
scriptures,  the  apostle  Paul,  writing  to 
the  Corinthian  saints,  admonished: 

"Now  these  things  were  our  exam- 
ples, to  the  intent  we  should  not  lust 
after  evil  things,  as  they  also  lusted. 

"Neither  let  us  commit  fornication, 
as  some  of  them  committed.  .  .  . 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


47 


"Neither  let  us  tempt  Christ,  as  some 
of  them  also  tempted,  and  were  de- 
stroyed of  serpents. 

"Neither  murmur  ye,  as  some  of 
them  also  murmured,  and  were  de- 
stroyed of  the  destroyer. 

"Now  all  these  things  happened 
unto  them  for  ensamples;  and  they  are 
written  for  our  admonition.  .  .  . 

"Wherefore,  let  him  that  thinketh 
he  standeth  take  heed  lest  he  fall." 
(1  Cor.  10:6,  8-12.) 

Those  who  teach  or  lead  in  God's 
kingdom  must  remember  that  Christ  is 
the  great  exemplar  to  them,  and  rightly 
so.  Therefore,  all  leaders  and  teachers 
called  to  labor  in  his  vineyard  accept 
a  great  responsibility  when  they  expect 
others  to  live  up  to  gospel  principles, 
standards,  and  ideals  in  order  to  enjoy 
the  privileges  and  blessings  of  the 
gospel,  yet  fail  themselves  to  maintain 
these  requirements  in  their  own  per- 
sonal lives. 

Responsibility  of  leaders 

We  leaders  must  be  what  we  ask  or 
require  others  to  be;  otherwise,  such 
hypocrisy  turns  to  our  condemnation. 

The  candidate  before  baptism  is  re- 
quired to  repent  of  all  his  sins.  Does 
it  not  seem  reasonable  that  the  priest- 
hood brethren  officiating  in  this  ordi- 
nance be  equally  free  from  all  personal 
transgressions?  This  also  holds  true  in 
the  performance  of  all  gospel  ordi- 
nances. 

It  is  deceitful  and  dishonorable  for 
one  to  try  to  hide  his  own  improper 
personal  conduct  and  not  serve  openly 
and  exemplarily  according  to  the  spirit 
of  his  holy  calling.  We  must  remem- 
ber that  a  heavenly  record  is  kept  of 
our  conduct  here  on  earth,  and  there 
will  come  a  day  of  reckoning  and 
judgment.  This  church  is  true;  it  has 
value  and  is  meaningful  to  those  seek- 
ing exaltation  and  eternal  life.  If  this 
church  is  worth  anything,  it  is  worth 
everything!  There  is  no  exaltation  and 
eternal  glory  without  it. 

Lord's  power  over  his  saints 

Before  the  second  coming  of  our 
Lord,  he  has  revealed  that  the  devil  is 
to  have  power  over  his  own  dominion. 
We  are  witnessing  evidences  of  it  today 


in  many  forms.  Men  are  setting  aside 
the  accepted  eternal  teachings  and 
verities  of  scripture.  Many  intellectuals 
in  this  present  enlightened  age  think 
they  have  outgrown  the  basic  and  fun- 
damental principles  that  the  Savior 
and  his  holy  prophets  have  stressed 
throughout  the  ages  of  time.  Even 
though  in  this  latter  day,  "the  devil 
shall  have  power  over  his  own  do- 
minion," the  Lord  has  promised  he 
"shall  have  power  over  his  saints,  and 
shall  reign  in  their  midst,  and  shall 
come  down  in  judgment  upon  .  .  . 
the  world."  (D&C  1:35-36.) 

This  knowledge  is  comforting,  but 
for  the  Savior  to  fulfill  this  promise, 
his  people  must  live  as  saints.  They 
are  the  only  ones  among  whom  the 
Lord  promises  to  reign. 

Perhaps  it  would  be  well  to  remem- 
ber the  account  of  Enoch  and  his 
people.  They  were  in  an  abominable 
state  of  wickedness.  They  had  all  gone 
astray  from  the  teachings  of  their 
fathers.  Enoch  accepted  the  challenge 
of  turning  the  people  from  their  evil 
ways  unto  the  Lord.  He  did  it  so  effec- 
tively that  God  translated  and  received 
them  unto  himself.  (See  Moses  7  and 
8.) 

From  wickedness  to  righteousness 

Following  Christ's  ministry  and 
resurrection  in  Judea,  he  visited  the 
inhabitants  of  the  Americas.  After  his 
appearance  among  them,  they  com- 
pletely changed  their  ways  from 
wickedness  to  righteousness. 

Fourth  Nephi  records  this  sublime 
condition: 

"And  it  came  to  pass  in  the  thirty 
and  sixth  year,  the  people  were  all 
converted  unto  the  Lord,  upon  all  the 
face  of  the  land  .  .  .  and  there  were 
no  contentions  and  disputations  among 
them,  and  every  man  did  deal  justly 
one  with  another. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  there  was 
no  contention  in  the  land,  because  of 
the  love  of  God  which  did  dwell  in 
the  hearts  of  the  people. 

"And  there  were  no  envyings,  nor 
strifes,  nor  tumults,  nor  whoredoms, 
nor  lyings,  nor  murders,  nor  any  man- 
ner of  lasciviousness;  and  surely  there 
could  not  be  a  happier  people  among 


48  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  April  4 

all  the  people  who  had  been  created 
by  the  hand  of  God."  (4  Ne.  2,  15-16.) 

These  two  examples  are  before  us  in 
the  Church  today.  Our  work  and  pur- 
pose is  just  the  same  now  as  it  was  in 
earlier  times.  I  wonder  if  we  will  so 
live  and  do  as  to  measure  up  to  this 
responsibility.  The  task  seems  insur- 
mountable, but  if  we,  as  a  people,  live 
righteously,  seeking  earnestly  the  riches 
of  eternity,  the  ideal  state  of  righteous- 
ness can  be  achieved. 

Return  to  evil  ways 

After  this  period  of  Nephite  and 
Lamanite  happiness  and  peace,  they 
gradually  fell  again  into  evil  ways, 
and  Mormon,  in  his  second  epistle  to 
his  son  Moroni,  stressed  the  wickedness 
and  lack  of  principle  in  his  people  and 
lamented: 

"O  the  depravity  of  my  people! 
They  are  without  order  and  without 
mercy.  .  .  . 

"And  they  have  become  strong  in 
their  perversion;  and  they  are  alike 
brutal,  sparing  none,  .  .  .  and  they 
delight  in  everything  save  that  which 
is  good.  .  .  . 

".  .  .  Behold,  thou  knowest  the  wick- 
edness of  this  people;  thou  knowest 
that  they  are  without  principle,  and 
past  feeling.  .  .  ."  (Moro.  9:18-20.) 

Is  history  beginning  to  repeat  itself  in 
this  generation  of  time?  I  firmly  believe 
it  is.  Our  position  and  responsibility 
are  the  same  now  as  Mormon  expressed 
to  his  son  Moroni  centuries  ago: 

"And  now,  my  beloved  son,"  said 
Mormon,  "notwithstanding  their  hard- 
ness, let  us  labor  diligently;  for  if  we 
should  cease  to  labor,  we  should  be 
brought  under  condemnation;  for  we 
have  a  labor  to  perform  whilst  in  this 
tabernacle  of  clay,  that  we  may  con- 
quer the  enemy  of  all  righteousness, 
and  rest  our  souls  in  the  kingdom  of 
God."  (Mora.  9:6.) 

Striving  to  exert  the  power  of  good 
example  by  living  gospel  principles, 
maintaining  proper  standards,  and 
holding  firm  to  righteous  ideals,  while 
not  always  easy,  will  reward  us  in  this 
life  and  in  the  eternal  worlds  to  come. 

Our  obligation  and  challenge 

Someone  said:  "It  is  no  trick  to  keep 


First  Day 

one's  principles  on  a  high  level,  but 
it  is  hard  sometimes  to  stay  up  there 
with  them." 

"For  us,  with  the  rule  of  right  and 
wrong  given  us  by  Christ,  there  is 
nothing  for  which  we  have  no  stan- 
dard. .  .  ."  (Leo  Tolstoi,  War  and 
Peace.) 

Honesty,  integrity,  uprightness,  mo- 
rality, observance  of  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom, and  all  the  revelations  concerning 
ideal  behavior  should  be  exemplified 
in  our  own  lives,  and  we  will  then  be- 
come proper  examples  for  others  to 
follow. 

Does  our  pattern  of  life  incorporate 
these  basic  qualities  that  permit  us  to 
say  with  assurance  to  our  loved  ones 
and  friends,  and  those  whom  we  serve, 
"Come  follow  me,  and  do  the  things 
you  have  seen  me  do"? 

Here  is  our  obligation,  duty,  and 
challenge. 

May  God  bless  us,  brothers  and  sis- 
ters, that  we  may  have  the  strength 
and  the  courage  under  all  conditions  to 
live  exemplary  lives  and  to  walk  up- 
rightly before  the  Lord  and  set  a  good 
example  for  all  mankind  to  follow, 
and  particularly  to  our  own  children 
and  families,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

The  semi-annual  conference  of  the 
Deseret  Sunday  School  Union  will  be 
held  this  evening,  Friday,  at  7:30  in 
the  Tabernacle.  This  is  a  change  from 
the  traditional  Sunday  evening  session 
which  will  not  be  held.  All  Sunday 
School  workers  will  wish  to  be  in 
attendance. 

Under  the  direction  of  the  First 
Presidency  there  will  be  a  Welfare- 
Agricultural  meeting  held  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall  tomorrow,  Saturday,  at 
7:30  a.m.  Invited  to  attend  this  special 
session  are  Regional  Representatives, 
stake  presidencies,  bishoprics,  high 
councilors,  Project  Operating  Commit- 
tees, stake  and  ward  Relief  Society 
presidents  and  Welfare  coordinators. 

The  singing  for  this  session  has  been 
furnished  by  the  University  of  Utah 
Institute  of  Religion  Chorus  under  the 


SECOND  DAY 


49 


direction  of  Douglas  W.  Stott,  with 
Roy  M.  Darley  at  the  organ. 

In  behalf  of  all  those  who  listened 
to  the  singing  during  this  session  of 
the  General  Conference,  we  express 
appreciation  and  our  sincere  thanks  to 
these  young  students  for  the  beautiful 
music  they  have  rendered.  God  bless 
them  for  their  desire  to  serve  and  to 
bring  happiness  to  others. 

The  chorus  will  now  render  "With  a 
Voice  of  Singing,"  and  the  benediction 
will  then  be  offered  by  Elder  LeRoy 
Rollins,  president  of  the  Edmonton 


Stake.  The  General  session  of  this 
conference  will  then  be  adjourned  until 
10:00  tomorrow  morning. 


The  University  of  Utah  Institute  of 
Religion  Chorus  sang,  "With  a  Voice 
of  Singing." 

President  LeRoy  Rollins  of  the  Ed- 
monton Stake  offered  the  closing 
prayer. 

The  conference  adjourned  until  Sat- 
urday morning  at  10  o'clock. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


THIRD  SESSION 

The  third  session  of  the  conference 
convened  on  Saturday,  April  5,  at  10 
o'clock  a.m. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner,  second 
counselor  in  the  First  Presidency,  con- 
ducted the  meeting. 

The  music  for  this  session  was  fur- 
nished by  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 
Choir.  Elder  Richard  P.  Condie  di- 
rected the  singing;  Elder  Alexander 
Schreiner  was  at  the  organ. 

President  Tanner  made  the  following 
introductory  remarks: 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

I  have  an  important  announcement. 
The  World  Conference  on  Records  and 
Genealogical  Convention  and  Seminar 
will  be  held  here  in  Salt  Lake  City 
starting  August  5th  through  the  8th 
of  this  year. 

Many  of  the  world's  leading  archiv- 
ists, librarians,  historians  and  others  in 
related  fields  have  been  invited  to 
attend  and  present  comprehensive  re- 
ports in  their  respective  fields. 

Fifty  countries  in  the  world  will  be 
represented  and  this  could  well  be  the 
largest  gathering  of  its  kind  ever  held. 

We  in  Salt  Lake  City  are  delighted 
to  act  as  host  city  for  this  important 
gathering. 


The  Genealogical  Society,  which  is 
sponsoring  this  convention,  extends  an 
invitation  to  all  people  to  attend  this 
important  record  conference. 

On  the  advice  of  his  doctors  President 
McKay  is  remaining  at  home  where  he 
is  viewing  these  services.  He  is  pre- 
siding at  this  conference  and  has  asked 
me  to  conduct  this  meeting.  He  joins 
us  in  extending  a  most  cordial  welcome 
to  all  who  are  present  here  this 
morning  in  this  historic  Tabernacle, 
in  the  Assembly  Hall  on  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  and  also  to 
the  vast  television  and  radio  audience 
throughout  the  world,  in  this,  the  third 
session  of  the  139th  Annual  Conference 
here  in  this  Tabernacle. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  under  the 
direction  of  Richard  P.  Condie  and 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ  will 
open  these  services  by  singing  "Rejoice 
and  Merry  Be,"  following  which  the 
invocation  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
Melvin  R.  Brooks,  formerly  president 
of  the  Spanish  American  Mission. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  num- 
ber, "Rejoice  and  Merry  Be." 

The  opening  prayer  was  given  by 
Elder  Melvin  R.  Brooks,  formerly 
president  of  the  Spanish  American 
Mission. 


50 

Saturday,  April  5 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  favor 
us  with  "Christ,  The  Lord,  Is  Risen," 
following  which  President  Hugh  B. 
Brown  of  the  First  Presidency  will 
speak  to  us. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  an- 
them, "Christ,  the  Lord,  Is  Risen." 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown,  first  coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency  of  the 
Church  will  now  speak  to  us. 

President  Brown. 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


The  apostle  Peter,  writing  to  the 
saints  of  his  time,  said,  as  recorded  in 
Pirst  Peter  2:9,  "But  ye  are  a  chosen 
generation,  a  royal  priesthood,  an  holy 
nation,  a  peculiar  people." 

A  peculiar  people 

Whether  or  not  all  will  agree  that 
these  characterizations  are  applicable 
to  the  Saints  of  this  day,  I  am  sure 
most  will  at  least  agree  that  we  are  a 
peculiar  people — not  in  any  unkind 
way,  but  perhaps  most  would  say  we 
are  a  different  people.  My  purpose 
for  the  next  few  moments  is  to  ex- 
amine and  discuss  some  of  those 
differences. 

Some  of  the  antagonisms  that  exist 
between  people  and  between  nations 
result  from  the  fact  that  they  do  not 
understand  one  another. 
"Not  understood,"  the  poet  has  said. 
"We  gather  false  impressions 
And  hug  them  closer  as  the  years  go  by, 
Till  virtues  often  seem  to  us  transgres- 
sions; 

And  thus  men  rise  and  fall,  and  live 

and  die — 
Not  understood. 

"O  God!  that  men  would  see  a  little 
clearer, 

Or  judge  less  harshly  where  they  can- 
not see; 

O  God,  that  men  would  draw  a  little 
nearer 

To  one   another;  they'd  be  nearer 

Thee— 
And  understood." 

— Thomas  Bracken 
(Poems    of    Inspiration,  Halycon 
House,  1928,  p.  188) 
We  may  discuss  our  subject  under 


two  general  headings  for  a  few  min- 
utes, namely,  the  Fatherhood  of  God 
and  the  brotherhood  of  man.  The 
scriptures  tell  us  that  it  is  life  eternal 
to  know  God  and  Jesus  Christ,  whom 
he  has  sent. 

What  is  man? 

As  to  man,  we  join  with  David  of 
old  and  ask,  "What  is  man,  that  thou 
art  mindful  of  him?  and  the  son  of 
man,  that  thou  visitest  him?"  (Ps.  8:4.) 
And  just  here  we  ask  the  pertinent 
question,  "What  is  the  relationship 
that  exists  between  God  and  man?" 

Dr.  James  E.  Talmage  summed  up 
this  part  of  our  subject  as  follows: 

"What  is  man  in  this  boundless 
setting  of  sublime  splendor?  I  answer 
you  potentially  now,  actually  to  be, 
he  is  greater  and  grander,  more 
precious  in  the  arithmetic  of  God  than 
all  the  planets  and  the  suns  of  space. 
For  him  they  were  created.  They  are 
the  handiwork  of  God.  Man  is  his 
son.  In  this  world  man  is  given  domin- 
ion over  a  few  things.  It  is  his  privilege 
to  achieve  supremacy  over  many  things. 
The  heavens  declare  the  glory  of  God 
and  the  firmament  showeth  his  handi- 
work. Incomprehensibly  grand  as  are 
the  physical  creations  of  the  earth  and 
of  space,  they  have  been  brought  into 
existence  as  a  means  to  an  end,  and 
are  necessary  to  the  realization  of  the 
supreme  purpose  which  in  the  words 
of  the  Creator  is  thus  declared:  For 
behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my  glory, 
to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and 
eternal  life  of  man." 

What  is  God? 

May  we  then  discuss  our  subject 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


51 


briefly  with  respect  to  God,  and  ex- 
amine some  of  the  things  that  have 
been  believed  and  taught  in  connection 
with  that  subject. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  nineteenth 
century,  it  was  generally  believed  that 
God  was  incorporeal  and  immaterial, 
without  body,  without  parts  or  pas- 
sions, disregarding  the  facts  that  God 
loves  righteousness  and  he  hates  iniq- 
uity, and  that  love  and  hate,  of  course, 
are  passions. 

It  has  been  claimed  that  God  was 
without  form,  even  though  the  holy 
scriptures  teach  that  God  created  man 
in  his  own  image.  In  fact,  we  are  told 
by  Paul  the  apostle  that  Jesus  Christ 
was  in  the  express  image  of  his  Father. 
Are  we  then  created  in  the  image  of  a 
formless  entity? 

For  us,  God  is  not  an  abstraction.  He 
is  not  an  idea,  a  metaphysical  principle, 
an  impersonal  force  or  power.  He  is  a 
concrete,  living  person.  And  though  in 
our  human  frailty  we  cannot  know  the 
total  mystery  of  his  being,  we  know 
that  he  is  akin  to  us,  for  he  is  revealed 
to  us  in  the  divine  personality  of  his 
Son,  Jesus  Christ,  and  he  is,  in  fact, 
our  Father. 

The  Church  teaches  that  when  God 
created  man  in  his  own  image,  he  did 
not  divest  himself  of  that  image.  He 
is  still  in  human  form  and  is  possessed 
of  sanctified  and  perfected  human 
qualities,  which  we  all  admire.  All 
through  the  holy  scriptures,  the  Father 
and  the  Son  are  seen  to  be  separate  and 
distinct  personages.  We  reaffirm  the 
doctrine  of  the  ancient  scripture 
and  of  all  the  prophets  that  asserts 
that  man  was  created  in  the  image 
of  God  and  that  God  possessed  such 
human  qualities  as  consciousness,  will, 
love,  mercy,  justice.  In  other  words, 
he  is  an  exalted,  perfected,  and  glori- 
fied Being. 

Man's  eternal  nature 

The  late  President  Brigham  H. 
Roberts,  in  one  of  his  later  writings, 
discussed  some  of  the  principles  of  the 
gospel  that  I  desire  to  give  wider  circu- 
lation. I  shall  quote  and  paraphrase 
him. 

Under  the  uninspired  teachings  of 


men  and  creeds  as  they  apply  to  man — 
premortal,  mortal,  and  postmortal  man 
— it  was  taught  that  while  man's  body 
was  created  by  God,  his  origin  was 
purely  an  earthly  one.  We  believe  that 
before  the  creation  of  the  body,  all  men 
existed  as  intelligences.  These  intelli- 
gences were  not  created  or  made, 
neither  indeed  can  they  be;  the  intelli- 
gent entity  in  man  which  we  call  spirit 
or  soul  is  a  self-existing  entity,  uncre- 
ated and  eternal.  Thus  man  is  crowned 
with  the  dignity  which  belongs  to  his 
divine  and  eternal  nature. 

The  Church  of  ]esus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  (or  the  Mormon  Church,  if 
you  prefer)  claims  to  be  a  bold,  pro- 
phetic, and  inspired  Church  built  upon 
the  rock  of  revelation.  It  calls  upon 
man  to  cooperate  with  God  in  his 
avowed  purpose  to  bring  to  pass  the 
immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man. 
This  is  a  divine  partnership  and  is 
available  to  all.  It  gives  added  mean- 
ing to  the  term  "the  brotherhood  of 
man."  It  is  not  simply  a  philosophy  of 
life;  it  is  a  divine  plan  or  blueprint 
of  life — preexistent  life,  mortal  life, 
and  postmortal  life. 

System  of  continuing  education 

The  gospel  is  a  system  of  continuing 
education,  resulting  in  eternal  progres- 
sion. Education  is,  in  fact,  a  part  of 
our  religion.  We  believe  the  glory  of 
God  is  intelligence. 

The  Lord  said:  "And  I  give  unto 
you  a  commandment  that  you  shall 
teach  one  another  the  doctrine  of  the 
kingdom."  (D&C  88:77.) 

Just  here,  we  might  ask  the  ques- 
tion: Is  there  any  communication  be- 
tween God  and  man,  or  has  there  ever 
been?  If  there  ever  was  such,  why  not 
now? 

Continuous  revelation 

And  this  brings  us  to  the  question  of 
revelation. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  last  century, 
the  idea  prevailed  among  almost  all 
Christian  churches  that  while  there 
was  a  time  when  revelations  from  God 
were  given,  when  angels  visited  the 
earth  and  imparted  divine  knowledge 
to  men,  when  there  were  living  among 


52 

Saturday,  April  5 

men  certain  ones  called  prophets  who 
were  able  to  declare  the  mind  and 
will  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  yet  all 
this  was  allegedly  discontinued. 

Though  belief  in  continuous  revela- 
tion seems  to  have  been  quite  uni- 
versally accepted  in  the  past,  orthodox 
Christianity  maintains  that  there  can 
be  no  current  revelation;  that  no 
revelation  has  been  given  since  the 
crucifixion  of  Christ  and  the  death  of 
the  apostles,  and  furthermore  that  none 
would  be  given  in  the  future;  that  the 
volume  of  scripture  is  completed  and 
forever  closed — no  angels,  no  opening 
of  the  heavens,  no  man  authorized  to 
speak  for  God.  All  this  was  ended. 

The  scriptures  declare  that  some  of 
the  prophets  talked  with  God  face  to 
face.  (Exod.  33:11.)  For  instance,  we 
are  told  in  Exodus  that  Moses  spoke 
face  to  face  with  God  as  one  man 
speaketh  to  his  friends.  In  Exodus  3:6, 
the  Lord  declared:  "I  am  the  God  of 
thy  father,  the  God  of  Abraham,  the 
God  of  Isaac,  and  the  God  of  Jacob." 
We  claim  the  Church  is  built  upon  the 
foundation  of  divinely  inspired  apostles 
and  prophets,  with  Jesus  Christ  himself 
as  the  chief  cornerstone. 

Office  of  a  prophet 

Generally,  when  we  speak  of  a 
prophet,  we  have  in  mind  one  who 
predicts  future  events,  one  who  fore- 
tells things  that  will  come  to  pass. 
Indeed,  that  is,  in  part,  the  office  of  a 
prophet — in  part  it  is  what  is  expected 
of  him.  But  a  prophet  should  be  pri- 
marily a  teacher  of  men,  an  expounder 
of  the  things  of  God.  The  inspiration 
of  the  Almighty  must  give  him  under- 
standing, and  when  given  he  must 
declare  it  fearlessly  to  the  people  of 
his  time  and  to  future  generations.  He 
must  be  a  seer  who  can  help  others 
to  see,  a  teacher  sent  of  God  to  in- 
struct a  people,  to  enlighten  an  age. 
This  is  the  primary  office  of  a  prophet. 

Based  upon  the  teachings  of  the  Holy 
Bible,  we  assert  that  revelation  from 
heaven  was  common  in  all  dispensa- 
tions of  the  gospel  from  Adam  to  the 
time  when  Christ  was  upon  the  earth. 
We  agree  that  it  apparently  ceased  for 
a  time  because  of  apostasy  after  the 
beginning    of   the    first    century  of 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

the  Christian  era.  The  founder  of  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  asserts  that  he  had  a  great  and 
overpowering  revelation  from  God — in 
fact,  a  visitation  in  which  he  beheld 
the  Father  and  the  Son.  Later,  other 
heavenly  beings  appeared. 

There  is  in  all  men  an  animated, 
ruling,  characteristic  essence,  or  spirit, 
which  is  himself.  This  spirit,  dull  or 
bright,  petty  or  grand,  pure  or  foul, 
looks  out  of  the  eyes,  sounds  in  the 
voice,  and  appears  in  the  manners  of 
each  individual.  This  is  what  we  call 
personality. 

Man's  salvation 

As  to  man's  salvation,  some  have 
taught  that  God,  of  his  own  volition, 
had  predestined  some  men  and  angels 
to  everlasting  destruction,  while  others 
were  ordained  to  eternal  life  and  glory, 
not  for  any  good  or  ill  that  they  had 
done  or  could  do,  but  because  their  fate 
is  fixed  by  divine  decree.  Those  whom 
he  would  save  he  would  move  by 
irresistible  grace  to  their  salvation; 
those  whom  he  had  predestined  should 
be  damned  might  not  escape,  struggle 
they  ever  so  persistently.  No  prayers 
could  save  them;  no  act  of  obedience 
might  mitigate  their  punishment;  no 
hungering  and  thirsting  after  righteous- 
ness would  bring  them  any  blessedness. 
They  must  perish,  and  that  eternally! 
Those  who  perish  in  ignorance  of 
Christ — the  heathen  nations,  for  in- 
stance^— were  damned.  So  said  those 
who  expounded  this  creed. 

Others  taught  that  infants  dying  in 
infancy  without  receiving  Christian 
baptisms  were  damned,  and  that  ever- 
lastingly. By  some,  unbaptized  in- 
fants were  denied  burial  in  sanctified 
ground.  "Hell's  Half  Acre"  was  a  real- 
ity in  some  graveyards.  We  humbly 
but  unequivocally  proclaim  the  eternal 
and  revealed  truth  that  through  the 
atonement  of  Christ,  all  mankind  may 
be  saved,  by  obedience  to  the  laws  and 
ordinances  of  the  gospel. 

Salvation  and  damnation 

Let  us  refer  for  a  moment  to  the 
significance  of  the  terms  salvation  and 
damnation.  It  was  taught  in  earlier 
days  and  to  some  extent  today  that 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


53 


these  two  terms  meant  either  the  at- 
tainment of  heaven  or  the  assignment 
to  hell — referring  to  the  former,  the 
attainment  of  heaven,  as  a  mysterious, 
indefinite  state  enjoyed  somewhere  be- 
yond the  bounds  of  time  and  space, 
and  to  the  latter,  to  which  many  were 
to  be  consigned,  as  a  place  of  ever- 
lasting anguish  and  eternal  misery. 

It  was  believed  that  if  one  gained 
heaven  by  ever  so  small  a  margin,  he 
entered  upon  a  complete  possession  of 
all  the  supernal  ecstasy  enjoyed  by  the 
angels  and  the  holiest  of  saints.  If  he 
missed  even  by  ever  so  narrow  a  mar- 
gin, he  was  doomed  to  everlasting 
torment,  to  be  endured  with  the 
wickedest  of  men  and  the  vilest  of 
devils,  from  which  there  was  to  be  no 
deliverance. 

Graded  state  of  future  life 

Against  these  dogmas  of  the  attain- 
ment of  heaven  or  the  assignment  to 
hell  with  equality  of  glory  in  the  one 
and  equal  severity  of  punishment  in 
the  other,  we  assert  that  a  just  God  has 
provided  a  graded  state  of  existence 
for  all  men  in  the  future  life. 

Upon  this  subject  the  restored 
Church  teaches  with  the  apostle  Paul 
that  there  are  many  kingdoms  of  glory 
in  which  men  may  live,  each  in  a 
sphere  suited  to  his  nature,  disposition, 
and  the  degree  of  his  intelligence.  Paul 
taught  that  there  is  one  glory  of  the 
sun,  another  of  the  moon,  and  another 
of  the  stars,  and  that  men  will  exist  in 
varying  degrees  of  glory  in  the  here- 
after; that  as  the  stars  of  the  heavens 
differ  in  infinite  degrees  of  brightness, 
so  also  will  men,  in  their  future,  exist 
in  places  and  states  of  infinite  variety, 
corresponding  to  the  variations  of  their 
intelligence,  knowledge,  tastes,  ac- 
quirements, inclinations,  and  aspira- 
tions. 

Love  of  God  and  man 

In  Luke  10  we  read:  "Thou  shalt 
love  the  Lord  thy  God  .  .  .  with  all  thy 
mind."  (Luke  10:27.)  This  is  but  a 
part  of  Christ's  injunction,  but  seem- 
ingly a  part  not  often  stressed  either 
in  press  or  pulpit.  We  hear  often  of 
the  necessity  of  loving  God  with  all 


our  hearts  and  with  all  our  souls,  but 
there  was  a  purpose  in  his  including 
mind  in  his  instructions.  Any  person's 
conception  of  Deity  must  come  within 
his  mental  horizon,  which  is  deter- 
mined by  the  degree  of  his  intelligence. 
Man,  by  his  reasoning,  naturally  en- 
dows God  with  his  own  noblest  and 
highest  ideals,  which,  if  he  be  studious 
and  devout,  are  ever  growing.  Intellec- 
tual activity  produces  an  ever-changing, 
because  ever-growing,  concept  of  God. 
Once  the  mind  has  grasped  the  idea 
of  God,  it  will  burn  and  glow  and 
seek  to  assimilate  and  radiate,  to  adore, 
and  emulate.  This  love  of  God  by  the 
mind  of  man,  when  accompanied  by 
loving  him  with  heart  and  soul,  will 
light  the  pathway  to  salvation.  The 
Master  placed  love  of  God  and  of  fel- 
lowmen  as  paramount  to  all  divine 
commandments. 

Acceptance  of  gospel  principles 

All  Church  members,  then,  are  en- 
joined to  understand  and  accept  the 
principles  of  the  gospel,  of  which 
faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  para- 
mount. 

We  must  receive  its  saving  ordi- 
nances and  then  go  on  unto  perfection. 
Salvation  is  an  eternal  quest  for 
knowledge.  Man  cannot  be  saved  in 
ignorance.  It  is  more  than  a  philosophy 
of  life:  it  is  a  divine  plan  or  blueprint 
of  life — preexistent,  mortal,  and  post- 
mortal life. 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  a  re- 
vealed and  challenging  religion.  It 
calls  upon  all  men  to  cooperate  with 
God  in  an  effort  to  bring  to  pass  the 
immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man. 

We  firmly  declare  that  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  does  not  belong  simply 
to  an  antiquated  world  that  has 
passed  away;  it  is  a  real  and  power- 
ful force  in  our  world  here  and  now,  a 
force  that  invests  our  individual  lives 
with  meaning  and  purpose. 

Yes,  we  doubtless  are  in  many  ways 
a  peculiar  people,  a  different  people. 
We  do  not  claim  to  be  better  than 
any  other  people.  We  have  our  dif- 
ferences; we  have  our  difficulties;  we 
are  mortal.  But  we  do  claim  that  we 
have  a  mission,  and  therefore  we  have 


54 

Saturday,  April  5 

a  wide-ranging  missionary  system  that 
enables  people  throughout  the  world 
to  hear  the  message  of  the  restoration 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  To  the 
truth  of  that  message  I  humbly  bear 
my  own  witness  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown  of  the  First 
Presidency  has  just  spoken  to  us. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  sing 
"Glorious  Is  The  King."  Following  the 
singing  President  Alvin  R.  Dyer,  a 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


counselor  in  the  First  Presidency,  will 
speak  to  us. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  num- 
ber, "Glorious  Is  the  King." 


President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

To  those  who  have  just  tuned  in  on 
this  conference  we  extend  a  most 
hearty  welcome. 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer  of  the  First 
Presidency  will  now  address  us. 


PRESIDENT  ALVIN  R.  DYER 

Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


Once  again,  my  brothers  and  sisters, 
we  are  feeling  the  surge  and  influence 
of  this  great  conference  of  the  Church. 
I  am  grateful  with  you  that  President 
McKay  is  listening  and  watching  this 
broadcast. 

The  precepts  of  men 

The  prophet  Nephi  once  spoke  of 
the  woeful  condition  of  mankind  when 
deceived  by  the  precepts  of  men.  Said 
he: 

".  .  .  wo  be  unto  him  that  hearken- 
eth  unto  the  precepts  of  men,  and 
denieth  the  power  of  God,  and  the  gift 
of  the  Holy  Ghost!"  (2  Ne.  28:26.) 

The  Lord  has  warned  his  people  of 
the  penetration  of  evil  in  the  last  days, 
"seeking  to  destroy  the  souls  of  men." 
(D&C  10:27.) 

We  can  see  the  need  of  these  warn- 
ings in  the  evil  trends  that  are  de- 
teriorating man's  sense  of  decency  and 
moral  standards. 

The  divine  declaration,  which  gives 
unto  man  the  right  of  moral  agency  as 
once  declared — "Behold,  the  man  is 
become  as  one  of  us,  to  know  good  and 
evil"  (Gen.  3:22) — has  come  under 
question,  and  man  is  seeking  by  the 
concepts  of  men  to  destroy  moral 
agency  by  creating  what  they  have 
chosen  to  call  the  "new  morality."  If 
we  accept  the  evil  doctrines  of  slanted 
educational  programs,  we  will  witness 


a  breakdown  of  morals  that  could  bring 
about  a  depraved  new  social  order. 

The  "new  morality" 

The  "new  morality"  denies  distinc- 
tions between  right  or  wrong,  good  or 
evil,  substituting  a  code  that  decides 
the  right  or  wrong  of  behavior  accord- 
ing to  human  need,  regardless  of  what 
that  need  is  distorted  to  be. 

If  we  accept  the  teachings  of  this 
concept,  it  could  lead  to  a  society 
burdened  with  mass  control  based  upon 
principles  of  unrighteous  dominion 
over  the  individual.  It  is  well  known 
that  a  communistic  philosophy  would 
like  to  see  this  succeed  in  America  and 
throughout  the  world. 

Sex  education  programs 

These  deceptive  and  shadowed  ob- 
jectives of  well-propagandized  pro- 
grams are  moving  at  a  very  rapid  clip. 
The  first  to  which  I  refer  is  sex  educa- 
tion or  family  life  education,  which  is 
placing  emphasis  on  raw  sex  in  the 
school  classroom,  creating  widespread 
contention,  causing  deep  concern 
among  parents  and  leaders. 

The  programmers  of  this  type  of  sex 
education,  aware  of  resistance,  are 
fortified  with  worked-out  methods  to 
deal  with  parental  and  community 
opposition.  This  matter  needs  the 
serious  concern  of  an  aroused  public 


PRESIDENT  ALVIN  R.  DYER 


55 


to  deny  the  use  of  such  materials  and 
more  firmly  establish  sound  moral 
teachings  in  the  fields  of  physiology 
and  hygiene,  as  now  provided  by  pub- 
lic school  law. 

The  National  Education  Association 
and  American  Medical  Association's 
endorsement  of  a  maturation  educa- 
tional program  seems  to  have  stepped 
up  the  activity  of  such  organizations  as 
the  Sex  Information  and  Education 
Council  of  the  United  States  (known 
as  SIECUS)  and  the  School  Health 
Education  Studies  (known  as  SHES), 
with  others,  particularly  those  that  are 
integrated  in  family  life  education 
courses. 

With  ominous  precision,  reputable 
publishing  houses  are  competing  in 
this  untapped  market  with  expertly 
prepared  materials,  films,  and  teaching 
aids  of  all  sorts.  Herein,  because  of  its 
sensational  marketable  value,  is  a  for- 
midable danger. 

False  images  in  the  life  of  the  very 
young  will  result  from  their  idea  to 
teach  facts  of  reproduction  before  youth 
are  emotionally  involved.  The  mis- 
guided fostering  of  sex  education  in  the 
classroom  on  the  basis  that  it  will 
lessen  sex  ignorance  and  reduce  ille- 
gitimate pregnancy,  venereal  disease, 
and  related  problems  has  no  basis  for 
sound  conclusions.  Actual  experience 
has  proven  the  results  to  be  just  the 
opposite. 

Classroom  programs 

Based  on  the  slanted  experience  of 
foreign  countries,  whence  the  idea  has 
come,  infiltrations  into  the  classroom 
have  already  been  made  in  certain 
areas.  Others  have  it  under  study  and 
have  launched  pilot  programs.  Legis- 
lators throughout  the  country  are  being 
besieged  for  legislation  to  make  it  legal; 
some,  most  fortunately,  to  prevent  it. 

An  article  in  Look  magazine  tells  of 
sex  education  in  a  foreign  country,  in- 
ferring that  America  is  far  behind  in 
the  new  order.  This  article  contains 
perverted  concepts  of  morals  from 
those  who  would  fill  the  school  class- 
room with  a  complete  expose  of  sex. 
To  accomplish  this,  the  article  suggests 
the  need  of  a  welfare  state,  to  take  over 


certain  responsibilities  of  parents.  I 
quote: 

"The  welfare  state  has  taken  over 
many  economic  responsibilities  of  the 
parents.  We  are  all  becoming  that  kind 
of  society.  . .  .  You  can  spot  trends  that 
may  have  a  chance  to  become  domi- 
nant in  other  countries.  In  sex  educa- 
tion, there  are  some  local  programs 
that  are  very  good,  but  most  of  the 
United  States  has  nothing. 

"The  Contraceptive  Society  is  now 
here  and  can  be  pushed  back  as  little 
as  the  industrialized  society  and  the 
automobile."1 

The  "new  morality"  requires  that 
young  people  solve  their  own  sex  prob- 
lems without  the  help  of  teachers 
or  parents.  What  is  moral  and  what  is 
not  moral,  or  whether  morality  is  in- 
volved at  all,  is  to  be  decided  by  the 
student.  The  most  surprising  and 
devastating  of  all  is  the  effort  that  is 
being  made  to  isolate  sex  education  as 
being  completely  devoid  of  moral  re- 
sponsibility, fear,  inhibitions,  and 
emotional  restraints. 

"Whether  used  by  those  who  are 
skilled  or  unskilled,  any  teachings  that 
describe  and  illustrate  human  repro- 
ductive organs  and  their  functions,  and 
any  teachings  that  are  directly  counter 
to  standards  of  sexual  morality,  do  not 
harmonize  with  the  gospel,  and  the 
Church  is  therefore  opposed  to  such. 
They  are  void  of  respect  and  reverence 
for  the  opposite  sex,  life,  birth,  and 
parenthood. 

Results  in  other  countries 

We  can  measure  what  will  happen 
in  America  by  the  experience  and  re- 
sults in  other  countries  that  have  been 
saturated  with  sex  education  in  the 
school  classroom.  These  statistics  apply 
to  one  of  the  countries: 

85%  of  the  people  believe  in  sex 
relations  without  marriage. 

98%  have  had  premarital  relations.2 

50%  of  the  brides  who  kneel  at  the 
altar  are  pregnant  at  the  time.8 

The  majority  of  women  want  free 
and  unrestricted  abortions.4 

Concerning  venereal  disease,  caused 
no  doubt  by  the  impact  of  sex  educa- 
tion in  this  particular  country,  one 
report  reveals  the  fact  that  "gonorrhea 


56  GENERAL  O 

Saturday,  April  5 

and  syphilis  are  more  widespread  than 
in  any  other  civilized  country  in  the 
world."5  Another  report  simply  de- 
scribes it  as  "catastrophic."6  Yet  the 
programmers  of  sex  education  are 
trying  to  tell  us  that  it  will  curb 
venereal  disease. 

Illegitimate  births,  which,  according 
to  SIECUS  propaganda,  will  be  re- 
duced by  sex  education,  actually  in- 
creased by  nearly  50%  in  the  country 
referred  to.7 

To  claim  any  real  benefits  from  such 
a  system  would  not  only  need  a  so- 
called  "brain  washing"  from  the 
earliest  ages  up,  but  would  also  require 
individuals  to  make  choices  without 
recognizing  moral  consequences. 

Sensitivity  training 

Moving  forward  under  the  umbrella 
of  the  "new  morality"  is  sensitivity 
training,  which,  as  a  tool  to  shape 
human  behavior,  can  be,  and  is,  used 
to  ends  that  are  inconsistent  with  gos- 
pel principles.  Certain  methods  of 
sensitivity  training  develop  a  form  of 
induced  hysteria,  meant  to  break  down 
morals,  manners,  and  the  traditions  of 
civility.  Such  approaches  can  do  infi- 
nite harm,  especially  to  young  people. 

As  we  view  sensitivity  training  and 
other  group  psychology  designed  for 
interclass  communication  affecting  the 
character  and  personal  life  of  the  indi- 
vidual (such  as  is  done  in  T-group 
training,  group  dynamics,  auto-criti- 
cism, basic  encounter  group,  self- 
honesty  session,  and  human  potential 
workshop),  emphasizing  mass  or  con- 
sensus decision,  well  might  we  ask  the 
question,  What  has  happened  to  the 
unfortunate  individual? 

Personal  agency  jeopardized 

The  greatest  gift  from  God  unto  his 
children  is  that  of  personal  agency.  It 
is  the  foundation  of  spiritual  culture, 
the  principle  upon  which  our  Consti- 
tution was  founded,  and  is  the  under- 
lying obligation  of  our  school  system 
to  maintain,  yet  we  see  it  being  jeop- 
ardized in  the  teaching  methods  of 
sensitivity  training. 

There  are  three  main  points  of  the 
group  criticism  techniques  that  show 


Second  Day 

how  the  rights  of  the  individual  may 
be  submerged: 

1.  An  atmosphere  is  created  by  the 
participants  to  open  up  their  behavior 
to  the  examination  of  others.  This 
plays  down  self-reliance. 

2.  Steps  are  taken  to  unfreeze  or 
destroy  old  values,  which  have  been 
adhered  to  individually,  and  substitute 
mass  decisions,  which  yield  to  the 
strongest  personality  of  the  group. 

3.  Gradually  members  may  unlearn 
moral  reactions  and  then  experiment 
with  new  responses,  adopting  what 
they  call  the  "new  morality,"  which 
has  no  morals  in  it. 

We  hear  the  phrase,  "If  therapy  is 
good  for  people  in  trouble,  then  it  is 
bound  to  be  as  good  or  better  for  people 
who  function  well."  As  to  this,  I  would 
say,  woe  be  unto  the  medical  doctor 
who  would  prescribe  drugs  and  surgery 
for  the  hale  and  hearty. 

Group  criticism  sessions  are  sugges- 
tive of  methods  developed  by  Mao's 
Red  Guards,  where  participants  are 
exhorted  to  public  confession  and  are 
encouraged  to  denounce  one  another, 
all  for  the  purpose  of  breaking  the 
will.  One  thinks  also  of  Nazi  methods 
of  "strength  through  joy"  fun  and 
games.  Sensitivity  training  is  a  device 
used  throughout  Communist  countries. 

Church  methods  preserve  rights 

Sex  education  and  sensitivity  train- 
ing teaching  methods,  when  abusively 
used,  not  only  break  down  barriers  of 
privacy,  but  also  provide  the  tech- 
niques for  mass,  rather  than  personal, 
decision.  This  tends  to  destroy  the 
agency  of  man  and  is  therefore  evil  in 
concept. 

Church  behavioral  methods  such  as 
testimony  meetings,  priesthood  and 
missionary  report  meetings,  oral  evalu- 
ations, and  self-evaluations  and  con- 
fession emphasize  the  importance  of, 
and  preserve  the  rights  of,  the  indi- 
vidual. 

It  will  be  of  interest  to  know  that 
sensitivity  training  has  been  ruled  out 
as  a  teaching  method  in  our  Church 
institutes  and  seminaries. 

Flexibility  in  marriage  laws 
A  third  deadly  movement  that  is 


PRESIDENT  ALVIN  R.  DYER 


57 


surging  forward  anew,  to  become 
united  with  other  evil  forces,  is  that 
of  greater  flexibility  in  marriage  laws, 
which  attempt  to  liberalize  that  which 
is  already  immorally  liberal.  A  Min- 
istry of  Education's  medical  officer 
describes  unchastity  as  not  in  his  view 
unchaste,  as  associated  with  out-of- 
wedlock  immoral  activity. 

A  noted  judge  who  has  heard  some 
25,000  divorce  cases  tells  of  the  imma- 
turity of  many  early  marriages.  "If 
people,"  said  he,  "spent  as  much  time 
contemplating  marriage  as  they  do 
buying  a  car  or  a  house,  they  would  be 
better  off."  In  concluding  his  remarks, 
however,  he  suggests  a  period  of  "trial 
marriage,"  which  nullifies  his  proper 
advice.  Concerning  this  he  said:  "And 
there's  much  to  be  said  for  trial  mar- 
riage, especially  since  the  pill  is  in 
such  widespread  use."8 

Can  you  contemplate  with  me  the 
effects  of  a  trial  marriage  system  upon 
morals?  The  very  idea  of  it  fits  the 
"new  morality"  concept  and  becomes 
a  part  of  evil  principles  we  must  be 
alert  to. 

"Youth  for  alcohol"  movement 

The  "youth  for  alcohol"  movement 
is  gaining  momentum.  The  magazine 
Today's  Health,  published  by  the 
American  Medical  Association,  reports 
a  discussion  on  the  subject,  "Should 
Children  Be  Taught  to  Drink?"  All 
members  of  the  panel,  in  one  way  or 
another,  favored  the  introduction  of 
alcohol  in  the  life  of  youth,  even  at 
the  age  of  four  years,  as  a  prevention 
of  alcoholism. 

One  panelist  made  this  comment: 
"The  parent  has  the  responsibility  to 
provide  a  healthy  total  atmosphere  for 
the  child.  This  involves  a  lot  of  areas, 
including  alcohol."9 

It  must  be  obvious,  even  to  these 
noted  specialists,  that  such  a  program 
would  only  intensify  the  misery  that 
it  would  erroneously  try  to  correct. 

Opposition  to  evil  influences 

We  must  not  be  insensible  to  evil 
influences  that  are  being  thrust  upon 
us  by  the  perverted  principles  of  sex 
education,  sensitivity  training,  youth 


for  alcohol,  and  any  flexibilities  in 
the  sacredness  of  marriage,  which  are 
challenging  moral  decency  and  righ- 
teousness. We  must  unite  our  efforts, 
by  organized  parental  councils  with 
fathers  taking  part,  through  school 
boards,  textbook  committees,  and  prop- 
er legislation,  to  vigorously  oppose 
such  programming. 

May  we  be  reminded  of  the  prime 
role  that  parents  have  in  teaching  chil- 
dren principles  of  truth  and  right. 

From  divine  inspiration  have  come 
these  words  to  safeguard  us  indi- 
vidually: ".  .  .  let  virtue  garnish  thy 
thoughts  unceasingly;  then  shall  thy 
confidence  wax  strong  in  the  presence 
of  God."  (D&C  121:45.  Italics  added.) 

Pattern  of  gospel  laws 

The  Lord  has  told  us  to  live  by  the 
pattern  of  gospel  laws.  Said  he:  "And 
again,  I  will  give  unto  you  a  pattern 
in  all  things,  that  ye  may  not  be  de- 
ceived; for  Satan  is  abroad  in  the  land, 
and  he  goeth  forth  deceiving  the  na- 
tions." (D&C  52:14.) 

Let  us  be  mindful  of  these  prophetic 
words,  speaking  of  the  evil  one: 
". .  .  he  shall  speak  great  words  against 
the  most  high,  and  shall  wear  out  the 
saints  .  .  .  and  think  to  change  times 
and  laws."  (Dan.  7:25.) 

I  bear  testimony  to  the  fact  that  if 
we  will  keep  our  place  secure  in  the 
kingdom  of  God,  if  we  are  to  safe- 
guard our  children  against  the  evils  of 
the  day,  we  must  walk  in  paths  of 
righteousness  and  keep  close  to  that 
way  of  life  found  in  the  pattern  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Of  this  I  testify, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

FOOTNOTES 

!J.  Robert  Moskin,  "The  Contraceptive  Society," 
Look,  February  4,  1969,  p.  53. 
sIbid.,  p.  50. 

"US.  News  and  World  Report,  March  17,  1969. 
pp.  48ff. 
lLook,  op.  cit.,  p.  50. 
^American  Opinion,  March  1969. 
"US.  News  and  World  Report,  op.  cit. 
■'Ibid.,  p.  51. 

8Judge  Tom   Williams,  quoted   in  "Intelligence 
Report,"  Parade,  February  16,  1969,  p.  8. 
'Today's  Health,  February  1969,  pp.  46EF. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the 
number,  "God  So  Loved  the  World." 


58 

Saturday,  April  5 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer  of  the  First 
Presidency  has  just  spoken  to  us,  and 
he  was  followed  by  the  singing  of  "God 
So  Loved  The  World"  by  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir. 

Following  a  brief  organ  interlude 
the  Choir  and  congregation  will  join 
in  singing  "God  of  Our  Fathers  Whose 
Almighty  Hand." 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


After  an  organ  interlude  of  music, 
the  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "God 


Second  Day 

of  Our  Fathers  Whose  Almighty 
Hand." 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

For  the  benefit  of  those  of  the  tele- 
vision and  radio  audiences  who  have 
just  tuned  in,  we  again  announce  that 
we  are  gathered  in  the  historic  Taber- 
nacle on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake 
City  in  the  third  session  of  the  139th 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church. 

Elder  Gordon  B.  Hinckley  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  now  ad- 
dress us. 


ELDER  GORDON  B.  HINCKLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am 
acutely  aware  of  the  vast  congregation 
to  whom  I  speak  this  glorious  Easter 
time.  Humbly  I  seek  the  inspiration  of 
the  Holy  Spirit. 

Memorial  service  for 
Dwight  D.  Eisenhower 

With  millions  of  others  around  the 
world,  I  watched  last  Monday  the 
funeral  service  of  President  Dwight  D. 
Eisenhower. 

I  observed  the  pageantry  of  it — the 
solemn  pallbearers,  young  men  in  mili- 
tary uniform  representing  their  legions 
of  comrades  in  arms. 

I  listened  to  the  roar  of  the  guns — a 
final  salute  to  a  dedicated  soldier,  com- 
mander of  the  mightiest  military  ma- 
chine ever  assembled. 

I  noted  the  heads  of  state,  men  who 
had  gathered  from  the  far  reaches  of 
the  earth  to  honor  a  former  president 
of  the  United  States. 

All  of  this  was  proper,  and  befitting 
so  great  a  man.  But  as  I  looked  into 
the  faces  of  those  who  mourned,  I  saw 
in  my  mind's  eye,  through  and  above 
and  beyond  all  of  this,  the  matchless 
wonder  of  the  Son  of  God. 

Here  was  a  memorial  service  for 
one  of  the  leaders  of  the  earth,  an  hon- 
ored chief  of  state  and  a  respected 
military  commander.  For  those  who 
mourned  there  was  satisfaction  in  the 
assurance  of  a  great  life,  well  lived. 


But  comfort — that  comfort  all  seek  on 
such  occasions — came  only  from  the 
quiet  words,  the  example  of  the  simple 
life,  and  the  testimony  of  the  resur- 
rection of  the  Man  of  Peace,  he  who 
never  lifted  the  sword  of  war,  who 
never  ruled  as  head  of  state,  who 
walked  among  the  poor,  who  died  on 
the  cross  and  was  buried  in  a  borrowed 
tomb. 

We  were  told  that  General  Eisen- 
hower some  years  earlier,  in  approving 
the  plans  for  his  funeral,  had  requested 
that  the  music  and  sermons  be  on  a 
triumphant  note. 

That  wish  was  fulfilled. 

The  choir  in  the  great  cathedral  sang 
the  stirring  words  of  Luther's  moving 
hymn,  "A  Mighty  Fortress  Is  Our  God." 
They  repeated  the  peaceful  assurance 
of  the  twenty-third  Psalm,"The  Lord 
Is  My  Shepherd."  They  gave  voice  to 
the  battle  hymn  of  the  faithful,  "On- 
ward, Christian  Soldiers."  They  rever- 
ently sang  the  prayer  of  John  Henry 
Newman,  "Lead,  kindly  Light,  amid 
th'encircling  gloom;  Lead  thou  me  on!" 

The  sermon  included  the  majestic 
declaration  of  Jesus:  "...  I  am  the 
resurrection,  and  the  life:  he  that  be- 
lieveth  in  me,  though  he  were  dead,  yet 
shall  he  live:  And  whosoever  liveth 
and  believeth  in  me  shall  never  die." 
(John  11:25-26.) 

The  prayer,  spoken  in  concert  by 
the  congregation,  was  the  prayer  of  the 


ELDER  GORDON  B.  HINCKLEY 


59 


Lord:  "Our  Father  which  art  in  heaven, 
Hallowed  be  thy  name.  Thy  kingdom 
come.  Thy  will  be  done  in  earth,  as 
it  is  in  heaven."  (Matt.  6:9-10.) 

Preeminence  of  Jesus  of  Nazareth 

While  watching  that  service,  I 
reached  for  a  hook  and  read  this  state- 
ment from  Bruce  Barton: 

"I  talked  one  day,"  said  Mr.  Barton, 
"with  H.  G.  Wells  after  his  Outline 
of  History  had  appeared.  I  said: 

"  'You  have  stood  upon  a  mountain 
and  viewed  the  whole  panorama  of 
human  progress.  You  have  seen  the 
captains  and  the  kings,  the  princes 
and  the  prophets,  the  millionaires  and 
the  dreamers — all  the  billions  of  hu- 
man atoms  that  have  lived  and  loved 
and  struggled  for  their  little  hour  upon 
the  earth.  In  this  vast  army  what  heads 
arise  above  the  common  level?  Among 
all  those  who  have  fought  for  fame, 
who  have  actually  achieved  it?  What 
half  dozen  men  among  them  all  de- 
serve to  be  called  great?' 

"He  turned  the  question  over  in  his 
mind  for  a  day  or  two,  and  then  gave 
me  a  list  of  six  names.  . .  ." 

Jesus  of  Nazareth  led  that  list. 

Mr.  Barton  then  goes  on  to  say: 

"Think  of  the  thousands  of  emperors 
who  have  battled  for  fame,  who  have 
decreed  themselves  immortal,  and  fash- 
ioned their  immortality  into  monu- 
ments of  brick  and  stone.  .  .  .  Think 
of  the  hosts  who  have  struggled  for 
wealth,  fretting  over  figures,  denying 
their  generous  instincts,  cheating  and 
grasping  and  worrying."  (The  Man  No- 
body Knows,  pp.  174-75.) 

And  then,  I  should  like  to  add,  think 
of  Jesus,  who  walked  the  dusty  roads 
of  a  conquered,  vassal  state;  whose 
only  army  was  a  following  of  the  sick 
and  the  poor  and  the  outcast;  who  was 
dishonored  and  abused  by  the  rulers 
and  the  princes;  who  himself  carried 
the  cross  to  which  he  was  nailed;  for 
whose  burial  there  was  no  procession, 
but  only  a  hurrying  in  the  night  to  a 
borrowed  tomb. 

The  hope  of  immortality 

Men  are  born,  they  live  for  an  hour 
of  glory,  and  die.  Most  throughout 
their  lives  are  teased  by  various  hopes; 


and  among  all  the  hopes  of  men  in  all 
ages  of  time,  none  is  so  great  as  the 
hope  of  immortality. 

The  empty  tomb  that  first  Easter 
morning  brought  the  most  comforting 
assurance  that  can  come  into  man's 
heart.  This  was  the  affirmative  answer 
to  the  ageless  question  raised  by  Job, 
"If  a  man  die,  shall  he  live  again?" 
(Job  14:14.) 

Relevance  of  Jesus'  teachings 

While  seated  in  front  of  my  tele- 
vision screen  watching  the  funeral  of 
General  Eisenhower,  I  reflected  on  the 
wonder  of  the  quiet  man  of  Galilee, 
whose  life  and  teachings  have  ever- 
increasing  relevance  in  our  time — as 
great  a  relevance,  I  would  like  to  say, 
as  in  the  day  that  he  walked  the  earth. 

In  response  to  such  a  statement  as 
this  on  another  occasion,  a  straggly 
haired  young  intellectual  asked,  "What 
relevance?  Just  what  relevance  has 
Jesus  for  us?  Why,  he's  as  out-of-date 
as  the  Roman  legions  who  occupied 
Jerusalem  when  he  was  there." 

"Relevance?"  I  replied.  "Ask  my 
friends  who  tearfully  watched  the  body 
of  a  beloved  child  lowered  into  the 
grave.  Ask  my  neighbor  who  lost  her 
husband  in  an  accident.  Ask  the  fathers 
and  mothers  of  the  thousands  of  good 
young  men  who  have  died  in  the 
steaming  jungles  of  Vietnam.  He — the 
risen  Lord  Jesus  Christ — is  their  only 
comfort.  There  is  nothing  more  rele- 
vant to  the  cold,  stark  fact  of  death 
than  the  assurance  of  eternal  life." 

Testimony  of  infantryman 

I  am  reminded  of  the  young  infantry- 
man we  met  in  Vietnam.  He  was  to 
return  the  next  day  to  the  battle  line 
along  the  DMZ.  He  knew  what  he 
would  face  on  that  dreaded  tomorrow. 
He  said  quietly,  "I  guess  it  really  doesn't 
matter  whether  I  live  or  die.  Sure,  I 
love  life,  but  I  believe  the  life  ahead 
will  be  as  real  and  a  lot  better  than 
the  life  here."  He  continued,  "I  hope 
and  pray  that  I  will  live  to  return 
home;  but  if  it  should  be  otherwise,  I 
know  my  father  and  mother  will  un- 
derstand. You  see,  they  know  that  God 
lives.   They  know  that  Jesus  is  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


60 

Saturday,  April  5 

Christ.  They  know  that  life  is  eternal, 
as  do  I." 

Such  the  testimony  of  a  sensitive 
young  man  of  faith  who  walked  with 
death.  Such  the  hope  of  his  comrades 
in  their  brooding  hours  of  quiet 
thought. 

Faith  of  mother 

I  walked  one  day  through  the  great 
military  cemetery  on  the  outskirts  of 
Manila  in  the  Philippines.  There, 
standing  row  on  row  in  perfect  sym- 
metry, are  marble  crosses  marking  the 
graves  of  more  than  17,000  who  gave 
their  lives  to  the  cause  of  liberty.  Sur- 
rounding that  hallowed  ground  are 
two  great  marble  colonnades  on  which 
are  inscribed  the  names  of  more  than 
35,000  others  who  were  lost  in  combat 
and  whose  remains  were  never  found. 
I  read  the  words  chiseled  in  stone, 
"Comrades  in  arms  whose  resting  place 
is  known  only  to  God." 

I  walked  the  quiet  corridor  and  saw 
among  the  multitude  of  names  that 
of  a  boy  who  grew  up  not  far  from 
me.  He  had  played  ball  and  laughed 
and  danced  and  studied.  He  had  gone 
off  to  war.  His  plane  was  last  seen 
falling  in  flames  somewhere  in  the  vast 
area  of  the  South  Pacific.  His  mother 
wept  in  sorrow.  Her  hair  turned  to 
gray  and  then  to  white.  But  radiant 
through  all  her  tragedy  has  been  a 
sublime  and  quiet  faith  that  she  shall 
meet  and  know  and  love  her  son 
again. 

As  I  stood  before  that  name  en- 
graved in  marble,  there  came  into  my 
mind  these  great  words  of  the  Lord: 

"Thou  shalt  live  together  in  love, 
insomuch  that  thou  shalt  weep  for  the 
loss  of  them  that  die.  .  .  . 

".  .  .  [but]  those  that  die  in  me 
shall  not  taste  of  death,  for  it  shall  be 
sweet  unto  them."  (D&C  42:45-46.) 

The  master  of  life 

This,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  the 
assurance  of  Easter.  This  is  the  promise 
of  the  risen  Lord.  This  is  the  relevance 
of  Jesus  to  a  world  in  which  all  must 
die.  But  there  is  further  and  more  im- 
mediate relevance.  As  he  is  the  con- 
queror of  death,  so  also  is  he  the  master 


Second  Day 

of  life.  His  way  is  the  answer  to  the 
troubles  of  the  world  in  which  we  live. 

I  return  to  my  reflections  while  wit- 
nessing President  Eisenhower's  funeral. 
On  that  occasion  I  reached  for  another 
book,  a  book  written  by  the  general 
himself.  I  read  a  statement  he  made 
in  1953  concerning  the  future  of  our 
troubled  world.  Said  he:  "The  worst 
to  be  feared  and  the  best  to  be  expected 
can  be  simply  stated: 

"The  worst  is  atomic  war. 

"The  best  would  be  this:  A  life  of 
perpetual  fear  and  tension;  a  burden 
of  arms  draining  the  wealth  and  the 
labor  of  all  people;  a  wasting  of 
strength  that  defies  .  .  .  any  system  to 
achieve  true  abundance  and  happiness 
for  the  peoples  of  this  earth.  .  .  . 

"It  calls  upon  them  to  answer  the 
question  that  stirs  the  hearts  of  all 
sane  men:  Is  there  no  other  way  the 
world  may  live?  .  .  ."  (From  the  jacket 
of  Mandate  for  Change.) 

There  is  a  way,  if  men  will  subdue 
their  hearts  to  seek  it. 

Example  of  miraculous  contrast 

The  simple  answer — the  only  an- 
swer— is  found  in  the  words  and  life 
of  the  immortal  Son  of  God.  I  thought 
of  the  power  of  that  teaching  on  a 
December  day  in  1956  when  tanks 
were  rolling  down  the  streets  of  Buda- 
pest and  students  were  being  slaugh- 
tered with  machine-gun  fire.  I  was 
in  Switzerland  at  the  time.  I  stood  that 
December  day  in  the  railroad  station 
in  Bern.  At  eleven  o'clock  in  the 
morning  every  church  bell  in  Switzer- 
land began  to  ring,  and  at  the  conclu- 
sion of  that  ringing  every  vehicle 
stopped — every  car  on  the  highway, 
every  bus,  every  railroad  train.  That 
great,  cavernous  station  became  deathly 
still.  I  looked  out  the  door  across  the 
plaza.  Men  working  on  the  hotel  on 
the  other  side  of  the  street  stood  on  the 
scaffolding  with  bared  heads.  Every 
bicycle  stopped,  and  every  man  and 
woman  and  child  dismounted  and  stood, 
hatless  and  bowed.  Then,  after  three 
minutes  of  reverent  pause,  trucks,  great 
convoys  of  them,  began  to  roll  from 
Geneva,  across  Austria  to  the  Hun- 
garian border,  laden  with  supplies — 


ELDER  GORDON  B.  HINCKLEY 


61 


food,  clothing,  and  medicine.  The  gates 
of  Switzerland  were  thrown  open  to 
refugees.  As  I  stood  there  that  Decem- 
ber morning,  I  could  not  help  marvel- 
ing at  the  miraculous  contrast — the 
devilish  oppressive  power  of  those  who 
were  snuffing  out  the  sparks  of  free- 
dom on  the  streets  of  Budapest,  in  con- 
trast with  the  spirit  of  the  Christian 
people  of  Switzerland  who  bowed  their 
heads  in  reverence  and  then  rolled  up 
their  sleeves  to  provide  succor  and 
refuge. 

Thanks  be  to  God  for  the  relevance 
of  Jesus  to  the  problems  of  our  time. 

Way  to  improve  world 

It  has  been  said  that  history  is  only 
the  story  of  private  lives.  If  we  would 
improve  the  world  in  which  we  live, 
we  must  first  improve  the  lives  of  the 
people.  Conversion  is  never  a  mass 
process.  It  is  an  individual  thing.  The 
behavior  of  the  masses  is  the  behavior 
of  individuals. 

It  was  said  of  old  that  as  a  man 
"thinketh  in  his  heart,  so  is  he."  (Prov. 
23:7.)  The  wonderful  miracle  of  our 
day,  as  of  all  time,  is  the  fact  that 
men,  when  properly  motivated,  can 
and  do  change  their  lives. 

It  is  reported  that  when  Clinton  T. 
Duffey  became  the  warden  at  the  San 
Quentin  Prison  and  initiated  reform 
procedures,  he  was  chided  by  a  radio 
commentator  who  said,  "Mr.  Duffey, 
you  should  know  that  leopards  don't 
change  their  spots."  Duffey  replied, 
"You  should  know  I  don't  work  with 
leopards.  I  work  with  men,  and  men 
change  every  day." 

President  David  O.  McKay  has  said 
that  the  purpose  of  the  gospel  is  to 
make  evil-minded  men  good  and  good 
men  better. 

One  of  the  complaints  of  the  young 
pot  smokers  and  drug  takers  who  are 
seeking  escape  from  reality  is  that  the 
world  has  become  intolerably  imper- 
sonal. If  this  be  the  problem,  the  an- 
swer is  not  the  kind  of  escape  in  which 
they  waste  their  lives.  The  solution  lies 
in  implementing  the  transcendent 
teachings  of  the  Son  of  God,  who  more 
than  any  other  that  ever  walked  the 
earth  gave  dignity  and  worth  to  the 
individual.  He  declared  us  each  to  be 


a  child  of  the  living  God,  endowed 
with  a  divine  birthright,  capable  of 
eternal  achievement.  Who,  I  ask,  pos- 
sessed of  such  conviction,  would  seek 
relief  in  the  euphoria  of  debilitating 
drugs?  There  is  a  better  way  to  improve 
the  world,  to  ease  suffering,  to  en- 
hance the  quality  of  man's  life. 

Power  of  example 

A  wise  man  once  declared  that  every 
great  institution  is  but  the  lengthened 
shadow  of  a  great  man  or  woman. 

As  an  instance,  who  can  discount 
the  tremendous  good  accomplished  by 
the  Red  Cross?  Behind  this  vast  inter- 
national organization  stands  the  frail 
figure  of  the  Christ-inspired  English 
girl,  Florence  Nightingale,  who  walked 
among  the  death-haunted  hospital 
wards  of  the  Crimea  bringing  cleanli- 
ness, comfort,  and  hope  and  cheer  to 
thousands  of  suffering  men? 

Is  there  relevancy  in  Jesus  for  our 
time?  The  world  never  needed  more 
urgently  the  power  of  his  example; 
the  world  never  needed  more  desper- 
ately the  vitality  of  his  teachings. 

Our  young  friends  of  the  psychedelic 
crowd  clamor  for  love  as  the  solution 
to  the  world's  problems.  Their  expres- 
sion may  sound  genuine,  but  their  coin 
is  counterfeit.  Too  often  the  love  of 
which  they  speak  is  at  best  only  hollow 
mummery;  at  worst  it  deteriorates  into 
a  lascivious  eroticism.  On  the  other 
hand,  the  love  of  Jesus  was  a  thing  of 
courage  so  much  needed  in  our  time. 
It  was  the  love  that  embraced  all  men 
as  the  children  of  God;  it  was  the  love 
that  turned  the  other  cheek;  it  was 
the  love  spoken  from  the  cross  in 
undying  words,  "Father,  forgive  them; 
for  they  know  not  what  they  do." 
(Luke  23:34.) 

The  hope  of  mankind 

This  is  Easter.  This  is  the  season 
when  we  commemorate  the  most  im- 
portant event  in  human  history.  Mil- 
lions upon  millions  through  the  ages 
have  testified  through  the  goodness  of 
their  lives  and  the  strength  of  their 
courage  of  the  reality  of  that  event. 

To  these  testimonies  we  add  our  wit- 
ness that  we  know  that  he  was  the  Son 


62 

Saturday,  April  5 

of  God,  born  in  Bethlehem  of  Judea, 
who  walked  the  earth  as  the  promised 
Messiah,  who  was  lifted  up  upon  the 
cross,  who  gave  his  life  as  an  atoning 
sacrifice  for  the  sins  of  mankind,  our 
Savior,  our  Redeemer,  the  one  sure 
hope  of  mankind,  the  Resurrection  and 
the  Life. 

God  bless  us  with  increased  faith  in 
these  great  truths,  I  humbly  pray  in 
his  holy  name,  even  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  Gordon  B.  Hinckley  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  sing 
"Sleepers,  Wake,  for  Night  Is  Flying," 
following  which  there  will  be  a  brief 
organ  interlude. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  num- 
ber, "Sleepers,  Wake,  for  Night  Is 
Flying,"  following  which  there  was  an 
organ  interlude. 

The  Choir  then  sang  "We  Bow  Our 
Head  in  Reverence,"  and  "More  Holi- 
ness Give  Me." 


President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

We  welcome  those  of  the  television 
and  radio  audiences  who  have  just 
joined  us  in  the  proceedings  of  this 
conference. 

Our  concluding  speaker  will  be 
Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  MARK 

Of  the  Council 

We  Latter-day  Saints  believe  in  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  who  died  for  us  all 
and  was  raised  the  third  day  after- 
ward, in  a  physical,  bodily  resur- 
rection. We  believe  that  he  has  given 
us  a  way  of  life  that  will  bring  joy  and 
happiness  to  all  who  truly  follow  him. 

But  without  obedience  to  his  laws, 
we  cannot  hope  to  receive  his  blessings. 

The  law  of  chastity 

I  wish  at  this  time  to  refer  to  one 
of  his  divine  statutes,  which  is  binding 
upon  all  mankind,  but  which  is  widely 
disregarded.  It  is  that  pertaining  to 
our  moral  conduct. 

Humanity  will  rise  or  fall  through 
its  attitude  toward  the  law  of  chastity. 
If  the  world  will  honor  virtue,  it  can 
expect  to  receive  God's  blessings;  but 
if  it  persists  in  the  practice  of  sodomy, 
adultery,  and  other  perversions,  it  can 
expect  only  destruction,  for  the  wage 
of  sin  is  death. 

It  is  this  awesome  fact  that  should 
frighten  at  least  the  Christian  world 
into  a  realization  that  we  are  being 
hurled  into  an  abyss  of  moral  degra- 
dation. 


E.  PETERSEN 

of  the  Twelve 

The  so-called  sex  revolution  is  de- 
stroying us. 

In  a  recent  edition  of  the  Sacramento 
Union,  an  editorial  warned  that  the 
stench  of  moral  decay  has  become 
intolerable.  It  called  for  a  reestablish- 
ment  of  the  divine  code  of  chastity 
before  everything  is  lost. 

The  Chicago  Tribune  recently  re- 
ported that  venereal  infection  is  now 
the  nation's  leading  communicable 
disease,  which  is  another  index  to  the 
extent  of  our  moral  breakdown.  Three 
thousand  new  cases  of  this  dreadful 
plague  are  contracted  in  America  every 
day,  more  than  half  of  them  among 
teenagers. 

Standards  of  right  and  wrong 

As  people  change  their  standards  of 
right  and  wrong,  they  begin  to  sup- 
pose that  what  was  sin  a  generation 
ago  is  no  longer  so,  that  standards  are 
relative  things  that  may  be  altered  at 
will  through  usage  and  desire,  and 
that  old-fashioned  goodness  now  has 
turned  into  priggishness. 

Many  actually  seem  to  think  that 
the  popular  trend  is  what  determines 


ELDER  MARK 

right  or  wrong,  and  that  moral  values 
change  with  public  sentiment. 

A  mother  recently  wrote  to  a  medi- 
cal doctor  who  conducts  a  newspaper 
column  and  asked  whether  she  should 
provide  her  daughter  with  a  supply  of 
"the  pill"  as  she  left  to  attend  a  board- 
ing school.  In  writing  to  the  doctor,  the 
mother  said: 

"Personally  I  don't  approve  of  sexual 
relations  outside  of  marriage,  but  I 
wonder  if  I  should  be  realistic  and 
supply  my  daughter  with  birth  control 
pills,  just  in  case." 

Can  any  mother  in  her  right  mind 
take  such  a  position?  Has  the  writer 
of  this  letter  never  taught  her  daughter 
the  Lord's  law  of  chastity?  Why  does 
she  dread  pregnancy  but  apparently 
have  no  great  aversion  to  her  daugh- 
ter's loss  of  virtue? 

Was  this  girl  never  taught  about  her 
bodily  functions  in  the  sanctity  of  a 
good  home? 

Teaching  the  facts  of  life 

All  children  need  to  be  taught  the 
facts  of  life,  but  where  that  teaching  is 
to  be  given  has  become  a  source  of 
great  controversy.  Should  it  be  pro- 
vided publicly  or  in  the  privacy  of  the 
home? 

Is  it  wise  to  give  it  openly  in  such 
a  way  as  to  create  a  desire  for  corrup- 
tion? 

Is  it  to  be  merged  with  the  so-called 
sex  revolution  that  already  has  brought 
about  the  greatest  moral  decline  in 
our  age,  with  a  plague  of  social  disease 
in  its  wake?  Or  can  it  more  properly 
be  used  to  teach  a  nation  chastity  and 
sobriety? 

Have  you  ever  asked  yourselves  why 
this  sudden  urge  to  teach  sex  in  a 
public  way?  Is  someone  afraid  that  the 
rising  generation  will  not  know  how 
to  reproduce  itself,  and  that  the  race 
thereby  may  die  out? 

How  is  it  that  we  ourselves  were 
brought  into  existence?  Our  parents 
received  none  of  this  kind  of  teach- 
ing when  they  went  to  school. 

Think  of  the  hundreds  of  genera- 
tions that  have  preceded  us  on  the 
earth.  Is  it  by  some  great  miracle  that 
they  ever  saw  the  light  of  day,  since 


E.  PETERSEN  63 

many  of  their  parents  never  went  to 
any  kind  of  school,  public  or  other- 
wise, and  certainly  had  none  of  the 
instruction  now  being  proposed? 

And  what  of  those  people  who  are 
concerned  about  overpopulation?  They 
think  we  will  run  out  of  food  if  we  do 
not  control  the  birth  rate.  We  may 
yet  need  a  top-level  conference  of  the 
advocates  of  sex  education  and  the  pro- 
ponents of  birth  control  to  see  whether 
we  shall  become  extinct  because  they 
think  too  few  people  know  how  to  re- 
produce themselves,  or  whether  we 
shall  starve  to  death  because  too  many 
people  know  how  to  reproduce  them- 
selves. 

Safeguards  in  sex  instruction 

Who  is  competent  to  give  wholesome 
sex  instruction  to  our  children  with- 
out creating  lust  in  their  minds? 

I  would  like  to  say,  with  all  the 
emphasis  at  my  command,  that  the 
proper  teaching  of  sex  requires  also 
the  teaching  of  complete  chastity, 
whether  that  instruction  is  given  in 
the  home,  the  school,  or  the  church. 
To  do  otherwise  is  nothing  less  than 
suicidal.  To  ignore  chastity  in  such 
instruction  can  transform  it  into  a 
course  in  youthful  sex  experimentation. 

The  experience  of  some  European 
countries  clearly  confirms  the  fact  that 
public  sex  education  increases  promis- 
cuity, and  as  promiscuity  is  multiplied, 
venereal  disease  spreads  like  wildfire. 

In  all  fairness  to  the  children,  we 
must  not  teach  them  the  mechanics 
of  reproduction  without  also  empha- 
sizing to  them  the  safeguard  that  the 
Almighty  has  placed  about  it,  that  is, 
that  the  use  of  sex  is  to  be  confined 
completely  and  exclusively  within  the 
bonds  of  sacred  marriage.  No  free  sex 
is  permitted  by  him.  In  his  law, 
promiscuity  is  adulterous. 

The  whole  point  of  sex  education 
will  be  missed  unless  we  teach  chastity 
as  a  major  part  of  it. 

Co-creators  with  God 

God  made  sex,  but  not  for  enter- 
tainment. It  was  provided  for  a  di- 
vinely appointed  act  of  creation  in 
which  we,  to  this  extent,  become  co- 
creators  with  him. 


64  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  5 

If  we  fail  to  teach  this,  we  defeat 
the  whole  purpose  of  sex  education. 

When  schools  are  prevented  from 
teaching  anything  of  a  spiritual  nature, 
they  are  thereby  disqualified  from 
teaching  sex  at  all,  for  in  its  very  na- 
ture, sex  is  spiritual  and  inseparably 
connected  with  the  creative  work  of 
God. 

We  are  not  animals,  to  dwell  only 
in  a  physical  world.  We  are  the  off- 
spring of  God,  learning  in  this  life  to 
become  like  him. 

He  decreed  that  human  beings  never 
shall  indulge  in  sex  outside  of  holy 
matrimony,  which  he  himself  insti- 
tuted. This  is  his  definition  of  chastity. 
This  is  what  he  requires  of  every  man 
and  every  woman. 

That  is  why,  on  the  fiery  slopes  of 
Mt.  Sinai,  he  declared:  "Thou  shalt 
not  commit  adultery."  (Exod.  20:14.) 

That  is  why,  in  his  Sermon  on  the 
Mount,  the  Savior  taught  that  anyone 
who  even  looks  upon  another  with 
lust  has  committed  adultery  in  his 
heart. 

Place  for  sex  education 

Sex  education  belongs  in  the  home, 
where  parents  can  teach  chastity  in  a 
spiritual  environment  as  they  reveal 
the  facts  of  life  to  their  children.  There, 
in  all  plainness,  the  youngsters  can  be 
taught  that  procreation  is  part  of  the 
creative  work  of  God  and  that,  there- 
fore, the  act  of  replenishing  the  earth 
must  be  kept  on  the  high  plane  of 
personal  purity  that  God  provides,  free 
from  all  forms  of  perversion. 

Unskilled  parents  can  learn  to  teach 
their  children  properly.  In  fact,  God 
commands  it,  and  who  are  we  to  dis- 
obey? Why  do  some  attempt  to  super- 
sede the  parents  instead  of  teaching 
them  how  to  fulfill  their  responsibility? 

Casualties  from  immorality 

Another  evidence  of  the  effect  of 
our  declining  morals  comes  from  Viet- 
nam. Each  week  we  count  our  war 
casualties.  They  are  listed  as  killed, 
wounded,  and  missing.  These  reports 
are  most  sobering,  and  wring  the 
hearts  of  loved  ones  who  had  hoped 


Second  Day 

so  fervently  that  such  a  loss  would 
never  come  to  them. 

But  there  are  other  casualties  that 
are  seldom  mentioned,  casualties 
which  should  stagger  this  nation  and 
compel  every  man  who  enters  the 
service  to  pause  and  consider  their 
causes  and  consequences. 

These  casualties  are  not  the  flower 
of  America,  shot  down  in  defense  of 
our  flag.  They  are  innocent  babies 
born  as  the  offspring  of  adulterous 
relationships  between  some  of  our 
soldiers  and  the  women  of  the  Orient. 

Medical  men  warn  of  the  skyrocket- 
ing rise  of  venereal  disease  in  our 
armed  forces,  and  it  is  certainly  some- 
thing to  fear.  But  what  of  the  innocent 
children  born  from  illicit  relationships? 

No  one  knows  exactly  how  many  of 
these  children  are  now  living  in  Viet- 
nam. The  figure  may  run  well  beyond 
the  50,000  mark.  In  Japan  there  are 
more  than  20,000  mixed-bloods  fa- 
thered by  U.S.  servicemen.  Other 
thousands  of  such  illegitimates  are  in 
Thailand,  Korea,  and  Taiwan. 

Nearly  all  have  been  abandoned  by 
their  fathers,  who  sought  momentary 
thrills,  as  they  supposed,  by  cohabiting 
with  Oriental  women,  not  thinking 
that  their  own  flesh  and  blood — born 
of  these  illicit  unions — would  become 
abandoned  orphans,  shunned  by  nearly 
all  who  see  them.  In  Vietnam  these 
unfortunates  roam  the  streets,  un- 
wanted, uncared  for,  begging  for  a 
living. 

It  is  said  that  one  in  every  ten  Amer- 
ican soldiers  fathers  a  child  by  an 
Asian  woman. 

Who  has  the  right  to  beget  illegiti- 
mate children? 

Who  has  the  right  to  take  the  virtue 
of  an  Asian  or  any  other  girl,  or  to 
lose  his  own? 

Which  American — at  home  or 
abroad — has  the  right  to  abandon  his 
own  flesh  and  blood  and  forget  that 
his  illegitimate  child  ever  existed? 

Can  God  bless  America? 

Can  the  God  of  heaven,  who  holds 
us  all  accountable  for  our  sins,  over- 
look this  wickedness? 

Of  what  good  are  national  days  of 
prayer  if  we  do  not  support  our  prayers 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


65 


by  our  good  works?  Will  God 
strengthen  the  arms  of  fighting  men 
who  desecrate  his  most  holy  laws?  Will 
he  prosper  a  nation  that  apparently 
condones  these  illicit  practices  and 
does  little  more  than  provide  prophy- 
lactics to  men  who  indulge? 

Are  these  fathers  so  lacking  in  natu- 
ral affection  that  they  are  willing  to 
completely  forget  and  ignore  their  own 
offspring  in  a  foreign  land? 

We  sing,  almost  tearfully  at  times, 
"God  Bless  America."  But  we  are  al- 
most constrained  to  ask:  How  can  he? 

The  venereal  disease  rate  in  our  war 
areas  is  frightening  in  the  extreme.  We 
welcome  our  boys  home  as  conquer- 
ing heroes,  but  some  of  them  bring 
back  a  plague  of  venereal  disease, 
which  can  destroy  them. 

Venereal  disease  is  a  killer.  It  also 
maims,  causes  heart  trouble,  insanity, 
and  blindness.  It  destroys  homes, 
spreads  corruption  to  innocent  wives, 
and  blights  the  lives  of  helpless 
children. 

God  a  significant  presence 

Some  people  justify  their  immorality 
by  saying  that  restrictions  against  it 
are  merely  religious  rules  that  have  no 
meaning  any  longer  because  there 
really  isn't  any  God. 

Thoughtful  people  now  recognize  the 
existence  of  Deity  more  than  ever  be- 
fore. Persons  of  genuine  intellect,  the 
true  researchers,  the  great  philosophers, 
and  the  outstanding  educators  not  only 
acknowledge  him,  but  they  also  wor- 
ship him. 

It  is  the  selfish  element  in  the  world 
that  no  longer  accepts  Deity.  And 
why?  Because  they  do  not  want  to  be 
interrupted  in  their  ingrown  pursuits 
and  are  so  involved  in  their  personal 
desires,  passions,  appetites,  and  lusts 
that  they  have  no  room  left  for  sacred 
things.  Therefore,  in  their  selfishness 
they  reject  or  ignore  God. 

To  the  true  realist,  God  is  a  signifi- 
cant presence  who  guides  the  ultimate 
destiny  of  the  world.  But  let  us  never 
forget  that  one  of  his  most  basic  laws 
concerns  morality. 

Moral  law  irrevocable 

That  law  is  irrevocable  and  inescap- 


able and  applies  to  all,  whether  we 
believe  in  God  or  not.  Everyone  is 
subject  to  its  penalties,  no  matter  how 
they  may  try  to  ignore  them.  The  wage 
of  sin  is  death — even  to  the  unbeliever! 

Immorality  is  next  to  murder  in 
God's  category  of  crime,  and  always 
brings  in  its  wake  both  destruction  and 
remorse,  even  to  college  students  who 
carry  the  pill  with  a  mother's  consent. 

This  nation  was  built  upon  a  founda- 
tion of  morality  and  spirituality.  It  is 
just  possible  that  a  rejection  of  these 
basic  factors  may  bring  about  its  fall. 
It  was  so  with  Greece  and  Rome.  It 
can  happen  to  us  unless  we  repent. 

Every  one  of  us  would  do  well  to 
remember  that  the  "mills  of  the  Gods 
grind  slowly,  but  they  grind  exceed- 
ing small."  No  one  can  flout  the  divine 
law  with  impunity. 

Every  right-thinking  person  should 
be  willing  even  to  die  if  necessary  in 
defense  of  virtue,  whether  that  death 
be  physical  or  social. 

"Thou  shalt  not  commit  adultery" 
will  forever  stand  as  an  immutable 
law  to  all  human  beings.  This  genera- 
tion may  rationalize  itself  into  com- 
plete intoxication  with  sin  and  proclaim 
to  high  heaven  that  it  is  old-fashioned 
to  be  clean,  but  it  will  yet  wake  up  to 
the  stern  reality  that  God  does  not 
change  and  that  the  moral  laws  are  his 
and  not  man's  to  shift  with  every 
whim. 

Adultery  next  to  murder 

Adultery  is  still  next  to  murder  in 
the  Lord's  category  of  crime. 

Homosexuality  was  made  a  capital 
crime  in  the  Bible. 

It  was  the  Almighty  who  decreed 
that  men  and  women  must  cover  their 
nakedness  by  wearing  proper  and 
modest  clothing. 

No  amount  of  rationalizing  can 
change  God's  laws.  No  amount  of 
fashion  designing  can  turn  immodesty 
into  virtue,  and  no  amount  of  popu- 
larity can  change  sin  into  righteousness. 

Once  again  we  Latter-day  Saints  af- 
firm the  reality  of  the  existence  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Once  again,  as  his  hum- 
ble servants,  we  define  his  law  of 
personal  purity,  and  solemnly  declare 


66 

Saturday,  April  5 

that  sex  sin  is  an  abomination  in  the 
sight  of  God. 

No  one  on  earth  can  ever  cancel  the 
divine  command  that  says,  "Thou  shalt 
not  commit  adultery." 

To  this  I  humbly  testify  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Following  Elder  Petersen's  address, 
the  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  "Rejoice 
the  Lord  Is  King." 


President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

We  are  indeed  grateful  for  the 
warm  response  of  the  managers  and 
operators  of  over  250  television  and 
radio  stations  in  offering  their  facili- 
ties as  a  public  service  to  make  the 
proceedings  of  this  conference  avail- 
able to  millions  throughout  many  areas 
of  the  world. 

Through  special  arrangements  of  the 
Armed  Forces  radio  and  television  net- 
work, this  session  is  being  televised  to 


Second  Day 

bases  of  the  Armed  Forces  throughout 
the  Pacific  and  heard  by  radio  in 
Vietnam. 

We  appreciate  the  attendance  here 
of  our  educators,  national  and  local 
government  officials,  Church  officials, 
and  all  visitors  and  members  who  have 
attended  this  service  this  morning. 

We  shall  conclude  this  session  of  the 
conference  with  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
singing  "Crossing  the  Bar." 

Following  the  singing  the  benedic- 
tion will  be  pronounced  by  Elder 
Robert  Christian  Seamons,  president 
of  the  Glendale  Stake,  and  the  confer- 
ence will  stand  adjourned  until  2:00 
this  afternoon. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  "Cross- 
ing the  Bar." 

The  benediction  was  given  by  Presi- 
dent Robert  C.  Seamons  of  the  Glen- 
dale Stake. 


The  conference  was  adjourned  until 
2  o'clock  p.m. 


SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


FOURTH  SESSION 

Conference  reconvened  at  2  p.m. 
Saturday,  April  5,  with  President  Alvin 
R.  Dyer,  counselor  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, conducting  the  services. 

The  singing  for  this  session  was  fur- 
nished by  the  Primary  Children's 
Chorus,  consisting  of  402  children  from 
402  wards  in  47  stakes  of  the  Church. 
Judith  Wirthlin  Parker  conducted  the 
chorus.  Elder  Roy  M.  Darley  was  at 
the  organ. 

President  Dyer  made  the  following 
introductory  remarks: 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

President  McKay  is  viewing  these 
services  by  television  from  his  apart- 


ment. He  has  asked  me  to  conduct 
these  services,  and  to  extend  his  warm- 
est greetings  to  all  present  here,  and 
to  all  those  who  are  listening  in. 

For  the  information  of  our  television 
and  radio  audience,  we  are  pleased  to 
announce  that  we  are  assembled  in  the 
historic  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square 
in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  in  the  fourth 
session  of  the  139th  Annual  Conference 
of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints. 

This  morning's  session,  in  addition 
to  being  broadcast  direct,  was  video- 
taped for  release  to  many  television 
stations  tomorrow  morning  in  the  east- 
ern and  central  parts  of  the  United 
States. 

The  sessions  of  this  conference  are 
being  televised,  and  will  be  received  by 


ELDER  JOSEPH  ANDERSON 


67 


many  people  in  color  in  the  United 
States  and  Canada  over  most  stations 
cooperating  to  provide  the  extensive 
coverage  of  this  conference. 

Both  of  the  sessions  today  will  be  re- 
broadcast  over  KSL  Radio,  KIRO  Radio 
at  Seattle,  KMBZ  at  Kansas  City,  Mis- 
souri, and  WRFM  Radio  at  New  York 
City,  Sunday  morning  starting  at  mid- 
night. 

The  singing  for  this  afternoon's  ses- 
sion will  be  furnished  by  the  Primary 
Children's  Chorus,  consisting  of  402 
children  from  402  wards  of  47  Stakes 
of  the  Church.  Judith  Wirthlin  Parker 
will  conduct  the  chorus,  and  Roy  M. 
Darley  is  at  the  organ. 

We  are  very  pleased  to  have  this 
Children's  Chorus  from  so  many  stakes 
present  and  participating  in  these 
services.  We  realize  the  energy  and 
efforts  that  have  been  put  forth  by  the 
parents  and  teachers  alike  in  order  to 
train  and  prepare  these  fine  children 
to  come  here  and  inspire  us  with  their 
presence  and  sweet  singing.  We  wel- 
come you  children  and  teachers  with 
heartfelt  appreciation. 

We  shall  begin  this  service  by  the 
Primary  Children's  Chorus  singing, 
"Come,  Ye  Children,  Sweetly  Singing," 
following  which  the  invocation  will  be 
offered  by  Elder  Duane  A.  Frandsen, 
president  of  the  Carbon  Stake. 


President  Duane  A.  Frandsen  of  the 
Carbon  Stake  offered  the  opening 
prayer. 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

The  invocation  was  just  offered  by 
Elder  Duane  A.  Frandsen,  president  of 
the  Carbon  Stake. 

The  Primary  Children's  Chorus  will 
now  favor  us  with  a  medley  of  chil- 
dren's songs:  "To  Think  About  Jesus," 
"The  Sacred  Grove,"  "The  Priesthood 
Is  Restored,"  and  "I  Know  My  Father 
Lives." 


The  Primary  Children's  Chorus  sang 
a  medley  of  children's  songs. 


The  Primary  Children's  Chorus  sang 
the  number,  "Come,  Ye  Children, 
Sweetly  Singing." 


President  Dyer 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the 
Conference,  will  read  for  your  informa- 
tion some  important  statistical  data 
concerning  the  Church.  Following  this, 
Elder  Wilford  G.  Edling  will  read  a 
statement  by  the  Church  Finance  Com- 
mittee. And  then  President  Hugh  B. 
Brown  of  the  First  Presidency  will  pre- 
sent the  General  Authorities,  General 
Officers,  and  General  Auxiliary  Offi- 
cers of  the  Church  for  the  sustaining 
vote  of  this  General  Conference. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  ANDERSON 

For  the  information  of  the  members  of  the  Church,  the  First  Presidency 
has  issued  the  following  statistical  report  concerning  the  membership  of  the 
Church  at  the  end  of  the  year  1968: 

STATISTICAL  REPORT  1968 


Number  of  Stakes  of  Zion  at  close  of  1968   473 

Number  of  Wards   3,721 

Number  of  Independent  Branches  in  Stakes    664 

Total  Wards  and  Independent  Branches  in  Stakes  at  close  of  year    4,385 

Number  of  Mission  Branches  at  close  of  year       2,112 

Number  of  Full-time  Missions  at  end  of  year   83 


68  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  5  Second  Day 

Church  Membership,  December  31,  1968: 

In  the  Stakes    2,207,976 

In  the  Missions    476,097 

Total  Membership   2,684,073 

Church  Growth  During  1968: 

Children  Blessed  in  Stakes  and  Missions   57,992 

Children  of  Record  Baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions   53,482 

Converts  Baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions    64,021 

Social  Statistics: 

(Based  on  1968  Data  from  the  Stakes) 

Birth  Rate  per  thousand    27.49 

Number  of  Persons  Married  per  thousand    16.98 

Death  Rate  per  thousand   5.17 

Priesthood: 

Members  holding  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  December  31,  1968 

Deacons    122,955 

Teachers  ....    87,690 

Priests   128,851 

Total  number  holding  Aaronic  Priesthood    339,496 

Members  holding  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  December  31,  1968 

Elders   223,571 

Seventies    23,208 

High  Priests   74,615 

Total  number  holding  Melchizedek  Priesthood    321,394 

Grand  Total,  members  holding  Aaronic  or  Melchizedek  Priesthood   660,890 

An  increase  of  26,850  during  the  year 

Auxiliary  Organizations: 

Relief  Society  (Membership)   311,871 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union  (average  attendance)   878,901 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association  (enrollment)    323,745 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association  (enrollment)    337,819 

Primary  (children  enrolled)    460,975 

Welfare  Plan: 

Number  of  persons  assisted  during  the  year   113,138 

Number  placed  in  remunerative  employment    7,158 

Man-days  of  work  donated  to  the  Welfare  Plan   220,837 

Unit-days  of  equipment  use  donated    5,631 

Genealogical  Society: 

Names  cleared  in  1968  for  temple  ordinances    1,426,862 


Genealogical  Records  microfilmed  in  14  countries  during  the  year  brought 
the  total  to  745,272  one  hundred  foot  rolls  of  microfilm  for  use  of  the 
Church  which  are  the  equivalent  of  over  3,200,000  printed  volumes  of 
300  pages  each. 


STATISTICAL  REPORT  69 

Temples: 

Number  of  ordinances  performed  during  1968  in  the  13  operating  temples: 

For  the  living   54,895 

For  the  dead   6,218,750 

Total  number  of  ordinances   6,273,645 

Church  School  Systems: 

Total  1968  cumulative  enrollments  in  Church  Schools,  including 

Institutes  and  Seminaries   215,602 


Those  Who  Have  Passed  Away 

Elder  William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr  Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 

Elder  Stanford  Groesbeck  Smith  Regional  Representative  of  the  Twelve 

Elder  Orval  W.  Adams  member  of  the  Church  Finance  Committee, 

and  prominent  Utah  banker  and  business  man 

Martha  Gee  Smith  widow  of  the  late  Hyrum  G.  Smith, 

presiding  patriarch  to  the  Church 

Valeria  Brinton  Young  widow  of  the  late  Levi  Edgar  Young 

of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 


Church  Finance  Committee  Report 

Elder  Wilford  G.  Edling  read  the 
following  statement  by  the  Church 
Finance  Committee: 

March  15, 1969 

The  First  Presidency 

47  East  South  Temple  Street 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Dear  Brethren: 

We  have  reviewed  the  report  of  the 
financial  operations  of  the  Corporation 
of  the  President  of  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  together 
with  auxiliaries  and  other  organizations 
for  which  accounts  are  maintained  in 
the  Financial  Department  of  the 
Church  for  the  fiscal  year  ended 
August  31,  1968.  Attention  was  given 
particularly  to  the  accounting  and 
auditing  procedures  followed  as  to 
funds  received  and  to  the  manner  in 
which  expenditures  are  controlled.  We 
have  determined  that  the  expenditures 
of  such  funds  are  authorized  by  the 
First  Presidency  and  by  budgetary  pro- 
cedures. The  budget  is  authorized  by 
the  Council  on  Disposition  of  the 


Tithes  comprised  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency, the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  and 
the  Presiding  Bishopric,  and  the  appro- 
priations are  made  by  the  Committee 
on  Expenditures  comprised  of  the  First 
Presidency,  members  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve,  and  the  Presiding  Bish- 
opric. 

A  regular  audit  of  the  financial  rec- 
ords of  the  Church  is  conducted  by  the 
Church  Auditing  Department,  which 
is  completely  independent  of  all  other 
departments.  Businesses  owned  or  con- 
trolled by  the  Church,  for  which  ac- 
counts are  not  maintained  in  the 
Financial  Department,  are  audited  by 
professional  auditing  firms. 

Based  upon  our  review  of  the  finan- 
cial reports  of  the  Corporation  of  the 
President  of  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  ex- 
planations made  by  the  personnel  of 
the  Financial  and  Auditing  Depart- 
ments of  the  Church,  we  are  of  the 
opinion  that  the  expenditures  of  funds 
during  the  fiscal  year  ended  August  31, 
1968  were  made  in  accordance  with  the 
established  procedures  outlined  herein. 
Though  there  was  an  alleged  misap- 
propriation of  substantial  funds  by  a 


70 

Saturday,  April  5 

single  employee,  the  integrity  of  the 
other  employees  of  the  Church  Finan- 
cial Department  is  not  in  question. 

Respectfully  submitted, 

CHURCH  FINANCE 
COMMITTEE 

Wilford  G.  Edling 
Harold  H.  Bennett 
Glenn  E.  Nielson 
Weston  E.  Hamilton 
O.  Leslie  Stone 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  AND 
GENERAL  OFFICERS  SUSTAINED 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown  presented 
the  General  Authorities  and  General 
Officers  of  the  Church,  and  they  were 
sustained  as  follows: 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  the 
following: 


The  First  Presidency 

David  O.  McKay,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  The  Church  of 

Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Hugh  B.  Brown,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 
Nathan  Eldon  Tanner,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 
Alvin  R.  Dyer 


President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
Harold  B.  Lee 
Spencer  W.  Kimball 
Ezra  Taft  Benson 
Mark  E.  Petersen 
Delbert  L.  Stapley 


Marion  G.  Romney 
LeGrand  Richards 
Richard  L.  Evans 
Howard  W.  Hunter 
Gordon  B.  Hinckley 
Thomas  S.  Monson 


Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  Patri- 
arch to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 


Assistants  to  the  Twelve 


Alma  Sonne 
EIRay  L.  Christiansen 
John  Longden 
Sterling  W.  Sill 
Henry  D.  Taylor 
Franklin  D.  Richards 


Theodore  M.  Burton 
Boyd  K.  Packer 
Bernard  P.  Brockbank 
James  A.  Cullimore 
Marion  D.  Hanks 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH  71 


Trustee-in-Trust 
David  O.  McKay 

as  Trustee-in-Trust  for  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


The  Presiding  Bishopric 

John  H.  Vandenberg,  Presiding  Bishop 
Robert  L.  Simpson,  First  Counselor 
Victor  L.  Brown,  Second  Counselor 


Church  Historian  and  Recorder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  and  Earl  E.  Olson  as  Assistants 


Priesthood  Welfare  Committee 

John  H.  Vandenberg,  Chairman 
Henry  D.  Taylor,  Managing  Director 

Priesthood  Home  Teaching  Committee 

Marion  G.  Romney,  Chairman 

John  H.  Vandenberg,  Vice  Chairman 

Boyd  K.  Packer,  Managing  Director 

Priesthood  Missionary  Committee 


Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Chairman  of  Executive  Committee 
Gordon  B.  Hinckley  and  Thomas  S.  Monson,  Vice  Chairman 
Bruce  R.  McConkie,  Managing  Director 


Priesthood  Genealogical  Committee 

Howard  W.  Hunter,  Chairman 
Theodore  M.  Burton,  Managing  Director 

Church  Board  of  Education 


Seymour  Dilworth  Young 
Milton  R.  Hunter 
Bruce  R.  McConkie 
Albert  Theodore  Tuttle 


Paul  H.  Dunn 
Hartman  Rector,  Jr. 
Loren  C.  Dunn 


David  O.  McKay 
Hugh  B.  Brown 
Nathan  Eldon  Tanner 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 
Alvin  R.  Dyer 
Harold  B.  Lee 
Spencer  W.  Kimball 
Ezra  Taft  Benson 


Mark  E.  Petersen 
Delbert  L.  Stapley 
Marion  G.  Romney 
LeGrand  Richards 
Richard  L.  Evans 
Howard  W.  Hunter 
Gordon  B.  Hinckley 
Thomas  S.  Monson 
Boyd  K.  Packer 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


Marion  D.  Hanks 
Albert  Theodore  Tuttle 
Paul  H.  Dunn 


John  H.  Vandenberg 
Belle  S.  Spafford 


Church  Finance  Committee 

Wilford  G.  Edling 
Harold  H.  Bennett 
Glenn  E.  Nielson 
Weston  E.  Hamilton 
O.  Leslie  Stone 


Senior  Church  Auditors 

Harold  L.  Davis 
Charles  Schmidt 


GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Louise  Wallace  Madsen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


David  Lawrence  McKay,  General  Superintendent 
Lynn  S.  Richards,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Royden  G.  Derrick,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

G.  Carlos  Smith,  Jr.,  General  Superintendent 
Marvin  J.  Ashton,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
George  Richard  Hill,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Florence  Smith  Jacobsen,  President 
Margaret  Romney  Jackson,  First  Counselor 
Dorothy  Porter  Holt,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


LaVern  Watts  Parmley,  President 
Leone  Watson  Doxey,  First  Counselor 
Lucile  Cardon  Reading,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


Relief  Society 


Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 


Primary  Association 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


73 


Tabernacle  Choir 

Isaac  M.  Stewart,  President 

Richard  P.  Condie,  Conductor 

Jay  E.  Welch,  Assistant  Conductor 

Tabernacle  Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner,  Chief  Organist 
Robert  N.  Cundick 
Roy  M.  Darley 

Frank  W.  Asper,  Organist  Emeritus 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

The  voting  is  unanimous  in  the 
affirmative. 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

We  acknowledge,  my  brethren  and 


sisters,  the  sustaining  vote  of  the  con- 
ference. 

Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  first 
speaker  this  afternoon,  and  he  will  be 
followed  by  Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young 
of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy. 


ELDER  RICH, 

Of  the  Council 

The  hallowed  singing  of  these 
children's  voices  suggests  the  words  of 
another  song: 

"I  think,  when  I  read  that  sweet  story 
of  old, 

When  Jesus  was  here  among  men, 
How  he  called   little  children  like 

lambs  to  His  fold, 
I  should  like  to  have  been  with  Him 

then. 

"I  wish  that  His  hands  had  been 

placed  on  my  head, 
That  his  arms  had  been  thrown  around 

me, 

That  I  might  have  seen,  His  kind  look 

when  He  said, 
'Let  the  little  ones  come  unto  Me.' " 
— Jemima  Luke 

With  our  minds  turned  to  our 
Savior,  one  of  his  most  sobering  say- 
ings comes  to  mind: 

"And  Jesus  called  a  little  child  unto 
him,  and  set  him  in  the  midst  of  them, 

"And  said,  Verily  I  say  unto  you, 
Except  ye  be  converted,  and  become  as 
little  children,  ye  shall  not  enter  into 
the  kingdom  of  heaven. 


ID  L.  EVANS 

'  the  Twelve 

"Whosoever  therefore  shall  humble 
himself  as  this  little  child,  the  same 
is  greatest  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

"But  whoso  shall  offend  one  of  these 
little  ones  which  believe  in  me,  it  were 
better  for  him  that  a  millstone  were 
hanged  about  his  neck,  and  that  he 
were  drowned  in  the  depth  of  the  sea. 

"Woe  unto  the  world  because  of 
offencesl  for  it  must  needs  be  that 
offences  come;  but  woe  to  that  man  by 
whom  the  offence  cometh!"  (Matt. 
18:2-4,  6-7.) 

Responsibility  for  teaching  children 

The  innocence  with  which  children 
come  into  the  world  is  one  of  the  awe- 
some responsibilities  of  all  who,  in  any 
way,  influence  their  lives.  And  to  see 
such  unstained  innocence  neglected  or 
abused,  or  exposed  to  evil  or  unwhole- 
some influence,  or  warped  by  bad 
example,  or  by  false  teaching — or  by 
failure  to  teach — is  a  sobering  concern. 

There  are  many  who  have  responsi- 
bility for  teaching  children:  parents, 
teachers,  friends,  anyone  who  in  any 
way  enters  their  lives,  including  the 
makers  and  promoters  of  products,  of 


74  1       GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  5 

policies;  creators  of  entertainment,  and 
the  whole  community,  publicly  and 
privately.  And  children  in  their  inno- 
cence have  a  right  to  be  protected  from 
exploitation  and  from  evil  influence. 

As  to  teachers,  the  following  is  cited 
from  a  significant  source:  "The  per- 
sonal influence  of  the  teacher,  in  mold- 
ing the  character  of  the  pupils,  is  the 
most  important  element  in  their  educa- 
tion. ...  In  morals,  a  teacher  cannot 
teach  what  he  is  not.  If  he  talks  what 
he  is  not,  it  were  better  not  said,  for 
his  life  talks  more  forcibly  and  is  sooner 
believed,  both  by  children  and  adults." 
(W.  M.  Welch,  How  to  Organize, 
Classify  and  Teach  a  Country  School.) 

Always  we  must  remember  that  the 
teacher  teaches  himself.  As  Henry 
Adams  said  it:  "A  teacher  affects  eter- 
nity; he  can  never  tell  where  his 
influence  stops."  (The  Education  of 
Henry  Adams,  ch.  20.) 

People  who  speak  of  their  private 
lives  as  a  thing  apart  from  their  pro- 
fessions would  well  remember  this 
sentence  from  Stanford  University's  Dr. 
David  Starr  Jordan:  "There  is  no  real 
excellence  in  all  this  world,"  he  said, 
"which  can  be  separated  from  right 
living."  (The  University  and  the  Com- 
mon Man.) 

Patronizing  the  cheap  or  trashy  side 

Now  a  comment  on  another  question 
that  concerns  the  whole  community:  It 
would  be  well  if  young  people,  parents, 
and  all  others  who  are  concerned  with 
decency  would  not  patronize  anything 
that  tends  to  lower  people's  lives  or  lead 
their  minds  down  to  the  cheap  or 
trashy  or  harmful  or  suggestive  side. 

Quite  apart  from  the  personal  effect 
on  the  one  who  partakes  of  a  harmful 
product,  or  who  witnesses  an  immoral 
or  suggestive  or  obscene  picture  or  play 
(through  whatever  medium  it  may  be 
presented),  we  well  would  remember 
that  whenever  we  patronize  an  immoral 
or  unclean  performance,  or  use  a  harm- 
ful or  unwholesome  product,  we  are 
helping  to  make  evil  profitable.  What- 
ever other  motives  there  may  be,  im- 
moral entertainment  or  unwholesome 
products  are  produced  to  make  money. 
And  as  a  people,  as  parents,  as  citizens 
of  a;  great,  beloved  land,  we  ought  to  be 


Second  Day 

committed  to  the  principle  of  not  mak- 
ing evil  profitable.  The  more  profit- 
able it  is,  the  more  evil  will  be  offered. 

One  might  well  wonder  about  the 
term  "adult  entertainment."  Could  it 
be  that  something  unclean  or  immoral 
which  is  not  fit  for  children  is  whole- 
some for  adults?  Is  "adult  evil"  ac- 
ceptable? How  consistent  is  it  to  have 
a  double  standard? 

Or  how  would  anyone  be  so  short- 
sighted as  to  partake  of  that  which 
would  impair  his  physical  or  mental  or 
spiritual  capacity,  and  say  to  himself, 
"It's  not  good  for  children,  but  it's  all 
right  for  me"? 

If  the  content  of  a  magazine  encour- 
ages loose  morals  and  low-mindedness 
and  permissive,  degrading  attitudes  and 
practices,  should  we  buy  it?  Should  we 
read  it?  Should  we  have  it  around  the 
home? 

If  a  book  is  filthy,  should  we  buy  it? 
Should  we  read  it?  ".  .  .  books,"  said 
Thomas  Carlyle,  "are  like  men's  souls." 
(Inaugural  Address,  Edinburgh,  1866.) 

Should  we  keep  a  television  or  radio 
presentation  exposed  to  viewing  or  lis- 
tening if  it  is  one  of  crudeness  or 
brutish  violence  or  indecent  suggestion 
— or  even  if  it  is  simply  trashy  or 
trivial? 

"Unless  virtue  guide  us,"  said  Wil- 
liam Penn,  ".  .  .  our  choice  must  be 
wrong."  (Some  Fruits  of  Solitude: 
Temporal  Happiness.) 

The  commandments  of  God  have  not 
been  repealed.  The  laws  of  cause  and 
consequence  are  still  in  force. 

Honest  and  wise  men  needed 

The  creators  of  community  influence 
and  environment  and  example — which 
is  all  of  us — would  well  remember  the 
words  of  our  Savior  concerning  whoso- 
ever "shall  offend  one  of  these  little 
ones" — or  older  ones — or  whosoever 
devotes  his  life  to  the  production  or 
promotion  or  support  of  mind-corrod- 
ing, soul-destroying  evil  in  any  of  its 
forms. 

"Liberty,"  said  Horace  Greeley,  "can- 
not be  established  without  morality, 
nor  morality  without  faith." 

".  .  .  honest  men  and  wise  men 
should  be  sought  for  diligently,  and 
good  men  and  wise  men  ye  should  ob- 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


75 


serve  to  uphold  .  .  ."  (D&C  98:10) — 
and  this  would  seem  to  suggest  that 
qualified  and  able  and  courageous 
people  should  prepare  themselves  and 
make  themselves  available  for  public 
and  civic  service,  and  not  be  indifferent 
or  complacent  or  resigned  to  sitting 
on  the  sidelines.  Even  at  personal 
sacrifice  there  ought  to  be  a  sufficient 
number  who  will  make  themselves 
available  for  public  service. 

Obligations  of  parents 

Now  what  of  our  obligations  as 
parents?  We  cannot  safely  leave  the 
teaching  and  molding  of  our  children 
to  chance.  We  cannot  altogether  count 
on  others  to  teach  our  children.  The 
first  responsibility  is  ours.  We  must 
build  our  own  internal  strength. 

There  is  more  and  more  evidence 
that  the  basic  attitudes  and  capacity 
and  character  of  children  are  molded  at 
a  very  early  age.  "No  curious  scientist," 
said  an  eminent  authority,  "ever  had 
as  great  curiosity  as  a  youngster  from 
eighteen  months  to  three  years  of  age," 
all  of  which  confirms  the  importance 
of  implanting  the  truths  of  life  early — 
and  always. 

"My  life  is  my  message,"  said 
Mahatma  Gandhi.  It  is  so  with  each 
of  us.  The  impressions  of  what  we  are 
and  do  and  feel  and  believe  and  live 
and  teach  are  carried  over  to  our 
children. 

If  we  depart  from  principles,  may 
we  reasonably  expect  our  children  not 
to  depart? 

Many  a  parent  who  has  criticized 
sacred  things  or  principles  he  should 
support  wonders  why  his  children  later 
depart  further  from  principles. 

Those  who  follow  bad  examples 
don't  always  know  where  to  stop,  and 
parents  who  indulge  themselves  "in 
moderation"  may  have  children  who 
indulge  themselves  to  excess. 

There  should  be  no  double  standard. 
Constantly  others  are  learning  from  us, 
feeling  from  us,  reasoning  their  course 
of  conduct  from  our  course  of  conduct. 
And  if  we  get  a  little  over  the  line, 
our  children,  our  young  people,  may 
get  a  long  way  over  the  line. 


Within  the  week  I  have  read  this 
comment  from  a  neighboring  country: 
"It  is  not  the  policeman's  responsibility 
...  to  substitute  for  the  family.  Respect 
for  law,  .  .  .  begins  with  respect  for 
parents  .  .  .  respect  for  the  rights  and 
privacy  of  brothers  and  sisters  and  of 
playmates."  (The  Royal  Bank  of  Can- 
ada Monthly  Letter,  January  and 
March,  1969.) 

World  no  better  than  its  homes 

"Law  itself,"  said  Samuel  Smiles, 
"is  but  the  reflex  of  homes." 

This  world  will  be  no  better  than  its 
homes.  This  country,  this  community, 
this  Church,  will  be  no  better  than  the 
strength  and  effectiveness  of  our  homes 
and  families. 

Example  and  love  and  sheer  goodness 
of  life  do  more  for  children  than  can 
be  calculated. 

The  integrity  and  effectiveness  and 
affection  of  the  home  and  family  are 
first. 

In  a  well-known  work,  Dostoevsky 
had  this  to  say:  "The  soul  is  healed 
by  being  with  children." 

Healed,  yes — and  also  searched.  Per- 
haps we  are  never  more  open  to 
penetrating  scrutiny  than  when  the 
eyes  of  a  child  are  upon  us.  And  so 
often  we  underestimate  their  under- 
standing. Children  have  a  way  of 
seeing  inside.  And  our  teaching  must 
be  more  than  talking.  "[Boys]  know 
truth  from  counterfeit  as  quick  as  the 
chemist  does,"  said  Emerson.  "They 
detect  weakness  in  your  eye  and  be- 
havior .  .  .  before  you  open  your 
mouth. . . ."  (Emerson,  Compensation.) 

Innocence  of  children 

Don't  try  to  hide  your  heart  from  a 
child.  They  come  here  clean  and  sweet 
and  teachable,  from  the  Father  of  us 
all.  Innocent  they  come,  and  innocent 
they  are,  until  environment  or  example 
is  otherwise. 

One  can  scarcely  conceive  of  corrup- 
tion or  cruelty  to  children. 

"The  child's  grief  throbs  against  its 
little  heart  as  heavily  as  the  man's 
sorrow,"  said  Edwin  Chapin. 


76  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  5 

"I  love  these  little  people,"  said 
Charles  Dickens,  "and  it  is  not  a  slight 
thing,  when  they,  who  are  so  fresh 
from  God,  love  us." 

"Be  ever  gentle  with  the  children 
God  has  given  you,"  pleaded  Elihu 
Burritt.  "Watch  over  them  constantly; 
reprove  them  earnestly,  but  not  in 
anger." 

"The  first  duty  to  children  is  to 
make  them  happy. — If  you  have  not 
made  them  so,  you  have  wronged 
them. — No  other  good  they  may  get  can 
make  up  for  that."  (Charles  Buxton, 
English  author.) 

To  quote  a  sentence  from  Arnold 
Glasow:  "The  best  thing  to  spend  on 
children — is  your  time." 

We  need  more  mothers  at  home — 
and  fathers.  We  need  more  faithful 
observance  of  home  evenings — more 
unity  and  faithfulness  in  marriage,  and 
devotion  to  duty,  and  happiness  at 
home. 

We  need  to  feed  the  minds  of  our 
children  when  they  are  most  receptive. 
We  need  to  give  them  happy,  whole- 
some memories. 

Sometimes  when  you  have  said 
something  to  a  child  you  didn't  intend 
to  say,  or  were  more  severe  than  the 
situation  called  for,  have  you  ever  gone 
back  and  looked  at  that  same  youngster 
when  he  was  asleep,  and  felt  terribly 
humble  and  terribly  small?  And,  with 
a  little  extra  moisture  in  your  eyes,  have 
you  ever  uttered  a  fervent  prayer  that 
you  would  be  the  kind  of  parent  you 
ought  to  be? 

O  how  sweetly,  how  often  we  have 
heard  them  sing: 

"I  am  a  child  of  God, 
And  He  has  sent  me  here, 
Has  given  me  an  earthly  home 
With  parents  kind  and  dear. 

"Lead  me,  guide  me,  walk  beside  me, 
Help  me  find  the  way. 
Teach  me  all  that  I  must  do 
To  live  with  Him  some-day." 

—Naomi  W.  Randall 


Second  Day 

Learn  and  live  gospel 

Parents,  learn  the  gospel;  live  it.  Be 
a  living  sermon  in  the  home.  Take  time 
for  your  children.  What  better  can 
you  take  time  for? 

"...  I  have  commanded  you  to  bring 
up  your  children  in  light  and  truth." 
(D&C  93:40.) 

Let  every  parent,  every  teacher — and 
all  of  us — teach  truly  so  that  no  one 
whom  we  should  have  taught  can  ever, 
here  or  hereafter,  accusingly  say,  "Why 
didn't  you  teach  me?  Why  didn't  you 
tell  me?" 

"They  are  idols  of  hearts  and  of  house- 
holds; 

They  are  angels  of  God  in  disguise; 
The  sunlight  still  sleeps  in  their  tresses, 

His  glory  still  gleams  in  their  eyes; 
These  truants  from  home  and  from 
Heaven, 

They  have  made  me  more  manly  and 
mild; 

And  I  know  now  how  Jesus  could  liken 
The  kingdom  of  God  to  a  child." 
— Charles  M.  Dickinson,  The  Children 

May  heaven  help  us  to  help  all 
children,  our  own  and  others,  world- 
wide, to  be  loved,  to  be  fed,  to  be 
taught,  to  be  close  to  our  hearts,  and 
to  be  uncorrupted,  unoffended,  to  have 
happiness  and  faith  and  hope. 

In  the  wonderful  words  of  Alma: 
".  .  .  may  the  peace  of  God  rest  upon 
you,  and  upon  your  houses  and  lands, 
and  upon  your  flocks  and  herds,  and 
all  that  you  possess,  your  women  and 
your  children,  according  to  your  faith 
and  good  works,  from  this  time  forth 
and  forever."  (Al.  7:27.) 

I  pray  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken  to  us. 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  S. 
Dilworth  Young  of  the  First  Council 
of  Seventy.  He  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith  Patriarch  to  the 
Church. 


PRESIDENT  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 


77 


ELDER  S.  DIL 

Of  the  First  Cou 

Many  years  ago  in  our  town  we  were 
given  by  a  generous  man  a  four-inch 
reflector  telescope  for  the  boys  of  our 
community.  The  first  night  we  tried  it 
out  we  managed  to  focus  on  the  moon. 
In  a  sense  it  was  a  new  revelation  to 
see  the  moon  in  three  dimensions.  But 
the  emotional  thrill  we  experienced  as 
we  gazed  on  the  physical  features  of 
the  satellite  was  as  nothing  compared 
to  the  effect  on  us  when  we  were  able 
to  focus  on  Jupiter.  There,  hanging  in 
the  heavens,  was  the  planet  about  the 
size  of  a  baseball,  and  there,  too,  were 
four  smaller  Jupiters  about  the  size  of 
marbles.  They  resembled  the  celestial 
exhibit  in  our  school  laboratory,  except 
that  they  looked  real — and  they  were 
real.  There  they  were  rushing  through 
empty  space  at  immense  speed,  but 
always  falling  in  a  circle  around  the 
sun. 

The  meaning  of  space 

Space?  We  do  not  grasp  its  meaning! 
Endless?  We  do  not  conceive  what  it 
means,  either. 

By  the  Spirit  of  Christ,  which  is 
available  to  all  men,  imaginative  men 
have  had  inspiration  given  them  to 
theorize,  to  measure,  to  reach  out,  to 
prove,  to  move  on,  until  they  have 
reached  so  far  out  into  space  that  it  is 
difficult  to  describe  what  has  been 
discovered  by  words  that  convey  mean- 
ing to  us.  They  have  found  that  light 
from  a  distant  cluster  of  stars  traveling 
at  the  rate  of  186,000  miles  per  second 
takes  thousands  of  light  years  to  reach 
us.  We  cannot  conceive  of  that,  even 
though  we  can  understand  the  mathe- 
matical formula  it  represents  on  paper. 
Then,  just  as  we  read  that  the  limits 
may  have  been  reached,  it  is  learned 
that  there  are  uncountable  island 
universes — not  just  stars,  but  whole 
universes — still  farther  away,  their  di- 
ameters thousands  of  millions  of  miles 
across,  yet  so  distant  that  they  are  but 
points  of  light  in  the  telescope. 

A  controlling  intelligence 

Anyone  who  contemplates  this  mighty 


ORTH  YOUNG 

:il  of  the  Seventy 

spectacle  of  the  skies  and  realizes  its 
perfect  order  cannot  fail  to  know  that 
it  must  be  controlled  by  an  intelligence 
greater  than  he  can  imagine. 

And  this  brings  one  to  the  worship 
of  the  Father  of  us  all  and  his  Son, 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  We  do  not 
know  the  means  by  which  the  worlds 
are  brought  into  being,  live  out  their 
destiny,  and  are  destroyed,  although 
there  are  theories  about  it.  But  that 
they  are  created  and  controlled  by  the 
power  of  faith  and  priesthood  is  amply 
stated  by  the  revealed  word  of  God. 
Hear  the  witness  of  their  Creator,  for 
it  is  God  who  speaks: 

"And  by  the  word  of  my  power,  have 
I  created  them,  which  is  mine  Only 
Begotten  Son,  who  is  full  of  grace  and 
truth. 

"And  worlds  without  number  have 
I  created;  and  I  also  created  them  for 
mine  own  purpose;  and  by  the  Son  I 
created  them,  which  is  mine  Only  Be- 
gotten." (Moses  1:32-33.) 

Jesus  Christ,  the  Creator 

The  Lord  Jesus  Christ  was  not  only 
the  Redeemer  but  also  the  Creator. 
Paul  understood  this,  for  he  said: 

"For  by  him  were  all  things  created, 
that  are  in  heaven,  and  that  are  in 
earth,  visible  and  invisible,  whether 
they  be  thrones,  or  dominions,  or 
principalities,  or  powers:  all  things 
were  created  by  him,  and  for  him: 

"And  he  is  before  all  things,  and  by 
him  all  things  consist."  (Col.  1:16-17.) 

The  Lord  himself  declared  it  to  the 
ancient  Nephites: 

"Behold,  I  am  Jesus  Christ  the  Son 
of  God.  I  created  the  heavens  and  the 
earth,  and  all  things  that  in  them  are. 
I  was  with  the  Father  from  the  begin- 
ning. I  am  in  the  Father,  and  the 
Father  in  me;  and  in  me  hath  the 
Father  glorified  his  name."  (3  Ne. 
9:15.) 

With  awe  we  contemplate  the  per- 
fection of  this  Firstborn  of  God,  his 
power,  his  glory.  Ours  is  more  than  the 
simple  act  of  worship  as  an  end.  We 


78  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  5 

testify  that  his  purpose  and  mission  are 
to  make  it  possible  for  us  to  come  into 
his  presence,  be  like  him,  and  share 
his  honor  and  his  glory  forever.  He 
said,  ".  .  .  this  is  my  work  and  my 
glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality 
and  eternal  life  of  man."  (Moses  1:39.) 

Offer  of  eternal  lives 

An  earthly  father  shows  his  love  for 
his  children  by  giving  them  all  the 
earthly  advantage  within  his  power. 
How  much  greater  is  the  love  of  the 
Christ,  who  becomes  our  Father  by  our 
acceptance  of  his  offer  to  us  not  only 
of  earthly  development  but  also  of 
salvation,  exaltation,  and  eternal  lives. 
In  the  gospel  of  Christ  he  offers  us  the 
opportunity  to  become  not  just  gazers 
into  the  wonders  of  the  heavens,  but 
creators  of  them.  We  sing  unto  heaven 
paeans  of  joy  for  our  opportunity.  The 
plan  is  very  simple  and  very  grand: 

1.  Accept  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  as 
our  Savior  and  believe  on  his  holy 
name  and  repent  of  our  sins. 

2.  Accept  the  ordinance  of  baptism, 
at  the  hands  of  the  priesthood  of  God, 
as  a  covenant  with  him.  Baptism  is 
symbolic  of  his  death  and  resurrection. 

3.  Receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  by  those  he  has  authorized  to 
give  it. 

4.  Receive  and  honor  the  holy 
priesthood. 

5.  Keep  his  simple  commandments. 

Relationship  with  fellowmen 

Most  of  these  commandments  are 
guides  to  our  relationship  with  our 
fellowmen.  One  does  not  need  to  look 
at  the  stars  with  mathematical  mind 
to  become  a  son  of  God  and  to  partici- 
pate in  these  great  creations;  he  needs 
to  be  kind  to  his  neighbor.  He  does 
not  need  to  visit  the  moon;  he  needs 
to  tell  the  truth,  be  honest,  and  be 
honorable.  He  does  not  need  to  fly 
to  Venus  in  a  spacecraft;  he  needs  to 
visit  the  widow  and  orphan  in  their 
affliction  (as  James  pointed  out).  He 
does  not  need  to  count  the  rings  of 
Saturn;  he  needs  to  honor  his  father 
and  his  mother,  render  them  obedience 
in  his  youth,  and  respect  and  succor 
in  their  old  age.    He  does  not  need 


Second  Day 

to  plumb  the  milky  way;  he  needs  to 
support  the  organized  Church  and  its 
priesthood.  He  does  not  need  to  analyze 
an  island  universe;  he  needs  to  love 
the  Lord  his  God  with  all  his  might, 
mind,  and  strength,  and  seek  to  learn 
his  ways. 

In  a  word,  he  needs  to  repent  of  his 
sins,  his  evil  acts,  and  live  as  a  son  of 
God  would  live,  putting  first  in  his 
life  the  first  and  second  command- 
ments, which  have  to  do  with  loving 
one's  fellows,  and  especially  the  Lord. 

Love  of  Christ 

I  listened  to  President  George  F. 
Richards  [of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve]  one  time  as  he  told  of  a 
dream.  In  the  dream  he  saw  the 
Savior.  There  came  to  him  at  the 
moment  of  that  seeing  such  a  feeling 
of  love,  he  could  not  describe  it.  It 
overpowered  him,  and  he  said  that  he 
made  up  his  mind  that  if  that  was  love 
of  Christ,  he  was  going  to  do  all  he 
could  to  keep  it  all  his  life  and  through 
all  eternity.  We  need  to  love  the 
Lord  too. 

Eternal  family  relationships 

A  vital  requirement,  often  over- 
looked, is  that  a  man  be  sealed  in 
eternal  marriage  to  a  woman  who  has 
the  same  desire  as  does  he  to  be  exalted. 
They  then  live  together  in  love,  prac- 
ticing in  the  home  with  the  children, 
and  with  each  other,  the  love,  charity, 
long-suffering,  kindness,  virtues,  and 
actions  of  eternal  beings  who  expect  to 
become  sons  of  God.  Theirs  is  not  just 
an  earthly  paradise,  but  it  is  truly  the 
beginning  of  exalted  eternal  life. 

You  and  I  will  not  win  the  mansions 
of  our  Father  by  waiting  until  after 
we  leave  this  life,  but  rather  each 
degree  of  glory  is  anchored  to  our  ac- 
tions on  the  earth.  Eternal  life  begins 
when  a  couple  is  sealed  in  marriage 
by  the  Lord's  authority.  In  their  lives 
together  they  are  given  a  taste  of  eter- 
nal life — or,  if  they  ignore  righteous 
principles,  a  taste  of  the  hell  which 
can  await  them  if  they  do  not  strive 
to  practice  the  principles  of  eternal 
life  here. 

Remarkably,  when  these  acts  are 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH  79 


accepted  as  a  course  of  action  by  any- 
one, new  life  comes  into  him.  He  has 
peace  in  his  heart  and  gladness  in  his 
soul,  while  the  sweet  whispering  of  the 
Spirit  gives  him  a  taste  of  what  is  in 
store  for  him. 

When  will  he  reach  the  goal?  Not 
in  this  life,  although  he  may  have  a 
foretaste  of  its  magnitude  in  this  life. 
But  he  lays  the  foundation  of  character 
and  love  in  this  life  upon  which  his 
eternal  being  is  constructed.  He  is 
watched  by  the  angels.  His  record  of 
accomplishment  toward  the  goal  is 
recorded,  and  his  reward  is  sure. 

Obedience  to  first  principles 

It  is  wondrous  to  know  that  the  most 
magnificent  of  God's  creations  may  be 
duplicated — not  by  technical  knowl- 
edge gained  here,  although  this  may  be 
of  help,  but  by  such  simple  acts  as 
being  kind  to  and  honest  with  all 
people.  By  obeying  the  first  princi- 
ples and  ordinances,  one  places  him- 
self in  harmony  with  eternal  teachings 
that  will  lead  him  to  the  presence  of 
the  Creator,  and  from  him  he  will 
learn  to  take  part  in  the  acts  of  creation. 

We  understand  that  these  wondrous 
accomplishments  will  not  come  with- 
out work.  We  know  we  must  learn 
all  we  can  of  the  truth  of  things  in 
this  life,  and  that  we  shall  have  to 


conquer  eternal  physics,  eternal  chem- 
istry, eternal  biology,  and  all  eternal 
arts  to  give  eternal  science  beauty. 
But  our  Lord  and  Master  will  guide  the 
teaching,  and  the  truth  will  be  the 
text. 

No  wonder  that  we  bow  in  worship- 
ful praise  and  adoration!  No  wonder 
that  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  is  used 
only  in  adoration  and  love! 

All  glory  to  the  Lord  God.  He  re- 
vealed himself  to  Joseph  Smith  and 
pointed  the  way,  giving  to  Joseph  the 
keys  of  the  kingdom  in  this  the  dis- 
pensation of  the  fulness  of  times.  With 
those  keys  operative  today,  through 
President  David  O.  McKay,  we  may 
enter  at  the  strait  gate  which  leadeth 
to  life  eternal,  and  may  become  among 
the  few  who  find  it.  I  bear  witness 
with  words  of  soberness  to  the  truth 
of  our  eternal  destiny  in  the  kingdom 
of  heaven.  I  pray  we  may  be  alert  to 
and  worthy  of  these  blessings,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  addressed 
us. 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder 
Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to  the 
Church. 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 


As  we  celebrate  this  Easter  season, 
we  remember  the  promise  of  the  Lord 
and  Savior  Jesus  Christ: 

"...  I  am  the  resurrection,  and  the 
life:  he  that  believeth  in  me,  though 
he  were  dead,  yet  shall  he  live."  (John 
11:25.) 

With  the  assurance  of  this  great 
promise,  obedience  to  eternal  law 
should  be  a  joy,  not  a  burden,  and  give 
each  the  incentive  to  not  just  be  pas- 
sive members  of  the  Church  but  to  be 
diligent  in  trying  to  further  advance 
his  kingdom  on  the  earth. 


Parable  of  the  sower 

The  Savior,  speaking  in  parable,  told 
the  story  of  the  sower:  how  some  seeds 
fell  by  the  wayside,  some  upon  stony 
places,  some  among  thorns.  Then  he 
told  of  the  seed  that  fell  into  "good 
ground,  and  brought  forth  fruit,  some 
an  hundredfold,  some  sixtyfold,  some 
thirtyfold."  (Matt.  13:8.) 

".  .  .  his  disciples  asked  him,  saying, 
What  might  this  parable  be?"  (Luke 
8:9.) 

He  answered,  saying:  "Hear  ye  there- 
fore the  parable  of  the  sower."  (Matt. 


80  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  5 

13:18.)  He  then  told  of  the  seed  that 
fell  by  the  wayside  and  in  stony  places 
and  among  the  thorns.  In  each  case, 
all  became  unproductive. 

"But  he  that  received  seed  into  the 
good  ground,"  said  he,  "is  he  that 
heareth  the  word,  and  understandeth  it; 
which  also  beareth  fruit,  and  bringeth 
forth,  some  an  hundredfold,  some  sixty, 
some  thirty."  (Matt.  13:23.) 

We  frequently  refer  to  this  parable 
in  reference  to  missionary  work.  The 
gospel  is  preached  to  many,  and  to 
each  the  same  is  taught.  The  seed  is 
the  same — the  same  quality,  the  same 
strength,  same  value — yet  some  persons 
accept  quickly,  some  more  slowly,  some 
not  at  all.  Some  fall  away  and  leave 
the  Church,  as  the  parable  declares. 
Some  remain  steadfast  to  the  truth. 

Then  the  Lord  describes  those  who 
are  as  the  seed  sown  in  good  ground. 
Speaking  of  these  he  said  some  bear 
fruit  or  produce  an  hundredfold,  some 
sixty,  some  thirty. 

Membership  alone  not  enough 

This  means,  then,  that  mere  mem- 
bership alone  is  not  enough — no,  not 
even  if  you  have  a  testimony  of  the 
divinity  of  the  gospel — if  you  are  not 
producing  or  bearing  fruit.  Speaking 
of  those  who  receive  the  word,  which 
means  those  who  are  members  of  the 
Church,  some  produced  one  hundred- 
fold, some  sixty,  some  thirty.  In 
which  category  are  you?  Where  do  you 
find  yourself?  Are  you  producing?  To 
what  degree  are  you  producing?  What 
does  it  mean  to  produce? 

Are  you  doing  anything  to  teach 
someone  else  the  gospel,  if  this  is 
where  your  abilities  and  opportunities 
lie,  or  are  your  abilities  and  opportuni- 
ties elsewhere?  Are  you  doing  your 
share  in  family  research,  temple  work, 
teaching  a  class,  or  some  other  activity? 
Are  you  doing  something  to  be  of 
service  to  someone  else?  Are  you  one 
who  is  tottering  on  the  fence,  staying 
away  from  church  activities,  not  grow- 
ing in  spirituality? 

Have  you  become  stagnant  in  priest- 
hood advancement?  Are  you  an  adult 
but  have  not  yet  received  the  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood  or  temple  bless- 


Second  Day 

ings?  Are  you  working  toward  that 
end?  What  is  producing? 

Becoming  productive 

Producing  means,  first,  preparing 
yourself,  then  helping  someone  else. 
You  cannot  wait  until  you  are  perfect 
before  you  teach  or  assist  someone 
else,  but  should  pass  on  to  others  all 
you  receive,  as  you  receive  it.  This 
is  how  we  fulfill  the  advice  of  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay  when  he  said, 
"Every  member  a  missionary."  Live  so 
your  life  reflects  the  blessings  of  the 
gospel.  Obedience  to  eternal  law  is 
to  produce,  to  serve,  to  work. 

In  another  parable,  the  Savior  gives 
us  the  answer  to  how  we  bear  fruit 
and  become  productive. 

"When  the  Son  of  man  shall  come 
in  his  glory,  and  all  the  holy  angels 
with  him,  then  shall  he  sit  upon  the 
throne  of  his  glory: 

"And  before  him  shall  be  gathered 
all  nations:  and  he  shall  separate 
them  one  from  another,  as  a  shepherd 
divideth  his  sheep  from  the  goats: 

"And  he  shall  set  the  sheep  on  his 
right  hand,  but  the  goats  on  the  left. 

"Then  shall  the  King  say  unto  them 
on  his  right  hand,  Come,  ye  blessed  of 
my  Father,  inherit  the  kingdom  pre- 
pared for  you  from  the  foundation  of 
the  world: 

"For  I  was  an  hungred,  and  ye  gave 
me  meat:  I  was  thirsty,  and  ye  gave 
me  drink:  I  was  a  stranger,  and  ye  took 
me  in: 

"Naked,  and  ye  clothed  me:  I  was 
sick,  and  ye  visited  me:  I  was  in  prison, 
and  ye  came  unto  me. 

"Then  shall  the  righteous  answer 
him,  saying,  Lord,  when  saw  we  thee 
an  hungred,  and  fed  thee?  or  thirsty, 
and  gave  thee  drink? 

"When  saw  we  thee  a  stranger,  and 
took  thee  in?  or  naked,  and  clothed 
thee? 

"Or  when  saw  we  thee  sick,  or  in 
prison,  and  came  unto  thee? 

"And  the  King  shall  answer  and  say 
unto  them,  Verily  I  say  unto  you,  In- 
asmuch as  ye  have  done  it  unto  one  of 
the  least  of  these  my  brethren,  ye  have 
done  it  unto  me."  (Matt.  25:31-40.) 

Here  the  Lord  has  mentioned  the 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


81 


necessities  of  life — food,  shelter,  and 
clothing.  Then  he  said  to  visit  the 
sick  or  the  imprisoned.  This  means  to 
give  comfort  and  encouragement  to 
those  who  are  less  fortunate.  He  does 
not  necessarily  mean  to  use  the  dole, 
but  to  help  others  to  obtain  the  bene- 
fits of  life,  help  others  to  enjoy  life. 

Serving  each  other 

Jesus  gave  his  life  for  us.  He  took 
upon  himself  the  burden  of  all  the 
sins  of  all  mankind  who  will  accept 
him  and  do  his  will,  who  will  pro- 
duce, to  build  up  his  kingdom  upon 
the  earth. 

He  has  asked  us  to  serve  each  other, 
to  help  each  other,  to  do  good  to  each 
other.  As  one  of  our  hymns  suggests: 

"Have  I  done  any  good  in  the  world 
today? 

Have  I  helped  any  one  in  need? 

Have  I  cheered  up  the  sad,  and  made 
someone  feel  glad? 

If  not,  I  have  failed  indeed. 

Has  any  one's  burden  been  lighter  to- 
day, 

Because  I  was  willing  to  share? 

Have  the  sick  and  the  weary  been 

helped  on  their  way? 
When  they  needed  my  help  was  I 

there?" 

(Hymns,  No.  58.) 
There  are  many  unexpected  ways  to 
serve,  in  addition  to  that  of  church 
service. 

Example  of  service 

A  young  man  driving  down  the 
street  one  early  morning  saw  several 
streetcars  lined  up  one  behind  the 
other.  The  motormen  were  all  gath- 
ered together  by  the  front  car.  He 
stopped  and  went  over  to  see  what  was 
happening.  He  saw  that  one  streetcar 
was  off  the  track,  and  the  motormen 
were  trying  to  put  it  on  again. 

Finally  they  gave  up,  and  each  went 
to  his  own  car  and  went  back  the 
other  direction  around  the  loop,  back 
to  town,  leaving  the  one  motorman  in 
his  car,  all  alone,  just  to  wait  for  help. 

The  young  man  sized  up  the  situa- 
tion, then  asked  the  motorman  if  he 
might  try  to  put  the  car  back  on  the 
track. 


"Do  you  think  you  can?"  asked  the 
motorman. 

"I'd  like  to  try,"  the  young  man  said. 

He  took  the  steel  bar  off  the  hooks 
on  the  side  of  the  car,  blocked  it  against 
the  wheel,  gave  directions,  and  in  just 
a  minute  the  wheels  dropped  into  the 
track  with  a  thud.  The  young  man 
hung  the  bar  back  on  the  car,  and  the 
happy  motorman  was  again  on  his 
way. 

The  poet  and  song  writer  Harry 
Robert  Wilson  has  expressed  the 
thought  so  beautifully. 

"Lord,  make  me  an  instrument  of  thy 
peace. 

Where  there  is  hatred,  let  me  sow  love; 
Where  there  is  doubt,  let  me  sow  faith; 
Where  there  is  despair,  let  me  sow 
hope; 

Where  there  is  darkness,  let  me  sow 
light; 

Where  there  is  sadness,  let  me  sow  joy! 

O  divine  Master,  grant  that  I  may  not 
so  much  seek 

To  be  consoled  as  to  console, 

To  be  understood  as  to  understand, 

To  be  loved  as  to  love. 

For  it  is  in  giving  that  we  receive; 

It  is  in  pardoning  that  we  are  par- 
doned; 

And  it  is  in  dying  that  we  are  born  to 
eternal  life." 

May  we  all  receive  the  word  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  bear  fruit 
one  hundredfold,  and  sow  seeds  of  joy, 
happiness,  and  eternal  life,  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

The  congregation  and  chorus  will 
now  join  in  singing  the  first  and  last 
stanzas  of  "Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints." 
After  the  singing,  Elder  Milton  R. 
Hunter  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 
will  speak  to  us. 


The  congregation  and  chorus  sang 
the  hymn,  "Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints." 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  5  Second  Day 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

us.    He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter  of  the  First    Robert  L.  Simpson,  first  counselor  in 
Council  of  Seventy  will  now  speak  to    the  Presiding  Bishopric. 


ELDER  MILK 

Of  the  First  Cou 

The  Lord  spoke  from  heaven  to 
Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  140 
years  ago  and  said: 

"A  great  and  marvelous  work  is  about 
to  come  forth  unto  the  children  of 
men.  .  .  . 

"Behold,  I  am  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son 
of  God."  (D&C  6:1,  21.) 

A  great  and  marvelous  work 

And  then  he  commissioned  Oliver 
Cowdery  to  assist  Joseph  Smith  in 
translating  the  Book  of  Mormon.  This 
book  was  designed  to  play  a  prominent 
role  in  this  "great  and  marvelous 
work." 

Jesus  Christ  had  already  chosen 
Joseph  Smith  to  be  his  prophet,  seer, 
and  revelator,  and  had  announced  that 
his  gospel  would  be  restored  from 
heaven  through  that  prophet,  and  also 
that  he  had  been  selected  to  establish 
the  true  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  upon 
earth  once  again.  Accompanied  by  God 
the  Father,  the  Savior  had  appeared 
to  that  prophet  in  what  is  known  as 
"The  First  Vision." 

This  "great  and  marvelous  work" 
that  Jesus  Christ  declared  to  Joseph 
Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  was  about 
to  come  forth  among  the  children  of 
men  was  the  "restitution  of  all  things, 
which  God  hath  spoken  by  the  mouth 
of  all  his  holy  prophets  since  the 
world  began"  (Acts  3:21),  with  all  the 
gifts,  powers,  and  priesthoods,  and 
gospel  ordinances  requisite  for  the 
exaltation  of  the  human  family  pos- 
sessed by  any  and  all  former  gospel 
dispensations.  This  was  to  be  the  last 
dispensation,  the  dispensation  of  the 
fulness  of  times. 

Accordingly,  numerous  ancient 
prophets  brought  to  Joseph  Smith  the 
priesthoods,  keys,  and  powers  of  their 
dispensations.  Through  direct  revela- 


i  R.  HUNTER 

:il  of  the  Seventy 

tion  from  the  Savior,  Joseph  Smith 
established  the  Church  and  officially 
named  it  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 
This  church  was  endowed  with  power 
from  God  to  carry  forth  the  work  of 
the  Master  and  build  a  kingdom  to 
which  the  Savior  will  eventually  come 
to  reign. 

The  Book  of  Mormon 

Jehovah,  or  Jesus  Christ,  began  mak- 
ing preparations  2,500  years  ago  for  this 
"great  and  marvelous  work"  in  the 
latter  days  by  initiating  a  project 
to  produce  a  holy  scripture  to  testify  to 
his  divinity.  Also,  the  scripture  was 
destined  to  play  a  prominent  role  in 
helping  to  give  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  to  the  honest  in  heart  and  bring 
them  into  his  Church  in  the  latter 
days.  This  holy  scripture  is  known  as 
the  Book  of  Mormon.  Therefore,  the 
Book  of  Mormon  is  the  voice  of  God  to 
our  generation. 

No  holy  scripture  in  the  world  is 
unique  in  as  many  ways  as  is  the 
Book  of  Mormon. 

First,  Jesus  Christ  initiated  its  writ- 
ing and  through  numerous  revelations 
supervised  its  production,  which  is 
unique. 

Second,  as  early  as  600  b.c.  the  Mas- 
ter proclaimed  that  this  record  would 
play  a  unique  role  in  the  latter  days 
in  testifying  that  he  was  the  Christ, 
the  Savior  of  the  world,  thereby  sus- 
taining the  testimony  of  the  Jews,  the 
Holy  Bible. 

Third,  through  1,000  years'  time  the 
prophets  who  wrote  the  book  did  so 
under  the  divine  guidance  of  our 
Savior. 

Fourth,  acting  in  accordance  with 
revelation  from  Jesus  Christ,  the  last 
two  Nephite  prophets — Mormon  and 
Moroni — abridged  the  ancient  records, 


PRESIDENT  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


83 


making  them  suitable  for  use  in  our 
day.  We  know  of  no  other  similar  oc- 
currence in  history;  hence,  unique. 

Fifth,  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  unique 
in  its  being  translated  from  records  of 
which  an  angel  was  the  custodian  for 
1,400  years  before  they  were  brought 
forth  in  a  book. 

Sixth,  the  Book  of  Mormon  stands 
alone  in  being  the  only  book  known 
to  have  been  translated  from  ancient 
records  delivered  to  an  unlearned 
young  man  by  an  angel. 

Seventh,  the  feat  of  translating  the 
ancient  record  was  also  an  unheard  of 
achievement.  Joseph  Smith,  assisted 
by  Oliver  Cowdery,  translated  the  en- 
tire Book  of  Mormon  of  522  printed 
pages  in  approximately  sixty  days.  The 
writing  on  the  plates  was  in  an  ancient 
script  called  "reformed  Egyptian"  (see 
Morm.  9:32),  a  language  that  no 
mortal  man  through  his  own  power 
could  decipher.  Then  how  did  Joseph 
Smith  accomplish  such  a  mammoth 
job  in  such  a  short  time?  He  has  told 
us  that  he  translated  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon "through  the  gift  and  power  of 
God  and  through  the  Urim  and 
Thummim." 

Eighth,  no  other  book  in  the  world 
has  been  testified  to  as  to  its  truthful- 
ness and  divinity  by  the  voice  of  an 
angel  and  by  the  voice  of  Jesus  Christ 
other  than  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

Testimonies  of  divinity 

Let  us  now  pay  particular  attention 
to  some  remarkable  testimonies  re- 
garding the  truthfulness  and  divinity 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  One  of  the 
strongest  testimonies  came  directly  from 
the  mouth  of  Jesus  Christ  himself.  In 
June  1829,  the  Savior  spoke  from 
heaven  and  declared: 

".  .  .  as  your  Lord  and  your  God 
liveth  it  [the  Book  of  Mormon]  is 
true."  (D&C  17:6.) 

I  am  positive  that  my  Lord  and  God 
liveth — and  so  I  am  also  positive  that 
the  Book  of  Mormon  is  true. 

No  other  book  in  the  world  has  ever 
had  a  witness  borne  to  it  as  dynamic 
and  powerful  as  the  one  the  Master 
provided  to  sustain  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon in  what  is  known  as  "The  Testi- 


mony of  Three  Witnesses."  The 
ancient  American  prophets  had  pre- 
dicted that  through  the  power  of  the 
Lord  the  plates  would  be  shown  to 
three  others  besides  the  prophet  to 
whom  the  records  would  be  given 
for  the  purpose  of  their  bearing  wit- 
ness. Oliver  Cowdery,  David  Whitmer, 
and  Martin  Harris  asked  for  that 
privilege. 

The  Three  Witnesses 

In  June  1829,  Jesus  Christ  spoke  from 
heaven  to  the  three  men  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  declaring: 

".  .  .  you  shall  have  a  view  of  the 
plates,  and  also  of  the  breastplate,  the 
sword  of  Laban,  [and]  the  Urim  and 
Thummim.  .  .  ."  (D&C  17:1.) 

Thereupon  the  four  men  went  into 
the  woods  and  kneeled  down  and 
prayed.  In  response,  the  Angel  Moroni 
came  down  from  heaven  and  showed 
these  sacred  objects  to  them.  He 
turned  the  sheets  of  the  gold  plates 
leaf  by  leaf  and  let  them  examine 
the  inscriptions  thereon.  He  described 
Joseph  Smith's  work  in  translating  the 
Book  of  Mormon  records.  As  he  was 
doing  so,  the  voice  of  Jesus  Christ 
spoke  from  heaven  and  said: 

"These  plates  have  been  revealed 
by  the  power  of  God,  and  they  have 
been  translated  by  the  power  of  God. 
The  translation  of  them  which  you 
have  seen  is  correct,  and  I  command 
you  to  bear  record  of  what  you  now 
see  and  hear."  (Cited  in  Preston  Nib- 
ley,  The  Witnesses  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  p.  8.) 

After  die  Angel  Moroni  left  with  the 
gold  plates,  the  three  men  wrote  their 
testimony,  which  is  known  as  "The 
Testimony  of  Three  Witnesses."  Their 
testimony  states: 

".  .  .  we  declare  with  words  of  sober- 
ness, that  an  angel  of  God  came  down 
from  heaven,  and  he  brought  and  laid 
before  our  eyes,  that  we  beheld  and 
saw  the  plates,  and  the  engravings 
thereon.  .  .  .  the  voice  of  the  Lord 
commanded  us  that  we  should  bear  rec- 
ord of  it.  .  .  ." 

In  no  other  time  in  history  has  such 
an  astounding  event  occurred.  Never 
before  nor  since  have  three  men  re- 
ceived their  testimonies  directly  from 


84  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  5 

an  angel  and  from  Jesus  Christ,  as  did 
these  three  men. 

Believers  and  nonbelievers 

Since  the  coming  forth  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon  is  so  astounding,  it  has 
divided  all  people  who  have  come  into 
contact  with  it  into  two  definitely 
separate  groups — believers  and  non- 
believers.  Those  who  believe  love  it, 
enthusiastically  testify  to  its  divinity, 
and  proclaim  its  great  worth  to  hu- 
manity. Those  who  disbelieve  it  hate 
it.  Many  brilliant  men  have  written 
viciously  against  it.  No  book  has  had 
as  many  attacks  made  upon  it  as  has 
the  Book  of  Mormon. 

One  may  wonder  why  so  many  in- 
telligent people  have  rejected  the  Book 
of  Mormon.  Perhaps  it  is  because 
there  is  so  much  that  they  would  call 
miraculous  connected  with  its  origin, 
preservation,  coming  forth,  and  trans- 
lation. 

Apostle  Paul  explained  that  it  is 
only  through  the  operation  of  the  Holy 
Spirit  of  God  that  spiritual  things  can 
be  understood  and  received  by  man. 
Paul  declared  that  "the  things  of  God 
knoweth  no  man,  but  the  Spirit  of 
God. 

"But  the  natural  man  receiveth  not 
the  things  of  the  Spirit  of  God:  for  they 
are  foolishness  unto  him:  neither  can 
he  know  them,  because  they  are  spirit- 
ually discerned."  (1  Cor.  2:11,  14.) 

Thus  the  ordinary  man  whose  heart 
is  not  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost 
regards  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  all 
of  the  great  and  marvelous  things  that 
Jesus  Christ  did  in  its  preparation  and 
bringing  forth  as  being  fantastic,  fabri- 
cated, and  untrue.  On  the  other  hand, 
when  the  Holy  Ghost  bears  testimony 
to  the  heart  and  soul  of  a  man  of  the 
divine  nature  of  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
the  spiritual-minded  man  knows  the 
reality  of  the  divine  authenticity  of 


Second  Day 

that  book,  and  this  reality  becomes 
very  important  in  his  whole  being.  He 
feels  impelled  continuously  to  testify. 

Formula  of  Moroni 

Any  person  in  the  world  can  know 
for  sure  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is 
true,  that  it  is  the  word  of  God,  if  he 
will  in  all  sincerity,  humility,  and 
faith  follow  the  formula  laid  down  in 
the  last  chapter  of  Moroni: 

"And  when  ye  shall  receive  these 
things,  I  would  exhort  you  that  ye 
would  ask  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  in 
the  name  of  Christ,  if  these  things  are 
not  true;  and  if  ye  shall  ask  with  a 
sincere  heart,  with  real  intent,  having 
faith  in  Christ,  he  will  manifest  the 
truth  of  it  unto  you,  by  the  power  of 
the  Holy  Ghost. 

"And  by  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  ye  may  know  the  truth  of  all 
things."  (Moro.  10:4-5.) 

I  bear  my  testimony  that  I  know 
positively  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is 
true.  It  is  the  word  of  God.  I  am  as 
sure  of  it  as  I  am  sure  that  I  am  alive, 
or  as  I  am  sure  that  I  am  speaking  unto 
you  today.  The  Holy  Ghost  has  borne 
powerful  witness  to  my  heart  and  mind 
of  the  truthfulness  of  this  divine  book, 
and  has  filled  my  heart  with  a  power- 
ful love  for  it  and  an  exceedingly  great 
love  for  my  Savior.  In  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  spoken  to 
us. 

Elder  Robert  L.  Simpson,  first  coun- 
selor in  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  will 
now  address  us.  He  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  LeGrand  Richards  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  who  will  be 
our  concluding  speaker. 


BISHOP  ROBERT  L.  SIMPSON 


85 


BISHOP  ROBERT  L.  SIMPSON 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


My  dear  brothers  and  sisters:  I  feel 
strength  in  the  presence  of  this  assem- 
bly. I  feel  great  humility  in  the  presence 
of  these  lovely  children  who  have 
borne  witness  to  us  in  song,  and  I  bask 
in  the  reflected  memory  of  an  inspir- 
ing Primary  conference  that  concluded 
just  the  day  before  yesterday.  I  am  sure 
we  all  compliment  Sister  Parmley  and 
the  great  Primary  organization  for 
their  tremendous  effort.  On  this  sacred 
square  we  gain  a  feeling  of  peace,  we 
gain  a  feeling  of  security,  and  some- 
times we  might  be  inclined  to  say, 
"All  is  well  in  Zion."  I  would  like 
to  take  for  my  thought  today,  "All  is 
well  in  Zion,  but.  .  .  ."  And  I  would 
like  to  begin  by  telling  you  of  a  dis- 
turbing incident  that  came  to  my  at- 
tention a  day  or  two  ago  as  I  read  a 
recent  letter  from  the  head  of  one  of 
the  state's  largest  employers,  seeking 
help  in  curbing  dishonest  practices 
among  his  employees,  who  incidentally 
are  people  who  should  know  better. 
He  stated  in  the  letter  that  sick-leave 
privileges  were  being  grossly  violated, 
more  so  than  in  other  sections  of  the 
country.  The  Lord  expects  more  from 
this  community. 

Lack  of  integrity 

Another  company  head  who  recently 
moved  to  this  community  from  another 
section  of  the  United  States  complains 
that  among  his  business  associates  there 
is  a  serious  lack  of  integrity,  that  seem- 
ingly good  men  who  are  obviously 
trained  to  know  better  are  discovered 
to  be  unethical  in  their  business 
dealings. 

Recently  some  variety  store  man- 
agers met  with  law  enforcement  offi- 
cers for  the  purpose  of  implementing 
some  sort  of  control  in  the  midst  of  a 
rash  of  shoplifting,  an  evil  practice 
that  was  apparent  in  all  age  levels, 
regardless  of  sex,  and  in  all  sectors 
of  the  community. 

"And  there  shall  also  be  many  which 
shall  say:  Eat,  drink  and  be  merry; 
nevertheless,  fear  God— he  will  justify 


in  committing  a  little  sin;  yea,  lie  a 
little,  take  the  advantage  of  one  be- 
cause of  his  words,  dig  a  pit  for  thy 
neighbor;  there  is  no  harm  in  this; 
and  do  all  these  things,  for  tomorrow 
we  die;  and  if  it  so  be  that  we  are 
guilty,  God  will  beat  us  with  a  few 
stripes,  and  at  last  we  shall  be  saved 
in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

"And  others  will  he  pacify,  and  lull 
them  away  into  carnal  security,  that 
they  will  say:  All  is  well  in  Zion;  yea, 
Zion  prospereth,  all  is  well — and  thus 
the  devil  cheateth  their  souls,  and 
leadeth  them  away  carefully  down  to 
hell."  (2  Ne.  28:8,  21.) 

Led  away  from  the  good 

I  know  a  man  who  used  to  be  an 
authority  on  the  Book  of  Mormon.  He 
had  the  ability  of  thrilling  the  people 
with  his  speaking  and  profound  knowl- 
edge of  the  truth.  The  adversary  found 
a  weakness  ever  so  small,  but  a  weak- 
ness. Finally  the  grip  was  secure,  and 
he  was  gradually  led  away — ever  so 
gently,  but  ever  so  surely,  away  from 
all  that  was  good  and  sacred.  This 
same  man  who  was  a  leader  among 
the  people  has  now  lost  his  ability  to 
lead,  at  least  for  the  time  being.  That 
great  gift  of  knowledge  that  was  once 
his  has  become  dim  and  remote.  He 
seems  helplessly  engulfed  in  transgres- 
sion and  has  been  unable  to  even 
recognize  the  hand  of  fellowship  that 
would  lift  him  back  to  firm  ground.  I 
suppose  this  is  the  same  condition 
described  in  the  seventy-eighth  section 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  verse 
10: 

"Otherwise  Satan  seeketh  to  turn 
their  hearts  away  from  the  truth,  that 
they  become  blinded  and  understand 
not  the  things  which  are  prepared  for 
them." 

Others  turned  from  truth 

May  I  tell  you  about  a  man  who  has 
a  keen  mind,  but  his  sweet  spirit  of 
testimony  has  been  replaced  with 
criticism  of  his  priesthood  leaders.  He 


86  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  5 

seems  impatient  because  certain  basic 
doctrines  cannot  be  altered  to  suit  his 
convenience  of  social  concept  based  on 
the  meager  knowledge  and  philosophy 
of  men. 

Let  me  tell  you  about  a  sister  who 
became  literally  hypnotized  by  a  deck 
of  playing  cards.  Eventually,  there 
were  not  enough  hours  in  the  week  to 
fit  everything  in.  Her  keen  spiritual 
sensitivity  became  dulled,  and  it  was 
easy  for  the  cunning  one  to  help  her 
decide  to  give  up  an  important  Relief 
Society  calling  and  abandon  her  won- 
derful circle  of  former  associates  in 
favor  of  the  nonessential,  time-wasting 
pastime  that  had  captured  her  fancy. 
Sisters  in  the  ward  continuing  their 
lives  of  charity  and  compassionate 
service  are  now  termed  by  her  as 
narrow-minded,  as  hypocritical  and  do- 
gooders,  but  in  reality,  the  only  thing 
that  changed  was  this  woman. 

I  know  a  man  who  started  taking 
supplies  home  from  his  place  of  em- 
ployment. First  it  was  just  a  few 
pencils;  then  it  was  something  more. 
In  the  end,  it  cost  him  his  job,  the  re- 
spect of  his  family,  and  the  spirit 
of  his  calling  in  the  Church.  His 
practices  became  incompatible  with  the 
priesthood  that  gave  him  the  promise 
of  life  eternal. 

I  know  a  host  of  others  that  time 
will  not  permit  us  to  discuss,  wonderful 
people  of  the  kingdom  who  ventured 
too  close  to  the  edge,  all  the  time  saying 
to  themselves,  "I  know  what  I  am 
doing.  I  can  turn  back  the  second  I 
choose."  Then  all  of  a  sudden  it  hap- 
pens. The  riptide  loosens  the  last  foot- 
hold, the  quicksand  starts  to  sink,  the 
thin  ice  suddenly  cracks,  the  precipice 
abruptly  gives  way.  There  are  physical 
laws  that  govern  the  riptide,  the 
cracking  ice,  the  unstable  ground;  and 
there  are  moral  and  spiritual  laws  that 
are  just  as  real,  whose  safe  boundary  is 
just  as  clearly  defined,  but  as  we  take 
one  fatal  step,  just  one  step  too  far,  the 
laws  of  the  universe  take  over — the 
consequence  is  inevitable. 

Eternal  judgment  undeviating 

There  have  been  some  excellent 
thoughts  on  repentance  during  these 


Second  Day 

conference  sessions,  but  this  plea  is  for 
each  and  every  member  of  the  Church 
to  stand  on  holy  ground,  to  avoid  the 
inevitable,  to  make  repentance  un- 
necessary. In  terms  of  eternity,  there 
is  no  such  thing  as  not  getting  caught. 
Eternal  judgment  is  undeviating,  for 
it  is  founded  on  truth.  Maybe  that  is 
why  the  Lord  said  what  he  did  on 
page  one  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, revelation  for  our  day,  as  he 
declared: 

"For  verily  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is 
unto  all  men,  and  there  is  none  to 
escape;  and  there  is  no  eye  that  shall 
not  see,  neither  ear  that  shall  not  hear, 
neither  heart  that  shall  not  be  pene- 
trated. 

"And  the  rebellious  shall  be  pierced 
with  much  sorrow;  for  their  iniquities 
shall  be  spoken  upon  the  housetops, 
and  their  secret  acts  shall  be  revealed. 

"Unto  the  day  when  the  Lord  shall 
come  to  recompense  unto  every  man 
according  to  his  work,  and  measure  to 
every  man  according  to  the  measure 
which  he  has  measured  to  his  fellow 
man."  (D&C  1:2-3,  10.) 

To  him  who  says:  "I  am  lucky,  I 
didn't  get  caught,"  I  say,  how  un- 
fortunate; for  his  other  foot  is  already 
in  motion  for  the  next  treacherous  step. 

Things  the  Lord  hates 

"These  six  things  doth  the  Lord  hate: 
yea,  seven  are  an  abomination  unto 
him: 

"A  proud  look,  a  lying  tongue,  and 
hands  that  shed  innocent  blood, 
"An   heart   that   deviseth  wicked 
imaginations,  feet  that  be  swift  in 
running  to  mischief, 

"A  false  witness  that  speaketh  lies, 
and  he  that  soweth  discord  among 
brethren."  (Prov.  6:16-19.) 

Now  it  seems  rather  odd  that  the 
Lord  would  speak  of  a  proud  look  and 
running  to  mischief  in  the  same  breath 
with  the  shedding  of  innocent  blood, 
but  can  anything  counter  to  the  glory 
and  power  of  God  or  the  exaltation  of 
man  be  counted  as  trivial?  "For  I  the 
Lord  cannot  look  upon  sin  with  the 
least  degree  of  allowance."  (D&C  1:31.) 
And  then  he  also  says  in  another  place: 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


87 


"He  that  diggeth  a  pit  shall  fall  into 
it  "  (Eccles.  10:8.) 

Bad  habits  tip  the  scale 

My  dear  fellow  members  of  our 
Heavenly  Father's  true  and  everlasting 
Church,  with  our  families  and  eternal 
life  on  one  side  of  the  scales,  is  it  con- 
ceivable that  we  are  willing  to  allow 
a  few  bad  habits  to  tip  that  scale  away 
from  all  that  is  good  and  precious  and 
true?  None  is  exempt  from  the  possi- 
bility. Just  open  the  door — just  a  crack, 
that's  all — and  the  adversary  will  lead 
us  quietly  away,  and  we  will  rational- 
ize as  we  go  that  what  we  are  doing  is 
done  by  so  many,  and  surely  this  once 
won't  hurt. 

The  adversary  sometimes  changes 
the  labels  on  the  bottles,  but  the  con- 
tents are  still  full  of  poison.  Just  like 
the  young  lad  I  visited  in  prison.  Upon 
asking  him  if  the  offense  was  stealing, 
I  received  an  indignant,  "Not  on  your 
life.  I  would  never  steal.  My  mother 
has  taught  me  better  than  that.  I  am 
here  for  forgery."  Shoplifting  never, 
but  what  is  wrong  with  forging  some- 
one else's  name  on  a  $500.00  check! 


The  way  clearly  marked 

May  our  judgment  be  sound  and  our 
course  straight.  The  way  is  clearly 
marked  before  us  and  is  to  be  found 
in  every  word  of  this  conference.  Just 
as  the  insignificant  termite  takes  his 
annual  toll,  causing  buildings  to  tum- 
ble, and  just  as  rust  and  erosive  forces 
eat  away  at  the  foundations  of  that 
which  seems  so  strong  and  so  firm,  so 
it  is  with  those  little  habits  that  must 
be  corrected  if  we  are  to  dwell  in  His 
presence. 

May  we  know  the  truth,  may  we  live 
the  truth,  may  we  sustain  the  truth. 
May  we  do  these  things,  that  all  may 
truly  be  well  in  Zion,  for  you  know  and 
I  know  that  the  truth  shall  make  us 
free,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Robert  L.  Simpson  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric. 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder 
LeGrand  Richards  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve. 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


I  rejoice  with  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  in  this  wonderful  conference, 
and  in  the  inspiring  remarks  of  our 
worthy  president,  President  David  O. 
McKay. 

We  have  just  listened  to  Bishop 
Simpson  as  he  quoted  the  statement 
of  Jesus,  when  he  said:  "And  ye  shall 
know  the  truth,  and  the  truth  shall 
make  you  free."  (John  8:32.)  I  ask, 
free  from  what?  The  false  teachings 
and  philosophies  and  man-made  doc- 
trines. 

Jesus  said:  "I  thank  thee,  O  Father, 
Lord  of  heaven  and  earth,  because 
thou  hast  hid  these  things  from  the 
wise  and  prudent,  and  hast  revealed 
them  unto  babes."  (Matt.  11:25.) 

With  man's  wisdom  alone,  one  can- 
not know  the  truth.  This  is  evidenced 


by  a  survey  taken  in  New  Zealand 
last  year,  in  which  there  were  411  dif- 
ferent churches  listed.  Hence  the  need 
of  divine  revelation  to  interpret  the 
teachings  of  the  prophets,  and  this 
church  is  built  upon  divine  revelation. 

A  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder 

I  take  my  text  today  from  the  twenty- 
ninth  chapter  of  Isaiah,  where  he 
states:  "Wherefore  the  Lord  said,  For- 
asmuch as  this  people  draw  near  me 
with  their  mouth,  and  with  their  lips 
do  honour  me,  but  have  removed  their 
heart  far  from  me,  and  their  fear 
toward  me  is  taught  by  the  precept  of 
men: 

"Therefore,  behold,  I  will  proceed 
to  do  a  marvellous  work  among  this 
people,  even  a  marvellous  work  and 


88  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  5 

a  wonder:  for  the  wisdom  of  their  wise 
men  shall  perish,  and  the  understand- 
ing of  their  prudent  men  shall  be  hid." 
(Isa.  29:13-14.) 

Where  do  we  find  these  precepts  of 
men  to  which  Isaiah  refers?  In  these 
411  different  religious  professions. 

Shouldn't  the  average  son  of  God 
want  to  know  if  he  is  worshiping  God 
through  the  precepts  of  men?  Or,  if 
he  is  privileged  to  live  until  the  Lord 
performs  that  marvelous  work  and  a 
wonder,  wouldn't  he  like  to  have  a 
part  in  it? 

Compare  this  situation  to  Paul's 
statement  to  the  Ephesians  when  he 
said  there  is  "one  Lord,  one  faith,  one 
baptism."  (Eph.  4:5.) 

Difference  between  man-made  and 
divine  doctrines 

How  things  have  changed!  Why? 
Because  men,  without  divine  guidance, 
could  not  agree  in  their  interpretation 
of  the  scriptures.  Jesus  understood  that 
without  divine  guidance  men  could  not 
properly  interpret  the  scriptures,  for  he 
said:  "Ye  do  err,  not  knowing  the  scrip- 
tures." (Matt.  22:29.)  Hence  the  need 
of  the  voice  of  authority  to  differen- 
tiate between  the  doctrines  that  are 
the  precepts  of  men,  as  Isaiah  states, 
and  the  truths  revealed  from  heaven 
in  the  restoration  of  the  gospel,  for 
we  did  not  get  our  teachings  through 
man's  interpretation  of  the  scriptures, 
but  by  the  revelations  of  the  Lord  to 
his  latter-day  prophet. 

A  whole  book  could  be  written  on 
the  difference  between  the  man-made 
doctrines  to  which  Isaiah  refers  and 
the  truths  revealed  from  heaven  which 
constitute  the  marvelous  work  and  a 
wonder  that  the  Lord  promised  through 
Isaiah  would  cause  the  wisdom  of  their 
wise  men  to  perish  and  the  understand- 
ing of  their  prudent  men  to  be  hid. 

Let  me  mention  a  few  important 
corrections  the  Lord  has  made  in  the 
teachings  of  men  through  the  restora- 
tion of  the  gospel. 

Teachings  on  Godhead 

When  the  Lord  gave  to  Moses  the 
Ten  Commandments,  the  first  was: 


Second  Dai/ 

"Thou  shalt  have  no  other  gods  before 
me."  (Exod.  20:3.) 

When  Joseph  Smith  had  his  glorious 
vision  and  the  Father  and  the  Son 
appeared  to  him  in  the  Sacred  Grove 
in  the  state  of  New  York  in  1820,  the 
Father,  pointing  to  the  Son,  said:  "This 
is  my  Beloved  Son.  Hear  Him!"  (Jo- 
seph Smith  2:17.) 

Thus  Joseph  saw  that  Jesus  and  his 
Father  were  glorified  persons,  as  was 
Jesus  following  his  resurrection,  when 
he  appeared  unto  his  disciples  and  had 
them  feel  the  prints  in  his  hands  and 
the  wound  in  his  side,  saying: 
".  .  .  handle  me,  and  see;  for  a  spirit 
hath  not  flesh  and  bones,  as  ye  see  me 
have."  (Luke  24:39.) 

Now  compare  this  with  the  teaching 
of  the  entire  Christian  world  at  the 
time  that  Joseph  Smith  had  this 
glorious  experience.  Here  is  a  state- 
ment from  their  creeds: 

"There  is  but  one  living  and  true 
God,  who  is  infinite  in  being  and  per- 
fection, a  most  pure  spirit,  invisible, 
without  body,  parts  or  passions  .  .  . 
and  in  unity  of  this  godhead,  there  are 
three  persons,  of  one  substance,  power 
and  eternity,  the  Father,  the  Son  and 
the  Holy  Ghost." 

How  could  there  be  three  persons  in 
one?  How  could  Joseph  Smith  or  any 
other  prophet  have  seen  God  if  he  has 
neither  body,  parts,  nor  passions,  and 
is  invisible?  That  means  he  has  no 
eyes,  so  he  cannot  see;  he  has  no  ears, 
so  he  cannot  hear;  he  has  no  mouth, 
so  he  cannot  speak;  he  has  no  body,  so 
he  cannot  be  seen.  This  is  a  fairly 
good  description  of  nothing.  How  is  it 
possible  that  the  entire  world  was  wor- 
shiping this  kind  of  a  god  at  the  time 
that  the  Father  and  Son,  two  glorified 
personages,  appeared  to  Joseph  Smith? 

Condition  foretold  by  Moses 

And  yet  Moses  knew  that  this  condi- 
tion would  exist  in  the  world,  for  when 
he  led  the  children  of  Israel  to  the 
promised  land,  he  told  them  that,  in 
coming  generations,  they  should  be 
scattered  among  the  heathen  nations. 
"And  there  ye  shall  serve  gods,  the 
work  of  men's  hands,  wood  and  stone, 
which  neither  see,  nor  hear,  nor  eat, 
nor  smell."  (Deut.  4:28.) 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


89 


Then  Moses  promised  them  that  in 
the  latter  days  (and  we  are  living  in 
the  latter  days)  when  they  were  in 
tribulation,  if  they  would  seek  after 
the  Lord  their  God,  they  would  find 
him  if  they  would  seek  him  with  all 
their  hearts  and  with  all  their  souls. 
(See  Deut.  4:29-30.) 

Joseph  Smith  as  a  boy  truly  sought 
after  him  and  was  rewarded  with  the 
glorious  vision  to  which  I  have  referred. 
And  for  his  testimony  that  God,  the 
Father,  and  Jesus  Christ,  his  Son,  were 
two  glorified  personages,  he  gave  his 
life.  We  bear  witness  to  all  the  world 
of  this  great  eternal  truth.  What 
knowledge  could  be  more  wonderful 
than  to  know  what  we  might  look  for- 
ward to,  as  Jesus  said  in  the  Sermon 
on  the  Mount:  "Blessed  are  the  pure 
in  heart:  for  they  shall  see  God." 
{Matt.  5:8.  Italics  added.) 

How  could  we  see  God  if  he  does 
not  exist,  has  no  body,  parts,  or  pas- 
sions, and  is  invisible? 

To  correct  this  false  doctrine  should 
justify  the  Lord  in  raising  up  a  prophet 
in  these  latter  days,  and  this  gives  real 
meaning  to  Easter,  which  the  Chris- 
tian world  is  celebrating  at  this  time. 

Through  the  restoration  of  the  gospel 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  the 
Lord  corrects  another  false  teaching, 
one  of  the  doctrines  of  men  to  which 
Isaiah  refers.  The  Christian  world 
teaches  that  children  are  born  into  this 
world  with  the  sin  of  Adam  and  Eve 
resting  upon  them,  thus  denying  the 
atonement  of  Jesus  Christ,  as  stated 
by  the  apostle  Paul:  "For  as  in  Adam 
all  die,  even  so  in  Christ  shall  all  be 
made  alive."  (1  Cor.  15:22.) 

Little  children  redeemed  through 
Christ 

Now  here  is  the  word  of  the  Lord 
with  respect  to  this  matter  in  a  revela- 
tion to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith:  "But, 
behold,  I  say  unto  you,  that  little  chil- 
dren are  redeemed  from  the  foundation 
of  the  world  through  mine  Only  Be- 
gotten; 

"Wherefore,  they  cannot  sin,  for 
power  is  not  given  unto  Satan  to  tempt 
little  children,  until  they  begin  to  be- 
come accountable  before  me."  (D&C 
29:46-47.) 


The  Prophet  Mormon  discussed  this 
subject  in  a  letter  to  his  son,  Moroni, 
as  recorded  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  in 
these  words: 

"And  now,  my  son,  I  speak  unto  you 
concerning  that  which  grieveth  me  ex- 
ceedingly; for  it  grieveth  me  that  there 
should  disputations  rise  among  you. 

"For,  if  I  have  learned  the  truth, 
there  have  been  disputations  among 
you  concerning  the  baptism  of  your 
little  children. 

"And  now,  my  son,  I  desire  that  ye 
should  labor  diligently,  that  this  gross 
error  should  be  removed  from  among 
you;  for,  for  this  intent  I  have  written 
this  epistle. 

"For  immediately  after  I  had  learned 
these  things  of  you  I  inquired  of  the 
Lord  concerning  the  matter.  And  the 
word  of  the  Lord  came  to  me  by 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  saying: 

"Listen  to  the  words  of  Christ,  your 
Redeemer,  your  Lord  and  your  God. 
Behold,  I  came  into  the  world  not  to 
call  the  righteous  but  sinners  to  re- 
pentance; the  whole  need  no  physician, 
but  they  that  are  sick;  wherefore,  little 
children  are  whole,  for  they  are  not 
capable  of  committing  sin;  wherefore 
the  curse  of  Adam  is  taken  from  them 
in  me,  that  it  hath  no  power  over 
them;  .  .  . 

"And  after  this  manner  did  the  Holy 
Ghost  manifest  the  word  of  God  unto 
me;  wherefore,  my  beloved  son,  I  know 
that  it  is  solemn  mockery  before  God, 
that  ye  should  baptize  little  children. 

"Little  children  cannot  repent; 
wherefore,  it  is  awful  wickedness  to 
deny  the  pure  mercies  of  God  unto 
them,  for  they  are  all  alive  in  him 
because  of  his  mercy. 

"And  he  that  saith  that  little  chil- 
dren need  baptism  denieth  the  mercies 
of  Christ,  and  setteth  at  naught  the 
atonement  of  him  and  the  power  of 
the  redemption."  (Moro.  8:4-9,  19-20.) 

Shouldn't  the  whole  Christian  world 
welcome  this  great  revealed  truth  to 
save  them  from  following  this  man- 
made  doctrine  that  they  have  been 
taught? 

Marriage  for  time  and  eternity 

Let  me  briefly  mention  another 
man-made  and  very  important  doc- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


90 

Saturday,  April  5 

trine  taught  by  all  the  so-called  Chris- 
tian churches  at  the  time  the  Lord 
restored  his  true  Church  to  the  earth 
in  this  last  dispensation  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

They  have  universally  taught  that 
marriage  is  for  this  life  only,  hence 
their  marriages  are  all  performed  "un- 
til death  do  you  part"  or  "for  the  period 
of  your  mortal  lives." 

In  light  of  God's  restored  truth  to 
us,  this  is  a  very  flimsy  and  unsatis- 
factory doctrine.  Love  is  eternal,  and 
where  couples  live  true  Christian  lives 
together,  their  love  for  each  other  and 
their  children  increases  with  the  years. 

I  like  the  words  of  Anderson  M. 
Baten  to  his  wife,  Beulah,  entitled 
"Philosophy  of  Life": 

"I  wed  thee  forever,  not  for  now, 
Not  for  the  sham  of  earth's  brief 
years; 

I  wed  thee  for  the  life  beyond  the 
tears 

Beyond  the  heart  pain  and  clouded 
brow. 

Love  knows  no  grave  and  it  shall 

guide  us  dear 
When  life's  spent  candles  flutter  and 

burn  low." 

The  apostle  Paul  indicated  that  we 
without  our  loved  ones  cannot  be  made 
perfect.  (See  Heb.  11:40.)  The  Lord 
has  revealed  the  fact  that  marriage  ties 
are  intended  to  be  eternal,  hence  all 
marriages  in  his  Church  are  for  time 
and  for  all  eternity. 

Scriptural  affirmation 

The  first  record  we  have  of  marriage 
was  when  the  Lord  told  Adam,  "It  is 
not  good  that  the  man  should  be  alone; 
I  will  make  him  an  help  meet  for 
him.  .  .  . 

"Therefore  shall  a  man  leave  his 
father  and  his  mother,  and  shall  cleave 
unto  his  wife:  and  they  shall  be  one 
flesh."  (Gen.  2:18,  24.) 

If  it  was  not  good  for  man  to  be 
alone  before  death  came  into  the 
world,  it  will  obviously  not  be  good 
for  man  to  be  alone  when  he  is  resur- 
rected from  the  dead. 

Jesus  also  taught  this  principle,  for 
he  said: 


Second  Day 

"For  this  cause  shall  a  man  leave 
his  father  and  mother,  and  cleave  to 
his  wife; 

"And  they  twain  shall  be  one  flesh: 
so  then  they  are  no  more  twain,  but 
one  flesh. 

"What  therefore  God  hath  joined 
together,  let  not  man  put  asunder." 
(Mark  10:7-9.) 

Both  God  and  Jesus  Christ  indicated 
that  the  man  and  his  wife  should  be- 
come one  flesh,  and  Jesus  warns: 
"What  therefore  God  hath  joined  to- 
gether, let  not  man  put  asunder." 

Where  is  there  any  scriptural  justi- 
fication to  assume  and  teach  that 
death  should  annul  the  marriage 
covenant? 

The  apostle  Peter  understood  that 
the  man  and  his  wife  would  inherit 
together  the  results  and  the  rewards  of 
this  life.  He  said: 

"Likewise,  ye  husbands,  dwell  with 
them  according  to  knowledge,  giving 
honour  unto  the  wife,  as  unto  the 
weaker  vessel,  and  as  being  heirs  to- 
gether of  the  grace  of  life;  that  your 
prayers  be  not  hindered."  (1  Pet.  3:7.) 

The  Prophet  Isaiah  saw  the  day 
when  we  would  have  a  new  heaven 
and  a  new  earth,  when  we  would  build 
houses  and  inhabit  them,  and  plant 
vineyards  and  eat  the  fruit  thereof. 
Then  he  adds:  "For  they  are  the  seed 
of  the  blessed  of  the  Lord,  and  their 
offspring  with  them."  (See  Isa.  65:17, 
19-25.) 

Reality  of  resurrection 

What  a  comfort  to  those  of  us  who 
have  buried  our  little  children  to  know 
that  we  will  be  privileged  in  the  resur- 
rection to  raise  our  little  ones  unto 
manhood  and  womanhood. 

The  man-made  doctrines  of  the  so- 
called  Christian  churches  give  their 
members  no  such  promises  of  comfort. 

I  attended  a  funeral  service  for  an 
only  young  daughter  of  one  of  my 
business  associates,  and  the  minister 
did  not  hold  out  one  hope  to  this  sor- 
rowing couple  that  they  would  ever 
see  or  know  their  precious  little  daugh- 
ter again. 

After  the  funeral,  I  told  my  friend 
that  the  Lord  had  something  better 
than  that  for  him  if  he  would  live 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


91 


for  it.  He  has  since  joined  the  Lord's 
true  Church  and  now  looks  forward 
to  the  privilege  of  raising  that  little 
daughter  in  the  morning  of  the  first 
resurrection. 

In  a  revelation  to  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith,  the  Lord  said,  referring  to 
the  conditions  during  the  millennium: 

"And  the  earth  shall  be  given  unto 
them  for  an  inheritance;  and  they  shall 
multiply  and  wax  strong,  and  their 
children  shall  grow  up  without  sin 
unto  salvation. 

"For  the  Lord  shall  be  in  their  midst, 
and  his  glory  shall  be  upon  them,  and 
he  will  be  their  king  and  their  law- 
giver." (D&C  45:58-59.) 

There  are  many  other  man-made 
interpretations  of  the  scriptures  that 
have  brought  into  existence  these  411 
different  churches  referred  to  in  New 
Zealand.  Isaiah  prophesied  that  when 
men  should  serve  God  through  the 
precepts  and  doctrines  of  men,  the 
Lord  would  proceed  to  do  a  marvelous 
work  and  a  wonder  that  would  cause 
the  wisdom  of  their  wise  men  to  perish 
and  the  understanding  of  their  prudent 
men  to  be  hid. 

The  Church  that  Isaiah  promised 

I  testify  that  this  Church  is  the  mar- 
velous work  and  a  wonder  that  Isaiah 
promised  when  men  would  be  wor- 
shiping through  the  precepts  of  men. 

Recently,  a  converted  minister  joined 
the  Church.  He  sat  in  my  office  and 
made  this  statement:  "When  I  think 
of  how  little  I  had  to  offer  my  people 
as  a  minister  of  the  gospel  compared 
with  what  I  now  have  in  the  fullness 
of  the  gospel  as  it  has  been  restored, 
I  want  to  go  back  and  tell  all  my 
friends  what  I  have  found.  Now,"  he 
said,  "they  will  not  listen  to  me.  I  am 
an  apostate  from  their  church."  But  he 
gave  up  his  ministry  and  performed 
menial  work  here  in  the  city  in  order 
that  he  might  be  a  member  of  God's 
true  Church. 

We  invite  all  men  everywhere  to 
share  with  us  these  glorious  truths  that 
God  has  revealed  through  his  prophet 
of  this  dispensation.  I  repeat  the 
Savior's  promise:  "Blessed  are  they 
which   do   hunger  and   thirst  after 


righteousness:  for  they  shall  be  filled." 
(Matt.  5:6.) 

I  bear  witness  to  all  within  the  sound 
of  my  voice  that  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  in  very 
deed  the  marvelous  work  and  a  won- 
der the  Lord  promised  through  Isaiah 
the  prophet. 

May  God  bless  you  all,  I  pray,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

Elder  LeGrand  Richards  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  has  been  our 
concluding  speaker. 

The  following  are  some  announce- 
ments that  pertain  to  the  General 
Priesthood  meeting  to  be  held  tonight 
and  to  the  special  broadcast  to  be  held 
tomorrow  morning. 

The  General  Priesthood  meeting  of 
the  Church  will  be  held  in  the  Salt 
Lake  Tabernacle  this  evening  at  seven 
o'clock.  Priesthood  members  only  are 
invited  to  be  present.  This  priesthood 
session  will  not  be  broadcast  publicly. 

In  addition  to  the  overflow  meeting 
in  the  Assembly  Hall,  the  proceedings 
of  the  priesthood  meeting  this  evening 
will  be  relayed  by  closed-circuit, 
originating  in  the  Tabernacle,  to  mem- 
bers of  the  Aaronic  and  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  assembled  in  approximately 
500  separate  locations  in  all  parts  of 
the  United  States  and  Canada,  and  via 
closed-circuit  television  in  five  build- 
ings in  Salt  Lake  City,  and  to  10,000 
assembled  at  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity in  Provo,  Utah.  It  is  estimated 
that  approximately  12,000  holders  of 
the  priesthood  will  be  on  Temple 
Square  this  evening,  and  approximately 
150,000  others  will  gather  in  the  other 
locations  from  coast  to  coast  and  in 
Canada. 

The  Sunday  morning  session  will  be 
broadcast  by  many  radio  and  tele- 
vision stations  in  western  United 
States;  and  short-waved  in  English 
over  Station  WNYW  in  New  York 
City  to  Europe,  South  and  Central 
America,  and  Africa. 

Again,  27  radio  stations  will  broad- 
cast the  translated  conference  session 
of  Sunday  morning  in  major  cities  of 
Mexico  and  Central  America,  together 


92  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  5 

with  Spanish  programming  stations  in 
this  country,  and  by  satellite  transmis- 
sion over  radio  stations  in  Rio  de 
Janeiro  and  Sao  Paulo,  Brazil,  and  all 
26  radio  stations  in  Chile. 

The  morning  sessions  of  Saturday 
and  Sunday  will  be  carried  from  the 
Tabernacle  over  direct  oceanic  cables 
to  a  large  number  of  saints  assembled 
in  seventy  chapels  throughout  Great 
Britain,  Germany,  France,  and  Holland 
on  Sunday.  Direct  circuits  will  also 
carry  these  sessions  to  saints  assembled 
in  chapels  throughout  eastern  Canada. 

The  CBS  Radio  network  Tabernacle 
Choir  broadcast  tomorrow  morning 
will  be  from  9:35  to  10  a.m.  Those 
desiring  to  attend  this  broadcast  must 
be  in  their  seats  not  later  than  9:15 
a.m. 

The  singing  for  this  session  has  been 
furnished  by  the  Primary  Children's 
Chorus,  with  Judith  Wirthlin  Parker 
conducting,  and  Roy  M.  Darley  at  the 
organ. 

In  behalf  of  this  great  gathering  in 
the  Tabernacle  and  our  radio  and 


Second  Day 

television  audience  we  express  our 
heartfelt  appreciation  for  the  thrilling 
and  inspirational  singing  of  this  group, 
composed  of  402  Primary  children  from 
402  wards  of  the  Church.  We  thank 
you  children,  your  conductor,  Sister 
Parker,  and  Brother  Darley  who  has 
been  at  the  organ. 

The  Primary  Children's  Chorus  will 
now  favor  us  with,  "The  Children's 
Hymn  of  Praise,"  followed  by  "I  Am  a 
Child  of  God." 

The  benediction  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  K.  Anthony  Snow,  president  of 
the  Shreveport  Stake,  after  which  the 
conference  will  be  adjourned  until 
seven  o'clock  this  evening. 


The  Primary  Children's  Chorus  sang 
"The  Children's  Hymn  of  Praise"  and 
"I  Am  a  Child  of  God." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by 
President  K.  Anthony  Snow  of  the 
Shreveport  Stake. 

The  conference  adjourned  until  7 
o'clock  p.m. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


FIFTH  SESSION 

The  General  Priesthood  meeting  of 
the  Church  convened  at  7  o'clock  p.m. 
Saturday,  April  5,  1969,  with  President 
N.  Eldon  Tanner,  second  counselor  in 
the  First  Presidency,  conducting. 

The  Brigham  Young  University 
Faculty  Priesthood  Chorus,  with  Har- 
old H.  Goodman  conducting,  furnished 
the  singing  for  this  session.  Elder 
Robert  Cundick  was  at  the  organ. 

President  Tanner  made  the  follow- 
ing remarks  at  the  beginning  of  the 
meeting: 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

This  is  the  General  Priesthood  ses- 
sion of  the  139th  Annual  Conference 
of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 


President  McKay,  who  regrets  he 
cannot  be  with  us  this  evening,  is 
watching  these  proceedings  by  closed- 
circuit  television,  and  has  directed  me 
to  extend  his  greetings  and  blessings  to 
all  the  priesthood  members  assembled 
here  in  the  Tabernacle  and  Assembly 
Hall  and  in  the  various  buildings 
throughout  the  United  States  and 
Canada.  He  has  prepared  a  message 
for  this  priesthood  audience  which 
will  be  read  a  little  later  by  his  son, 
David  Lawrence  McKay. 

It  may  be  of  interest  to  you  to  know 
that  these  services  are  being  relayed 
by  closed-circuit  wire  to  members  of 
the  priesthood  gathered  in  the  Assem- 
bly Hall  and  in  approximately  500 
other  separate  locations  from  coast  to 
coast  and  in  Canada.  It  is  estimated 
that  approximately  150,000  will  partici- 
pate in  this  meeting  by  direct  wire. 

The  singing  during  this  session  will 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


93 


be  furnished  by  the  Brigham  Young 
University  Faculty  Priesthood  Chorus, 
with  Harold  H.  Goodman  conducting, 
and  Robert  Cundick  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  this  service  by  the 
chorus  and  congregation  singing, 
"Come,  O  Thou  King  of  Kings,"  after 
which  Elder  Kay  Schwendiman,  re- 
gional representative,  will  offer  the 
invocation. 


The  congregation  and  chorus  sang 
the  hymn,  "Come,  O  Thou  King  of 
Kings." 

Elder  Kay  Schwendiman,  regional 
representative  of  the  Twelve,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 


President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

I  should  like  to  emphasize  that  this 
priesthood  chorus  is  made  up  of  the 
Brigham  Young  University  faculty  and 
staff,  and  they  will  now  sing,  "I'll  Go 
Where  You  Want  Me  to  Go." 


The  Brigham  Young  University 
Faculty  Priesthood  Chorus  sang  the 
hymn,  "I'll  Go  Where  You  Want  Me 
to  Go." 


President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

President  David  O.  McKay's  message 
to  the  priesthood  will  now  be  read  by 
his  son,  David  Lawrence  McKay,  Gen- 
eral Superintendent  of  the  Deseret 
Sunday  School  Union. 


PRESIDENT  D, 

(Read  by  his  son  Dc 

My  dear  brethren  of  the  priesthood, 
I  welcome  you,  and  appreciate  this 
privilege  of  once  again  expressing  my 
reelings  to  you  of  our  great  callings. 

As  I  contemplate  the  vast  audience 
of  priesthood  assembled  tonight  in  the 
various  places  named  at  the  opening 
of  the  meeting,  and  realize  the  power 
of  this  great  body  of  men,  I  am  over- 
whelmed. 

I  felt  my  feelings  swell  within  my 
breast  as  to  the  possibility  of  the  good 
that  will  be  done,  and  can  be  done,  by 
these  many  thousands  of  men  of  the 
priesthood  who  are  worshiping  tonight. 

"There's  surely  somewhere  a  lowly 
place 

In  earth's  harvest  fields  so  wide, 
Where  I  may  labor  through  life's  short 
day 

For  Jesus,  the  Crucified; 

So  trusting  my  all  to  thy  tender  care, 

And  knowing  thou  lovest  me, 

I'll  do  thy  will  with  a  heart  sincere, 

I'll  be  what  you  want  me  to  be." 

{Hymns,  No.  318.) 

I  hope  everybody  who  listened  to 


VID  0.  McKAY 

id  Lawrence  McKay) 

that  verse  tonight  applied  it  to  himself, 
and  in  a  way  made  a  sacred  vow  to  do 
better  in  the  future  than  in  the  past. 
There  came  to  my  mind  some  funda- 
mental virtues  that  should  be  associated 
with  that  will.  I  will  just  name  them. 

Fundamental  virtues 

First  is  faith:  faith  in  God  the  Father, 
faith  in  his  Son,  faith  in  our  fellow- 
men. 

The  second  is  honesty,  a  childish 
sincerity,  honesty  in  dealing  with  our 
fellowmen.  It  is  the  foundation  of  all 
character.  If  you  offer  prayer  at  night 
and  you  have  dealt  dishonestly  with 
your  fellows  during  the  day,  I  rather 
think  that,  as  the  king  in  Hamlet, 
your  words  fly  up  but  your  thoughts 
remain  below;  but  if  you  have  dealt 
honestly,  the  Lord  will  hear  and  an- 
swer your  true  feelings. 

The  third  is  loyalty.  It  is  a  wonder- 
ful principle.  A  true  friend  is  loyal. 
Many  acquaintances  are  not,  and  may 
not  be.  Be  loyal  to  the  priesthood.  Be 
loyal  to  your  wives  and  your  families, 
loyal  to  your  friends. 


94  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  5 

Strength  in  resistance 

To  the  men  of  the  priesthood  I  give 
this  caution.  Your  weakest  point  will 
be  the  point  at  which  Satan  tries  to 
tempt  you,  and  will  try  to  win  you, 
and  if  you  have  made  it  weak  yourself 
before  you  have  undertaken  to  serve 
the  Lord,  he  will  add  to  that  weakness. 
Resist  him  and  you  will  gain  in 
strength.  He  will  tempt  you  in  an- 
other point.  Resist  him  and  he  be- 
comes weaker  and  you  become  stronger, 
until  you  can  say,  no  matter  what  your 
surroundings  may  be,  "Get  thee  be- 
hind me,  Satan:  for  it  is  written,  Thou 
shalt  worship  the  Lord  thy  God,  and 
him  only  shalt  thou  serve."  (Luke  4:8.) 

Now,  I  mention  this  because  there 
are  too  many  broken  hearts  in  our 
Church  because  men,  some  of  whom 
hold  the  priesthood  and  prominent 
positions,  are  tempted  right  where  they 
are  weak.  They  forget  that  they  have 
made  covenants  with  the  Lord,  and 
step  aside  from  the  path  of  virtue  and 
discretion,  and  will  break  their  wives' 
hearts  because  of  foolish  indulgence 
and  because  of  their  yielding. 

Sacred  covenants 

We  have  one  of  the  most  sacred 
covenants  in  all  the  world  pertaining 
to  the  happiness  of  the  home.  There 
are  men  within  the  sound  of  my  voice 
who  have  forgotten  how  sacred  that 
covenant  is.  The  brethren  of  the 
Twelve,  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church,  the  stake  authorities  are  urg- 
ing youth  everywhere  to  go  to  the 
temple  to  be  married.  Do  not  go  to 
that  temple  unless  you  are  ready  to 
accept  the  covenants  that  you  make. 

Marriage  in  the  temple  is  one  of  the 
most  beautiful  things  in  all  the  world. 
A  couple  is  led  there  by  love,  the 
most  divine  attribute  of  the  human 
soul.  A  young  man  looks,  rightfully, 
upon  that  bride  who  will  be  the  mother 
of  his  children  as  being  as  pure  as  a 
snowflake,  as  spotless  as  a  sunbeam, 
as  worthy  of  motherhood  as  any  virgin. 
It  is  a  glorious  thing  for  a  woman  thus 
to  wear  the  robes  and  be  the  pride  of  a 
young  elder's  heart,  one  who  trusts  her 
to  be  the  head  of  his  household. 

She  trusts  him  as  being  as  worthy 


Second  Day 

of  fatherhood  as  she  is  of  motherhood, 
and  rightfully,  too,  because  on  his 
shoulders  are  the  robes  of  the  Holy 
Priesthood,  testifying  to  his  young 
bride,  and  to  all,  of  his  worthiness. 

Together  they  stand  in  the  house  of 
the  Lord  to  testify  and  covenant  be- 
fore him  that  they  will  be  true  to  the 
covenants  they  make  that  day,  each 
keeping  himself  or  herself  to  the  other 
and  no  one  else.  That  is  the  highest 
ideal  of  marriage  ever  given  to  man.  If 
those  covenants  are  kept  as  sacred  as 
sacred  covenants  should  be  kept,  there 
would  be  fewer  broken  hearts  among 
wives  and  fewer  among  the  husbands. 
A  covenant  is  a  sacred  thing.  A  man 
who  is  married  in  the  temple  has  no 
right  to  be  looking  at  young  women, 
whether  they  are  in  the  choir  or  in 
the  Relief  Society,  or  a  member  of  a 
general  board,  or  doing  any  of  the 
duties  of  the  Church.  You  have  a  cove- 
nant to  be  true  to  that  wife.  Brethren, 
keep  it  true,  be  true  to  it. 

"It  is  easy  enough  to  be  prudent, 

When  nothing  tempts  you  to  stray, 
When  without  or  within  no  voice  of 
sin 

Is  luring  your  soul  away; 
But  it's  only  a  negative  virtue 

Until  it  is  tried  by  fire, 
And  the  life  that  is  worth  the  honor  oE 
earth, 

Is  the  life  that  resists  desire. 

"By  the  cynic,  the  sad,  the  fallen 

Who  had  no  strength  for  the  strife, 
The  world's  highway  is  cumbered  to- 
day; 

They  make  up  the  sum  of  life. 
But  the  virtue  that  conquers  passion 

And  the  sorrow  that  hides  in  a  smile, 
It  is  these  that  are  worth  the  homage 
of  earth 

For  we  find  them  but  once  in  a 
while." 

—Ella  Wheeler  Wilcox,  "Worth  While" 

Keep  true  to  covenants 

I  plead  with  the  army  of  the  priest- 
hood assembled  tonight  in  this  meeting 
to  keep  true  to  the  covenants  made  in 
the  house  of  God.  You  have  no  right 
to  neglect  your  wives  and  go  and  seek 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


95 


the  company  of  others  who  seem  to  be 
more  attractive  to  you  because  you  are 
thrown  with  them  in  daily  life,  in 
your  business  affairs,  or  in  church 
affairs.  This  may  seem  general,  but 
while  I  speak  to  you,  a  wife  with  her 
tears  and  her  pleadings  comes  to  me 
now,  asking,  "Won't  you  please  just 
say  a  prayer,  won't  you  offer  a  prayer 
to  try  to  bring  my  husband  back?" 
Well,  she  may  have  been  to  blame  for 
the  trouble — she  said  that  she  was 
partly  to  blame — but  I  know  that  her 
husband  was  to  blame,  for  he  is  a  man 
who  holds  the  priesthood  and  has  no 
right  to  break  his  covenants. 

The  Spirit  of  God  will  not  strive 
with  a  man  who  in  any  way  helps  to 
break  up  another  man's  family.  "The 
greatest  battle  of  life  is  fought  out 
within  the  silent  chambers  of  the  soul." 

Duties  of  priesthood  bearers 

I  ask  you  fellow  priesthood  bearers 
to  do  again  what  undoubtedly  you  have 
done  frequently,  to  sit  down  and  com- 
mune with  yourself.  There  is  a  battle 
going  on  within  you,  and  within  me, 
every  day.  Fight  it  out  with  yourself, 
and  decide  upon  your  course  of  action 
regarding,  first,  what  your  duty  is  to 
your  family.  Avoid  conditions  and 
people  getting  into  your  life  who  will 
cause  unhappiness  in  your  home. 
Second,  decide  what  your  duty  is  to 
your  quorum.  Decide  whether  you  owe 
your  quorum  anything,  and  see  if  you 
have  strength  enough  to  do  it  after  you 
decide.  Third,  decide  in  that  silent 
moment  what  your  duty  is  to  your 
Church.  And  fourth,  decide  what  you 
owe  to  your  fellowmen.  Decide  where 
your  duty  is,  even  remembering  that 
"the  greatest  battle  of  life  is  fought 
out  within  the  silent  chambers  of  your 
own  soul." 

".  . .  Act  well  thy  part" 

Remember  this  as  a  guideline  in 
whatever  position  you  are  called  to 
serve:  "What  e'er  thou  art,  act  well 
thy  part."  That,  of  course,  applies  to 
moral  and  lawful  endeavors,  and  not 
to  harmful  or  villainous  actions.  That 
influenced  me  many  years  ago  when, 
as  I  have  told  some  of  you  before, 


Peter  G.  Johnston  and  I  were  walking 
around  Stirling  Castle  in  Scotland.  I 
was  discouraged;  I  was  just  starting  my 
mission.  I  had  been  snubbed  that  day 
in  tracting.  I  was  homesick.  We 
walked  around  the  Stirling  Castle, 
really  not  doing  our  duty;  and  as  we 
reentered  the  town,  I  saw  a  building, 
half-finished.  To  my  surprise,  from 
the  sidewalk  I  saw  an  inscription  over 
the  lintel  of  the  front  door,  carved  in 
stone.  I  said  to  Brother  Johnston,  "I 
want  to  go  over  and  see  what  that  is." 

I  was  not  more  than  halfway  up  the 
pathway  leading  to  it  when  that  mes- 
sage struck  me.  Carved  there  was: 
"What  e'er  thou  art,  act  well  thy 
part." 

As  I  rejoined  my  companion  and  told 
him,  do  you  know  what  man  came 
into  my  mind  first?  The  custodian  at 
the  University  of  Utah,  from  which 
I  had  just  been  graduated.  I  realized 
that  I  had  as  great  a  respect  for  that 
man  as  I  had  for  any  professor  in  whose 
class  I  had  sat.  He  acted  well  his  part. 
I  recalled  how  he  helped  us  with  the 
football  suits,  how  he  helped  us  with 
some  of  our  lessons,  for  he  was  a  uni- 
versity graduate  himself.  Humble,  but 
to  this  day  I  hold  respect  for  him. 

What  are  you?  You  are  men  who 
hold  the  priesthood  of  God,  who  hold 
divine  authority  to  represent  Deity  in 
whatever  position  to  which  you  have 
been  assigned. 

Appreciation  of  fellowship 

It  has  always  been  my  nature  to  en- 
joy the  company  of  my  associates.  I 
love  to  be  with  my  friends.  The  older 
I  grow,  the  more  intense  becomes  my 
appreciation  of  fellowship  in  the 
brotherhood  of  Christ.  I  sense  that 
tonight  more  deeply,  more  sincerely 
than  ever  before. 

May  God  add  his  blessings  to  the 
instructions  and  reports  that  will  be 
given  this  night;  may  we  depart  with 
greater  determination  in  our  hearts  to 
serve  the  Lord  and  keep  his  command- 
ments; may  we  go  forth  with  greater 
resolution  to  defend  one  another  in 
righteous  living,  to  defend  the  Church, 
not  to  speak  against  our  neighbors,  nor 
against  authorities  of  the  Church,  local, 


96  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  5 

stake,  or  general.  Let  us  avoid  evil 
speaking;  let  us  avoid  slander  and 
gossip.  These  are  poisons  to  the  soul 
to  those  who  indulge.  Evil  speaking 
injures  the  reviler  more  than  the 
reviled. 

Statement  on  Communism 

In  the  United  States  of  America, 
the  Constitution  vouchsafes  individual 
freedom,  and  let  us  pray  also  that  the 
Lord  will  frustrate  the  plans  of  the 
Communists  who  would  deprive  us  of 
freedom. 

I  desire  to  refer  to  some  remarks 
concerning  Communism  that  I  made  in 
the  general  priesthood  meeting  three 
years  ago.  At  that  priesthood  confer- 
ence, in  addition  to  encouragement  to 
study  the  Constitution  and  be  alert  to 
communistic  inroads  that  would  under- 
mine it,  I  said  the  following: 

"The  Church,  out  of  respect  for  the 
rights  of  all  its  members  to  have  their 
political  views  and  loyalties,  must 
maintain  the  strictest  possible  neutral- 
ity. We  have  no  intention  of  trying 
to  interfere  with  the  fullest  and  freest 
exercise  of  the  political  franchise  of  our 
members  under  and  within  our  Con- 
stitution, which  the  Lord  declared  he 
established  'by  the  hands  of  wise  men 
whom  [he]  raised  up  unto  this  very 
purpose'  (D&C  101:80)  and  which,  as 
to  the  principles  thereof,  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  dedicating  the  Kirtland 
Temple,  prayed  should  be  'established 
forever.'  (D&C  109:54.)  The  Church 
does  not  yield  any  of  its  devotion  to 
or  convictions  about  safeguarding  the 
American  principles  and  the  estab- 
lishments of  government  under  federal 
and  state  constitutions  and  the  civil 
rights  of  men  safeguarded  by  these. 

"The  position  of  this  Church,  how- 
ever, on  the  subject  of  Communism 
has  never  changed.  We  consider  it  the 
greatest  satanical  threat  to  peace,  pros- 
perity, and  the  spread  of  God's  work 
among  men  that  exists  on  the  face 
of  the  earth."  (The  Improvement  Era, 
June  1966,  p.  477.) 

Neutrality  of  Church 

It  is  suggested  that,  in  educating 
themselves  on  the  perils  of  Commu- 


Second  Day 

nism,  members  should  not  expect  bish- 
ops and  stake  presidents  to  join  with 
them  or  through  their  positions  lend 
support  to  their  efforts,  since  they  are 
expected  to  maintain  a  strict  neutrality 
as  referred  to.  Nor  should  organized 
movements  to  become  informed  on 
Communism  impose  their  ideas  upon 
the  membership  of  the  Church  in  any 
area  in  a  manner  that  may  lead  to 
division  among  the  members.  Nor 
should  bishops,  stake  presidents,  and 
other  Church  leaders  take  the  lead  in 
support  of  such  efforts  of  groups  in 
such  a  way  as  to  impose  such  move- 
ments upon  other  Church  members. 

It  is  the  right  and  obligation  of  every 
citizen,  and  therefore  every  member  of 
the  Church,  to  be  alert  and  to  be  in- 
formed about  social,  educational, 
communistic,  and  other  political  in- 
fluences that  would  tend  to  undermine 
our  free  society.  But  it  would  defeat 
its  own  purposes  if  it  were  done  in  a 
manner  that  would  tend  toward  divi- 
sion in  our  own  membership. 

Responsibility  to  teach  truth 

It  must  never  be  forgotten  that  con- 
verts to  the  Church  come  from  all 
nations,  representing  diverse  views  on 
controversial  issues.  Ours  must  be  the 
responsibility  to  teach  our  members 
from  all  nations  the  true  doctrines  of 
Christ  with  such  power  that  they  be 
fortified  against  all  false  ideas,  re- 
gardless of  the  label  under  which  they 
may  be  presented. 

The  Melchizedek  Priesthood  course 
of  study  for  the  coming  year  will 
include  in  the  lesson  material  such 
subjects  as  liberty  and  freedom,  re- 
ligion and  the  state,  the  dangers  of 
Communism,  and  other  subjects  con- 
sidered of  vital  importance  in  the 
study  of  the  profound  truths  of  the 
gospel. 

The  study  of  these  lessons  will  en- 
able the  brethren  of  the  priesthood  to 
become  better  acquainted  with  forces 
that  are  opposed  to  righteousness,  as 
well  as  with  the  Lord's  plan  of  salva- 
tion for  all  his  children. 

In  these  days  of  great  turmoil  and 
social  upheaval,  it  would  be  well  if  all 
our  leaders  and  members  of  the  priest- 
hood would  be  constantly  reminded 


PRESIDENT  LYSLE  R.  CAHOON 


97 


of  the  apostle  Paul's  wise  counsel 
wherein  he  said:  "And  I,  brethren, 
when  I  came  to  you,  came  not  with  ex- 
cellency of  speech  or  of  wisdom,  declar- 
ing unto  you  the  testimony  of  God. 

"For  I  determined  not  to  know  any 
thing  among  you,  save  Jesus  Christ, 
and  him  crucified."  (1  Cor.  2:1-2.) 

Defense  of  the  truth 

God  help  us  to  defend  the  truth — 
better  than  that,  to  live  it,  to  exemplify 
it  in  our  homes.  What  we  owe  to  our 
parents  we  cannot  express.  Are  you 
parents — fathers  and  mothers — going 
to  have  that  same  influence  on  your 
children?  God  give  you  power  so  to 
have  that  influence,  that  your  children 
may  be  true  to  the  last,  to  death  if 
necessary,  to  the  truth  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  which  magnifies  God,  our 
Father,  who,  with  his  Beloved  Son 
Jesus  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world,  appeared  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  They  revealed  themselves  in 
this  dispensation  and  his  work  was 
established,  never  more  to  be  thrown 
down  or  given  to  another  people. 

Satan  is  still  determined  to  have 
his  way,  and  his  emissaries  have  power 
given  them  today  as  they  have  not  had 
throughout  the  centuries.  Be  prepared 
to  meet  conditions  that  may  be  severe, 
ideological  conditions  that  may  seem 
reasonable  but  are  evil.  In  order  to 
meet  these  forces,  we  must  depend  upon 
the  whisperings  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  to 
which  you  are  entitled.  They  are  real. 


Admonition  to  be  true 

God  is  guiding  this  church.  Be  true 
to  it;  be  loyal  to  it.  Be  true  to  your 
families,  loyal  to  them.  Protect  your 
children.  Guide  them,  not  arbitrarily, 
but  through  the  kind  example  of  a 
father,  and  so  contribute  to  the  strength 
of  the  Church  by  exercising  your 
priesthood  in  your  home  and  in  your 
lives. 

As  I  bring  my  remarks  to  a  close,  I 
want  you  to  know  that  I  am  mindful 
of  the  sacrifices  being  made  by  those 
serving  in  the  armed  forces.  May  they 
have  the  strength  to  resist  temptation 
and  by  their  examples  be  a  living  testi- 
mony to  others. 

God  bless  our  missionaries  who  day 
by  day  seek  out  those  who  will  accept 
their  message.  May  they  resist  evil 
influences  and  thus  become  true  ser- 
vants in  building  the  kingdom  of  God. 

May  his  blessings  attend  you  all  as 
you  go  forward  in  the  work  of  the 
Master.  May  this  work  continue  to 
expand  to  fulfill  its  divine  purposes. 
Be  true  to  your  callings,  brethren,  and 
the  Lord  will  bless  and  lift  you  up. 

I  bear  testimony  to  the  truth  of  this 
great  work,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

Elder  Lysle  R.  Cahoon,  president  of 
the  Chicago  South  Stake,  will  now 
address  us.  His  subject  is  "The  Father 
and  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood." 


PRESIDENT  LYSLE  R.  CAHOON 

Chicago  South  Stake 


My  brethren:  I  express  my  gratitude 
and  appreciation  to  my  Heavenly 
Father  for  this  opportunity,  and  to  the 
General  Authorities  for  my  position 
here  this  evening. 

I  know,  my  brethren,  as  I  know  I 
stand  before  you  and  have  the  privi- 
lege of  breathing  and  gazing  upon 
this  great  audience,  that  God  lives,  that 
he  hears  and  answers  prayers.  And  I 
want  all  my  brethren  of  every  nation, 


kindred,  tongue  and  people  to  know 
that  God  lives. 

As  I  considered  the  subject  that  has 
been  given  me,  I  spent  many  hours, 
and  I  have  recorded  many  words,  and 
I  am  not  sure  now  that  this  is  the 
appropriate  subject  and  material. 

Since  I  know  that  God  lives  and  that 
he  is  my  Father,  the  Father  of  my 
spirit,  and  likewise  you,  my  brethren, 
are  his  children,  it  comes  to  me  that 


98  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  5 

he  is  extremely  disappointed  when 
those  of  his  sons  who  could  be  faith- 
ful are  unfaithful.  As  a  consequence, 
his  great  plan  is  thwarted,  because  he 
would  have  all  of  us  return  unto  him, 
yet  through  our  very  actions  we  de- 
prive ourselves  of  this  great  opportunity 
of  returning  to  him.  And  unfortunately, 
if  we  are  unfaithful  we  cannot  take 
with  us  our  families,  our  loved  ones;  so 
the  importance  of  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  in  the  father. 

I  was  interested  the  other  day  before 
enplaning  to  ask  several  of  the  breth- 
ren that  I  am  acquainted  with  why 
they  are  Aaronic  Priesthood  adult  or 
why  they  were,  and  the  pattern  was 
almost  the  same  among  all  the  breth- 
ren of  whom  I  made  inquiry.  A 
counselor  in  the  bishopric  of  one  of 
our  wards  was  once  an  Aaronic 
Priesthood  adult,  and  I  asked  him 
why.  He  said,  "Because  when  I  was 
about  seventeen  years  of  age,  I  became 
active  with  an  inactive  group." 

And  I  said  "Are  you  sure  that  this 
is  the  entire  reason?"  I  said,  "What 
were  the  teachings  in  your  home,  and 
how  active  was  your  father.  What  was 
his  position  at  the  time  you  became 
inactive?"  And  he  said  that  he  had 
lost  some  interest,  that  is,  his  father 
had  lost  interest,  and  it  was  about  the 
same  time  he  himself  lost  interest.  The 
father  was  not  magnifying  his  calling, 
and  it  became  apparent  that  it  was 
affecting  the  life  of  this  brother. 

What  brought  him  back?  The  work 
of  the  Melchizedek  brethren  who  had 
an  interest  in  him,  and  also  his  daugh- 
ter. A  young  babe,  recently  born, 
brought  to  him  the  realization  that  if 
he  was  to  have  a  successful  family  he 
must  honor  his  priesthood  and  become 
active  as  a  Melchizedek  Priesthood 
bearer.  And  so  he  did  become  active, 
and  he  did  magnify  his  calling  in  the 
priesthood,  and  as  a  bearer  of  the  Mel- 
chizedek Priesthood  he  now  has  an 
ideal  family,  all  active  in  the  Church, 
and  serving  well,  and  he  is  blessed, 
and  so  is  his  family. 

I  could  tell  you  the  names  of  three 
other  brethren,  not  names,  but  three 
other  instances  or  examples  of  the 
same  kind,  all  related  to  inactivity,  or 


Second  Day 

lack  of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  in 
the  home. 

The  Lord  said  in  the  4th  section  of 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  "O  ye 
that  embark  in  the  service  of  God,  see 
that  ye  serve  him  with  all  your  heart, 
might,  mind  and  strength,  that  ye  may 
stand  blameless  before  God  at  the 
last  day." 

Now  those  of  us  who  are  blessed 
with  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  have 
the  responsibility  of  serving  with  all 
our  heart,  might,  mind  and  strength, 
first  of  all,  our  families.  They  are  our 
greatest  responsibility,  and  then  the 
next  great  responsibility  is  our  brethren 
who  are  inactive,  who  should  be 
brought  back  into  the  fold,  that  they 
might  have  the  privilege  of  an  exalted 
family. 

About  forty  years  ago,  or  a  little 
longer,  I  had  the  privilege  as  did  these 
young  people  this  afternoon  in  the 
Primary,  of  singing  here  in  this  great 
tabernacle  with  a  group  of  young  men. 
I  don't  recall  the  occasion,  but  I  do 
recall  the  event,  and  I  recall  the  song, 
"A  Mormon  Boy."  It  was  directed  by 
Evan  Stephens,  who,  as  most  of  you 
know,  wrote  both  the  words  and  the 
music. 

My  father  is  a  Mormon  true 

And  when  I  am  a  man  I  want  to  be 

like  him 
And  do  just  all  the  good  I  can. 
My  faults  I'll  try  to  overcome, 
And  while  I  life  enjoy 
With  pride  I'll  lift  my  head  and  say, 
I  am  a  Mormon  boy. 

A  Mormon  boy,  a  Mormon  boy, 
I  am  a  Mormon  boy. 
I  might  be  envied  by  a  king 
For  I  am  a  Mormon  boy. 

I  know  that  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood is  essential  to  a  successful  home, 
and  failure  on  the  part  of  the  brethren 
who  bear  it  to  carry  out  the  admoni- 
tions of  our  latter-day  prophets  as  re- 
lated to  family  home  evening,  and 
taking  time  to  teach  and  expound  and 
admonish  our  children,  a  failure  on 
the  part  of  the  father  can  destroy  the 
family. 

I  am  as  sure  as  I  stand  before  you 
this  night  that  without  the  eternal 


ROSS  NASH  FARNSWORTH 


99 


marriage  covenant,  and  without  the 
faithful  performance  of  duty,  we  as 
members  of  this  Church,  as  priesthood 
bearers,  can  be  disappointed,  frustrated, 
and  disillusioned  when  we  arrive  at 
the  judgment  seat  of  God.  May  we 
brethren  who  bear  this  priesthood  ap- 
preciate the  meaning  of  it  in  our  lives. 
May  we  magnify  our  callings  and  do 
all  within  our  power  to  teach  our 
children  by  example,  by  precept.  May 
we  be  worthy  examples;  may  we  be  the 
kind  of  men  that  our  sons  will  be 
proud  to  emulate,  a  Mormon  true.  God 
help  us  so  to  do,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

Brother  Goodman  will  now  lead  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Faculty 
Priesthood  Chorus  in  singing  "Rise 
Up,  O  Men  of  God." 


The  Brigham  Young  University 
Faculty  Priesthood  Chorus  sang  the 
number,  "Rise  Up,  O  Men  of  God," 
music  by  Frank  W.  Asper. 


President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

We  have  arranged  for  three  Aaronic 
Priesthood  holders  to  speak  to  us  this 
evening: 

Ross  Nash  Farnsworth,  a  deacon  in 
the  Mesa  6th  Ward,  East  Mesa  Stake. 

James  Stanton  Mason,  a  teacher  from 
Yale  2nd  Ward  in  the  Bonneville 
Stake. 

Lee  Bracken,  a  priest  from  the  Enter- 
prise 2nd  Ward,  Uvada  Stake. 

They  will  announce  their  own  sub- 
jects, and  speak  in  that  order,  please. 


ROSS  NASH  FARNSWORTH 

A  Deacon  in  the  Mesa  6th  Ward,  East  Mesa  Stake 


Dear  Brethren:  I  pray  the  Lord  will 
help  me  during  the  few  minutes  I 
speak  to  you.  I  hope  I  will  be  able  to 
say  something  that  will  be  beneficial 
and  uplifting  to  us  all,  and  not  like 
the  preacher  who  while  giving  his 
sermon  heard  someone  in  the  back  of 
the  room  holler,  "Louder."  The 
preacher  paused,  straightened  up,  and 
took  a  deep  breath,  and  in  a  minute 
asked,  "Is  that  better?" 

This  time  a  voice  came  from  another 
part  of  the  room  and  said,  "It  may  be 
louder  but  it's  no  better." 

How  can  I  prepare  for  further  ad- 
vancement in  the  priesthood?  This  is 
the  subject  I  was  asked  to  speak  on  this 
evening.  According  to  President  John 
Taylor  priesthood  is  the  rule  and  gov- 
ernment of  God,  whether  on  earth  or 
in  the  heavens,  and  it  is  the  only 
power  and  authority  acknowledged  by 
him  to  rule  the  affairs  of  his  kingdom. 

When  asked  what  was  the  main 
difference  between  our  Church  and 
the  other  churches,  Joseph  Smith  re- 
plied, "We  have  the  priesthood." 


These  quotes  certainly  convince  me 
that  it  is  very  important  and  a  great 
opportunity  to  hold  the  priesthood  and 
to  prepare  for  advancement  in  it.  It 
has  been  said  unless  you  can  be  a 
good  follower,  you  can  never  be  a 
truly  great  leader.  Therefore,  I  believe 
the  greatest  thing  I  can  do  to  prepare 
for  advancement  is  to  learn  my  duty 
and  do  it. 

The  Lord  made  this  plain  in  the 
107th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  verses  99  and  100: 

"Wherefore,  now  let  every  man 
learn  his  duty,  and  to  act  in  the  office 
in  which  he  is  appointed,  in  all 
diligence. 

"He  that  is  slothful  shall  not  be 
counted  worthy  to  stand,  and  he  that 
learns  not  his  duty  and  shows  himself 
not  approved  shall  not  be  counted 
worthy  to  stand.  Even  so.  Amen." 

The  duties  of  the  deacon  include 
the  passing  of  the  sacrament.  This  is  a 
sacred  ordinance  and  should  be  carried 
out  with  reverence  and  respect. 

As  a  deacon  I  also  have  a  chance  to 


100 

Saturday,  April  5 

collect  fast  offerings,  which  help  those 
who  are  in  need. 

These  duties  help  to  prepare  me  to 
be  of  service  to  my  fellowmen. 

There  are  other  things  the  Lord  has 
assigned  to  deacons.  A  deacon  is  to 
assist  the  teacher  in  all  duties  where 
required,  this  includes  seeing  there  is 
no  ".  .  .  lying,  backbiting,  nor  evil 
speaking"  in  the  Church. 

The  best  way  he  can  do  this  is  by 
example.  I  can  be  ready  and  willing 
to  help  others  in  any  way  possible, 
and  never  find  fault  with  my  parents, 
the  bishopric,  or  any  other  officer  or 
teacher  in  the  Church,  school  or 
community. 

A  few  months  ago  I  went  on  a  deer 
hunting  trip  with  my  father,  brother 
and  some  other  friends.  Around  the 
campfire  at  night,  some  of  the  men 
were  telling  of  their  missionary  ex- 
periences. This  made  me  more  anxious 
than  ever  to  go  on  a  mission  some  day. 
I  can  prepare  myself  to  go  on  a  mis- 
sion and  future  priesthood  activity  by 
taking  part  in  what  the  Church  has  to 
offer.  This  includes  giving  a  talk 
when  I  have  the  opportunity,  even  if 
it  does  scare  me.  Another  important 
thing  I  can  do  is  to  learn  more  about 
the  gospel  in  my  Sunday  School, 
priesthood  and  future  seminary  classes. 
It  will  be  a  great  help  to  me  if  I  will 
pay  attention  to  the  lessons  the  teachers 
prepare.  This  is  something  my  mom 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

and  dad  think  I  need  a  little  improve- 
ment in. 

Taking  advantage  of  the  opportuni- 
ties in  the  Church  and  being  obedient 
to  my  duties  will  help  me  to  be  more 
humble  and  have  a  desire  to  be  of 
service  to  my  fellowmen.  This  must 
be  an  important  part  in  advancing  in 
the  priesthood  since  the  Savior  said, 
"And  whosoever  is  greatest  among 
you,  let  him  be  your  servant." 

I  would  like  to  finish  my  talk  by 
giving  a  poem  by  Harlen  Metcalf  en- 
titled, "God  Make  Me  a  Man." 

Give  me  the  strength  to  stand  for  right 
When  other  folks  have  left  the  fight. 
Give  me  the  courage  of  the  man 
Who  knows  that  if  he  will,  he  can. 
Teach  me  to  see  in  every  face 
The  good,  the  kind  and  not  the  base. 
Make  me  sincere  in  word  and  deed 
Blot  out  from  me  all  shame  and  greed 
Help  me  to  guard  my  troubled  soul 
By  constant,  active  self-control. 
Clean  up  my  thoughts,  my  work,  my 
play 

And  keep  me  pure  from  day  to  day. 

0  make  of  me  a  man. 

I  am  thankful  that  I  hold  the  priest- 
hood, and  I  am  also  thankful  that  I 
have  a  father  who  sets  an  example  that 

1  can  follow,  and  I  say  this  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


JAMES  STANTON  MASON 

A  Teacher  in  the  Yale  2nd  Ward  of  the  Bonneville  Stake 


Over  three  thousand  years  ago  on 
Mt.  Sinai  the  Lord  gave  his  prophet 
Moses  ten  commandments  which 
would  serve  as  guidelines  for  all 
people.  There  are  those  today  who 
would  say  that  these  commandments 
are  now  old  fashioned,  that  they  no 
longer  apply  to  our  modern  life. 

My  remarks  tonight  will  be  con- 
cerned with  the  fifth,  commandment, 
"Honor  thy  father  and  thy  mother 
that  thy  days  may  be  long  upon  the 
land  which  the  Lord  thy  God  giveth 
thee." 


The  Lord,  in  addition  to  giving  this 
commandment  to  youth,  definitely 
commanded  parents  to  teach  their 
children  to  obey  his  laws  so  that  they 
might  return  to  him.  The  Lord  tells 
them  of  this  responsibility  in  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants.  "And  again,  in- 
asmuch as  parents  have  children  in 
Zion,  or  in  any  of  her  stakes  which  are 
organized,  that  teach  them  not  to  un- 
derstand the  doctrine  of  repentance, 
faith  in  Christ  the  Son  of  the  living 
God,  and  of  baptism  and  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  the 


JAMES  STAN 

hands,  when  eight  years  old,  the  sin 
be  upon  the  heads  of  the  parents.  For 
this  shall  be  a  law  unto  the  inhabitants 
of  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her  stakes  which 
are  organized.  .  .  .  And  they  shall  also 
teach  their  children  to  pray,  and  to 
walk  uprightly  before  the  Lord."  (D&C 
68:25,  26,  28.) 

One  way  we  can  honor  our  parents 
is  to  help  them  fulfill  this  responsi- 
bility. Just  what  does  this  word 
"honor"  mean?  The  dictionary  defines 
it  in  this  way:  "To  regard  highly;  to 
respect  greatly;  to  esteem;  to  show 
deference;  to  show  courtesy." 

We  can  certainly  honor  our  parents 
by  our  actions.  An  experience  of  Presi- 
dent George  Albert  Smith  who  had 
been  given  his  grandfather's  name 
illustrates  this  point  well.  It  happened 
when  he  was  very  ill.  He  dreamed 
that  he  had  passed  on.  He  was  in  a 
lonely  forest,  searching  for  someone 
to  tell  him  what  to  do  and  where  to 
go.  While  searching,  he  saw  a  man 
coming  toward  him.  He  recognized 
this  man  as  his  grandfather.  The 
first  thing  his  grandfather  asked  was, 
"I  would  like  to  know  what  you  have 
done  with  my  name."  At  this  point, 
President  Smith  related  that  his  whole 
life  flashed  before  him,  as  if  on  a  mo- 
tion picture  screen.  After  reviewing  his 
whole  life,  he  smiled  and  replied,  "I 
have  never  done  anything  with  your 
name  of  which  you  need  be  ashamed." 

President  George  Albert  Smith  had 
honored  his  grandfather's  name,  and 
he  made  a  special  effort  after  that  time 
to  better  honor  his  parents. 

This  shows  that  what  we  do  reflects 
upon  our  parents  and  family.  If  we 
will  always  be  righteous,  and  if  we  can 
learn  to  accept  responsibility,  it  will 
be  an  honorable  reflection  on  them. 

Monday  night  in  family  home 
evening,  my  eight-year-old  brother  told 
us  of  an  experience  he  had  that  day. 
We  had  been  walking  down  our  front 
lawn  instead  of  using  the  walkway 
because  it  was  faster  and  easier.  After 
a  while  it  started  wearing  the  grass 
away,  so  our  father  told  us  that  we 
would  have  to  stop  this  and  use  the 
walkway.  To  remind  us  he  placed  a 
rope  around  the  boundaries  of  the 


ON  MASON  101 

lawn.  My  eight-year-old  brother  for- 
got and  ran  down  the  lawn,  tripped 
over  the  rope  and  landed  on  his  face. 
We  were  all  glad  that  he  wasn't  seri- 
ously hurt,  and  that  we  could  laugh 
about  it  in  our  family  home  evening. 
Even  a  small  experience  like  this  shows 
us  that  we  honor  our  parents  for  our 
own  good.  Although  we  may  not  feel 
the  physical  pain  immediately  after 
disobeying  them,  if  we  persist  in  dis- 
obeying, we  will  feel  spiritual  discom- 
fort at  some  other  time  in  our  lives. 

My  brothers  and  sisters  and  I  are 
trying  to  honor  our  parents  in  the 
following  ways:  Those  of  us  who  are 
old  enough  are  progressing  in  the 
Scouting  program.  All  of  my  brothers 
are  preparing  to  receive  the  priesthood, 
and  I  am  trying  to  be  worthy  of  it. 

We  are  preparing  to  serve  on  missions 
by  studying  the  scriptures  and  saving 
our  money.  One  of  our  goals  in  life 
is  temple  marriage.  We  are  all  work- 
ing hard  to  obtain  an  education,  to  be- 
come independent  and  to  support  our 
own  families.  We  are  preparing  to 
serve  others  and  to  assume  responsi- 
bility. 

My  Indian  brother  is  honoring  his 
parents  by  living  with  us  during  the 
school  year  to  obtain  an  education.  I 
am  sure  that  if  we  can  all  honor  our 
parents  in  these  ways,  not  only  will  we 
be  honoring  our  parents  well,  but  we 
will  become  leaders  in  obeying  the 
commandments  of  God. 

Regardless  of  our  age,  if  we  will  love 
and  respect  our  parents  we  will  be  more 
inclined  to  obey  the  laws  of  God.  Never 
before  have  there  been  opportunities  as 
great  as  now,  including  spiritual  ad- 
vantages and  unsurpassed  scientific 
and  technological  developments.  But 
at  the  same  time  never  before  have 
there  been  more  degrading  influences, 
— drug  abuse,  use  of  tobacco  and 
liquor,  immorality,  the  temptation  to 
drop  out  of  school,  and  lack  of  respect 
for  law  and  order. 

The  Lord's  commandment,  "Honor 
thy  father  and  thy  mother,"  is  not  out- 
dated. It  is  not  old  fashioned.  In  fact 
there  has  never  been  a  time  when  it 
was  more  needed.  Young  people  need, 


102  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  5  Second  Day 

and  I  believe  they  want,  righteous  know  that  this  is  a  divine  command- 
guidance  from  good  parents.  I  pray  ment  of  God,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
that  we  can  all  honor  our  parents.  I     Christ.  Amen. 

LEE  BRACKEN 

A  Priest  from  the  Enterprise  2nd  Ward,  Uvada  Stake 


Honoring  the  priesthood  requires  a 
high  standard  of  personal  morality. 
To  hold  the  priesthood  of  God  by  di- 
vine authority  is  one  of  the  greatest 
gifts  that  can  come  to  man.  If  we  are 
righteous  and  magnify  it  and  exercise 
it,  there  is  no  limit  to  what  we  can 
accomplish.  It  provides  an  opportunity 
for  personal  growth  and  development. 
To  honor  this  eternal  calling  and  ac- 
cept the  responsibility  that  comes  with 
it  requires  a  high  standard  of  morality. 

Today  in  this  fast-moving  world 
moral  conflict  and  moral  skepticism  is 
constantly  growing.  To  many  people 
morality  seems  to  dwindle  at  a  very 
low  point.  Some  maintain  that  right 
and  wrong  are  merely  matters  of  con- 
vention, that  what  is  good  or  bad  in 
one  age,  may  be  the  opposite  in  an- 
other, or  simply  that  morality  varies. 
As  Brother  Alvin  R.  Dyer  pointed  out 
this  morning,  "there  is  a  new  morality 
with  no  morals  in  it." 

High  moral  standards  are  a  part  of 
God's  plan,  and  they  are  as  imperative 
today  as  when  they  were  first  given 
by  God.  Let  us  refer  to  an  ancient 
document  written  by  the  very  finger 
of  God  some  3,400  years  ago, — the  ten 
commandments.  During  the  past 
thirty-four  centuries  the  world  has 
undergone  great  changes,  but  the 
fundamental  principles  of  the  ten  com- 
mandments still  stand  as  the  basic  law 
of  the  world.  Let's  see  if  they  are  appli- 
cable to  our  times: 

"Thou  shalt  have  no  other  gods 
before  me."  (Exodus  20.)  This  would 
free  the  countless  millions  who  now 
place  the  god  of  money  or  the  god  of 
pleasure  above  the  God  of  heaven.  The 
many  who  freely  use  profanity  as  part 
of  their  vocabulary  could  heed  to  the 
statement,  "Thou  shalt  not  take  the 
name  of  the  Lord  thy  God  in  vain." 

In  an  age  when  discipline  in  the 


home  and  authority  of  parents  are 
being  undermined,  God  commanded 
"Honor  thy  father  and  thy  mother." 
Never  before  has  the  world  needed  to 
pause  and  hearken  to  the  Lord  declar- 
ing, "Thou  shalt  not  kill."  When  one 
of  the  dominant  evils  of  the  age  is 
undermining  our  civilization  and  social 
structure,  we  should  listen  to  the  com- 
mand, "Thou  shalt  not  commit 
adultery." 

To  those  who  trample  upon  the 
rights  of  others  and  justify  themselves 
by  saying,  "They  are  no  respecter  of 
persons,"  God  commanded,  "Thou  shalt 
not  steal.  Thou  shalt  not  bear  false 
witness,  and  thou  shalt  not  covet." 
Obedience  to  these  laws  represents  one 
of  the  world's  greatest  needs. 

There  are  many  enticements  and 
temptations  in  life.  Christ  foretold  of 
the  results  of  these  problems  in  2 
Timothy,  chapter  3:  "For  men  shall  be 
lovers  of  their  own  selves,  covetous, 
boasters,  proud,  blasphemers,  disobedi- 
ent to  parents,  unthankful,  unholy, 
without  natural  affection,  trucebreakers, 
false  accusers,  incontinent,  fierce, 
despisers  of  those  that  are  good, 
Traitors,  heady,  highminded,  lovers  of 
pleasures  more  than  lovers  of  God; 
Having  a  form  of  godliness,  but  deny- 
ing the  power  thereof." 

In  view  of  these  times  God  gave  us 
high  standards  to  live  by.  As  well  as 
the  ten  commandments  there  are  the 
beatitudes,  and  also  Section  4  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants.  Here  it  sets 
the  qualifications  for  those  who  labor 
in  the  gospel.  Some  listed  are:  "Faith, 
virtue,  knowledge,  temperance,  pa- 
tience, brotherly  kindness,  godliness, 
charity,  humility,  diligence." 

God  pours  out  his  blessings  in  rich 
abundance  to  those  who  keep  his 
commandments  and  uphold  high 
standards.  A  perfect  example  of  this  is 


LEE  BRACKEN 


103 


the  story  of  the  stripling  warriors  found 
in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  A  group  of 
2,000  young  men  entered  into  a  cove- 
nant to  wage  battle  against  the 
Lamanites  for  the  liberty  of  the 
Nephites.  This  small  band  went  into 
battle  against  the  Lamanite  army  and 
defeated  them  without  a  single  casualty 
of  their  own.  To  find  out  why  God's 
protecting  hand  went  with  them  into 
battle,  we  read  in  Alma: 

"And  they  were  all  young  men,  and 
they  were  exceedingly  valiant  for 
courage,  and  also  for  strength  and 
activity;  but  behold,  this  was  not  all — 
they  were  men  who  were  true  at  all 
times  in  whatsoever  thing  they  were 
entrusted. 

"Yea,  they  were  men  of  truth  and 
soberness,  for  they  had  been  taught  to 
keep  the  commandments  of  God  and  to 
walk  uprightly  before  him."  (Alma 
53:20-21.) 

"Now  this  was  the  faith  of  these  of 
whom  I  have  spoken;  they  are  young, 
and  their  minds  are  firm,  and  they  do 
put  their  trust  in  God  continually." 
(Alma  57:27.) 

These  young  men  lived  high  stand- 
ards of  morality  and  were  greatly 
blessed  for  it. 

Christ  spoke  of  morality  in  the 
Bible  when  he  said,  "Know  ye  not 
that  ye  are  the  temple  of  God,  and  that 
the  Spirit  of  God  dwelleth  in  you?  If 
any  man  defile  the  temple  of  God,  him 
shall  God  destroy,  for  the  temple  of 
God  is  holy,  which  temple  ye  are." 
(I  Cor.  3:16-17.) 

Our  beloved  prophet,  David  O. 
McKay,  said  this  concerning  standards 
and  the  priesthood:  "Let  us  realize  that 
we  are  members  of  the  greatest  frater- 
nity, the  greatest  brotherhood  in  all  the 
world,  and  do  our  part  each  day,  all 
day,  to  maintain  the  standards  of  the 
priesthood.  Let  us  live  honest,  sin- 
cere lives.  Let  us  be  honest  with  our- 
selves; let  us  be  honest  with  our 
brethren,  honest  with  our  family,  hon- 
est with  the  men  with  whom  we 
deal;  always  honest,  for  eyes  are  upon 
us,  and  the  foundation  of  all  char- 
acter rests  upon  the  principles  of 
honesty  and  sincerity." 

Honoring  the  priesthood  is  a  per- 
sonal matter.  It  is  up  to  each  individual 


whether  he  wants  to  accept  or  reject 
the  opportunity  of  the  priesthood.  This 
opportunity  can  bring  spiritual  growth 
and  happiness,  or  it  can  bring  condem- 
nation, depending  upon  how  it  is  used. 

2  Nephi,  Chapter  10,  verse  23: 
"Therefore,  cheer  up  your  hearts,  and 
remember  that  ye  are  free  to  act  for 
yourselves — to  choose  the  way  of  ever- 
lasting death  or  the  way  of  eternal 
life."  God  has  given  us  the  freedom  to 
choose  for  ourselves. 

I  would  like  to  use  an  example  given 
by  Bishop  Robert  L.  Simpson.  Suppose 
you  were  standing  on  a  beautiful  hill; 
it  is  springtime;  the  grass  is  green;  the 
trees  are  beautiful;  the  day  is  perfect; 
the  temperature  is  just  right.  There  is  a 
gentle  breeze  blowing.  You  feel  like 
the  whole  world  is  at  your  command. 
You  are  all  alone  on  this  hill.  You  see 
this  beautiful,  peaceful  river  as  it  winds 
around  a  hill.  My,  what  a  beautiful 
sight  it  is!  But  as  you  turn  around  and 
look  on  the  back  side  of  the  hill,  you 
notice  this  beautiful  peaceful  river 
drop  over  an  abrupt  waterfall  and 
crash  onto  some  rocks  at  the  bottom. 
Then  all  of  a  sudden  you  hear  some 
music.  You  hear  voices;  they  sound 
familiar.  You  look  back  and  right 
down  there  on  the  river  is  a  boat  with 
about  eight  or  ten  of  your  friends  on  it. 
One  is  playing  a  guitar;  all  are  singing 
together.  They  are  truly  enjoying  life 
as  they  allow  the  current  to  take  them 
downstream.  You  say,  "My,  isn't  that 
delightful.  How  I  would  like  to  be 
with  them.  There  they  are,  just  drift- 
ing, not  knowing  where  the  river  is 
going  to  take  them,"  Then  all  of  a 
sudden  it  dawns  on  you, — the  water 
fall,  the  jagged  rocks  at  the  bottom. 

What  are  we  going  to  say,  young 
people?  Will  we  just  fold  our  arms  and 
say,  "Now  this  should  be  interesting. 
Let's  see  what  happens  here."  We  are 
not  going  to  do  that,  are  we?  We  are 
going  to  jump  up  and  down.  We 
are  going  to  shout.  We  jump  up  and 
down  and  shout,  and  get  excited  be- 
cause we  know  where  the  jagged  rocks 
and  pitfalls  are.  This  is  the  way  it  is 
with  life  for  us  youth  of  today. 

As  the  youth  of  today,  we  are 
fortunate  to  have  high  standards  and 
guidelines  set  by  the  Church  for  us  to 


104  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  5 

follow.  They  help  us  to  avoid  the 
jagged  rocks  of  life.  The  world  judges 
the  whole  church  by  the  actions  of  its 
youth.  We  have  a  responsibility  to 
live  up  to  the  church  standards.  We 
as  young  people  can  have  fun  while 
being  considerate  and  loyal  to  the 
Church,  and  making  its  standards  a 
happy  part  of  our  lives.  We  never 
need  be  ashamed  when  living  up  to 
the  high  standards  of  our  religion. 
Nothing  is  to  be  lost  but  much  is  to 
be  gained  by  doing  so. 

As  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ,  we  are  favored  in  having  in- 
spired leadership.  Through  the  priest- 
hood the  Church  points  the  way  ahead 
and  provides  the  kind  of  leadership 
which  down  through  the  ages  has  saved 
the  people  when  they  were  willing  to 
listen  and  to  follow.  As  holders  of  the 
divine  priesthood  we  must  strive  to  live 


Second  Day 

high  standards  of  morality  and  to  mag- 
nify our  callings  so  we  can  do  as  Christ 
commanded  in  the  Bible,  "Let  your 
light  so  shine  before  men  that  they 
may  see  your  good  works  and  glorify 
your  Father  which  is  in  heaven." 
(Matt.  5:16.)  I  say  this  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

On  behalf  of  all  who  have  listened 
to  these  young  men,  I  wish  to  con- 
gratulate them,  and  pray  that  they 
will  have  the  courage  and  strength  to 
live  according  to  their  words,  and  that 
all  who  have  heard  them  will  benefit 
thereby. 

Elder  Boyd  K.  Packer,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  will  speak  to  us  on  the 
subject,  "The  LDS  Servicemen's  Pro- 
gram." 


ELDER  BOY 

Assistant  to  the  I 

Brethren,  I  feel  humble  in  respond- 
ing to  this  appointment  from  the  First 
Presidency,  an  assignment  that  comes 
because  of  responsibility  as  managing 
director  of  military  relations  and  of 
priesthood  home  teaching.  The  teaming 
up  of  these  assignments  is  a  demon- 
stration of  priesthood  activities  drawing 
together  in  a  very  close  relationship 
under  the  priesthood  correlation  pro- 
gram. 

Brethren,  we  are  men  of  the  priest- 
hood I  There  is  an  obligation  that 
accompanies  manhood,  for  in  his  very 
nature,  his  body,  his  mind,  his  attitude, 
the  man  is  the  protector. 

Since  ancient  time,  it  has  been  the 
duty  of  the  man  to  protect  "his  home, 
his  family,  his  rights,  his  religion." 
(See  Al.  43:46-47.) 

Service  in  military  forces 

Across  the  world  the  holders  of  the 
priesthood  answer  the  call  of  the  gov- 
ernment to  which  they  owe  allegiance 
and  serve  in  military  forces.  In  Ger- 
many and  Australia,  in  the  Nether- 


K.  PACKER 

tuncil  of  the  Twelve 

lands,  here  in  the  United  States,  in 
Canada  and  Latin  America — across  the 
world — we  find  our  brethren  serving 
out  their  obligations,  for  "we  believe 
in  being  subject  to  kings,  presidents, 
rulers,  and  magistrates,  in  obeying, 
honoring,  and  sustaining  the  law." 
(Article  of  Faith  12.) 

Few  desire  to  bear  arms.  Fortunate, 
indeed,  is  the  generation  which  escapes 
the  necessity  of  so  doing;  ours  is  not  so 
blessed. 

Our  young  brethren,  more  than  ever 
before,  and  perhaps  more  than  ever 
again,  as  they  are  called  into  military 
service  need  to  buckle  on  the  whole 
armor  of  God,  with  their  "loins  girt 
about  with  truth,"  having  the  breast- 
plate of  righteousness,  and  their  feet 
shod  with  the  preparation  of  the  gos- 
pel of  peace,  bearing  the  shield  of 
faith,  and  the  helmet  of  salvation.  (See 
D&C  27:15-18.) 

But  some  of  our  brethren  have 
slipped  quietly  away  and  have  left  the 
family  circle  ill-prepared  to  do  battle 
with  the  forces  of  evil.  These  brethren 
deserve  quite  as  much  and  need  ever 


ELDER  BOY 

so  much  more  the  attention  and  the 
same  preparation  that  the  missionary 
receives  as  he  leaves  for  the  mission 
field. 

Assistance  for  servicemen 

Many  things  are  now  being  done 
to  strengthen  them.  It  is  my  privilege 
to  report  a  few  of  them  to  you. 

Recently  the  servicemen's  commit- 
tee was  redesignated  as  the  Military 
Relations  Committee  of  the  Church 
and  given  extended  responsibility.  El- 
der Harold  B.  Lee  is  chairman  of  the 
committee,  with  Elders  Mark  E. 
Petersen  and  Gordon  B.  Hinckley  as 
members. 

Then  last  October  there  was  orga- 
nized, in  Germany,  Servicemen's  Stake- 
Europe.  Membership  includes  men 
serving  in  the  military  and  their  de- 
pendents. This  unit  joins  the  family 
of  stakes  as  a  strong,  well-ordered 
organization.  This  suggests  that  the 
day  is  before  us  when  a  young  man 
may  leave  home  and  the  shelter  of 
a  well-organized  Church  program  to 
find  another  at  the  place  of  his  mili- 
tary service. 

Some  have  wondered  why  this  was 
not  done  a  generation  ago,  but  we  were 
not  prepared.  The  Lord  has  said: 
"Behold,  I  will  hasten  my  work  in  its 
time."  (D&C  88:73.) 

We  have  learned,  through  the  uni- 
versity stakes,  what  to  do  when  a 
member  frequently  moves  about. 

New  echelon  of  leadership 

More  important  than  this,  there  has 
been  called  a  new  echelon  of  leader- 
ship in  the  Church,  the  Regional  Rep- 
resentatives of  the  Twelve,  on  whom 
it  seems  we  must  now  depend. 

Brother  Kay  A.  Schwendiman,  who 
gave  the  opening  prayer,  was  recently 
called  as  a  Regional  Representative  of 
the  Twelve,  with  responsibility  for 
Servicemen's  Stake-Europe  and  other 
duties  relating  to  servicemen. 

These  things  have  come  by  way  of 
preparation,  and  we  see  the  guiding 
hand  of  the  Lord  in  them.  The  Lord 
does  hasten  his  work  in  its  time. 

Presently  we  have  27  chaplains  on 
active  duty  in  the  armed  forces  of  the 


>  K.  PACKER  105 

United  States.  We  are  drawing  closer 
to  these  men.  Many  of  them  are  here 
this  evening.  We  held  a  special  meet- 
ing with  them  yesterday. 

Some  of  them  and  some  reserve 
chaplains  now  serve  on  special  task 
committees,  fitting  out,  as  it  were,  this 
"armor"  of  which  we  spoke  earlier. 

Steps  have  been  taken  to  assure  that 
servicemen  will  receive  Church  publi- 
cations, including  new  ways  of  han- 
dling The  Improvement  Era.  They  are 
now  mailed  in  individual  envelopes. 
Pre-franked  change  of  address  cards 
are  included.  Similar  attention  is  being 
given  to  the  Church  News. 

Importance  of  home  teacher 

The  key  to  our  servicemen's  program 
is  the  home  teacher.  He  visits  the  home 
and  is  accountable  for  those  away  in 
the  military.  He  can  assure  that 
Church  publications  have  been  pro- 
vided by  the  family  or  by  the  priest- 
hood quorums. 

In  order  that  the  home  teacher  can 
better  do  his  work,  the  executive  secre- 
tary of  the  ward  priesthood  executive 
committee  was  recently  designated  as 
the  adviser  to  the  bishopric  on  mili- 
tary relations.  Through  the  home 
teachers  he  will  determine  who  is 
serving  and  who  may  be  called  up  for 
military  service.  This  he  will  con- 
tinually bring  to  the  attention  of  the 
bishopric.  Perhaps  he  will  nudge 
the  bishopric  a  bit  to  see  that  through 
the  priesthood  executive  committee 
and  die  ward  council  everything  that 
can  be  done  will  be  done  to  secure  our 
men  in  the  military. 
t 

Stake  executive  secretary 

A  recent  letter  from  the  First  Presi- 
dency instructed  stake  presidents  to  call 
an  executive  secretary  to  the  stake 
priesthood  executive  committee.  His 
major  responsibility  is  home  teaching. 
He  is  likewise  the  adviser  to  the 
stake  presidency  on  military  relations. 
Through  home  teaching  reports  he  re- 
mains constantly  alert  to  the  needs 
of  men  in  the  military  service  and 
those  preparing  to  go. 

He  keeps  the  stake  presidency  alerted. 
As  their  "intelligence  officer,"  he  keeps 


106  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  5 

them  up  against  their  job.  They, 
through  the  stake  priesthood  executive 
committee  and  the  stake  council,  may 
then  take  action  to  benefit  their 
servicemen. 

Pilot  seminars 

Three  pilot  seminars  have  been  held 
for  men  who  face  call-up  or  have 
volunteered  for  military  service.  The 
first  was  in  Oakland,  one  was  in  Idaho 
Falls,  and  one  in  Chicago,  where  some 
men  already  in  basic  training  were 
invited. 

With  the  assistance  of  the  Regional 
Representatives  of  the  Twelve,  our 
chaplains,  and  others,  these  brethren 
were  given  intense  training.  It  was  as 
though  they  were  being  fitted  up  with 
the  whole  armor  of  God. 

Some  assessment  of  this  training  may 
be  drawn  from  two  letters.  The  first 
comes  from  a  19-year-old  deacon  who 
had  attended  the  Oakland  seminar. 

"Hello,  I  finally  got  time  to  write 
after  almost  three  weeks  of  training. 
It's  just  like  the  chaplains  said  it  would 
be  . .  .  the  seminar  actually  brought  me 
much  closer  to  the  Church  and  ex- 
plained my  mission  in  the  service.  I'm 
going  to  try  to  not  miss  a  single  Sunday 
of  church. 

"I've  been  wondering  if  you  could 
send  me  some  information  on  what  all 
has  to  be  done  in  order  to  go  through 
the  temple  or  be  married  in  the  temple, 
because  if  it  takes  time,  I'd  like  to 
start  preparing  now,  so  whenever  I  de- 
cide to  get  married,  in  about  four  years, 
I'll  be  a  few  steps  ahead.  I  don't  think 
there  would  be  anything  I'd  want  more 
than  to  be  married  in  the  temple. 

"I'd  be  honored  to  be  a  missionary  in 
a  foreign  country  someday  when  I  be- 
come qualified."  (Signed  by  Brother 
Bertoglio.) 

Chaplain's  report 

His  desire  for  missionary  service  may 
come  sooner  than  he  knows.  Listen  to 
one  of  our  chaplain's  reports: 

"I  would  like  to  report  firsthand  re- 
sults of  the  pilot  seminar  for  prospec- 
tive servicemen.  .  .  . 

"Four  of  the  .  .  .  servicemen  were 
eventually   assigned   here   for  basic 


Second  Day 

training.  .  .  .  They  were  encouraged, 
inspired,  and  given  a  more  full  outlook 
as  to  what  to  expect  in  military 
service.  .  .  . 

"Each  has  been  most  willing  to 
assist  with  the  sacrament  services  held 
for  their  areas.  Pvt.  Michael  Paige,  for 
example,  was  so  inspired  that  he 
brought  15  friends  with  him  to  Church 
on  Sunday,  January  12.  Since  that 
date  12  have  been  baptized.  All  of 
these  contacts  have  come  from  the  four 
servicemen  who  were  at  the  Oakland 
seminar."  (Letter  from  Chaplain  Mad- 
sen.) 

It  has  now  been  determined  that 
similar  training  will  be  given  every 
member  as  he  leaves  his  home  to  enter 
the  military  service.  This  training  is 
not  unlike  the  training  given  to  a  mis- 
sionary. And  we  repeat,  the  service- 
man deserves  it  quite  as  much  and 
needs  it  infinitely  more. 

Churchwide  training  seminars 

Instructions  have  already  been  given 
to  the  Regional  Representatives  of  the 
Twelve.  We  therefore  wish  to  alert 
the  stake  presidents,  quorum  leaders, 
bishops,  the  stake  and  ward  executive 
secretaries,  home  teachers,  and  parents 
to  look  forward  to  the  inauguration  of 
the  Churchwide  program  of  these  train- 
ing seminars. 

We  can  announce  that  the  next  one 
will  be  held  in  Salt  Lake  City  on 
June  6,  7,  and  8  for  all  men  entering 
the  military  from  Utah  during  the 
summer,  and  we  suggest  that  the 
bishops  in  Utah  look  for  their  home 
teachers  to  supply  them  with  informa- 
tion concerning  the  men  who  will  be 
entering  the  military. 

We  do  care  about  our  men  in  the 
military.  We  return  again  in  con- 
clusion to  the  words  of  the  Lord.  They 
have  much  meaning  to  the  young  man 
who  faces  military  service. 

The  armor  of  God 

"Wherefore,  lift  up  your  hearts  and 
rejoice,  and  gird  up  your  loins,  and 
take  upon  you  my  whole  armor,  that  ye 
may  be  able  to  withstand  the  evil  day, 
having  done  all,  that  ye  may  be  able 
to  stand. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


107 


"Stand,  therefore,  having  your  loins 
girt  about  with  truth,  having  on  the 
breastplate  of  righteousness,  and  your 
feet  shod  with  the  preparation  of  the 
gospel  of  peace,  which  I  have  sent  mine 
angels  to  commit  unto  you; 

"Taking  the  shield  of  faith  where- 
with ye  shall  be  able  to  quench  all  the 
fiery  darts  of  the  wicked; 

"And  take  the  helmet  of  salvation, 
and  the  sword  of  my  Spirit,  which  I 
will  pour  out  upon  you,  and  my  word 
which  I  reveal  unto  you,  and  be  agreed 
as  touching  all  things  whatsoever  ye 
ask  of  me,  and  be  faithful  until  I  come, 
and  ye  shall  be  caught  up,  that  where 
I  am  ye  shall  be  also.  Amen."  (D&C 
27:15-18.) 

God  bless  our  men  in  the  military 
service  and  those  who  anticipate  that 
call.  The  Church  does  love  you.  The 


Lord  is  guiding  us  in  preparing  help 
for  you.  Of  this  I  bear  witness,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

The  chorus  will  now  sing  "Re- 
deemer of  Israel."  The  congregation 
will  please  stand  and  join  with  them. 


The  congregation  and  chorus  sang 
the  hymn,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 


President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

Elder  Marion  G.  Romney  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  now  speak 
to  us  on  the  subject,  "Home  Teaching 
and  the  Family  Home  Evening." 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


This  subject  and  this  assignment 
have  come  to  me  because  of  the  fact 
that  the  home  teaching  program  with 
which  I  am  connected  has  been  as- 
signed some  responsibility  with  re- 
spect to  the  home  evening  program. 

My  objective  is  twofold:  one,  to  call 
your  attention  to  what  the  Lord  has 
said  about  the  responsibility  of  Church 
members  to  teach  the  gospel  in  the 
home,  and  two,  to  point  out  some 
things  that  can  be  done  in  the  home 
through  home  teaching  to  inspire  and 
encourage  the  members  of  the  Church 
to  hold  and  conduct  home  evenings  in 
the  home. 

To  endeavor  to  so  instruct  this  great 
audience  is  indeed  an  awesome  respon- 
sibility. Think  of  it  for  a  moment.  As 
mentioned  by  President  Dyer  today, 
there  are  perhaps  150,000  listening  to 
this  meeting,  men  and  boys,  every  one 
of  them  holding  an  office  in  the  priest- 
hood of  God.  Each,  by  reason  of  ac- 
cepting ordination,  bears  a  divine 
charge  to  visit  the  homes  of  Church 
members  and  exhort  them  to  attend  to 
all  family  duties  and  to  individual 
duties. 


We  have  all  heard  of  home  teaching, 
and  we  have  all  heard  of  home  eve- 
nings, but  we  do  not  all  do  home  teach- 
ing, nor  do  we  all  hold  home  evenings, 
notwithstanding  the  fact  that  both  of 
these  activities  are  divinely  instituted 
to  help  us  teach  the  gospel  in  the 
home. 

Pattern  for  gospel  teaching 

Because  no  one  can  be  saved  without 
a  knowledge  of  the  gospel,  the  Lord 
himself  set  the  pattern  as  to  how  it 
should  be  taught  in  order  that  everyone 
can  be  taught.  He  himself  came  to  his 
son  Adam  and  taught  him  the  gospel, 
and  directed  him  to  teach  his  children. 
The  record  says  that  "Adam  and  Eve 
.  .  .  made  all  things  known  unto  their 
sons  and  their  daughters.  .  .  ."  (Moses 
5:12.) 

They  instructed  their  sons  and 
daughters  to  follow  their  example.  We 
know  that  the  faithful  ones  of  them 
did  so,  because  we  read  that  Jared,  the 
sixth  generation  from  Adam,  taught 
his  son  "in  all  the  ways  of  God." 
(Moses  6:21.)  We  know  that  the  un- 
faithful did  not  teach  their  children, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


108 

Saturday,  April  5 

because  the  Lord  said  that  the  blood  of 
those  who  were  drowned  in  the  flood 
would  be  required  at  the  hands  of  their 
fathers.  The  basis  on  which  the  Lord 
holds  the  parents  responsible  for  un- 
taught children  he  explained  to  Ezekiel 
when  he  told  him  that  when  he  gave 
notice  and  the  watchmen  did  not  warn 
the  wicked  that  they  would  be  de- 
stroyed, the  blood  would  be  required 
at  the  hands  of  the  watchmen.  (See 
Ezek.  3:18.) 

I  have  here  the  scriptures  as  to  how 
Moses  taught  the  children  of  Israel  to 
teach  their  children,  of  how  King  Ben- 
jamin taught  the  people  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon  days  to  teach  their  chil- 
dren, and  so  on  down  through  the 
various  dispensations.  I  shall  not  take 
time,  because  of  the  lateness  of  the 
hour,  to  go  through  these  scriptures. 
Furthermore,  the  scriptures  that  are 
binding  upon  us  are  the  ones  the  Lord 
has  given  us  in  these  latter  days.  He 
has  never  required  his  people  of  one 
dispensation  to  rely  solely  upon  the 
teachings  he  gave  to  former  dispensa- 
tions. But  he  has  revealed  his  law, 
given  his  commandments  anew  in 
every  dispensation.  And  in  this  dispen- 
sation the  commandments  that  we  are 
bound  by  are  those  in  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants. 

Modern  instruction 

In  1831,  while  the  Prophet  Joseph 
was  "reviewing  the  commandments" 
to  be  sent  to  Zion,  the  Lord  gave  this 
instruction: 

".  .  .  inasmuch  as  parents  have  chil- 
dren in  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her  stakes 
.  .  .  that  teach  them  not  to  understand 
the  doctrine  of  repentance,  faith  in 
Christ  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  and 
of  baptism  and  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  the  hands, 
when  eight  years  old,  the  sin  be  upon 
the  heads  of  the  parents. 

"For  this  shall  be  a  law  unto  the 
inhabitants  of  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her 
stakes  which  are  organized."  (D&C 
68:25-26.) 

Failure  to  teach  children 

The  Lord's  follow-up  on  this  com- 
mandment 18  months  later  must  have 


Second  Day 

shaken  the  presidency  and  bishop.  Ex- 
plaining that  "every  spirit  of  man  was 
innocent  in  the  beginning,"  but  that 
because  of  their  "disobedience,  .  .  . 
[and]  the  tradition  of  their  fathers, 
.  .  .  that  wicked  one  cometh  and 
taketh  away  light  and  truth  .  .  .  ,"  the 
Lord  continued: 

"But  I  have  commanded  you  to 
bring  up  your  children  in  light  and 
truth. 

"But  verily  I  say  unto  you,  my  ser- 
vant Frederick  G.  Williams.  .  .  . 

"You  have  not  taught  your  children 
light  and  truth,  according  to  the  com- 
mandments; and  that  wicked  one  hath 
power,  as  yet,  over  you,  and  this  is  the 
cause  of  your  affliction." 

I  wonder  how  many  of  us  today  are 
suffering  afflictions  because  we  fail  to 
teach  our  children. 

"And  now  a  commandment  I  give 
unto  you — if  you  will  be  delivered  you 
shall  set  in  order  your  own  house,  for 
there  are  many  things  that  are  not 
right  in  your  house. 

"Verily,  I  say  unto  my  servant  Sid- 
ney Rigdon,  that  in  some  things  he 
hath  not  kept  the  commandments  con- 
cerning his  children;  therefore,  first  set 
in  order  thy  house. 

"Verily,  I  say  unto  my  servant  Jo- 
seph Smith,  Jun.,  .  .  . 

"You  have  not  kept  the  command- 
ments, and  must  needs  stand  rebuked 
before  the  Lord; 

"Your  family  must  needs  repent  and 
forsake  some  things,  and  give  more 
earnest  heed  unto  your  sayings,  or  be 
removed  out  of  their  place.  .  .  . 

"My  servant  Newel  K.  Whitney 
also,  a  bishop  of  my  church,  hath  need 
to  be  chastened,  and  set  in  order  his 
family,  and  see  that  they  are  more 
diligent  and  concerned  at  home,  and 
pray  always,  or  they  shall  be  removed 
out  of  their  place."  (D&C  93:38-50.) 

The  failure  of  parents  to  teach  their 
children  affects  not  only  them  and 
their  children  but  whole  civilizations. 

Such  failure  contributed  to  the 
wickedness  that  brought  on  the  flood; 
it  contributed  to  the  fall  of  ancient 
Israel,  and  to  the  destruction  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon  peoples.  I  read  re- 
cently that  the  renowned  author  "Ed- 
ward Gibbon,  back  in  1788,  set  forth 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


109 


in  his  famous  book,  'Decline  and  Fall 
of  the  Roman  Empire,'  five  basic  rea- 
sons why  that  great  civilization  with- 
ered and  died,"  and  that  the  first  of 
these  reasons  was  "the  undermining  of 
the  dignity  and  sanctity  of  the  home, 
which  is  the  basis  for  human  society." 

Home  Evening  inaugurated 

All  our  leaders  in  this  dispensation 
have  counseled  parents  to  teach  their 
children.  The  First  Presidency  of  the 
Church,  in  1915,  advised  and  urged 
"the  inauguration  of  a  'Home  Evening' 
throughout  the  Church,  at  which  time 
fathers  and  mothers  may  gather  their 
boys  and  girls  about  them  in  the  home, 
and  teach  them  the  words  of  the 
Lord.  .  .  . 

"If  the  Saints  obey  this  counsel,  we 
promise  that  great  blessings  will  re- 
sult. Love  at  home  and  obedience  to 
parents  will  increase,  faith  will  be 
developed  in  the  hearts  of  the  youth 
of  Israel,  and  they  will  gain  power  to 
combat  the  evil  influences  and  temp- 
tations which  beset  them."  (The  Im- 
provement Era,  June  1915,  pp.  733-34.) 

I  suppose  this  statement  and  the 
following  I  will  read  from  President 
McKay  give  as  good  a  definition  of  a 
home  evening  as  we  have  in  the  scrip- 
tures. In  April  1964,  President  McKay 
said:  "No  other  success  can  compen- 
sate for  failure  in  the  home."  (The 
Improvement  Era,  June  1964,  p.  445.) 

In  1965,  as  an  aid  to  parents  in 
teaching  their  children,  the  weekly 
Family  Home  Evening  Program  was 
inaugurated.  Introducing  the  manual, 
President  McKay  said: 

"These  lessons  for  'Teaching  and 
Living  the  Gospel  in  the  Home'  are 
offered  as  helps  for  the  weekly  home 
evening.  .  .  . 

"Earnestly  we  urge  parents  to  gather 
their  families  around  them,  and  to 
instruct  them  in  truth  and  righteous- 
ness, and  in  family  love  and  loyalty. 
The  home  is  the  basis  of  a  righteous 
life,  and  no  other  instrumentality  can 
take  its  place  nor  fulfill  its  essential 
functions.  The  problems  of  these  diffi- 
cult times  cannot  better  be  solved  in 
any  other  place,  by  any  other  agency, 
by  any  other  means,  than  by  love  and 


righteousness,  and  precept  and  exam- 
ple, and  devotion  to  duty  in  the  home." 
(Family  Home  Evening  Manual,  1965, 
p.  iii.) 

Pursuant  to  this  counsel,  many 
families  have  adopted  and  faithfully 
pursued  the  Family  Home  Evening 
Program.  Others  have  yet  to  move  into 
it  and  qualify  for  the  promised  bless- 
ings. 

Purpose  of  home  teaching 

Some  of  the  things  that  can  be  done 
through  home  teaching — and  this  is 
really  the  purpose  of  this  talk  tonight 
— to  inspire  obedience  to  the  command- 
ment to  teach  the  gospel  in  the  home, 
and  particularly  to  hold  the  home 
evening  as  directed,  are  as  follows: 

To  the  stake  presidents: 

1.  That  under  the  leadership  of  the 
stake  president,  there  be  in  every  stake 
an  evening — other  than  Sunday — 
designated  and  exclusively  reserved  as 
home  evening.  I  recently  heard  a  for- 
mer stake  president  who  said  the 
bishops  in  the  stake  he  had  presided 
over  did  not  even  answer  the  telephone 
on  this  evening.  When  it  rang,  one  of 
the  children  would  gently  say,  "We 
are  holding  home  evening.  Are  you?" 

2.  Let  each  stake  president  see  to  it 
that  he  himself  regularly  conducts  a 
weekly  home  evening  with  his  own 
family,  and  that  he  inspires  each  of 
his  counselors,  clerks,  high  councilors, 
and  all  members  of  his  stake  council 
to  do  likewise. 

I  had  written  in  these  remarks:  It 
will  be  in  order  for  Representatives  of 
the  Twelve  to  emphasize  this  matter 
in  their  regions.  I  was  very  happy  day 
before  yesterday  to  hear  President 
Tanner  tell  these  Regional  Representa- 
tives directly  to  hold  their  own  home 
evenings  and  then  take  it  up  with  the 
stake  presidents. 

3.  That  in  their  monthly  oral  evalu- 
ations, stake  presidents  motivate  bishops 
and  branch  presidents  to  implement 
the  family  home  evening  program  in 
their  own  homes  and  in  their  wards 
and  branches. 

Now  to  the  bishops: 

4.  Let  every  bishop  and  branch 
president  not  only  conduct  a  weekly 


110  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  5 

home  evening  with  his  own  family, 
but  also  so  teach,  exhort,  and  inspire 
his  counselors,  clerks,  and  ward  coun- 
cil members  that  they  follow  his 
example. 

5.  That  in  their  monthly  oral  evalu- 
ations with  their  priesthood  leaders, 
bishops  and  branch  presidents  accom- 
plish three  things:  One,  inspire  these 
leaders  to  conduct  home  evenings  with 
their  own  families.  Two,  motivate 
them  to  inspire  home  teachers  to  hold 
home  evenings  with  their  own  families, 
and  to  encourage  the  families  they 
visit  to  hold  home  evenings.  Three, 
bishops  should,  at  these  interviews, 
receive  a  report  from  each  priesthood 
leader  on  the  status  of  home  teaching 
in  the  families  for  whom  he  is  respon- 
sible. 

6.  Let  every  home  teacher  (a)  regu- 
larly conduct  with  his  own  family  the 
kind  of  a  home  evening  he  would  be 
proud  to  have  the  families  he  visits 
use  as  an  example,  and  (b)  carry  into 
the  homes  of  the  families  he  is  assigned 
to  visit  such  teaching,  encouragement, 
and  spirit  as  will  inspire  them  to  ob- 
serve home  evening.  The  home  teacher 
should  also  render  a  complete  report 
on  each  of  his  families  to  his  priest- 
hood leader  each  month  in  their  inter- 
views. 

Youth  targets  of  evil  one 

Such  is  the  care  we  must  exercise, 
brethren,  as  we  watch  over  the 
Church,  if  we  are  to  prevail  "against 
the  wiles  of  the  devil. 

"For  we  wrestle  not  against  flesh 
and  blood,  but  against  principalities, 
against  powers,  against  the  rulers  of 
the  darkness  of  this  world,  against 
spiritual  wickedness  in  high  places." 
(Eph.  6:11-12.) 

The  world  is  ripening  in  iniquity. 

".  .  .  all  flesh  is  corrupted  before 
[the  Lord] ;  .  .  .  the  powers  of  darkness 
prevail  upon  the  earth.  .  .  ."  (D&C 
38:11.) 

Satan,  our  enemy,  is  making  an  all- 
out  assault  upon  righteousness.  His 
well-marshaled  forces  are  legion.  Our 
children  and  youth  are  the  targets  of 
his  main  thrust.  They  are  everywhere 
subjected  to  wicked  and  vicious  propa- 


Second  Day 

ganda.  Every  place  they  turn,  they 
are  buffeted  with  evil,  cunningly  de- 
vised to  deceive  and  to  destroy  every 
sacred  thing  and  every  righteous 
principle. 

True  principles  ridiculed 

Faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is 
scoffed  at.  God,  they  are  told,  is  dead. 
The  principle  of  repentance,  baptism 
by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins, 
and  laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost  are  ridiculed. 

Morality  in  general  and  chastity 
particularly  are  outmoded.  Man — so 
our  children  are  told — is  an  animal, 
the  product  of  biological  evolution;  his 
generative  powers  are  not  sacred  and 
God-given  for  the  purpose  of  bringing 
God's  spirit  children  into  mortality, 
and  therefore  to  be  exercised  within  the 
limits  divinely  prescribed,  as  the  gospel 
teaches,  but  they  are  playthings  to  be 
exploited  and  prostituted  for  the 
gratification  of  sensual  and  lustful 
desires.  Courage,  honesty,  loyalty, 
patriotism,  law  and  order — these  and 
other  elements  of  the  divine  nature 
are  no  longer  revered  as  virtues. 

Children  to  be  strengthened 

If  our  children  are  to  be  sufficiently 
strengthened  to  stand  against  this 
satanic  onslaught,  they  must  be  taught 
and  trained  in  the  home,  as  the  Lord 
has  directed. 

Let  every  priesthood  bearer,  in  the 
majesty  and  power  of  his  calling,  set 
in  order  his  own  house;  let  him  regu- 
larly observe  home  evening  and  other- 
wise bring  up  his  "children  in  light 
and  truth"  (D&C  93:40);  let  him 
accept  a  home  teaching  assignment 
and  so  faithfully  visit,  exhort,  encour- 
age, and  inspire  his  families  that  they 
follow  his  example.  Then  will  the 
children  of  Zion  be  able  to  stand 
against  the  wiles  of  the  devil,  and  then 
will  the  Church  begin  to  "arise  and 
shine  forth,  that  [her]  light  may  be  a 
standard  for  the  nations."  (D&C 
115:5.) 

That  every  priesthood  bearer  will 
rise  to  the  challenge  given  us  by  the 
Lord  when  he  said,  in  the  words  al- 
ready   quoted    by    Brother  Packer: 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


111 


".  .  .  gird  up  your  loins,  and  take 
upon  you  my  whole  armor,  that  ye 
may  be  able  to  withstand  the  evil  day, 
having  done  all,  that  ye  may  be  able 
to  stand.  .  .  .  that  where  I  am  ye 
shall  be  also."  (D&C  27:15,  18),  I 


humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown  will  be 
our  concluding  speaker. 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


We  have  had  two  days  of  almost 
constant  meetings.  I  know  you  are  all 
rather  weary  at  this  hour,  so  I  shall 
not  take  much  time.  I  have  enjoyed 
very  much  the  meeting  tonight;  and 
realizing  the  numbers  of  men  who  are 
listening  in,  I  am  wondering  if  I  can 
add  a  word.  I  hope  we  have  taken  to 
heart  the  very  worthwhile  and  impor- 
tant messages  that  have  been  given  by 
the  brethren  throughout  the  confer- 
ence. Tonight  especially,  when  Presi- 
dent McKay  had  such  an  inspiring 
message  for  us,  and  then  to  hear  these 
young  boys  respond  to  the  call  so  well, 
so  efficiently,  so  humbly,  was  an  in- 
spiration to  all  of  us.  To  hear  Elders 
[Lysle  R.]  Cahoon,  Packer,  and  Rom- 
ney  discuss  their  special  assignments  is 
a  challenge  to  every  man  who  holds 
the  priesthood. 

I  was  especially  impressed  when 
Elder  Packer  mentioned  military  men. 
I  have  had  a  little  experience  in  that 
field,  and  I  think  I  would  like  to  tell 
you  a  story  with  relation  to  it,  a  story 
that  may  be  not  so  well  known  here 
in  the  United  States  because  it  hap- 
pened in  Canada. 

A  sense  of  humor 

First,  I  think  I  would  like  to  say  to 
the  young  men  who  are  listening  and 
who  are  present  that  I  wish  you  would 
cultivate  a  sense  of  humor. 

In  the  army  while  in  the  first  world 
war,  one  of  our  boys  who  was  a  pretty 
good  fighter  was  challenged  in  England 
to  a  fight.  This  young  man,  our  Mor- 
mon boy,  had  the  habit  of  smiling  all 
the  way  through  a  fight.  One  of  the 
men  whom  he  was  pitted  against  was 
champion,  and  during  the  fight  he  said 
to  his  attendants  between  rounds,  "I 


can't  lick  that  guy  unless  I  can  knock 
that  grin  off  of  his  face."  He  was  not 
able  to  do  it.  That  smile  represented 
a  courage  of  cold  steel,  and  the  Mor- 
mon boy  won  the  battle. 

Story  of  Canadian  recruitment 

Now  as  to  the  story:  In  1906  the 
government  of  Canada  passed  a  law 
that  was  known  as  the  Militia  Act, 
comparable  to  the  home  guard  here. 
They  sent  out  into  all  the  provinces  a 
call  for  men  to  take  training  prepara- 
tory to  what  Lord  Roberts  said  was  sure 
to  come,  a  world  war.  A  young  man 
was  sent  to  Cardston  to  recruit  some 
of  our  men.  This  young  fellow  was  the 
son  of  a  prominent  military  man.  He 
had  been  raised  with  a  silver  spoon  in 
his  mouth,  evidently.  He  was  one  of 
those  fellows  who  had  a  jaunty 
moustache  and  a  little  swagger  stick, 
and  he  wore  a  monocle,  a  one-eye 
glass.  He  was  a  most  objectionable 
fellow  in  the  eyes  of  our  young  men. 
In  fact,  his  monocle  reminds  me  of 
another  story. 

I  was  standing  one  day  between 
Picadilly  Circus  and  Leicester  Square 
talking  to  an  American  officer  during 
the  first  world  war.  We  saw  a  man 
coming  down  the  sidewalk  with  his 
hat  on  one  side,  swinging  a  swagger 
stick,  a  Charlie  Chaplin  moustache, 
and  a  monocle.  I  said  to  the  officer, 
"I  wonder  why  those  fellows  wear  a 
one-eye  glass  instead  of  two." 

"Well,"  he  said,  "I'll  tell  you.  A 
guy  like  that  can  see  more  with  one 
eye  than  he  can  comprehend." 

Well,  such  was  the  man  who  came 
out  to  recruit  the  Mormon  boys.  He 
spent  two  weeks  in  Cardston.  He  was 
sent  out  to  organize  a  squadron  of 


112 

Saturday,  April  5 

mounted  men.  He  did  not  get  one 
recruit  during  that  two  weeks.  A  lot 
of  them  came  in  and  responded  to  his 
call,  but  did  not  sign  up.  He  went 
back  to  Ottawa  and  reported  the  Mor- 
mons were  disloyal  and  ought  to  be 
expelled  from  Canada. 

The  member  of  parliament  from  our 
district  at  that  time  was  W.  A.  Bu- 
chanan, who  knew  our  people  very 
well.  The  matter  was  taken  to  the 
floor  of  the  parliament,  and  consider- 
able agitation  was  whipped  up.  Mr. 
Buchanan  arose  and  said,  "If  you  will 
allow  some  of  their  own  men  to  be- 
come officers,  you  will  get  all  the 
Mormon  boys  you  want." 

Training  as  militia  officers 

The  government  finally  accepted 
his  recommendation,  and  they  sent 
word  out  to  President  Edward  J.  Wood 
to  appoint  some  men  to  go  and  take 
training,  which  he  did.  I  happened  to 
be  one  who  was  called  in  by  President 
Wood  and  called  on  a  three-year  mis- 
sion, to  go  to  Calgary  and  take  training 
as  a  militia  officer. 

While  I  was  in  training,  a  young 
Mormon  boy  came  into  the  camp.  He 
was  awkward.  He  was  not  educated 
very  well,  but  he  was  a  young  Mormon 
boy  who  had  been  taught  to  live  the 
gospel.  After  one  parade,  when  he  had 
gone  through  everything  backwards, 
he  was  called  by  the  captain  to  come 
into  his  office.  The  captain  said,  "I 
have  noticed  you,  young  fellow.  You 
are  from  Cardston,  aren't  you?" 

He  said,  "Yes,  sir." 

"You  are  a  Mormon,  I  suppose." 

"Yes,  sir." 

"Well,  I  just  wanted  to  make  friends 
with  you.  Will  you  have  a  glass  of 
beer?" 

"Sir,  I  do  not  drink  liquor. ' 

The  captain  said,  "The    you 

don't.  Maybe  you  will  have  a  cigar 
then." 

He  said,  "Thank  you,  sir,  but  I  do 
not  smoke." 

The  captain  seemed  much  annoyed 
by  this,  and  he  dismissed  the  boy  from 
the  room. 

When  the  young  man  went  back  to 
his  quarters,  some  of  the  lesser  officers 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

accosted  him  angrily  and  said,  "You 
fool,  don't  you  realize  the  captain  was 
trying  to  make  a  friend  of  you,  and 
you  insulted  him  to  his  face?" 

The  young  Mormon  boy  answered, 
"Gentlemen,  if  I  must  be  untrue  to 
my  ideals  and  my  people  and  do  things 
that  I  have  been  instructed  all  my  life 
I  should  not  do,  I'll  quit  the  army." 

A  man  of  character 

When  the  time  came  for  the  final 
examinations  in  that  camp,  the  captain 
sent  this  young  man  down  to  Calgary 
from  Sarcee  Camp  to  do  some  work 
for  him,  and  they  were  having  exami- 
nations while  he  was  gone.  When  he 
returned  the  captain  said,  "Now  you 
go  in  the  other  room  there,  and  I  will 
give  you  the  list  of  questions,  and  you 
can  write  your  examination." 

He  went  in  and  returned  and  said, 
"Sir,  all  the  books  we  have  studied  are 
there  on  that  desk.  Surely  you  don't 
want  me  to  write  my  examination 
there  where  I  can  turn  to  those  books." 

The  captain  said,  "That  is  just  what 
I  do  want.  I  know  from  my  knowledge 
of  you  that  you  will  not  open  a  one 
of  those  books.  You  will  be  honorable, 
you  will  be  honest,  and  I  trust  you." 

Well,  that  young  man,  while  over- 
seas later  on  in  the  war,  was  sent  for 
by  his  captain,  who  had  then  become 
a  lieutenant  colonel,  in  response  to  a 
call  from  general  headquarters  for  the 
best  man  he  had  in  his  battalion.  They 
had  a  special  mission  for  him  to  per- 
form. They  said,  "We  don't  care  any- 
thing about  his  education  or  his  train- 
ing. We  want  a  man  who  can't  be 
broken  when  put  under  test.  We  want 
a  man  of  character."  The  lieutenant 
colonel,  his  former  captain,  selected 
and  assigned  this  young  man  who  had 
the  courage  to  stand  before  him  and 
say,  "I  do  not  smoke.  I  do  not  drink." 

I  cite  that  as  a  type  of  thing  that 
happens  sometimes  in  military  life, 
and  because  Brother  Packer  spoke  of 
the  military,  it  reminded  me  of  it. 

Well,  at  the  end  of  the  training 
period  we  organized  a  squadron  and 
took  them  to  Calgary  in  the  years 
1912-14,  when,  as  you  know,  the  first 
world  war  broke  out,  Canada  and 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


113 


England  having  been  in  the  war  for 
some  years  before  the  United  States 
came  in.  Our  Mormon  boys  made  a 
great  name  for  themselves,  both  in 
Canada  and  overseas. 

When  is  success  a  failure? 

Brethren,  there  are  many  things  that 
could  be  said  on  an  occasion  of  this 
kind,  but  most  of  them  have  been  said, 
so  I  will  not  detain  you.  I  would  like 
to  bring  to  your  attention,  though,  one 
or  two  paragraphs  that  might  be  help- 
ful. I  hope  they  will.  This  is  entitled 
"When  Is  Success  a  Failure?" 

"When  you  are  doing  the  lower 
while  the  higher  is  possible, 

When  you  are  not  a  cleaner,  finer, 
larger  man  on  account  of  your 
work, 

When  you  live  only  to  eat  and 
drink,  have  a  good  time,  and  ac- 
cumulate money,  then  success  is  a 
failure. 

When  you  do  not  carry  a  higher 
wealth  in  your  character  than  in 
your  pocketbook, 

When  the  attainment  of  your  ambi- 
tion has  blighted  the  aspirations 
and  crushed  the  hopes  of  others, 

When  hunger  for  more  money,  more 
land,  more  houses  and  bonds  has 
grown  to  be  your  dominant  pas- 
sion, 

When  your  profession  has  made  you 
a  physical  wreck — a  victim  of 
'nerves'  and  moods, 

When  your  absorption  in  your  work 
has  made  you  practically  a  stranger 
to  your  family, 

When  your  greed  for  money  has 
darkened  and  cramped  your  wife's 
life,  and  deprived  her  of  self- 
expression,  of  needed  rest  and 
recreation,  of  amusement  of  any 
kind, 

When  all  sympathy  and  fellowship 
have  been  crushed  out  of  your  life 
by  selfish  devotion  to  your  voca- 
tion, 

When  you  do  not  overtop  your  voca- 
tion, when  you  are  not  greater  as 
a  man  than  as  a  lawyer,  a  mer- 
chant, a  physician  or  a  scientist, 

When  you  plead  that  you  have  never 


had  time  to  cultivate  your  friend- 
ships, your  politeness,  or  your 
good  manners, 
When  you  have  lost  on  your  way 
your  self-respect,  your  courage, 
your  self-control,  or  any  other 
quality  of  manhood,  then  success 
has  been  a  failure." 

Each  is  being  tested 

Let  us  take  that  to  heart,  brethren, 
and  remember  that  each  of  us  is  being 
tested,  just  as  the  finest  cars  and  planes 
are  tested  before  they  are  put  into  ser- 
vice. They  are  tested  for  weaknesses; 
they  are  tested  for  flaws.  Can  you 
stand  the  test?  At  the  bar  the  Judge 
will  not  look  us  over  for  medals,  de- 
grees, or  diplomas,  but  for  scars.  Let 
us  resolve  that  there  will  be  no  stains. 
Let  every  young  man  who  holds  the 
priesthood  stand  himself  up  against  the 
wall  and  look  himself  over  and  ask 
himself  to  reply  honestly,  "What  kind 
of  a  man  are  you  really?  You  make  a 
pretty  good  showing  at  times,  but  what 
is  in  your  heart?"  Talk  to  yourself 
along  that  line,  brethren,  and  then  put 
your  lives  in  order. 

You  young  men  who  are  going  into 
the  service  are  going  to  come  up  against 
some  terrible  temptations  and  some 
real  tests  of  courage.  God  bless  you 
that  your  priesthood  may  enable  you  to 
measure  up  to  any  responsibility  that 
is  placed  upon  you. 

We  are  living  in  very  difficult  times. 
They  are  ominous  times.  They  are 
times  when  men  are  getting  discour- 
aged. Many  references  have  been  made 
to  these  things  during  this  conference. 
I  would  like  to  leave  with  you  a  poem 
on  what  the  future  portends: 

"You  that  have  faith  to  look  with 

fearless  eyes 
Upon  the  tragedy  of  a  world  at  strife, 
And  know  that  out  of  death  and 

night 

Shall  rise  the  dawn  of  amplier  life, 
Rejoice,  whatever  anguish  rend  the 
heart, 

That  God  has  given  you  the  priceless 
dower 

To  live  in  these  great  times  and  have 
your  part 


114  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  5 

In  freedom's  crowning  hour; 

That  you  may  tell  your  sons  who 

see  the  light, 
High  in  the  heavens,  their  heritage 

to  take, 

I  saw  the  powers  of  darkness  take 

their  flight; 
I  saw  the  morning  break." 

Then  look  forward  with  courage  and 
faith,  remembering  that  unless  we 
have  been  true,  unless  we  have  kept 
the  faith,  unless  we  have  kept  clean, 
unless  we  have  done  the  things  that  we 
know  we  ought  to  do,  then  we  will  fail 
in  this  great  test. 

The  rights  of  the  priesthood 

I  must  close  by  drawing  your  atten- 
tion to  a  very  familiar  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants: 

".  .  .  the  rights  of  the  priesthood  are 
inseparably  connected  with  the  powers 
of  heaven,  and  ...  the  powers  of  hea- 
ven cannot  be  controlled  nor  handled 
only  upon  the  principles  of  righteous- 
ness. 

"That  they  may  be  conferred  upon 
us,  it  is  true;  but  when  we  undertake 
to  cover  our  sins,  or  to  gratify  our  pride, 
our  vain  ambition,  or  to  exercise  con- 
trol or  dominion  or  compulsion  upon 
the  souls  of  the  children  of  men,  in 
any  degree  of  unrighteousness,  behold, 
the  heavens  withdraw  themselves;  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  grieved;  and  when 
it  is  withdrawn,  Amen  to  the  priest- 
hood or  the  authority  of  that  man. 

"Behold,  ere  he  is  aware,  he  is  left 
unto  himself,  to  kick  against  the 
pricks,  to  persecute  the  saints,  and  to 
fight  against  God. 

"We  have  learned  by  sad  experience 
that  it  is  the  nature  and  disposition  of 
almost  all  men,  as  soon  as  they  get  a 
little  authority,  as  they  suppose,  they 
will  immediately  begin  to  exercise 
unrighteous  dominion.  .  .  . 

"Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  char- 
ity towards  all  men,  and  to  the  house- 
hold of  faith,  and  let  virtue  garnish 
thy  thoughts  unceasingly;  then  shall 
thy  confidence  wax  strong  in  the 
presence  of  God;  and  the  doctrine  of 
the  priesthood  shall  distil  upon  thy 


Second  Day 

soul  as  the  dews  from  heaven. 

"The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  con- 
stant companion,  and  thy  scepter  an 
unchanging  scepter  of  righteousness 
and  truth;  and  thy  dominion  shall  be 
an  everlasting  dominion,  and  without 
compulsory  means  it  shall  flow  unto 
thee  forever  and  ever."  (D&C  121:36- 
39,  45-46.) 

Divinity  of  the  work 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren.  I  leave 
with  you  my  own  testimony  as  to  the 
divinity  of  this  work.  God  has  been  so 
good  to  me  as  to  make  known  to  me, 
in  ways  that  I  cannot  explain,  that 
Jesus  of  Nazareth  is  the  Son  of  God. 
I  know  that  he  is  the  Redeemer  of  this 
world.  I  have  been  close  enough  to 
him  to  get  from  him  a  convincing  testi- 
mony of  that  fact,  which  has  been 
sealed  upon  my  soul.  I  leave  you  this 
testimony,  and  I  say,  as  Peter  of  old 
said  in  answer  to  the  question,  "Whom 
say  ye  that  I  am?"  "Thou  art  the 
Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God." 
(See  Matt.  16:15-16.)  I  know  it.  I 
know  it  better  than  I  know  anything 
else,  and  for  that  knowledge  I  am 
grateful  to  him.  I  would  like  to  con- 
tinue faithful  to  the  end  if  I  can. 

God  bless  you  now  as  you  go  to  your 
homes.  Set  your  houses  in  order.  Set 
your  lives  in  order,  for  you  are  going 
to  be  tested  as  men  heretofore  have  not 
been  tested,  and  you  will  make  good 
in  proportion  as  you  build  character, 
as  you  do  the  things  you  know  you 
ought  to  do,  deprive  yourself  of  the 
things  you  know  you  should  not  have, 
and  yield  obedience  to  the  command- 
ments of  God. 

"If  a  man  is  primarily  after  wealth, 
the  world  can  whip  him.  If  he  is  pri- 
marily after  pleasure,  the  world  can 
beat  him.  But  if  a  man  is  primarily 
growing  character,  then  he  can  capital- 
ize on  anything  that  life  does  to  him. 
How  much  a  man  owns  depends  on 
the  height  and  breadth  and  depth  of 
his  mind  and  soul  and  not  on  his  bank 
account." 

May  his  peace  and  blessing  be  with 
you  all,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


THIRD  DAY 


115 


President  N.  EI  don  Tanner 

I  should  like  to  remind  you  that  the 
CBS  Radio  Tabernacle  Choir  Broad- 
cast will  begin  at  9:35  tomorrow 
morning.  It  will  be  from  9:35  to 
10  o'clock  a.m.  Those  desiring  to  at- 
tend must  be  in  their  seats  before 
9:15. 

As  thousands  leave  this  priesthood 
meeting  tonight,  we  urge  you  to  drive 
carefully.  Obey  the  traffic  rules  and 
always  be  courteous  and  patient  in 
driving  in  the  city  and  on  the  high- 
ways. 

The  music  for  this  priesthood  ses- 
sion has  been  furnished  by  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Faculty 
Priesthood  Chorus,  with  Harold  H. 
Goodman  conducting  and  Robert  Cun- 


dick  at  the  organ.  We  deeply  appre- 
ciate their  inspiring  music  and  the 
service  they  have  rendered  tonight. 

We  shall  now  close  this  meeting 
with  the  chorus  singing,  "I  Need  Thee 
Every  Hour,"  and  Elder  Robert  N. 
Sears,  regional  representative  of  the 
Twelve,  will  offer  the  benediction. 
The  conference  will  then  be  adjourned 
until  ten  o'clock  tomorrow  morning. 


The  Brigham  Young  University 
Faculty  Priesthood  Chorus  then  sang, 
"I  Need  Thee  Every  Hour." 

Elder  Robert  N.  Sears,  regional  rep- 
resentative of  the  Twelve,  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

The  conference  adjourned  until 
Sunday,  April  6,  at  10  a.m. 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


SIXTH  SESSION 

Sunday  morning,  April  6. 

Conference  reconvened  at  10  o'clock 
a.m.  following  the  conclusion  of  the 
Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ 
Broadcast,  which  was  presented  at  9:35 
a.m.  and  concluded  at  10  o'clock.  A 
complete  report  of  this  broadcast  may 
be  found  on  pages  156  and  157  of  this 
report. 

The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir 
furnished  the  choral  music  for  this 
session  with  Richard  P.  Condie  con- 
ducting. Elder  Alexander  Schreiner 
was  at  the  console  of  the  organ. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown,  first  coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency,  conducted 
this  session. 

Just  before  the  beginning  of  this  ses- 
sion of  conference,  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "Praise  to  the 
Lord." 

President  Brown  then  made  the  fol- 
lowing preliminary  statement: 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

This  is  the  sixth  session  of  the  139th 


Annual  Conference  of  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

President  David  O.  McKay  is  watch- 
ing on  the  television  at  his  home  under 
the  advice  of  his  physicians.  He  is 
presiding  at  this  session  of  the  con- 
ference and  has  asked  that  I  conduct. 
He  wishes  me  to  extend  his  greetings 
and  love  and  blessings  to  each  and  all. 

It  gives  us  great  pleasure  also  to 
welcome  all  present  this  morning,  espe- 
cially our  special  guests — governmental, 
educational  and  civic  leaders,  together 
with  the  vast  television  and  radio 
audience. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the 
direction  of  Richard  P.  Condie,  with 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ,  will 
open  these  services  by  singing  "Achieved 
Is  the  Glorious  Work,"  following 
which  Elder  Dean  A.  Peterson,  presi- 
dent of  the  Brigham  Young  University 
Seventh  Stake,  will  offer  the  invocation. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  "Achieved 
Is  the  Glorious  Work,"  following 
which  President  Dean  A.  Peterson  of 


116 

Sunday,  April  6 

the  Brigham  Young  University  Seventh 
Stake  offered  the  opening  prayer. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

which  President  Nathan  Eldon  Tan- 
ner, a  counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 
of  the  Church,  will  speak  to  us. 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will 
sing  "Souls  of  the  Righteous," 


now 
after 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang 
number,  "Souls  of  the  Righteous." 


the 


PRESIDENT  N.  I 

Second  Counselor  in 

On  behalf  of  the  First  Presidency, 
the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles, 
and  the  other  General  Authorities,  I 
wish  to  extend  a  warm  welcome  to 
our  radio  and  television  audiences  to 
join  with  us  here  in  this  historic 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  this 
lovely  Easter  morning. 

Commemoration  of  resurrection 

We  are  commemorating  today  the 
greatest  event  that  has  ever  taken  place 
in  the  history  of  mortal  man:  the 
resurrection  of  our  Lord  and  Savior, 
Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  the  Crea- 
tor of  the  world,  who  came  and  gave 
his  life  for  us  and  was  resurrected.  The 
fact  that  Christ  rose  from  the  dead  has 
made  secure  the  resurrection  of  all 
mankind  from  the  grave  and  offers  an 
opportunity  for  them  to  return  to  their 
Father  in  heaven.  Yes,  all  sons  and 
daughters  of  Adam  and  Eve  are  to  be 
resurrected,  raised  from  the  dead,  and 
each  shall  enjoy  the  glory  for  which 
he  has  prepared  himself. 

The  birth,  life,  death  and  resurrec- 
tion, and  the  message  of  our  Lord  and 
Savior  is  the  central  theme  of  all 
scriptures — the  Old  Testament,  the 
New  Testament,  and  our  latter-day 
scriptures,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  and  Pearl  of 
Great  Price.  What  would  the  scrip- 
tures be  without  this  message?  All 
other  things  lose  their  meaning  and 
purpose  and  fade  into  insignificance. 

Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet,  said: 
"The  fundamental  principles  of  our 
religion  are  the  testimonies  of  the 
Apostles  and  Prophets,  concerning 
Jesus  Christ,  that  He  died,  was  buried, 
and  rose  again  the  third  day,  and 


:ldon  tanner 

the  First  Presidency 

ascended  into  heaven;  and  all  other 
things  which  pertain  to  our  religion 
are  only  appendages  to  it."  (Documen- 
tary History  of  the  Church,  Vol.  3, 
p.  30.) 

In  fact,  without  this  great  message 
of  the  Redeemer,  we  are  left  without 
a  purpose,  without  an  anchor,  and 
without  hope. 

Predictions  of  resurrection 

As  the  Christian  world  commemo- 
rates the  crucifixion  and  resurrection 
of  our  Savior,  who  is  the  source  of 
Christianity,  I  should  like  to  review 
some  of  the  predictions  and  events 
surrounding  this  most  important  occa- 
sion. Centuries  before  the  crucifixion 
of  the  Savior,  the  psalmist  wrote: 

".  .  .  the  assembly  of  the  wicked 
have  inclosed  me:  they  pierced  my 
hands  and  my  feet. 

"They  part  my  garments  among 
them,  and  cast  lots  upon  my  vesture." 
(Ps.  22:16,  18.) 

Also  centuries  before,  Isaiah  said: 

".  .  .  he  hath  poured  out  his  soul 
unto  death:  .  .  .  and  he  bare  the  sin  of 
many,  and  made  intercession  for  the 
transgressors."  (Isa.  53:12.) 

Long  before  the  birth  of  Christ, 
Alma  was  asked:  "What  does  this 
mean  which  Amulek  hath  spoken  con- 
cerning the  resurrection  of  the  dead, 
that  all  shall  rise  from  the  dead,  both 
the  just  and  the  unjust,  and  are  brought 
to  stand  before  God  to  be  judged  ac- 
cording to  their  works?"  (Al.  12:8.) 

In  his  discourse  following  this  ques- 
tion, Alma  explained:  ".  .  .  it  meaneth 
the  reuniting  of  the  soul  with  the 
body.  .  .  ."  (Al.  40:18.) 


PRESIDENT  N.  ELDON  TANNER 


117 


Jesus  also  predicted  his  death  and 
resurrection  time  and  again  as  he  went 
about  his  mission.  Matthew,  Mark, 
Luke,  and  John  record  such  statements 
as:  "I  am  the  living  bread  which  came 
down  from  heaven:  if  any  man  eat  of 
this  bread,  he  shall  live  for  ever:  and 
the  bread  that  I  will  give  is  my  flesh, 
which  I  will  give  for  the  life  of  the 
world."  (John  6:51.) 

Again:  ".  .  .  he  taught  his  disciples, 
and  said  unto  them,  The  Son  of  man 
is  delivered  into  the  hands  of  men,  and 
they  shall  kill  him;  and  after  that  he 
is  killed,  he  shall  rise  the  third  day. 

"But  they  understood  not  that  say- 
ing, and  were  afraid  to  ask  him." 
(Mark  9:31-32.) 

Purpose  of  Christ's  mission 

Christ  himself,  however,  clearly 
understood  the  purpose  of  his  mission 
and  what  would  happen;  and  as  the 
time  approached,  he  was  very  much 
concerned.  As  he  felt  the  time  pressing 
upon  him  he  prayed: 

".  .  .  Father,  save  me  from  this  hour: 
but  for  this  cause  came  I  unto  this 
hour. 

"Father,  glorify  thy  name.  Then 
came  there  a  voice  from  heaven,  say- 
ing, I  have  both  glorified  it,  and  will 
glorify  it  again."  (John  12:27-28.) 

Let  us  try  to  visualize  what  took 
place  as  Christ  was  with  his  apostles 
at  the  Passover. 

"And  as  they  sat  and  did  eat,  Jesus 
said,  Verily  I  say  unto  you,  One  of  you 
which  eateth  with  me  shall  betray  me. 

"And  they  began  to  be  sorrowful, 
and  to  sav  unto  him  one  by  one,  Is  it 
I?  .  .  . 

"And  he  answered  and  said  unto 
them,  It  is  one  of  the  twelve,  that 
dippeth  with  me  in  the  dish."  (Mark 
14:18-20.) 

Following  this  they  went  out  into 
the  Mount  of  Olives  and  came  to  a 
place  called  Gethsemane.  Leaving  his 
disciples  there,  he  took  with  him 
Peter,  James,  and  John,  "And  saith 
unto  them,  My  soul  is  exceeding  sor- 
rowful unto  death:  tarry  ye  here,  and 
watch. 

"And  he  went  forward  a  little,  and 
fell  on  the  ground,  and  prayed  that, 


if  it  were  possible,  the  hour  might  pass 
from  him. 

"And  he  said,  .  .  .  Father,  all  things 
are  possible  unto  thee;  take  away  this 
cup  from  me:  nevertheless  not  what  I 
will,  but  what  thou  wilt."  (Mark  14: 
34-36.) 

As  he  returned  to  Peter,  James,  and 
John,  who  were  not  fully  aware  of 
what  was  taking  place,  he  found  them 
asleep.  He  left  them  a  second  and 
third  time  and  prayed  the  same  words, 
but  each  time  as  he  returned  he  found 
them  asleep  again.  Finding  them 
asleep  the  third  time,  he  said:  "Sleep 
on  now,  and  take  your  rest:  .  .  .  the 
hour  is  come.  .  .  ."  (Mark  14:41.)  How 
alone  he  must  have  felt! 

Betrayal  and  trial 

Immediately  following  this  we  see 
Judas  Iscariot  betraying  his  Master 
with  a  kiss.  We  remember  how  he  was 
led  away  to  the  high  priests  and  how 
there  he  was  falsely  accused,  but  the 
witnesses  disagreed.  When  he  an- 
swered that  he  was  Christ,  the  Son  of 
God,  they  ridiculed  him,  spat  upon 
him,  and  struck  him  and  told  him  to 
prophesy.  ".  .  .  And  they  all  con- 
demned him  to  be  guilty  of  death." 
(Mark  14:64.) 

As  the  Jews  could  not  impose  the 
death  penalty  in  the  Sanhedrin,  he 
was  taken  to  Pilate.  Pilate  said,  after 
questioning  him,  "I  find  no  fault  in 
this  man."  (Luke  23:4.)  The  multitude 
then  renewed  their  demand  for  his 
crucifixion.  Pilate,  learning  he  was  a 
Galilean,  sent  him  to  Herod,  but 
Herod  sent  him  back,  not  knowing 
what  judgment  to  pass.  Pilate  again 
began  to  examine  Jesus.  At  least  three 
times  he  pleaded  with  the  multitude 
to  release  Jesus  instead  of  Barabbas, 
who  was  guilty  of  murder,  but  each 
time  they  said,  ".  .  .  release  unto  us 
Barabbas,"  and  when  he  asked  con- 
cerning Jesus,  they  cried,  "Crucify 
him."  (Luke  23:18,  21.) 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that  Pilate 
finally  took  water,  "and  washed  his 
hands  before  the  multitude,  saying,  I 
am  innocent  of  the  blood  of  this  just 
person:  see  ye  to  it. 

"Then  answered  all  the  people,  and 


118  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  6 

said,  His  blood  be  on  us,  and  on  our 
children."  (Matt.  27:24-25.) 

The  crucifixion 

As  he  was  turned  over  to  be  cruci- 
fied, he  was  scourged,  and  a  wreath  of 
thorns  was  placed  upon  his  head.  In 
his  agony,  as  he  was  hanging  on  the 
cross,  the  Savior  cried  out  in  his  God- 
like manner,  "Father,  forgive  them; 
for  they  know  not  what  they  do." 
(Luke  23:34.) 

Also,  while  hanging  on  the  cross,  he 
made  this  very  significant  statement 
to  one  of  the  thieves  who  pleaded  for 
mercy:  ".  . .  To  day  shalt  thou  be  with 
me  in  paradise."  (Luke  23:43.) 

While  he  lay  in  the  tomb,  the  chief 
priests  and  Pharisees  went  to  Pilate, 
"Saying,  Sir,  we  remember  that  that 
deceiver  said,  while  he  was  yet  alive, 
After  three  days  I  will  rise  again. 

"Command  therefore  that  the  sepul- 
chre be  made  sure  until  the  third  day, 
lest  his  disciples  come  by  night,  and 
steal  him  away,  and  say  unto  the 
people,  He  is  risen  from  the  dead:  so 
the  last  error  shall  be  worse  than  the 
first. 

"Pilate  said  unto  them,  Ye  have  a 
watch:  go  your  way,  make  it  as  sure 
as  ye  can."  (Matt.  27:63-65.) 

Try  to  imagine  how  heavyhearted, 
discouraged,  and  gloomy  the  apostles 
and  others  who  had  followed  Jesus 
were  as  they  realized  their  leader  had 
been  crucified.  They  were  left  alone, 
in  doubt,  confused,  not  knowing  what 
to  do.  Though  they  had  been  with  him 
and  had  listened  to  his  words,  they 
had  not  understood  him  when  he  said 
he  would  rise  again.  They  thought 
their  cause  was  lost.  Peter  said,  "I  go 
a  fishing."  Others  said,  "We  also  go 
with  thee."  (John  21:3.)  They  were 
prepared  to  go  back  to  their  old  voca- 
tions. 

Evidences  of  resurrection 

Let  us  review  briefly  some  of  the 
visual  demonstrations  that  were  given 
in  the  early  days  following  the  resur- 
rection, or  the  irrefutable  evidence  of 
the  fact  that  he  was  literally  resur- 
rected. 


Third  Day 

In  the  early  morning  of  the  third 
day  Mary  Magdalene  and  others  came 
to  the  tomb  with  the  idea  of  preparing 
the  body  for  a  proper  burial.  How 
surprised,  fearful,  and  perplexed  they 
were  to  find  the  tomb  was  empty.  An 
angel  who  was  in  the  tomb  said:  "Fear 
not  ye:  for  I  know  that  ye  seek  Jesus, 
which  was  crucified. 

"He  is  not  here:  for  he  is  risen,  as 
he  said  "  (Matt.  28:5-6.) 

They  were  told  to  go  and  tell  the 
disciples,  and  also  told  that  the  risen 
Lord  had  gone  to  Galilee,  where  they 
would  see  him.  Imagine  their  fear  and 
great  joy!  On  the  way,  Jesus  appeared 
to  them.  They  then  hurried  and  re- 
ported their  experience  to  the  apostles, 
who  doubted  what  they  said.  But 
Peter  and  John  hastened  to  the 
sepulchre  and  found  it  to  be  true. 
Later  two  of  the  disciples,  traveling  to 
Emmaus,  saw  and  talked  to  him.  That 
same  evening  the  apostles  were  sitting 
together  and  recounting  the  happen- 
ings of  the  day  when  suddenly  the 
Savior  stood  among  them,  and  said: 

"Peace  be  unto  you. 

"But  they  were  terrified  and  af- 
frighted, and  supposed  that  they  had 
seen  a  spirit. 

"And  he  said  unto  them,  Why  are 
ye  troubled?  and  why  do  thoughts 
arise  in  your  hearts? 

"Behold  my  hands  and  my  feet, 
that  it  is  I  myself:  handle  me,  and  see; 
for  a  spirit  hath  not  flesh  and  bones, 
as  ye  see  me  have. 

"And  when  he  had  thus  spoken,  he 
shewed  them  his  hands  and  his  feet." 
(Luke  24:36-40.) 

Thomas,  who  was  not  present  on 
the  first  occasion,  when  told  of  the 
appearance  refused  to  believe.  A  week 
later  Christ  appeared  again  to  the 
eleven,  including  Thomas.  When  the 
Lord  spoke,  ".  .  .  Thomas  answered 
and  said  unto  him,  My  Lord  and  my 
God. 

"Jesus  saith  unto  him,  Thomas,  be- 
cause thou  hast  seen  me,  thou  hast 
believed:  blessed  are  they  that  have 
not  seen,  and  yet  have  believed." 
(John  20:28-29.) 

Later  he  appeared  to  over  five  hun- 
dred persons,  most  of  whom  were  still 
living  when  Paul  bore  his  testimony 


PRESIDENT  N.  ELDON  TANNER 


119 


that  he  had  been  visited  by  Christ 
and  called  to  his  ministry. 

Appearance  on  American  continent 

Two  other  very  important  occasions 
on  which  the  risen  Lord  appeared  were 
on  this  the  American  continent.  We 
read  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  that,  as 
the  Lamanite  prophet,  Samuel,  had 
predicted  concerning  the  crucifixion 
and  resurrection  of  Christ,  there  was 
darkness  for  the  space  of  three  days 
over  the  face  of  the  land,  and  there 
was  great  and  terrible  destruction. 
Cities  were  destroyed,  many  persons 
were  killed,  and  great  was  their  terror 
and  mourning,  as  they  were  heard  to 
say:  "O  that  we  had  repented  before 
this  great  and  terrible  day,  and  had 
not  killed  and  stoned  the  prophets,  and 
cast  them  out;  then  would  our  mothers 
and  our  fair  daughters,  and  our 
children  have  been  spared.  .  .  ."  (3 
Ne.  8:25.) 

Following  this  great  destruction, 
multitudes  of  the  people  who  were 
saved  gathered  together  around  the 
temple  in  the  land  Bountiful.  They 
heard  a  voice,  as  if  it  came  out  of 
heaven,  but  did  not  understand  until 
it  spoke  a  third  time,  saying:  "Behold 
my  Beloved  Son,  in  whom  I  am  well 
pleased,  in  whom  I  have  glorified  my 
name — hear  ye  him."  (3  Ne.  11:7.) 

And  then  they  saw  a  man  descend- 
ing out  of  heaven.  He  showed  them  his 
hands  and  his  feet,  and  said: 

"Behold,  I  am  Jesus  Christ,  whom 
the  prophets  testified  shall  come  into 
the  world. 

"...  I  have  suffered  the  will  of  the 
Father  in  all  things  from  the  begin- 
ning." 

At  his  invitation,  ".  .  .  the  multitude 
went  forth  .  .  .  and  did  feel  the  prints 
of  the  nails  in  his  hands  and  in  his 
feet  .  .  .  and  did  know  of  a  surety  and 
did  bear  record,  that  it  was  he,  of 
whom  it  was  written  by  the  prophets, 
that  should  come."  (3  Ne.  11:10-11, 
15.) 

Modern-day  testimony 

Then  we  have  the  testimony  of  our 
modern-day  prophet,  Joseph  Smith, 
1,800  years  following  the  crucifixion 


and  resurrection.  He  says  that  as  he 
was  kneeling  in  the  grove  in  prayer, 
"...  I  saw  a  pillar  of  light  exactly 
over  my  head,  above  the  brightness  of 
the  sun,  which  descended  gradually 
until  it  fell  upon  me. 

".  .  .  When  the  light  rested  upon 
me  I  saw  two  Personages,  whose  bright- 
ness and  glory  defy  all  description, 
standing  above  me  in  the  air.  One  of 
them  spake  unto  me,  calling  me  by 
name  and  said,  pointing  to  the  other — 
This  is  My  Beloved  Son.  Hear  Him!" 
(Joseph  Smith  2:16-17.) 

Here  we  have  the  testimony  of  a 
young  man  in  this  dispensation  who 
actually  saw  and  talked  with  the  risen 
Lord,  and  who,  as  some  of  the  prophets 
of  old,  sealed  his  testimony  with  his 
blood.  These  are  the  testimonies  of 
only  a  few  of  those  who  knew  and 
followed  him. 

Doubting  Thomases 

There  are  many,  many  in  the  world 
today,  however,  who  find  it  hard  to 
believe  that  there  was  a  literal  resur- 
rection, and  though  the  testimonies 
and  evidences  before  them  are  irrefut- 
able, it  is  difficult  for  them  to  believe 
because  they  do  not  understand  just 
how  it  could  take  place.  It  leaves 
them  as  Thomas — doubting,  because 
they  have  not  seen. 

We  all  know  that  there  are  many, 
many  things  in  science  which  we  do 
not  understand,  but  which  we  must 
and  do  accept.  Where  would  we  be  if 
the  laws  of  nature  and  the  laws  of 
God  were  limited  to  man's  understand- 
ing? We  have  been  admonished: 
"Trust  in  the  Lord  with  all  thine 
heart;  and  lean  not  unto  thine  own 
understanding."  (Prov.  3:5.) 

Acceptance  on  Faith 

How  much  wiser  we  would  be  to 
accept  the  word  of  the  Lord,  the  Cre- 
ator of  the  world,  and  his  teachings, 
and  prepare  ourselves  for  immortality 
and  eternal  life  through  accepting  by 
faith  those  things  we  cannot  under- 
stand. Our  faith  should  be  strength- 
ened by  the  testimonies  of  all  those 
who  saw  and  talked  with  Christ,  both 
in  Jerusalem  and  here  on  the  American 
continent. 


120  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  6 

How  can  anyone  believe  that  these 
stories  were  concocted  or  are  figments 
of  the  imagination,  when  there  were 
so  many  predictions  and  testimonies 
of  the  prophets  and  others,  living  in 
different  lands  and  at  different  times, 
all  testifying  and  telling  the  same 
story  about  the  same  individual?  The 
stories  have  to  be  true.  What  comfort 
and  joy  and  security  it  gives  to  those 
who  believe  what  Christ  and  his 
prophets  have  told  us  about  death  and 
the  resurrection. 

Immortality  and  eternal  life 

Christ  said  of  his  mission  here  upon 
the  earth:  ".  .  .  this  is  my  work  and 
my  glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  im- 
mortality and  eternal  life  of  man." 
(Moses  1:39.)  He  further  stated: 

"I  am  the  resurrection,  and  the  life: 
he  that  believeth  in  me,  though  he 
were  dead,  yet  shall  he  live: 

"And  whosoever  liveth  and  believeth 
in  me  shall  never  die.  .  .  ."  (John 
11:25-26.) 

He  also  said: 

"Marvel  not  at  this:  for  the  hour 
is  coming,  in  the  which  all  that  are 
in  the  graves  shall  hear  his  voice, 

"And  shall  come  forth;  they  that 
have  done  good,  unto  the  resurrection 
of  life;  and  they  that  have  done  evil, 
unto  the  resurrection  of  damnation." 
(John  5:28-29.) 

The  time  is  fast  approaching  when 
death  and  the  resurrection  will  come 
to  every  one  of  us.  What  must  we  do 
to  come  forth  unto  the  resurrection  of 
life  and  not  to  the  resurrection  of 
damnation?  How  do  we  take  upon  us 
his  name?  What  do  we  do  to  come 
unto  the  Father  by  him?  His  answer 
was  clear  and  simple:  Repent  and  be 
baptized  and  believe  the  gospel,  and 
"If  ye  love  me,  keep  my  command- 
ments." (John  14:15.) 


Third  Day 

Good  news  of  gospel 

What  is  the  gospel?  It  is  the  good 
news  which  the  Savior  brought  and 
which  he  taught  during  his  ministry. 
His  gospel  has  been  restored  and  is 
being  taught  today  in  his  Church  by 
those  who  have  been  called,  just  as  he 
called  his  disciples,  to  go  throughout 
the  world  and  proclaim  his  message 
of  peace  and  goodwill  toward  all  men. 

Every  living  soul  should  be  earnestly 
striving  to  learn  the  teachings  of  the 
gospel  and  how  to  live  them,  thus 
making  it  possible  to  gain  immortality 
and  eternal  life.  May  we  accept  these 
truths,  follow  his  teachings,  and  enjoy 
the  blessings  of  the  faithful. 

It  is  my  testimony  that  he  lives,  and 
that  his  Church  is  upon  the  earth  to- 
day, and  is  being  directed  through  his 
chosen  Prophet;  that  the  prophecies  of 
the  scriptures  will  all  be  fulfilled,  and 
that,  as  we  are  told,  ".  .  .  this  same 
Jesus,  which  is  taken  up  from  you  into 
heaven,  shall  so  come  in  like  man- 
ner as  ye  have  seen  him  go  into 
heaven."  (Acts  1:11.) 

May  we  prepare  ourselves  to  meet 
him  when  he  comes  again,  and  prove 
ourselves  worthy  to  dwell  with  him 
forever  when  we  have  finished  our 
work  upon  the  earth,  I  humbly  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

The  inspiring  address  and  testimony 
to  which  we  have  just  listened  was 
given  by  President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 
of  the  First  Presidency. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing 
"Surely  He  Hath  Borne  Our  Griefs." 
After  the  singing  President  Joseph 
Fielding  Smith  of  the  First  Presidency 
of  the  Church  will  address  us. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang,  "Surely 
He  Hath  Borne  Our  Griefs." 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


121 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  First  Presidency  and  President 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters:  Here 
we  are  at  another  general  conference. 
I  am  sure  we  are  all  very  happy  that 
we  can  attend,  and  we  welcome  all 
those  who  are  listening  in.  I  hope  and 
pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  me  in 
what  I  may  say. 

The  thief  of  eternal  life 

Procrastination,  as  it  may  be  applied 
to  gospel  principles,  is  the  thief  of 
eternal  life,  which  is  life  in  the  pres- 
ence of  the  Father  and  the  Son.  There 
are  many  among  us,  even  members  of 
the  Church,  who  feel  that  there  is  no 
need  for  haste  in  the  observance 
of  gospel  principles  and  the  keeping  of 
the  commandments. 

Nephi  wrote  of  the  people  of  the 
last  days:  "Yea,  and  there  shall  be 
many  which  shall  say:  Eat,  drink, 
and  be  merry,  for  tomorrow  we  die; 
and  it  shall  be  well  with  us. 

"And  there  shall  also  be  many  which 
shall  say:  Eat,  drink,  and  be  merry; 
nevertheless,  fear  God — he  will  justify 
in  committing  a  little  sin;  yea,  lie  a 
little,  take  the  advantage  of  one  be- 
cause of  his  words,  dig  a  pit  for  thy 
neighbor;  there  is  no  harm  in  this;  and 
do  all  these  things,  for  tomorrow  we 
die;  and  if  it  so  be  that  we  are  guilty, 
God  will  beat  us  with  a  few  stripes, 
and  at  last  we  shall  be  saved  in  the 
kingdom  of  God."  (2  Ne.  28:7-8.) 

Do  not  think  that  this  was  said  of 
the  world,  or  even  the  "stranger  .  .  . 
within  our  gates."  (See  Exod.  20:10.) 
It  is  said  of  members  of  the  Church. 
Moreover,  Nephi  warns  us  that  in  the 
last  days  there  will  be  many  who  will 
follow  Satan.  I  could  go  on  and  read 
more  from  Second  Nephi,  but  I  am 
going  to  give  you  the  chapter  and  verse 
so  when  you  go  home,  get  out  your 
Book  of  Mormon  and  read  Second 
Nephi,  Chapter  28,  verses  20-29. 

We  are  living  in  the  last  days.  Have 
we  not  heard  individuals  talk  as 
Nephi  said  they  would?  Are  there  not 
many  who  excuse  themselves  and  lull 
themselves  to  sleep  in  "carnal  security," 


thinking  that  the  Lord  will  overlook 
their  little  sins?  Are  there  not  those 
among  us  who  are  denying  the  power 
of  the  devil,  and  who  deny  that  there 
is  a  devil?  Do  they  not  "spiritualize" 
the  torments  of  hell  and  say  there  is 
no  hell?  Have  you  not  heard  these 
things  taught?  In  this  manner,  Satan 
is  raging  in  the  hearts  of  the  people, 
and  members  of  the  Church  do  not 
entirely  escape  his  cunning  sophistries! 

Restitution  must  be  made 

Bad  habits  are  easily  formed,  but 
not  so  easily  broken.  Are  we  yielding 
to  our  evil  habits,  thinking  they  are 
only  trifles  after  all,  and  we  will  get 
rid  of  them  in  the  grave?  Do  we  expect 
that  our  bodies  will  be  cleansed  in  the 
grave,  and  we  shall  come  forth  with 
perfect  and  sanctified  bodies  in  the 
resurrection?  There  are  some  among  us 
who  teach  such  things  and  excuse 
themselves  for  their  practices,  saying 
that  they  will  be  cleansed  in  the  grave. 

Alma  taught  a  very  different  doc- 
trine. He  said  to  Corianton:  "Do  not 
suppose,  because  it  has  been  spoken 
concerning  restoration,  that  ye  shall 
be  restored  from  sin  to  happiness.  Be- 
hold, I  say  unto  you,  wickedness  never 
was  happiness.  .  .  . 

"For  that  which  ye  do  send  out  shall 
return  unto  you  again,  and  be  restored; 
therefore,  the  word  restoration  more 
fully  condemneth  the  sinner,  and 
justifieth  him  not  at  all."  (Al.  41:10, 
15.) 

The  Savior  also  said,  ".  .  .  with  what 
measure  ye  mete,  it  shall  be  measured 
to  you  again."  (Matt.  7:2.)  Some  think 
that  a  little  punishment  will  not  be  so 
bad,  and  they  are  willing  to  take  a 
chance  and  suffer  for  their  offenses 
rather  than  keep  the  commandments 
of  the  Lord,  as  we  are  instructed.  If 
they  are  able  to  escape  with  a  "few 
stripes,"  they  may  consider  themselves 
fortunate.  But  let  us  remember  that 
sin  must  be  atoned  for.  Restitution 
must  be  made;  we  will  have  to  pay  the 
price  if  we  refuse  to  repent  and  to 


122  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  6 

receive  the  blessings  of  the  gospel. 

Punishment  is  not  easy  to  bear,  espe- 
cially when  the  conscience  is  troubled. 
Who  could  be  happy  in  suffering,  and 
all  the  while  be  thinking  that  the 
suffering  had  come  because  of  a  willful, 
or  persistent,  breaking  of  the  command- 
ments of  God,  when  knowledge  and 
counsel  had  been  given  to  walk  in 
righteousness?  What  will  the  sinner 
think  in  that  day  when  he  has  learned 
repentance  for  willful  rebellion,  and 
realizes  that  the  great  suffering  of  our 
Lord  in  love  made  it  unnecessary  for 
him  so  to  suffer  if  he  had  accepted 
Christ  and  his  work? 

Three  kingdoms  prepared 

Our  Eternal  Father  has  prepared 
three  great  kingdoms  into  which  the 
souls  of  men  will  go.  It  is  not  the  pur- 
pose here  to  discuss  these  kingdoms.  In 
passing,  it  is  only  necessary  to  say  that 
in  the  telestial  will  go  all  those  who 
have  not  been  true:  those  who  have 
professed  and  who  have  not  performed 
(D&G  41:1);  the  liars,  sorcerers,  adul- 
terers, and  all  who  refuse  to  walk  in 
ways  of  truth.  Into  the  terrestrial  will 
go  all  those  who  are  honorable,  who 
have  been  morally  clean,  but  who 
would  not  receive  the  gospel;  also  those 
who  die  without  law. 

To  enter  the  celestial  and  obtain 
exaltation,  it  is  necessary  that  the 
whole  law  be  kept.  The  word  of  the 
Lord  is  as  follows: 

"Therefore,  it  must  needs  be  sancti- 
fied from  all  unrighteousness,  that  it 
may  be  prepared  for  the  celestial 
glory.  .  .  . 

"And  they  who  are  not  sanctified 
through  the  law  which  I  have  given 
unto  you,  even  the  law  of  Christ,  must 
inherit  another  kingdom,  even  that  of 
a  terrestrial  kingdom,  or  that  of  a  teles- 
tial kingdom."  (D&C  88:18,  21.) 

To  become  sanctified,  there  are  cer- 
tain definite  covenants  we  must  keep 
in  faithfulness,  living  by  "every  word 
that  proceedeth  forth  from  the  mouth 
of  God."  (D&C  84:44.)  "They  are  they 
who  received  the  testimony  of  Jesus, 
and  believed  on  his  name  and  were 
baptized  after  the  manner  of  his 
burial,  .  .  . 


Third  Day 

"That  by  keeping  the  commandments 
they  might  be  washed  and  cleansed 
from  all  their  sins,  and  receive  the 
Holy  Spirit  by  the  laying  on  of  the 
hands  of  him  who  is  ordained  and 
sealed  unto  this  power; 

"And  who  overcome  by  faith,  and 
are  sealed  by  the  Holy  Spirit  of  prom- 
ise, which  the  Father  sheds  forth  upon 
all  those  who  are  just  and  true."  (D&C 
76:51-53;  see  also  verses  54-60.)  And 
they  who  are  not  sealed  by  the  Holy 
Spirit  of  promise  and  who  are  not  just 
and  true  need  not  expect  these  great 
blessings. 

f 

Seek  the  Lord  early 

No  person  can  begin  too  early  to 
serve  the  Lord.  Parents  are  instructed 
to  teach  their  children  from  infancy, 
with  the  warning  that  they  will  be 
held  accountable  if  they  fail  to  do  so. 
If  a  child  is  taught  in  righteousness 
from  birth,  it  will  most  likely  be  a 
follower  of  righteousness  always.  They 
who  refuse  to  seek  the  Lord  early  are 
forsaken  in  the  hour  of  their  trouble. 
Read  the  history  of  Israel,  of  the 
Nephites.  How  often  when  they  re- 
belled were  they  punished!  How  slow 
was  the  Lord  to  hear  their  cries  when 
trouble  came  upon  them  because  of 
their  sins  I 

"They  were  slow  to  hearken  unto 
the  voice  of  the  Lord  their  God;  there- 
fore, the  Lord  their  God  is  slow  to 
hearken  unto  their  prayers,  to  answer 
them  in  the  day  of  their  trouble." 
(D&C  101:7.)  So  spake  the  Lord  to 
modern  Israel. 

Obligation  to  keep  commandments 

Do  you  desire  to  enter  into  the 
celestial  kingdom  and  receive  eternal 
life?  Then  be  willing  to  keep  all  of 
the  commandments  the  Lord  may  give 
you.  Baptism  and  confirmation  are 
the  ordinances  by  which  we  come  into 
the  kingdom  of  God.  But  these  ordi- 
nances of  themselves  will  not  grant 
us  a  place  of  exaltation. 

Each  person  baptized  into  the 
Church  is  under  obligation  to  keep  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord.  He  is 
under  covenant,  for  baptism  is  a  "new 
and  an  everlasting  covenant."  (D&C 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


123 


22:1.)  When  he  has  proved  himself 
by  a  worthy  life,  having  been  faithful 
in  all  things  required  of  him,  then 
it  is  his  privilege  to  receive  other  cove- 
nants and  to  take  upon  himself  other 
obligations  that  will  make  of  him  an 
heir,  and  he  will  become  a  member  of 
the  "Church  of  the  Firstborn."  "They 
are  they  into  whose  hands  the  Father 
has  given  all  things."  He  will  receive 
of  the  Father's  fullness  and  of  his  glory. 
Is  this  worth  having?  It  cannot  be  ob- 
tained without  some  effort. 

We  frequently  hear  quoted  these 
words  of  the  Lord  to  Joseph  Smith:  "It 
is  impossible  for  a  man  to  be  saved  in 
ignorance."  (D&C  131:6.)  In  ignorance 
of  what?  The  philosophies  of  the 
world?  No!  In  ignorance  of  the  gospel 
truths — the  saving  principles  and 
ordinances  by  which  salvation  comes! 
These  must  not  only  be  understood, 
but  they  must  be  lived.  Knowledge  of 
them  will  not  in  itself  save  us.  Obedi- 
ence thereto  will.  And  then  will  come 
the  fullness  of  knowledge,  bringing 
with  it  wisdom,  power,  and  dominion. 
And  the  fullness  of  these  blessings  can 
only  be  obtained  in  the  temple  of  the 
Lord. 

The  time  to  prepare 

We  are  told  that  the  fear  (love) 
of  the  Lord  is  the  beginning  of  knowl- 
edge, but  fools  despise  wisdom  and 
instruction. 

"Also,  I  give  unto  you  a  command- 
ment that  ye  shall  continue  in  prayer 
and  fasting  from  this  time  forth. 

"And  I  give  unto  you  a  command- 
ment that  you  shall  teach  one  another 
the  doctrine  of  the  kingdom."  (D&C 
88:76-77.) 

Do  not  let  us  forget  the  words  of 
Alma:  "For  behold,  this  life  is  the  time 
for  men  to  prepare  to  meet  God;  yea, 
behold  the  day  of  this  life  is  the  day 
for  men  to  perform  their  labors. 

"And  now,  as  I  said  unto  you  before, 
as  ye  have  had  so  many  witnesses, 
therefore,  I  beseech  of  you  that  ye  do 
not  procrastinate  the  day  of  your  re- 
pentance until  the  end;  for  after  this 
day  of  life,  which  is  given  us  to  pre- 
pare for  eternity,  behold,  if  we  do  not 
improve  our  time  while  in  this  life, 


then  cometh  the  night  of  darkness 
wherein  there  can  be  no  labor  per- 
formed. 

"Ye  cannot  say,  when  ye  are  brought 
to  that  awful  crisis,  that  I  will  repent, 
that  I  will  return  to  my  God.  Nay, 
ye  cannot  say  this;  for  that  same  spirit 
which  doth  possess  your  bodies  at  the 
time  that  ye  go  out  of  this  life,  that 
same  spirit  will  have  power  to  possess 
your  body  in  that  eternal  world."  (Al. 
34:32-34.) 

Diligence  in  seeking 

The  Lord  is  always  merciful  and 
kind.  If  we  draw  near  unto  him,  he 
will  draw  near  unto  us.  ".  .  .  seek  me 
diligently  and  ye  shall  find  me;  ask, 
and  ye  shall  receive;  knock,  and  it 
shall  be  opened  unto  you."  (D&C 
88:63.) 

Our  chief  trouble  is  that  we  do  not 
seek  diligently.  Our  seeking  is  super- 
ficial; we  seem  to  think  the  Lord  is 
bound  to  hear  us  without  our  putting 
forth  much  effort.  Let  diligence  and 
love  be  our  guides,  and  we  shall  find 
the  path  of  eternal  life. 

May  we  all  heed  these  warnings,  I 
humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  of 
the  First  Presidency  has  just  addressed 
us. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  will 
now  join  in  singing  "God  Moves  in  a 
Mysterious  Way,"  following  which  we 
shall  have  a  brief  interlude  with  music 
by  the  Choir. 


The  choir  and  congregation  joined 
in  singing  the  hymn,  "God  Moves  in  a 
Mysterious  Way." 

Following  an  organ  interlude,  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  song,  "Lord 
Jesus,  Thy  Dear  Angels  Send." 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

For  the  benefit  of  the  television  and 
radio  audience  we  announce  that  we 
are  again  met  on  Temple  Square  in 


124  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  6  Third  Day 

Salt  Lake  City  in  an  annual  conference  We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  A. 
of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat-  Theodore  Tuttle  of  the  First  Council 
ter-day  Saints.  of  Seventy. 


ELDER  A.  THEODORE  TUTTLE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters: 
You  may  have  experienced  traveling 
through  a  canyon  on  a  narrow  moun- 
tain road  during  a  storm.  Cloudy,  foggy 
conditions,  with  rain  blowing  hard 
against  the  windshield,  make  driving 
perilous  at  best.  Suddenly  the  wind- 
shield wipers  lose  their  synchronization 
and  begin  to  fight  one  another.  Only 
momentarily  can  they  clear  the  wind- 
shield. The  person  with  you  is  no 
help.  He  can  likewise  see  only 
sideways. 

Now,  while  this  is  not  like  losing  the 
motor  or  a  wheel,  you  are  obviously  in 
serious  trouble.  You  have  either  to 
stop  and  wait  for  the  fury  of  the  storm 
to  cease  or  to  proceed  on  a  perilous 
mountain  road  in  extreme  danger — be- 
cause you  cannot  see  clearly. 

Conditions  in  the  world 

The  whole  world  is  in  such  a  storm. 
Dark  clouds  hover  all  around.  Inter- 
national turmoil,  domestic  social  con- 
ditions, and  the  usual  family  problems, 
all  seemed  solvable  before.  Now,  in 
the  fury  of  our  times,  they  close  in 
upon  us  and  threaten  our  safe  journey. 
Present  conditions  make  it  impossible 
to  see  the  way  clearly. 

However,  unlike  driving,  we  have 
not  the  alternative  to  stop  living  and 
wait  for  the  storm  clouds  to  lift.  We 
must  face  life's  tempest.  Robert  Frost 
spoke  a  truth  when  he  said,  "The  only 
way  out  is  through." 

Crime  is  soaring.  Disobedience  and 
lawlessness  increase.  Modesty  is  dis- 
appearing. Drunkenness  and  immoral- 
ity run  rampant.  The  forces  of  evil 
with  sinister  intent  strike  directly  at 
the  very  vitals  of  society — the  home 
and  our  children.  Values  are  distorted. 
Debauchery  and  evil  mock  virtue. 
Hardly  anything  is  now  sacred.  The 
world  lieth  in  sin. 


Courage  to  face  problems 

You  may  be  surprised  to  learn  that 
even  admitting  all  of  this,  I  have  a 
calm  assurance  in  my  soul.  All  is  not, 
nor  will  it  be,  lost.  This  peace  that 
speaks  to  my  heart  has  not  removed 
life's  problems,  but  it  gives  courage 
to  face  them. 

May  I  share  with  you  some  of  the 
things  that  I  know  that  give  me  posi- 
tive assurance: 

I  know  that  Jesus  was  bom  of  Mary; 
that  he  grew  to  manhood  as  "the  car- 
penter's son";  that  he  did  his  Father's 
will  while  he  walked  the  earth. 

I  know  that  he  taught  men  the  right 
way  to  live;  and  more,  that  he  lived  a 
perfect  life,  that  he  was  the  example 
of  all  that  he  taught. 

I  know  that  he  took  upon  himself 
the  sins  of  all  men  and  wrought  an 
atonement  for  them  that  we  can  claim 
by  obedience  to  his  laws. 

He  was  taken  and  crucified  on 
Calvary's  hill. 

He  died  that  we  might  live. 

I  know  that  he  broke  the  bonds  of 
death,  rose  from  the  grave  the  third 
day,  and  appeared  unto  many. 

God  lives  today 

I  know  that  he  lives  today. 

There  is  other  knowledge  equally 
important.  I  testify  that  God  the 
Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  in  the 
year  1820,  appeared  to  a  young  man, 
Joseph  Smith.  Regarding  this  marvelous 
manifestation  Joseph  Smith  wrote: 

"...  I  saw  a  pillar  of  light  exactly 
over  my  head,  above  the  brightness 
of  the  sun,  which  descended  gradually 
until  it  fell  upon  me. 

"It  no  sooner  appeared  than  I  found 
myself  delivered  from  the  enemy  which 
held  me  bound.  When  the  light  rested 
upon  me  I  saw  two  Personages,  whose 


PRESIDENT  A.  THEODORE  TUTTLE 


125 


brightness  and  glory  defy  all  descrip- 
tion, standing  above  me  in  the  air. 
One  of  them  spake  unto  me,  calling 
me  by  name  and  said,  pointing  to  the 
other — [Joseph,]  This  is  My  Beloved 
Son.  Hear  Him!"  (Joseph  Smith  2:16- 
17.) 

On  another  occasion,  in  1832,  Sid- 
ney Rigdon  was  with  the  Prophet 
Joseph.  Together  they  received  a  heav- 
enly manifestation  recorded  thus: 

"And  now,  after  the  many  testi- 
monies which  have  been  given  of  him, 
this  is  the  testimony,  last  of  all,  which 
we  give  of  him:  That  he  lives  I 

"For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right 
hand  of  God;  and  we  heard  the  voice 
bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only 
Begotten  of  the  Father."  (D&C  76:22- 
23.) 

On  yet  another  occasion  in  1836, 
Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery,  after 
arising  from  solemn  and  silent  prayer, 
explained:  ".  .  .  the  following  vision 
was  opened  to  both  of  us."  (Introduc- 
tion to  Section  110.) 

"The  veil  was  taken  from  our  minds, 
and  the  eyes  of  our  understanding  were 
opened. 

"We  saw  the  Lord  standing  upon 
the  breastwork  of  the  pulpit,  before  us; 
and  under  his  feet  was  a  paved  work 
of  pure  gold,  in  color  like  amber. 

"His  eyes  were  as  a  flame  of  fire; 
the  hair  of  his  head  was  white  like 
the  pure  snow;  his  countenance  shone 
above  the  brightness  of  the  sun;  and  his 
voice  was  as  the  sound  of  the  rushing 
of  great  waters,  even  the  voice  of  Je- 
hovah, saying: 

"I  am  the  first  and  the  last;  I  am 
he  who  liveth,  I  am  he  who  was  slain; 
I  am  your  advocate  with  the  Father." 
(D&C  110:1-4.  Italics  added.) 

I  know  these  things  are  true.  The 
significant  thing,  however,  is  that  you 
also  can  know  for  yourself!  You  can 
know  by  following  the  prescribed 
process — adherence  to  the  gospel  princi- 
ples that  the  Savior  taught. 

Testimony  brings  confidence 

Let  me  tell  you  what  this  testimony 
and  knowledge  means.  It  brings  peace 
and  confidence  and  calm  assurance.  It 
stimulates  right  conduct.  It  fosters 
repentance  from  sin.   This  assurance 


does  not  mean  inactivity;  rather,  it 
generates  positive  action.  It  motivates 
Christian  acts  of  kindness.  It  opens 
channels  to  heavenly  power. 

Do  you  realize  that  the  power  of 
God  is  available  in  this  Church  today 
as  it  was  with  the  apostles  of  old? 

In  the  midst  of  the  turmoil  we  pres- 
ently face,  how  would  you  like  to  have 
someone  take  you  by  the  hand  as  it 
were  and  lift  you  up  and  guide  you? 
How  would  you  like  to  hear  a  prophet's 
voice  give  continued  heaven-inspired 
guidance?  How  would  you  like  to  be- 
long to  a  divinely  organized  church 
that  provides  a  family-oriented  program 
to  help  you  teach  your  family  correctly? 
Where  is  a  family  that  could  not  use 
this  kind  of  assistance  today? 

It  ought  to  mean  something  to  you 
that  while  many  other  churches  are 
closing  their  doors  for  lack  of  at- 
tendance, one  of  the  most  pressing 
problems  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  is  to  provide  suffi- 
cient meeting  halls  for  growth  and 
expansion.  This  church  invites  your 
investigation. 

Appeal  to  truthseekers 

The  unique  position  of  being  the 
restored  Church  appeals  to  people  of 
wisdom  and  reason — people  who  are 
seeking  for  the  truth.  This  church  has 
particular  appeal  to  men.  If  you  could 
see  this  congregation  here  this  morning, 
you  would  know  it  attracts  men — men 
of  capacity  and  stature  in  the  work  of 
the  world.  Here  are  husbands  and 
fathers  who  receive  guidance  from  this 
great  church  to  unify  and  bless  their 
homes. 

Here  are  men  who  come  to  listen 
to  a  prophet's  counsel.  They  seek  di- 
rection in  these  troubled  times  from  a 
seer.  A  seer  is  one  who  sees.  We  have 
not  been  disappointed.  The  prophet 
has  said: 

1.  Strengthen  the  home. 

2.  Youth,  keep  yourselves  pure  and 
virtuous.  Intelligent  home  building 
begins  in  your  teens.  It  is  the  chief 
factor  to  a  happy  home. 

3.  Marriage  is  ordained  of  God. 
Guard  the  sacredness  of  your  marriage 
vow. 

4.  Marriage  is  a  sacred  obligation 


126  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  5 

and  a  covenant  that  is  eternal  or  that 
may  be  made  eternal.  The  bearing 
and  rearing  of  children  is  the  highest 
of  all  human  duties. 

"Where  there  is  no  vision,  the  people 
perish."  (Prov.  29:18.)  We  have  been 
given  the  vision.  We  have  been  in- 
structed. 

Preparation  dispels  fear 

Speaking  of  the  great  tribulations  to 
come  in  the  latter  days,  the  Lord  gave 
this  assurance:  ".  .  .  my  people  will  I 
preserve."  (Moses  7:61.  Italics  added.) 

Later  he  counseled:  ".  .  .  if  ye  are 
prepared  ye  shall  not  fear."  (D&G 
38:30.) 

And  again  he  has  promised:  "But 
learn  that  he  who  doeth  the  works  of 
righteousness  shall  receive  his  reward, 
even  peace  in  this  world,  and  eternal 
life  in  the  world  to  come."  (D&C 
59:23.)  I  believe  in  that  promise. 

I  am  grateful  to  be  a  member  of  the 
Church  of  which  the  Lord  by  his  own 
voice  has  declared:  ".  .  .  the  only  true 


Third  Day 

and  living  church  upon  the  face  of  the 
whole  earth,  with  which  I,  the  Lord, 

am  well  pleased  "  (D&C  1:30.) 

As  a  member  of  this  church  I  have 
full  confidence  in  "the  prophecies  and 
promises  which  .  .  .  [the  Lord  has 
said]  shall  all  be  fulfilled."  (D&C 
1:37.) 

I  know  that  if  we  will  follow  the 
counsel  from  these  brethren,  we  can 
be  prepared,  and  we  need  not  fear.  We 
can  make  our  way  along  the  road  of 
life  safely. 

And  I  know  that  by  doing  the  works 
of  righteousness,  we  can  all  have  peace 
in  this  world  and  eternal  life  in  the 
world  to  come.  In  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Elder  A.  Theodore  Tuttle  has  just 
addressed  us. 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder 
Thomas  S.  Monson  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve. 


ELDER  THOMAS  S.  MONSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


The  vast  throng  assembled  in  the 
Tabernacle  this  Easter  morning  is  a 
beautiful  sight.  I  recognize  among  you 
those  who  have  traveled  great  dis- 
tances to  be  at  the  conference — even 
from  far-off  Australia. 

The  flight  from  Brisbane,  Australia, 
to  San  Francisco  is  a  long  one.  There 
is  time  to  read,  time  to  sleep,  and  time 
to  ponder  and  think.  As  a  passenger 
on  this  flight,  I  was  awakened  by  the 
calm,  resonant  sound  of  the  pilot's 
voice  as  he  announced:  "Ladies  and 
gentlemen,  we're  now  passing  over  the 
Coral  Sea,  scene  of  the  great  sea  battle 
of  World  War  II." 

Through  the  cabin  window  I  could 
see  billowy  white  clouds,  and  far  be- 
low, the  azure  blue  of  the  vast  Pacific. 
My  thoughts  turned  to  the  events  of 
that  fateful  eighth  day  of  May  in  1942 
when  the  mammoth  aircraft  carrier 
Lexington  slipped  to  its  final  resting 
place  on  the  ocean  floor.  Twenty-seven 


hundred  and  thirty-five  sailors  scram- 
bled to  safety.  Others  were  not  so 
fortunate.  One  who  went  down  with 
his  ship  was  my  boyhood  friend, 
Arthur  Patton. 

Story  of  Arthur  Patton 

May  I  tell  you  about  Arthur?  He  had 
blond,  curly  hair  and  a  smile  as  big  as 
all  outdoors.  Arthur  stood  taller  than 
any  boy  in  the  class.  I  suppose  this  is 
how  he  was  able  to  fool  the  recruiting 
officers  and  enlist  in  the  Navy  at  the 
tender  age  of  15.  To  Arthur  and  most 
of  the  boys,  the  war  was  a  great  ad- 
venture. I  remember  how  striking  he 
appeared  in  his  navy  uniform.  How 
we  wished  we  were  older,  or  at  least 
taller,  so  we  too  could  enlist. 

Youth  is  a  very  special  time  of  life. 
As  Longfellow  wrote: 

"How  beautiful  is  youth!  How  bright 
it  gleams 


ELDER  THOM 

With    its    illusions,  aspirations, 
dreams  I 

Book  of  Beginnings,  Story  without  End, 
Each  maid  a  heroine,  and  each  man 

a  friend!" 
Henry    Wadsworth  Longfellow — 

"Moritus  Salutamus") 

Arthur's  mother  was  so  proud  of  the 
blue  star  that  graced  her  living  room 
window.  It  represented  to  every  passer- 
by that  her  son  wore  the  uniform  of 
his  country.  When  I  would  pass  the 
house,  she  often  opened  the  door  and 
invited  me  in  to  read  the  latest  letter 
from  Arthur.  Her  eyes  would  fill  with 
tears,  and  I  would  then  be  asked  to 
read  aloud.  Arthur  meant  everything 
to  his  widowed  mother.  I  can  still 
picture  Mrs.  Patton's  coarse  hands  as 
she  would  carefully  replace  the  letter 
in  its  envelope.  These  were  honest 
hands  that  bore  the  worker's  seal.  Mrs. 
Patton  was  a  cleaning  woman — a  jani- 
tress  for  a  downtown  office  building. 
Each  day  of  her  life  except  Sundays, 
she  could  be  seen  walking  up  the  side- 
walk, pail  and  brush  in  hand,  her  gray 
hair  combed  in  a  tight  bob,  her 
shoulders  weary  from  work  and  stooped 
with  age. 

Then  came  the  Battle  of  the  Coral 
Sea,  the  sinking  of  the  Lexington,  and 
the  death  of  Arthur  Patton.  The  blue 
star  was  taken  from  its  hallowed  spot 
in  the  front  window.  It  was  replaced 
by  one  of  gold.  A  light  went  out  in  the 
life  of  Mrs.  Patton.  She  groped  in  utter 
darkness  and  deep  despair. 

Will  Arthur  live  again? 

With  a  prayer  in  my  heart,  I  ap- 
proached the  familiar  walkway  to  the 
Patton  home,  wondering  what  words 
of  comfort  could  come  from  the  lips  of 
a  mere  boy. 

The  door  opened,  and  Mrs.  Patton 
embraced  me  as  she  would  her  own 
son.  Home  became  a  chapel,  as  a 
grief-stricken  mother  and  a  less-than- 
adequate  boy  knelt  in  prayer. 

Arising  from  our  knees,  Mrs.  Patton 
gazed  into  my  eyes  and  spoke:  "Tom,  I 
belong  to  no  church,  but  you  do.  Tell 
me,  will  Arthur  live  again?" 

Time  dims  the  memory  of  that  con- 
versation. The  present  whereabouts  of 
Mrs.  Patton  is  not  known  to  me;  but, 


S  S.  MONSON  127 

Mrs.  Patton,  wherever  you  are,  from 
the  backdrop  of  my  personal  experience, 
I  should  like  to  once  more  answer  your 
question,  "Will  Arthur  live  again?" 

I  suppose  we  could  say  that  this  is  a 
universal  question,  for  who  has  not  at  a 
time  of  bereavement  pondered  the  same 
thought? 

Death  leaves  in  its  cruel  wake 
shattered  dreams,  unfulfilled  ambi- 
tions, crushed  hopes.  In  our  helpless- 
ness, we  turn  to  others  for  assurance. 
Men  of  letters  and  leaders  of  renown 
can  express  their  beliefs,  but  they  can- 
not provide  definitive  answers. 

The  dim  light  of  belief  must  yield  to 
the  noonday  sun  of  revelation.  We 
turn  backward  in  time,  that  we  might 
go  forward  with  hope.  Back,  back  be- 
yond the  silent  generation,  the  beat 
generation,  the  lost  generation.  Back, 
back  beyond  the  Space  Age,  the  Com- 
puter Age,  the  Industrial  Age.  Back, 
back  to  him  who  walked  the  dusty 
paths  of  villages  we  now  reverently 
call  the  Holy  Land,  to  him  who  caused 
the  blind  to  see,  the  deaf  to  hear,  the 
lame  to  walk,  and  the  dead  to  live,  to 
him  who  tenderly  and  lovingly  as- 
sured us,  "I  am  the  way,  the  truth, 
and  the  life."  (John  14:6.) 

The  plan  of  life 

The  plan  of  life  and  an  explanation 
of  its  eternal  course  come  to  us  from 
the  Master  of  heaven  and  earth,  even 
Jesus  Christ  the  Lord.  To  understand 
the  meaning  of  death,  we  must  appre- 
ciate the  purpose  of  life. 

In  this  dispensation,  the  Lord  de- 
clared: "And  now,  verily  I  say  unto 
you,  I  was  in  the  beginning  with  the 
Father  and  am  the  Firstborn."  (D&C 
93:21.)  "Man  was  also  in  the  begin- 
ning with  God."  (D&C  93:29.) 
Jeremiah  the  prophet  recorded,  ".  .  . 
the  word  of  the  Lord  came  unto  me, 
saying,  Before  I  formed  thee  ...  I  knew 
thee;  and  before  thou  earnest  forth  .  .  . 
I  sanctified  thee,  and  I  ordained  thee  a 
prophet  unto  the  nations."  (Jer.  1 :4-5.) 

From  that  majestic  world  of  spirits 
we  enter  the  grand  stage  of  life  even  to 
prove  ourselves  obedient  to  all  things 
commanded  of  God.  During  mortality 
we  grow  from  helpless  infancy  to  in- 
quiring childhood  and  then  to  reflec- 


128  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  6 

tive  maturity.  We  experience  joy  and 
sorrow,  fulfillment  and  disappoint- 
ment, success  and  failure;  taste  the 
sweet,  yet  sample  the  bitter.  This  is 
mortality. 

The  experience  known  as  death 

Then  to  each  life  comes  the  experi- 
ence known  as  death.  None  is  exempt. 
All  must  pass  its  portals.  Death  claims 
the  aged,  the  weary  and  worn.  It  visits 
the  youth  in  the  bloom  of  hope  and 
glory  of  expectation.  Nor  are  the  little 
children  kept  beyond  its  grasp.  In  the 
words  of  the  apostle  Paul:  ".  .  .  it  is 
appointed  unto  men  once  to  die.  .  .  ." 
(Heb.  9:27.) 

To  most,  there  is  something  sinister 
and  mysterious  about  this  unwelcome 
visitor  called  death.  Perhaps  it  is  a 
fear  of  the  unknown  that  causes  many 
to  dread  his  coming. 

Arthur  Patton  died  quickly.  Others 
linger.  Not  long  ago  I  held  the  thin 
hand  of  a  youth  as  he  approached  the 
brink  of  eternity.  "I  know  I  am  dying," 
he  said  touchingly.  "What  follows 
death?" 

I  turned  to  the  scriptures  and  read  to 
him: 

"Then  shall  the  dust  return  to  the 
earth  as  it  was:  and  the  spirit  shall 
return  unto  God  who  gave  it."  (Eccles. 
12:7.) 

".  .  .  there  is  a  time  appointed  unto 
men  that  they  shall  rise  from  the  dead; 
and  there  is  a  space  between  the  time 
of  death  and  the  resurrection.  .  .  . 

".  .  .  concerning  the  state  of  the  soul 
between  death  and  the  resurrection — 
Behold  ...  the  spirits  of  all  men,  as 
soon  as  they  are  departed  from  this 
mortal  body  ...  are  taken  home  to  that 
God  who  gave  them  life."  (Al.  40:9, 
11.) 

To  me,  the  lad  said,  "Thank  you." 
To  my  Heavenly  Father  I  said  silently, 
"Thank  thee,  oh  God,  for  truth." 

God's  purposes  to  be  fulfilled 

Mrs.  Patton,  do  not  grieve  as  you 
think  of  your  boy  in  the  depths  of  the 
Pacific  or  question  how  God's  pur- 
poses can  be  fulfilled.  Remember  the 
words  of  the  psalmist:  "If  I  take  the 
wings  of  the  morning,  and  dwell  in 


Third  Day 

the  uttermost  parts  of  the  sea; 

"Even  there  shall  thy  hand  lead  me, 
and  thy  right  hand  shall  hold  me." 
(Ps.  139:9-10.) 

God  has  not  forsaken  you,  Mrs.  Pat- 
ton. He  sent  his  Only  Begotten  Son 
into  the  world  to  teach  us  by  example 
the  life  we  should  live.  His  Son  died 
upon  the  cross  to  redeem  all  mankind. 
His  words  to  the  grieving  Martha  and 
to  his  disciples  today  bring  comfort  to 
you:  "...  I  am  the  resurrection,  and 
the  life:  he  that  believeth  in  me, 
though  he  were  dead,  yet  shall  he  live: 

"And  whosoever  liveth  and  believeth 
in  me  shall  never  die.  .  .  ."  (John 
11:25-26.) 

"In  my  Father's  house  are  many 
mansions:  if  it  were  not  so,  I  would 
have  told  you.  I  go  to  prepare  a  place 
for  you. 

"...  I  will  come  again,  and  receive 
you  unto  myself;  that  where  I  am, 
there  ye  may  be  also."  (John  14:2-3.) 

Mrs.  Patton,  the  testimonies  of  John 
the  revelator  and  Paul  the  apostle  are 
also  significant  to  you.  John  recorded: 
"...  I  saw  the  dead,  small  and  great, 
stand  before  God;  .  .  . 

"And  the  sea  gave  up  the  dead  which 
were  in  it."  (Rev.  20:12-13.) 

Paul  declared:  ".  .  .  as  in  Adam 
all  die,  even  so  in  Christ  shall  all  be 
made  alive."  (1  Cor.  15:22.) 

We  walk  by  faith 

Until  the  glorious  resurrection  morn- 
ing, we  walk  by  faith.  "For  now  we 
see  through  a  glass,  darkly;  but  then 
face  to  face  "  (1  Cor.  13:12.) 

Jesus  invites  you,  Mrs.  Patton,  "Come 
unto  me,  all  ye  that  labour  and  are 
heavy  laden,  and  I  will  give  you  rest. 

"Take  my  yoke  upon  you,  and  learn 
of  me;  for  I  am  meek  and  lowly  in 
heart:  and  ye  shall  find  rest  unto  your 
souls."  (Matt.  11:28-29.) 

Such  knowledge  will  sustain  you  in 
your  heartache.  You  will  never  be  in 
the  tragic  situation  of  the  disbeliever 
who,  having  lost  a  son,  was  heard  to 
say,  as  she  watched  the  casket  lowered 
into  mother  earth,  "Good-bye,  my  boy. 
Good-bye  forever."  Rather,  with  head 
erect,  courage  undaunted,  and  faith 
unwavering,  you  can  lift  your  eyes  as 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE  129 


you  look  beyond  the  gently  breaking 
waves  of  the  blue  Pacific  and  whisper, 
"Good-bye,  Arthur,  my  precious  son. 
Good-bye — until  we  meet  again." 

And  the  words  of  Tennyson  may 
come  to  you  as  though  spoken  by  your 
boy: 

"Sunset  and  evening  star, 

And  one  clear  call  for  me! 
And  may  there  be  no  moaning  of  the 
bar, 

When  I  put  out  to  sea.  .  .  . 

"Twilight  and  evening  bell, 

And  after  that  the  dark! 
And  may  there  be  no  sadness  of  fare- 
well, 

When  I  embark; 

"For  tho'  from  out  our  bourne  of  Time 
and  Place 
The  flood  may  bear  me  far, 
I  hope  to  see  my  Pilot  face  to  face 
When  I  have  crossed  the  bar." 

—"Crossing  the  Bar" 

Mrs.  Patton,  Arthur  lives! 

To  the  words  of  the  poet  I  add  the 


testimony  of  a  witness.  Mrs.  Patton, 
God  our  Father  is  mindful  of  you. 
Through  sincere  prayer  you  can  com- 
municate with  him.  He,  too,  had  a 
son  who  died,  even  Jesus  Christ  the 
Lord.  He  is  our  advocate  with  the 
Father,  the  Prince  of  Peace,  our  Savior 
and  Divine  Redeemer.  One  day  we 
shall  see  him  face  to  face. 

In  his  blessed  name  I  declare  to  you 
the  solemn  and  sacred  truth:  Oh,  Mrs. 
Patton,  Arthur  lives!  In  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  Thomas  S.  Monson  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now 
sing  "The  Lord's  Prayer."  After  the 
singing  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be  our 
concluding  speaker. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  num- 
ber, "The  Lord's  Prayer." 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


In  the  spirit  of  that  beautiful  hymn 
which  has  been  something  of  a  dedica- 
tion to  this  glorious  session,  I  seek  for 
the  spirit  which  has  actuated  this  con- 
ference thus  far. 

Today,  I  would  take  as  something 
of  a  text  the  words  of  our  Savior  and 
Redeemer  just  prior  to  his  betrayal,  as 
recorded  in  the  Gospel  of  John. 

"These  words  spake  Jesus,  and  lifted 
up  his  eyes  to  heaven,  and  said  .  .  . 
glorify  thy  Son,  that  thy  Son  also  may 
glorify  thee: 

"As  thou  hast  given  him  power  over 
all  flesh,  that  he  should  give  eternal 
life  to  as  many  as  thou  hast  given  him. 

"And  this  is  life  eternal,  that  they 
might  know  thee  the  only  true  God, 
and  Jesus  Christ,  whom  thou  hast 
sent."  (John  17:1-3.) 


Questions  recall  scriptures 

Some  questions  being  asked  today 
have  recalled  these  and  other  scriptures. 

One  man  asked:  How  can  one  find 
God? 

To  him  I  gave  a  hurried  answer.  One 
finds  God  in  the  same  way  he  finds 
anything — by  searching.  The  Master 
had  answered  to  a  similar  question: 
"If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall 
know  "  (John  7:17.) 

Another  man  wrote:  "If  a  member 
cannot  believe  the  concept  that  God 
himself  was  once  as  we  are  now,  and 
sits  enthroned  in  yonder  heavens,"  is 
this  justification  for  excommunication 
from  the  Church?  This,  he  has  quoted, 
was  from  a  statement  made  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  a  funeral 


130  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  6 

sermon  delivered  in  Nauvoo,  Illinois, 
shortly  before  his  martyrdom,  in  about 
1843. 

In  answering  this  man's  question,  I 
must  hasten  to  assure  him  that  the 
question  of  his  Church  membership 
and  his  worthiness  to  continue  as  a 
member  must  be  left  to  the  determina- 
tion of  local  Church  authorities  charged 
with  the  responsibility  of  making  that 
decision. 

True  concept  of  God 

I  would  rather  be  concerned  in  an 
attempt  to  enlarge  his  views  and  his 
understanding  as  to  the  true  concept 
of  that  glorified  being  whom  all  so- 
called  Christians  worship  as  God,  our 
Heavenly  Father. 

The  reasoning  of  Joseph  Smith,  in 
the  partial  statement  from  which  he 
has  quoted,  "that  God  was  once  as  we 
are  now,"  is  given  additional  strength 
if  our  brother  will  recall  the  words  of 
the  Master:  "The  Son  can  do  nothing 
of  himself,  but  what  he  seeth  the 
Father  do;  for  what  things  soever  he 
[the  Father]  doeth,  these  also  doeth 
the  Son  likewise."  (John  5:19.) 

When  we  consider  the  fact  that  our 
Lord  and  Master,  Jesus  of  Nazareth, 
one  of  the  Godhead,  came  to  tabernacle 
in  mortality,  then  this  quoted  state- 
ment, taken  literally,  is  of  great  sig- 
nificance. 

The  scriptures  make  it  plain  to  the 
student  of  these  sacred  writings  that 
there  are  three  personages  in  the  God- 
head: (1)  God,  the  Eternal  Father, 
also  known  as  the  Father  of  our  spirits, 
(2)  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  the  Redeemer, 
even  Jehovah,  and  (3)  the  Holy  Ghost. 

We  are  told  in  an  inspired  explana- 
tion that  "the  Father  has  a  body  of 
flesh  and  bones  as  tangible  as  man's; 
the  Son  also;  but  the  Holy  Ghost  has 
not  a  body  of  flesh  and  bones,  but  is 
a  personage  of  Spirit.  .  .  ."  (D&C 
130:22.) 

Man  created  in  God's  image 

Surely  one  must  stop  and  ponder 
deeply  the  biblical  account  of  the 
creation,  where  God  declared:  "Let  us 
make  man  in  our  image,  after  our  like- 
ness "  (Gen.  1:26.) 


Third  Day 

And  later,  after  Adam's  act  of  trans- 
gression, the  Lord  God  said  to  one  other 
who  was  with  him:  "Behold,  the  man 
is  become  as  one  of  us.  .  .  ."  (Moses 
4:28.) 

If  man,  then,  was  created  after  the 
image  and  likeness  of  his  glorified 
Creator,  and  afterward  man  became 
as  one  with  those  who  had  created 
him,  then  the  doubts  in  my  friend's 
mind  must  begin  to  be  resolved,  and 
he  can  then  come  to  see  the  grandeur 
of  this  greater  concept  of  the  living 
God  whom  we  worship. 

Commenting  on  this  same  teaching, 
President  Brigham  Young  had  this  to 
say:  ".  .  .  it  must  be  that  God  knows 
something  about  temporal  things,  and 
has  had  a  body  and  been  on  an  earth; 
were  it  not  so  He  would  not  know  how 
to  judge  men  righteously,  according  to 
the  temptations  and  sins  they  have  had 
to  contend  with."  (Journal  of  Dis- 
courses, Vol.  4,  p.  271.) 

Eternal  life 

The  sacred  writings  of  the  prophets 
speak  of  an  exalted  state  to  which  man 
may  attain,  which  is  called  eternal 
life,  or  life  in  the  presence  of  God  and 
our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ. 
Those  who  can  attain  to  this  highest 
degree  of  glory  are  spoken  of  in  a 
revelation  we  know  as  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  131:1-4: 

"In  the  celestial  glory  there  are 
three  heavens  or  degrees; 

"And  in  order  to  obtain  the  highest, 
a  man  must  enter  into  this  order  of  the 
priesthood  [meaning  the  new  and  ever- 
lasting covenant  of  marriage] ; 

"And  if  he  does  not,  he  cannot  ob- 
tain it. 

"He  may  enter  into  the  other,  but 
that  is  the  end  of  his  kingdom;  he 
cannot  have  an  increase." 

President  Young  again  expands  upon 
the  meaning  of  this  quotation: 

".  .  .  The  kingdoms  he  possesses  and 
rules  over  are  his  own  progeny.  Every 
man  who  is  faithful  and  gets  a  salva- 
tion and  glory,  and  becomes  a  king  of 
kings  and  Lord  of  Lords,  or  a  father  of 
fathers,  it  will  be  by  the  increase  of 
his  own  progeny.  Our  Father  and  God 
rules  over  his  own  children.  Wherever 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


131 


there  is  a  God  in  all  the  eternities 
possessing  a  kingdom  and  glory  and 
power  it  is  by  means  of  his  prog- 
eny. .  .  ."  (Journal  of  Discourses,  Vol. 
11,  p.  262.) 

There  are  those  who  would  think  to 
go  beyond  that  which  God  has  revealed. 
It  was  to  such  as  these,  who  would 
seek  to  penetrate  that  curtain  of  re- 
vealed truth,  that  inspired  writers  of 
our  early  leaders  posed  a  profound 
question  that  was  later  given  a  musical 
setting  in  one  of  our  most  beloved 
hymns: 

"If  you  could  hie  to  Kolob 

In  the  twinkling  of  an  eye, 
And  then  continue  onward 

With  that  same  speed  to  fly, 
D'ye  think  that  you  could  ever, 

Through  all  eternity, 
Find  out  the  generation 

Where  Gods  began  to  be? 

"Or  see  the  grand  beginning, 

Where  space  did  not  extend? 
Or  view  the  last  creation, 

Where  Gods  and  matter  end? 
Me-thinks  the  Spirit  whispers, 

No  man  has  found  "pure  space," 
Nor  seen  the  outside  curtains, 

Where  nothing  has  a  place. 

"The  works  of  God  continue, 

And  worlds  and  lives  abound; 
Improvement  and  progression 

Have  one  eternal  round. 
There  is  no  end  to  matter; 

There  is  no  end  to  space; 
There  is  no  end  to  spirit; 

There  is  no  end  to  race." 

(Hymns,  No.  257.) 

Advice  to  truth  seekers 

A  prophet-leader  of  our  dispensation 
then  extends  this  great  wisdom  to  all 
truth  seekers: 

"Many  have  tried  to  penetrate  to 
the  First  Cause  of  all  things;  but  it 
would  be  as  easy  for  an  ant  to  number 
the  grains  of  sand  on  the  earth.  It  is 
not  for  man,  with  his  limited  intelli- 
gence, to  grasp  eternity  in  his  compre- 
hension. . .  .  What,  then,  should  be  the 
calling  and  duty  of  the  children  of 
men?  Instead  of  inquiring  after  the 
origin  of  the  Gods — instead  of  trying 


to  explore  the  depths  of  eternities  that 
have  been,  that  are,  and  that  will  be, — 
instead  of  endeavoring  to  discover  the 
boundaries  of  boundless  space,  let  them 
seek  to  know  the  object  of  their  present 
existence,  and  how  to  apply,  in  the 
most  profitable  manner  for  their 
mutual  good  and  salvation,  the  intelli- 
gence they  possess.  .  .  ."  (Brigham 
Young,  in  Journal  of  Discourses,  Vol.  7, 
p.  284.) 

Then,  finally,  this  most  timely  ad- 
monition: 

"Let  them  seek  to  know  and  thor- 
oughly understand  things  within  their 
reach,  and  to  make  themselves  well  ac- 
quainted with  the  object  of  their  being 
here,  by  diligently  seeking  unto  a  su- 
perior Power  for  information,  and  by 
the  careful  study  of  the  best  books." 
(Ibid.,  pp.  284-85.) 

Fullness  of  knowledge 

The  ancient  prophet  was  not  speak- 
ing idly  when  he  declared  in  exalta- 
tion, "O  how  great  the  holiness  of 
our  God!  For  he  knoweth  all  things, 
and  there  is  not  anything  save  he 
knows  it."  (2  Ne.  9:20.) 

Neither  was  the  profound  injunction 
to  his  disciples  meaningless.  "Be  ye 
therefore  perfect,  even  as  your  Father 
which  is  in  heaven  is  perfect."  (Matt. 
5:48.) 

The  Master  was  speaking  of  a  state 
of  ultimate  perfection  to  which  all 
might  attain  through  their  faithfulness. 

About  this  fullness  of  knowledge, 
and  power,  and  glory,  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  said  this: 

"When  you  climb  up  a  ladder,  you 
must  begin  at  the  bottom,  and  ascend 
step  by  step,  until  you  arrive  at  the 
top;  and  so  it  is  with  the  principles 
of  the  gospel — you  must  begin  with  the 
first,  and  go  on  until  you  learn  all  the 
principles  of  exaltation.  But  it  will  be 
a  great  while  after  you  have  passed 
through  the  veil  before  you  will  have 
learned  them.  It  is  not  all  to  be 
comprehended  in  this  world;  it  will 
be  a  great  work  to  learn  our  salvation 
and  exaltation  even  beyond  the 
grave.  .  .  ."  (King  Follett  Discourse, 
Documentary  History  of  the  Church, 
Vol.  6,  pp.  306-7.) 


132  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  6 

Begin  with  first  principles 

A  few  weeks  ago  we  met  in  Chicago 
with  165  young  men  who  are  going  into 
military  service,  or  who  are  in  their 
basic  training  in  nearby  military  train- 
ing stations. 

In  a  discussion  period  of  the  seminar 
being  conducted  to  give  them  a  perspec- 
tive of  their  opportunities  in  the 
Church  while  they  were  in  military 
service,  they  began  asking  questions 
about  deep  theological  problems  with 
which  they  said  they  were  confronted 
by  their  inquiring  friends:  about  condi- 
tions in  the  premortal  world,  about 
the  creation,  about  eternal  marriage 
and  temple  work,  about  the  hereafter. 

The  wise  and  able  teacher  drew  a 
diagram  on  the  blackboard  to  resemble 
ascending  steps  and  then  asked  a  sim- 
ple, logical  question:  To  reach  the  top- 
most step  on  a  ladder,  where  must  you 
begin?  The  answer  was  obvious:  with 
the  bottom  step  first. 

Then,  to  teach  one  to  understand 
the  highest  principles  and  ordinances, 
where  should  one  begin? 

"With  the  first  principles  of  the 
gospel,"  came  the  answer.  The  discus- 
sion brought  out  that  these  first  princi- 
ples of  the  gospel  are:  faith,  repentance, 
baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission 
of  sins,  and  the  receiving  of  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost,  by  which  one  could 
come  to  know  the  truth  of  all  things, 
the  greatest  of  which  revealed  knowl- 
edge would  be  the  true  knowledge  of 
God. 

This  lesson,  of  course,  was  merely  an- 
other way  to  impress  what  the  Master 
meant  when  he  answered  a  question  I 
have  previously  quoted:  "If  any  man 
would  know  of  his  doctrine,"  they  must 
do  his  will  and  keep  his  command- 
ments. 

The  apostle  Paul  had  said  that  one 
of  the  prime  purposes  of  the  organ- 
ization of  the  Church  was  "for  the 
edifying  of  the  body  of  Christ  [or  the 
Church],  till  we  all  come  in  .  .  .  the 
knowledge  of  the  Son  of  God,  unto  a 
perfect  man  .  .  ."  (see  Eph.  4:12-13), 
which  knowledge,  the  apostle  Paul  ex- 
plained, no  man  could  have  except  by 
the  revelations  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  (See 
1  Cor.  12:3.) 


Third  Day 

Knowledge  of  character  of  God 

The  wisdom  of  the  teacher's  reply  to 
the  young  men  in  Chicago  is  im- 
pressed by  another  statement  from  a 
modern  prophet: 

"These  are  incomprehensible  ideas 
to  some,  but  they  are  simple.  It  is  the 
first  principle  of  the  gospel  to  know 
for  a  certainty  the  character  of  God, 
and  to  know  that  we  may  converse 
with  Him  as  one  man  converses  with 
another.  .  .  ."  (DHC,  Vol.  6,  p.  305.) 

Time  does  not  permit  a  further  ex- 
position of  these  most  vital  truths 
relative  to  our  personal  relationship  to 
our  Heavenly  Father  and  to  our  Lord 
and  Master,  Jesus  Christ. 

This  relationship  is  nowhere  more 
aptly  expounded  than  in  the  apostle 
Paul's  sermon  on  Mars  hill,  in  Athens, 
where  he  found  an  inscription:  "To  the 
Unknown  God,"  whom  these  devout 
Grecians  were  "ignorantly"  worshiping. 

This  is  his  clear  and  forceful  testi- 
mony of  the  true  God,  who  to  them,  at 
that  time,  was  unknown: 

"[God]  hath  made  of  one  blood  all 
nations  of  men  for  to  dwell  on  all  the 
face  of  the  earth,  and  hath  determined 
the  times  before  appointed,  and  the 
bounds  of  their  habitation; 

"That  they  should  seek  the  Lord  .  .  . 
and  find  him,  though  he  be  not  far 
from  every  one  of  us: 

"For  in  him  we  live,  and  move,  and 
have  our  being;  .  .  .  For  we  are  also 
his  offspring. 

"Forasmuch  then  as  we  are  the 
offspring  of  God,  we  ought  not  to 
think  that  the  Godhead  is  like  unto 
gold,  or  silver,  or  stone,  graven  by 
art  and  man's  device. 

"And  the  times  of  this  ignorance  God 
winked  at;  but  now  commandeth  all 
men  every  where  to  repent."  (Acts 
17:26-30.) 

True  knowledge  through  revelation 

In  this  dispensation,  as  has  been  the 
case  in  all  previous  dispensations  of 
the  gospel  upon  the  earth,  there  was 
given  through  the  modern  prophet, 
Joseph  Smith,  the  true  knowledge  of 
God  and  his  Son,  our  Savior,  when,  as 
glorified  personal  beings  who  could 
talk  with  and  be  seen  of  men,  they 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


133 


conversed  with  him,  as  though  to 
demonstrate  their  tangible  reality,  as 
the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times 
was  ushered  in,  in  preparation  for  the 
second  coming  of  the  Lord  to  reign  as 
Lord  of  lords  and  King  of  kings  at  the 
commencement  of  the  millennium. 

His  Church,  bearing  his  name,  is 
upon  the  earth.  To  his  Church,  through 
a  living  prophet,  "he  has  revealed,  .  .  . 
does  now  reveal,  and  . .  .  will  yet  reveal 
many  great  and  important  things  per- 
taining to  the  Kingdom  of  God." 
(Article  of  Faith  9.) 

With  all  this  knowledge  that, 
through  revelation,  is  available  to  us 
and,  through  diligent  efforts  on  our 
part,  can  be  made  available  to  all  the 
world,  if  we  yet  stand  in  ignorance  of 
the  true  God  and  Jesus  Christ,  his  Son, 
we  might  one  day  be  among  those  to 
whom  our  Master  may  ask  again  a 
searching  question — which  will  imply 
a  stern  rebuke — as  he  did  to  his 
disciples  of  a  former  dispensation. 

Jesus  asked  his  disciples,  "Have  I 
been  so  long  time  with  you,  and  yet 
hast  thou  not  known  me  .  .  .  ?  he  that 

hath  seen  me  hath  seen  the  Father  " 

(John  14:9.) 

"Certainty  that  succeeds  doubt" 

The  fundamental  and  soul-satisfying 
step  in  our  eternal  quest  is  to  come  in  a 
day  when  each  does  know,  for  him- 
self, that  God  answers  his  prayers. 

This  will  come  only  after  "our  soul 
hungers,"  and  after  mighty  prayer  and 
supplication,  and  after,  as  one  who, 
as  a  faithful  defender  of  the  faith,  in 
past  generations  has  testified:  "Into  my 
heart,  purified  of  all  sin,  there  entered 
a  light  that  came  from  on  high,  and 
then  suddenly  and  in  a  marvelous  man- 
ner I  saw  certainty  succeed  doubt." 
(Cyprian.) 

May  the  Lord  put  within  each  of  us 
the  determination  to  put  our  lives  in 
order,  to  the  end  that  we  too  may  know 
with  a  "certainty  that  succeeds  doubt" 
that  God  does  live,  and  that  through 
the  glorious  mission  of  our  Lord  and 
Savior,  we  too  can  live  again  in  that 
realm  where  God  and  Christ  dwell — to 
obtain  which  is  to  attain  eternal  life. 

To  all  of  this,  I  add  my  humble 
testimony  as  to  this  true  knowledge  of 


God,  even  as  the  Master  answered:  "If 
any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall 
know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of 
God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself." 
(John  7:17.) 

In  this  dispensation,  when  the  full- 
ness of  the  gospel  is  upon  the  earth, 
I  sincerely  pray  that  truth  seekers 
everywhere  may  not  "walk  in  the  dark- 
ness at  noon-day."  In  unison  with  all 
of  those  who  have  this  witness,  I  too 
know  that  my  Redeemer  lives,  to  which 
I  bear  solemn  testimony  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Our  concluding  speaker  was  Elder 
Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve. 

We  express  our  thanks  and  apprecia- 
tion to  the  General  Authorities  who 
have  spoken  to  us,  and  to  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  for  its  inspirational  music. 

The  sessions  of  this  conference  have 
been  broadcast  by  many  radio  and 
television  stations  in  the  west,  and  by 
short-wave  in  South  America,  Europe, 
and  many  other  areas  of  the  world. 

Translations  of  this  session  have 
been  broadcast  over  a  number  of  radio 
stations  through  Mexico,  Central 
America,  and  by  satellite  over  radio 
stations  in  Rio  de  Janeiro,  Sao  Paulo, 
Brazil,  and  26  radio  stations  in  Chile. 

This  session  has  also  been  carried 
by  direct  wire  from  the  Tabernacle 
over  Oceanic  Cables  to  a  large  number 
of  members  and  friends  assembled  in 
chapels  in  Great  Britain,  Germany, 
France,  and  Holland. 

We  shall  conclude  this  session  of 
the  conference  with  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  singing  "O  Divine  Redeemer," 
after  which  the  benediction  will  be 
pronounced  by  Elder  Sherman  A.  Lind- 
holm,  president  of  the  North  Tooele 
Stake.  This  conference  will  then  be 
adjourned  until  2:00  this  afternoon. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  an- 
them, "O  Divine  Redeemer." 

The  benediction  was  given  by  Presi- 
dent Sherman  A.  Lindholm  of  the 
North  Tooele  Stake. 

The  conference  was  adjourned  until 
2  o'clock  p.m. 


134 

Sunday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


Third  Day 


SEVENTH  SESSION 

The  concluding  session  of  the  con- 
ference convened  Sunday  afternoon, 
April  6,  at  2  o'clock,  with  President 
Alvin  R.  Dyer,  counselor  in  the  First 
Presidency,  conducting  the  meeting. 

The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir 
furnished  the  music  for  this  session, 
with  Richard  P.  Condie  and  Jay  E. 
Welch  conducting.  Robert  Cundick  was 
at  the  organ. 

President  Dyer  made  the  following 
opening  remarks: 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

President  McKay  is  watching  the 
proceedings  of  this  conference  by  tele- 
vision. He  has  asked  me  to  conduct 
this  meeting,  and  to  extend  to  all  his 
warmest  greetings. 

Members  of  the  Church  are  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  in  the 
seventh  and  concluding  session  of 
the  139th  Annual  Conference  of  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

This  afternoon  many  television  and 
radio  stations  throughout  the  western 
part  of  the  United  States  will  carry 
the  proceedings  of  this  concluding  ses- 
sion of  the  conference. 

Sessions  of  this  conference  have  been 
televised  in  color  and  received  by  mil- 
lions in  the  United  States  and  Canada 
over  most  of  those  stations  cooperating 
to  provide  the  extensive  coverage  of 
this  conference. 

The  full  proceedings  of  both  ses- 
sions today  will  be  re-broadcast  to  far- 
distant  places  by  Radio  Stations  KSL 
in  Salt  Lake  City,  KIRO  at  Seattle, 
KMBZ  at  Kansas  City,  and  WRFM  at 
New  York  City  tonight  beginning  at 
midnight. 

Saturday  evening  an  inspirational 
meeting  of  the  priesthood  of  the 
Church  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle, 


the  proceedings  of  which  were  relayed 
by  closed-circuit  broadcast,  originating 
in  the  Tabernacle,  to  members  of  the 
priesthood  assembled  in  approximately 
500  separate  locations  in  all  parts  of 
the  United  States  and  Canada,  with 
approximately  150,000  holders  of  the 
priesthood  participating. 

We  extend  a  cordial  welcome  to  all 
present  this  afternoon, — special  guests, 
educational  leaders,  regional  representa- 
tives of  the  Twelve,  stake  presidencies 
from  near  and  far,  temple  presiden- 
cies, bishoprics,  members  of  the  general 
auxiliary  boards,  and  thousands  of 
members  of  the  Church,  and  many 
friends  everywhere  who  are  listening 
in  by  radio  and  television. 

The  music  for  this  session  will  be 
rendered  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with 
Richard  P.  Condie  and  Jay  E.  Welch 
conducting.  Robert  Cundick  is  at  the 
organ. 

We  shall  begin  this  service  by  the 
choir  singing,  "O  Loving  Savior  Slain 
for  Us,"  conducted  by  Jay  E.  Welch, 
Assistant  Conductor. 

The  invocation  will  then  be  offered 
by  Elder  Wade  Baker,  president  of  the 
Cassia  Stake. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the 
anthem,  "O  Loving  Savior  Slain  for 
Us." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
President  Wade  Baker  of  the  Cassia 
Stake. 


President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the 
direction  of  Richard  P.  Condie,  will 
now  sing,  "Arise,  Shine,  Thy  Light  Is 
Come." 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the 
number,  "Arise,  Shine,  Thy  Light  Is 
Come." 


ELDER  HOWARD  W.  HUNTER 


135 


President  Dyer  first  speaker  this  afternoon.  He  will 

Elder  Howard  W.  Hunter  of  the  be  followed  by  Elder  Theodore  M. 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be  our    Burton,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  HOWARD  W.  HUNTER 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


Nearly  two  thousand  years  ago, 
Corinth  was  one  of  the  most  cele- 
brated cities  of  Greece,  founded  1,500 
years  before  the  Christian  era,  sup- 
posedly by  the  grandfather  of  Ulysses. 
Because  of  its  strategic  position,  it 
commanded  the  commerce  and  naviga- 
tion of  the  Mediterranean  Sea  from 
the  Straits  of  Gibraltar  on  the  west 
to  the  great  seaport  of  Alexandria  on 
the  east.  With  the  decline  of  the 
Greek  political  power  and  civilization, 
the  Roman  power  was  expanded  over 
the  Mediterranean  world  by  a  series 
of  successful  wars. 

It  was  in  one  of  these  wars,  146 
years  before  Christ,  that  Corinth  was 
destroyed  by  the  Romans  but  after- 
ward rebuilt  under  Julius  Caesar  as  a 
Roman  colony.  The  city  and  harbors 
which  it  controlled  are  about  50  miles 
west  of  Athens.  It  was  not  the  philo- 
sophical center  that  Athens  was 
acclaimed  to  be,  but  it  was  the  capital 
of  the  Roman  province  and  ranked 
with  Ephesus  and  Antioch  as  great 
commercial  centers.  According  to  the 
historical  records,  it  was  known  as  the 
wealthiest  city  of  Greece. 

Splendor  of  Corinth 

It  is  said  that  the  city  of  Corinth 
exceeded  all  the  cities  of  the  world 
at  that  time  for  the  splendor  and  mag- 
nificence of  its  public  buildings.  The 
temples,  palaces,  theaters,  and  other 
edifices  were  ornamented  with  the 
columns,  capitals,  and  bases  which  have 
become  patterns  for  the  Corinthian 
style  of  architecture  all  over  the  world. 
The  statues  of  Jupiter,  Venus,  Nep- 
tune, Diana,  Apollo,  and  other  Roman 
gods  and  goddesses  that  adorned  the 
city  are  known  today  as  some  of  the 
finest  art  objects  of  this  period.  In  the 
center  of  the  city  was  the  great  market- 
place surrounding  the  bronze  statue  of 


Athena  and  the  temple  of  Apollo,  the 
most  prominent  ruin  from  antiquity. 

Riches  produced  luxury,  and  luxury 
a  total  corruption  of  morals.  On  the 
Acrocorinthus  rising  abruptly  above  the 
city  was  the  famous  Temple  of 
Aphrodite,  the  goddess  of  carnal  love, 
symbolic  of  the  domination  of  the  city 
by  licentious  impulses.  There  were 
many  other  temples  dedicated  to  im- 
moral practices,  but  in  this  one  temple 
alone  there  were  a  thousand  virgins 
engaged  as  slaves  to  the  goddess  in 
temple  prostitution.  The  inhabitants 
of  the  city  were  as  lascivious  as  they 
were  learned. 

Paul's  Missionary  labors 

It  was  to  this  city,  notorious  even  in 
the  world  of  that  time  for  drunkenness 
and  sensuality,  that  Paul  came  as  a 
missionary  in  the  spring  of  the  year 
50  a.d.  He  was  the  first  missionary  to 
carry  the  gospel  of  Christ  to  Greece. 
Some  of  the  regions  through  which  he 
had  passed  on  the  way  to  Corinth  were 
receptive  to  his  teaching;  others  were 
not.  In  Athens  there  were  a  few  con- 
verts, but  there  is  no  record  of  a  branch 
of  the  church  being  established  there. 
The  success  at  Corinth  was  a  contrast 
Paul  got  a  strong  foothold,  and  the 
branch  which  was  established  became 
one  of  the  most  important  of  the  early 
church. 

The  record  tells  us  that  he  stayed 
18  months  in  Corinth,  longer  than  in 
any  other  city  except  Ephesus,  but  we 
have  little  information  concerning  the 
missionary  work  of  these  months.  Sev- 
eral epistles  were  written  to  the  saints 
in  other  branches  of  the  church  during 
this  stay,  and  his  labors  were  success- 
ful, as  demonstrated  by  the  large 
branch  which  was  established  by  the 
many  converts. 


136  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  6 

At  the  conclusion  of  his  labors,  Paul 
sailed  from  Corinth,  stopping  at 
Ephesus  and  Caesarea,  then  traveled  to 
Jerusalem  and  returned  to  Antioch. 
After  a  rest,  he  commenced  another 
missionary  journey.  While  again  in 
Ephesus,  word  came  to  him  from  sev- 
eral sources  of  a  crisis  developing  in 
the  branch  of  the  church  in  Corinth. 
One  of  the  fascinating  subjects  in  the 
life  of  the  apostle  is  the  exchange  of 
communications  and  news  between 
him  and  his  converts  in  Corinth.  The 
communications  revealed  that  there 
were  factions  forming  in  the  branch 
with  different  views  regarding  moral 
conduct  and  doctrine.  Some  of  the 
converts  were  assuming  a  libertine  or 
freethinking  attitude  with  respect  to 
the  doctrines  which  had  been  taught 
to  them  by  Paul  and  the  missionaries 
who  worked  with  him.  Some  were 
defending  loose  sexual  standards  that 
were  rampant  in  the  notorious  city. 
These  problems  came  into  being  be- 
cause of  the  background  of  the  new 
converts  and  the  conditions  of  the  time 
and  place  in  which  they  were  living. 
They  were  reactions  to  the  new  faith 
which  had  been  taught  to  them  against 
the  old  background  which  had  been 
part  of  their  former  conduct  and 
thinking. 

Letter  to  Corinthians 

It  was  his  concern  over  these  disap- 
pointing happenings  and  also  the  ques- 
tions that  had  been  asked  of  him  in 
the  communications  that  caused  Paul 
to  write  a  letter  to  the  saints  at  Cor- 
inth at  Easter  time,  the  anniversary 
of  the  resurrection  of  Jesus.  The  letter 
was  not  intended  to  be  an  organized 
doctrinal  presentation  of  faith,  but  an 
admonition  to  the  saints  and  an  an- 
swer to  their  questions.  It  portrays 
the  simple,  unphilosophical  character 
of  the  gospel  of  the  crucified  Christ. 
This  letter,  which  has  been  preserved 
as  part  of  scripture,  casts  light  on  the 
many  aspects  of  the  writer's  thoughts 
and  also  the  problems  which  arose  in 
the  early  branches  of  the  church.  In 
this  letter,  which  we  know  as  First 
Corinthians,  Paul  pleads  with  them 
to  abstain  from  dissensions,  to  be  of 


Third  Day 

one  mind,  and  to  be  unified.  He 
reprimands  them  for  their  fornica- 
tions, immorality,  and  loose  sex  mores. 
The  letter  admonishes  the  women  not 
to  follow  the  modernistic  tendencies 
which  they  were  embracing,  and  it 
teaches  the  saints  how  to  properly  ob- 
serve the  Lord's  Supper. 

The  last  subject  of  the  letter  is  an 
extensive  discussion  of  the  resurrec- 
tion. It  is  not  clear  whether  there  was 
a  division  of  the  saints  on  this  subject, 
whether  the  question  had  been  asked 
in  the  communications,  or  whether  it 
was  the  Easter  season  that  caused  Paul 
to  dwell  so  heavily  upon  the  subject 
of  the  resurrection.  In  any  event,  this 
letter  to  the  saints  gives  the  earliest 
and  most  important  witness  to  the 
resurrection  of  the  Savior. 

Witness  of  Christ's  Resurrection 

Paul  commences  by  saying: 

"For  I  delivered  unto  you  first  of 
all  that  which  I  also  received,  how 
that  Christ  died  for  our  sins  according 
to  the  scriptures; 

"And  that  he  was  buried,  and  that 
he  rose  again  the  third  day  according 
to  the  scriptures."  (1  Cor.  15:3-4.) 

This  statement  indicates  the  source 
of  his  knowledge  of  the  resurrection. 
The  story  of  the  crucifixion  has  been 
related  in  scripture  from  the  visible 
facts  of  what  was  seen  and  what  was 
actually  heard  during  those  dark  hours, 
but  the  account  of  the  resurrection  was 
a  proclamation  or  a  declaration  of 
what  had  happened  when  the  crucified 
Lord  took  up  his  body  from  the  dead 
and  arose  from  the  tomb.  Paul  indi- 
cates in  these  opening  words  that  his 
knowledge  came  to  him  by  revelation 
from  God,  not  from  man.  Then  he 
adds: 

"And  that  he  was  seen  of  Cephas, 
then  of  the  twelve: 

"After  that,  he  was  seen  of  above 
five  hundred  brethren  at  once;  of  whom 
the  greater  part  remain  unto  this 
present,  but  some  are  fallen  asleep. 

"After  that,  he  was  seen  of  James; 
then  of  all  the  apostles."  (1  Cor. 
15:5-7.) 

These  appearances  to  other  persons, 
many  of  whom  were  then  yet  living 
and  who  had  actually  seen  him,  were 


ELDER  HOWA1 

cited  as  additional  proof  of  the  fact 
that  Jesus  was  raised  from  the  dead. 

Personal  Witness 

Paul  was  saying  that  he  accepted 
the  testimony  of  those  who  had  seen 
him,  and  if  there  was  doubt  in  the 
minds  of  the  saints  of  Corinth,  they 
could  verify  these  facts  from  living 
persons.  Then  follows  this  significant 
statement: 

"And  last  of  all  he  was  seen  of  me 
also,  as  one  born  out  of  due  time." 
(1  Cor.  15:8.) 

Thus  Paul  adds  his  personal  witness, 
referring  to  his  experience  on  the  way 
to  Damascus  when  he  was  suddenly 
changed  from  a  persecutor  to  one  of 
the  greatest  exponents.  He  refers  to 
himself  as  "one  born  out  of  due  time," 
that  is,  after  the  time  that  Jesus  con- 
versed in  person  with  his  followers. 
His  dramatic  change  and  conversion 
is  used  in  his  argument  as  the  final 
point  to  prove  the  actual  resurrection 
of  Jesus.  Paul  was  anxious  that  the 
saints  would  not  only  believe,  but 
should  never  have  the  least  doubt  as 
to  this  basic  fact  upon  which  eternal 
life  hinges.  The  writer  of  the  letter 
then  asks  this  question: 

A  challenging  question 

"Else  what  shall  they  do  which  are 
baptized  for  the  dead,  if  the  dead  rise 
not  at  all?  why  are  they  then  baptized 
for  the  dead?"  (1  Cor.  15:29.) 

This  is  a  challenging  question.  Why 
are  you  performing  vicarious  baptisms 
for  those  who  are  dead  if  there  is  no 
resurrection?  History  bears  out  the  facts 
of  the  practice  of  baptizing  for  those 
who  had  died  without  the  benefit  of 
this  ordinance.  It  would  seem  certain, 
from  the  question  that  was  asked  by 
Paul,  that  this  vicarious  practice  was 
followed  in  the  branch  of  the  church 
in  Corinth.  His  query  is  well  taken. 
There  would  be  no  sense  in  such 
ordinances  except  there  be  a  resurrec- 
tion. Nothing  matters  if  there  is  not 
a  resurrection;  everything  would  end 
in  the  darkness  of  death.  Paul  then 
quotes  Isaiah:  ".  .  .  let  us  eat,  and 
drink;  for  to  morrow  we  die."  (1  Cor. 
15:32.)   Only  a  person  of  atheistic 


)  W.  HUNTER  137 

beliefs  could  sink  to  such  depths  of 
irreverence,  but  the  reality  of  a  resur- 
rection gives  hope;  it  is  uplifting,  a  joy 
to  the  righteous. 

Nature  of  resurrected  body 

Paul  now  turns  to  an  explanation 
of  the  nature  of  the  resurrected  body: 
"But  some  man  will  say,  How  are  the 
dead  raised  up?  and  with  what  body 
do  they  come?"  (1  Cor.  15:35.)  After 
asking  that  question,  he  proceeds  to 
explain  the  change  of  the  body  in  its 
resurrected  state  by  using  the  analogy 
of  the  seed  that  is  placed  in  the  ground, 
giving  birth  to  the  new  plant.  These 
are  his  words: 

"Thou  fool,  that  which  thou  sowest 
is  not  quickened,  except  it  die: 

"And  that  which  thou  sowest,  thou 
sowest  not  that  body  that  shall  be, 
but  bare  grain,  it  may  chance  of  wheat, 
or  of  some  other  grain: 

"But  God  giveth  it  a  body  as  it  hath 
pleased  him,  and  to  every  seed  his 
own  body."  (1  Cor.  15:36-38.) 

Paul  then  explains  in  his  letter  the 
differences  existing  in  various  bodies: 

"All  flesh  is  not  the  same  flesh:  but 
there  is  one  kind  of  flesh  of  men,  an- 
other flesh  of  beasts,  another  of  fishes, 
and  another  of  birds. 

"There  are  also  celestial  bodies,  and 
bodies  terrestrial:  but  the  glory  of  the 
celestial  is  one,  and  the  glory  of  the 
terrestrial  is  another. 

"There  is  one  glory  of  the  sun,  and 
another  glory  of  the  moon,  and  another 
glory  of  the  stars:  for  one  star  differ- 
eth  from  another  star  in  glory."  (1 
Cor.  15:39-41.) 

Analogy  misunderstood 

Now  follows  one  of  the  most  mis- 
understood and  controversial  state- 
ments made  by  Paul: 

"So  also  is  the  resurrection  of  the 
dead.  It  is  sown  in  corruption;  it  is 
raised  in  incorruption: 

"It  is  sown  in  dishonour;  it  is  raised 
in  glory:  it  is  sown  in  weakness;  it  is 
raised  in  power: 

"It  is  sown  a  natural  body;  it  is  raised 
a  spiritual  body.  There  is  a  natural 
body,  and  there  is  a  spiritual  body." 
(1  Cor.  15:42-44.) 


138  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  6 

Because  Paul  distinguishes  between 
a  natural  body  and  a  spiritual  body, 
and  had  previously  referred  to  the  seed 
planted  in  the  ground,  a  false  con- 
clusion is  reached  from  the  analogy. 
It  is  argued  that  the  seed  itself  is  not 
harvested — it  dies  in  the  ground  and 
there  comes  forth  a  new  plant;  there- 
fore, this  is  so  with  the  body  which  is 
buried  in  the  ground — it  comes  forth  a 
spiritual  body,  something  new  and  dif- 
ferent. This  appears  to  be  strengthened 
by  the  fact  that  Paul  adds:  "Now  this 
I  say,  brethren,  that  flesh  and  blood 
cannot  inherit  the  kingdom  of  God. 
..."  (1  Cor.  15:50.) 

Redemption  of  the  soul 

Now  let  me  point  up  the  fallacy  of 
this  reasoning  by  this  statement  from 
scripture: 

"And  the  spirit  and  the  body  are 
the  soul  of  man. 

"And  the  resurrection  from  the  dead 
is  the  redemption  of  the  soul."  (D&C 
88:15-16.) 

There  is  a  separation  of  the  spirit  and 
the  body  at  the  time  of  death.  The 
resurrection  will  again  unite  the  spirit 
with  the  body,  and  the  body  becomes 
a  spiritual  body,  one  of  flesh  and  bones 
but  quickened  by  the  spirit  instead  of 
blood.  Thus,  our  bodies  after  the  resur- 
rection, quickened  by  the  spirit,  shall 
become  immortal  and  never  die.  This 
is  the  meaning  of  the  statements  of 
Paul  that  "there  is  a  natural  body,  and 
there  is  a  spiritual  body"  and  "that 
flesh  and  blood  cannot  inherit  the 
kingdom  of  God."  The  natural  body 
is  flesh  and  blood,  but  quickened  by 
the  spirit  instead  of  blood,  it  can  and 
will  enter  the  kingdom. 

First  fruits  of  resurrection 

The  best  example  of  the  validity  of 
this  position — and  which  portrays  the 
truth  of  the  resurrection — is  the  hap- 
pening which  we  commemorate  at  this 
Easter  season,  when  Jesus  came  forth 
from  the  tomb,  the  first  fruits  of  the 
resurrection.  The  record  tells  us  he 
appeared  to  many  and  they  recognized 
him,  the  most  specific  example  occur- 
ring that  first  Easter  day  when  ten  of 
the  Twelve  were  together,  and  "Jesus 
himself  stood  in  the  midst  of  them, 


Third  Day 

and  saith  unto  them,  Peace  be  unto 
you. 

"But  they  were  terrified  and  af- 
frighted, and  supposed  that  they  had 
seen  a  spirit. 

"And  he  said  unto  them,  Why  are 
ye  troubled?  and  why  do  thoughts 
arise  in  your  hearts? 

"Behold  my  hands  and  my  feet, 
that  it  is  I  myself:  handle  me,  and  see; 
for  a  spirit  hath  not  flesh  and  bones, 
as  ye  see  me  have. 

"And  when  he  had  thus  spoken,  he 
shewed  them  his  hands  and  his  feet." 
(Luke  24:36-40.) 

Not  a  spirit,  but  a  body  reunited 
with  the  spirit — a  spiritual  body  as 
defined  by  Paul. 

Atonement  of  Christ 

"We  believe  that  through  the  Atone- 
ment of  Christ,  all  mankind  may  be 
saved,  by  obedience  to  the  laws  and 
ordinances  of  the  Gospel."  (Article  of 
Faith  3.) 

We  also  believe  in  the  literal  resur- 
rection of  the  body,  reunited  with  the 
spirit,  becoming  the  spiritual  body  or 
the  soul  as  defined  by  scripture.  If  we 
should  eliminate  from  our  religious  be- 
liefs the  doctrine  of  the  atonement  and 
resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ  and  the 
resurrection  of  mankind,  there  would 
be  nothing  left  but  a  code  of  ethics. 
The  propositions  of  ethics  may  be 
noble,  but  they  lack  those  elements  of 
the  gospel  that  lead  men  to  eternal 
exaltation.  Philosophy  and  theology 
may  be  interesting  and  give  us  lofty 
concepts,  and  we  may  become  inspired 
by  profound  thinking,  but  Christian 
faith  is  based  upon  the  simplicity  of 
the  gospel,  the  example,  the  life,  and 
the  teachings  of  Jesus  Christ.  This 
was  the  witness  of  Paul  to  the  saints 
at  Corinth,  and  the  message  applies 
to  us  in  this  day,  living  as  we  do  in  a 
world  that  can  be  compared  in  many 
ways  to  Corinth  of  old.  In  a  society  of 
turmoil,  immorality,  freethinking,  and 
questioning  of  the  reality  of  God,  we 
reach  out  for  the  simplicity  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ — the  gospel 
which  gives  to  us  comfor^  hope,  a  de- 
sire for  righteousness,  and  peace  in 
one's  heart. 

I  have  a  conviction  that  God  lives 


ELDER  THEODORE  M.  BURTON 


139 


and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  As  Paul 
bore  testimony  to  the  saints  of  Corinth 
by  his  letter  at  that  Easter  season  many 
years  ago,  I  add  my  witness  that  we 
shall  rise  from  mortal  death  to  have 
life  everlasting,  because  of  the  aton- 
ing sacrifice  and  resurrection  of  the 
Savior.  In  my  mind  I  picture  him  with 
arms  outstretched  to  all  who  will  hear: 

"...  I  am  the  resurrection,  and  the 
life:  he  that  believeth  in  me,  though 
he  were  dead,  yet  shall  he  live: 

"And  whosoever  liveth  and  believeth 


in    me    shall    never    die."  (John 
11:25-26.) 
In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

Elder  Howard  W.  Hunter  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken 
to  us.  Elder  Theodore  M.  Burton, 
Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  will  be  our 
next  speaker.  He  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy. 


ELDER  THEODORE  M.  BURTON 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


My  brothers  and  sisters,  many  people 
have  asked  me  about  the  new  GIANT 
system  of  genealogy  announced  by  the 
First  Presidency  in  the  last  general 
conference.  Where  did  this  idea  come 
from,  and  what  is  the  reason  for  this 
change? 

The  answer  is  that  it  developed 
naturally  out  of  our  present  system. 
As  problems  arose  in  the  system  we 
were  using,  we  began  to  study  them 
out  in  our  own  minds.  We  consulted 
earlier  revelations  and  directions  from 
former  Church  leaders  and  then  prayed 
earnestly  for  wisdom  and  sought 
counsel  to  know  the  mind  of  the  Lord 
for  our  day.  We  met  frequently  with 
our  present  leaders  and  presented 
questions  directly  to  the  First  Presi- 
dency for  answers. 

As  we  received  greater  light  and 
knowledge,  we  had  to  revise  some  of 
our  new  ideas  and  concepts  until,  by 
listening  to  the  whisperings  of  the 
Spirit,  a  system  finally  evolved  that 
could  be  approved  for  presentation  to 
the  people.  May  I  discuss  for  a  few 
moments  in  general  terras  how  we  ob- 
tain knowledge,  for  an  understanding 
of  how  this  principle  applies  particu- 
larly to  the  GIANT  system. 

A  complex  world 

We  live  in  a  world  so  complex  and 
involved  that  sometimes  life  becomes 
a  frustrating  experience.  There  are 
many  kinds  of  voices  in  the  world,  and 


as  Paul  explained  to  the  Corinthians: 

"So  likewise  ye,  except  ye  utter  by 
the  tongue  words  easy  to  be  understood, 
how  shall  it  be  known  what  is  spoken? 
for  ye  shall  speak  into  the  air. 

"There  are,  it  may  be,  so  many  kinds 
of  voices  in  the  world,  and  none  of 
them  is  without  signification. 

"Therefore  if  I  know  not  the  mean- 
ing of  the  voice,  I  shall  be  unto  him 
that  speaketh  a  barbarian,  and  he  that 
speaketh  shall  be  a  barbarian  unto 
me."  (1  Cor.  14:9-11.) 

Among  the  many  voices  we  hear, 
which  voice  should  we  believe?  With 
so  many  duties  and  responsibilities, 
which  ones  should  have  priority?  With 
various  paths  stretching  out  before  us, 
which  path  should  we  follow?  With  so 
much  work  to  be  done,  what  work 
should  we  do  first? 

Making  decisions 

It  is  evident  from  this  multiplicity 
of  choices  that  we  need  to  make  deci- 
sions. But  if  we  make  a  decision  based 
solely  on  our  limited  experience  with- 
out consulting  experts,  the  likelihood 
of  making  a  correct  choice  becomes  a 
matter  of  pure  chance.  In  order  to 
know  what  to  do,  it  might  be  well  to 
reflect  on  how  the  Lord  prepares  us 
to  make  decisions. 

In  the  beginning  God  gave  Adam  a 
choice  of  whether  to  be  obedient  and 
trust  in  the  Lord  or  to  seek  knowledge 
on  his  own.  Adam  chose  to  make  his 


140  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  6 

own  decisions.  He  disobeyed  the  Lord, 
ate  of  the  fruit  of  the  tree  of  knowledge, 
and  was  therefore  left  to  his  own  re- 
sources. This  meant  eviction  from  the 
Garden  of  Eden  and  from  the  presence 
of  the  Lord: 

"And  I,  the  Lord  God,  said  unto 
mine  Only  Begotten:  Behold,  the  man 
is  become  as  one  of  us  to  know  good 
and  evil;  and  now  lest  he  put  forth 
his  hand  and  partake  also  of  the  tree 
of  life,  and  eat  and  live  forever, 

"Therefore  I,  the  Lord  God,  will  send 
him  forth  from  the  Garden  of  Eden, 
to  till  the  ground  from  whence  he  was 
taken; 

"For  as  I,  the  Lord  God,  liveth,  even 
so  my  words  cannot  return  void,  for 
as  they  go  forth  out  of  my  mouth  they 
must  be  fulfilled."  (Moses  4:28-30.) 

Good  and  evil 

Undoubtedly  the  Lord  gave  Adam 
counsel  so  that  he  could  protect  him- 
self against  evil  and  know  how  to 
recognize  and  avoid  it.  Note  that  the 
Lord  didn't  say  that  Adam  should  be 
able  to  know  good  from  evil,  but  that 
he  should  know  good  and  evil.  In  a 
like  manner  we  are  to  know  both  good 
and  evil  and  learn  to  prefer  the  good 
above  the  evil.  Through  our  experi- 
ences in  life  we  eventually  learn  to 
choose  the  good  simply  because  it  is 
the  better  way,  the  easier  way,  and  the 
simpler  way  in  the  long  run. 

Experience,  however,  can  be  a  very 
dear  teacher.  If  we  live  life  without 
direction  and  without  someone  to 
guide  us,  it  is  as  dangerous  as  playing 
with  dynamite.  A  slight  mistake  made 
innocently  through  lack  of  knowledge 
and  life  blows  up  in  our  face.  Mis- 
takes can  be  so  serious  that  sometimes 
we  can  never  fully  repair  the  damage 
done.  Some  mistakes  may  even  result 
in  loss  of  life  itself.  Simply  stated,  we 
need  guidance  and  help. 

Value  of  obedience 

Adam  and  Eve,  after  being  driven 
from  the  Garden  of  Eden,  needed  guid- 
ance and  did  what  all  wise  men  and 
women  should  do.  They  asked  the 
Lord  for  direction.  In  response,  ".  .  .  he 
gave  them  commandments,  that  they 


Third  Day 

should  worship  the  Lord  their  God, 
and  should  offer  the  firstlings  of  their 
flocks,  for  an  offering  unto  the  Lord. 
And  Adam  was  obedient  unto  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord."  (Moses  5:5.) 

Adam  had  already  learned  his  lesson 
well.  Because  he  hadn't  done  what  the 
Lord  asked  him  to  do,  he  lost  the  privi- 
leges he  formerly  had.  Now  that  Adam 
was  on  his  own,  he  had  to  fight  weeds, 
illness,  cold,  hunger,  and  all  the  other 
problems  that  beset  mankind.  Adam 
had  already  learned  the  value  of 
obedience,  and  he  obeyed  this  new 
counsel  religiously.  How  long  this 
obedient  sacrifice  continued  we  don't 
know,  but  it  must  have  been  a  long 
period  as  we  reckon  time.  At  least  it 
was  long  enough  for  the  Lord  to  make 
sure  that  Adam  had  learned  his  lesson 
well  before  he  was  given  the  reason 
for  this  commandment.  But  as  a  result 
of  his  obedience,  he  now  obtained  fur- 
ther knowledge.  The  scripture  con- 
tinues: 

"And  after  many  days  an  angel  of 
the  Lord  appeared  unto  Adam,  saying: 
Why  dost  thou  offer  sacrifices  unto  the 
Lord?  And  Adam  said  unto  him:  I 
know  not,  save  the  Lord  commanded 
me. 

"And  then  the  angel  spake,  saying: 
This  thing  is  a  similitude  of  the  sacri- 
fice of  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father, 
which  is  full  of  grace  and  truth. 

"Wherefore,  thou  shalt  do  all  that 
thou  doest  in  the  name  of  the  Son, 
and  thou  shalt  repent  and  call  upon 
God  in  the  name  of  the  Son  forever- 
more."  (Moses  5:6-7.) 

Pattern  for  gaining  knowledge 

This  then  becomes  the  pattern  by 
which  we  gain  knowledge  in  this  life. 
If  we  seek  the  Lord  and  ask  for  counsel, 
it  is  given.  The  Lord  is  a  very  wise 
teacher.  He  knows  that  one  can't  teach 
a  student  until  that  student  is  ready  to 
listen.  I  think  failure  to  understand 
this  principle  is  the  cause  of  many  of 
our  present-day  ills.  We  too  often  give 
when  the  recipient  doesn't  want  to  re- 
ceive. We  preach  when  people  refuse 
to  listen.  Young  people  complain  they 
can't  communicate  with  their  elders 
when  really  that  obligation  rests  upon 


ELDER  THEODORE  M.  BURTON 


141 


youth.  Youth  doesn't  ask  for  counsel, 
but  seeks  to  give  advice  of  what  should 
be  done,  based  on  limited  experience. 
Youth  doesn't  seek  for  information,  and 
we  unwisely  give  youth  advice  that 
youth  doesn't  want  in  the  first  place. 
If  the  youth  want  to  communicate  with 
the  older  generation,  let  them  first  take 
the  initiative  themselves  and  ask  for 
and  seek  further  light  and  knowledge. 

Likewise  parents  claim  they  can't 
communicate  with  the  younger  genera- 
tion when  really  that  obligation  rests 
upon  the  parents.  Parents  too  often  go 
their  own  way,  doing  things  as  they've 
always  done  them.  They  don't  ask  for 
information  to  determine  youth's  needs 
in  our  modern  world,  but  seek  to  give 
counsel  without  that  guidance.  Par- 
ents don't  understand  the  pressures  on 
modern  youth  and  unwisely  give  youth 
advice  that  youth  isn't  ready  to  accept. 
If  parents  want  to  communicate  with 
the  younger  generation,  let  them  first 
take  the  initiative  and  ask  youth  what 
youth  wants  to  know,  thus  learning  to 
understand  youth's  problems. 

Concept  of  asking 

This  concept  of  asking  for  informa- 
tion and  help  is  a  fundamental  method 
of  obtaining  knowledge.  Although  the 
Lord  warns  us  of  impending  dangers, 
he  doesn't  give  information  to  us  until 
we  ask  for  it. 

"Behold,  I  stand  at  the  door,  and 
knock:  if  any  man  hear  my  voice,  and 
open  the  door,  I  will  come  in  to  him, 
and  will  sup  with  him,  and  he  with 
me."  (Rev.  3:20.) 

It  is  expressed  even  more  clearly  in 
Matthew: 

"Ask,  and  it  shall  be  given  you;  seek, 
and  ye  shall  find;  knock,  and  it  shall 
be  opened  unto  you; 

"For  every  one  that  asketh  receiveth; 
and  he  that  seeketh  findeth;  and  to 
him  that  knocketh  it  shall  be  opened." 
(Matt.  7:7-8.) 

This  whole  dispensation  of  the  ful- 
ness of  times  began  when  a  youth  asked 
a  question  of  the  Lord  as  a  result  of 
reading  this  scripture: 

"If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him 
ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to  all  men 
liberally,  and  upbraideth  not;  and  it 
shall  be  given  him. 


"But  let  him  ask  in  faith,  nothing 
wavering.  For  he  that  wavereth  is  like 
a  wave  of  the  sea  driven  with  the  wind 
and  tossed."  (Jas.  1:5-6.) 

The  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
may  be  regarded  as  a  prime  example 
of  this  principle.  Revelations  were 
given  as  a  result  of  questions  asked. 
When  the  Lord  saw  the  willingness  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  and  his  associates 
to  receive  instruction,  he  gave  them 
additional  principles  and  revelations 
much  beyond  the  original  questions 
asked. 

Gaining  further  knowledge 

Just  as  Adam  was  not  given  further 
knowledge  until  he  had  learned  and 
practiced  the  law  of  sacrifice,  so  the 
Israelites  were  not  qualified  to  have  the 
Melchizedek  Priesthood  until  they  first 
learned  how  to  use  and  practice  the 
laws  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  The 
gospel  of  love  was  not  given  until 
Israel  learned  and  practiced  the  pre- 
liminary law  of  carnal  commandments, 
which,  Paul  explained  to  the  Galatians 
(3:24),  was  a  schoolmaster  to  bring 
them  to  Christ.  In  our  day  we  must 
learn  and  practice  the  law  of  tithing 
before  we  can  receive  the  law  of  conse- 
cration. We  must  learn  and  practice 
the  laws  which  pertain  to  baptism  and 
confirmation  before  we  are  permitted 
to  make  higher  moral  and  ethical 
covenants  in  the  temple.  As  Alma  ex- 
pressed this  thought  he  said: 

"For  behold,  the  Lord  doth  grant 
unto  all  nations,  of  their  own  nation 
and  tongue,  to  teach  his  word,  yea,  in 
wisdom,  all  that  he  seeth  fit  that  they 
should  have;  therefore  we  see  that  the 
Lord  doth  counsel  in  wisdom,  accord- 
ing to  that  which  is  just  and  true." 
(Al.  29:8.) 

Salvation  for  the  dead 

In  this  dispensation  God  has  given 
us  great  responsibilities  in  regard  to 
one  of  his  higher  laws,  that  of  salvation 
for  the  dead.  At  first  the  law  was  only 
introduced  to  us.  Temples  had  to  be 
built  and  a  people  had  to  be  gathered. 
The  people  thus  gathered  had  to  be 
lifted  up  to  be  worthy  to  enter  the 
temples.  Vital  information  concerning 


142 

Sunday,  April  6 

the  dead  had  to  be  gathered  as  best  it 
could. 

We  thus  learned  by  doing,  and 
from  this  experience  sought  better  and 
more  efficient  ways  to  do  this  work. 

Now  in  our  day  we  find  ourselves 
closer  to  the  end  than  ever  before.  God 
has  provided  for  our  use  a  greater 
knowledge  of  how  to  gather  records  of 
the  dead.  He  has  provided  rapid 
methods  of  copying  information  by 
using  microfilm.  We  have  jet  planes 
to  speed  the  gathering  of  these  records, 
and  modern  tools,  such  as  coding,  card 
punch,  and  sorting  machines,  optical 
scanners,  electronic  computers,  and 
other  types  of  modern  business  ma- 
chines, that  can  be  used  to  compile  and 
index  these  records  into  usable  form. 
Temples  are  being  erected  in  ever- 
increasing  numbers,  and  Church  mem- 
bership is  growing  to  provide  worthy 
people  who  can  serve  in  those  temples. 

GIANT  system 

It  is  no  wonder  that  the  present  slow 
and  cumbersome  methods  of  preparing 
names  for  temple  ordinance  work  are 
giving  way  to  the  faster,  more  accurate 
GIANT  system. 

Yet  with  all  these  changes,  the  basic 
principles  of  salvation  for  the  dead 
haven't  changed.  We  are  still  respon- 
sible for  gathering  and  submitting 
names  for  our  kindred  dead.  We  still 
have  to  do  the  temple  ordinance  work 
for  those  we  identify  as  our  progenitors. 
We  still  have  to  maintain  our  own 
family  book  of  remembrance  with 
pedigree  charts  and  family  group 
sheets  of  our  direct  ancestors  to  make 
sure  that  the  temple  ordinance  work 
has  been  done  for  all  our  loved  ones. 

I  regard  this  new  method  as  a  higher 
system,  simpler,  more  rapid,  and  more 
accurate  than  any  we  have  had  hereto- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

fore.  As  I  see  it,  this  progress  is  a 
natural  growth  of  that  truth  which 
God  gives  us  as  we  seek  for  answers 
in  further  prayer: 

"And  I  give  unto  you  a  command- 
ment, that  ye  shall  forsake  all  evil  and 
cleave  unto  all  good,  that  ye  shall  live 
by  every  word  which  proceedeth  forth 
out  of  the  mouth  of  God. 

"For  he  will  give  unto  the  faithful 
line  upon  line,  precept  upon  precept; 
and  I  will  try  you  and  prove  you  here- 
with." (D&C  98:11-12.) 

Further  light  and  knowledge 

Thus  we  have  sought  for  further 
light  and  knowledge,  having  been 
obedient  to  the  preliminary  concepts. 
God  has  given  us  additional  truth  and 
new  precepts  to  apply  in  our  work  of 
salvation  for  the  dead.  This  is  a  clear 
voice  telling  us  what  to  do.  It  is  a 
well-defined  path  for  future  work.  An 
improved  way  has  been  prepared  to  aid 
us  in  completing  the  work  leading  to 
the  organization  of  the  family  of  God. 

May  God  grant  that  we  will  respond 
to  this  new  concept  and  devote  a  part 
of  our  time  to  this  important  work. 
This  new  procedure  has  been  approved 
by  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord  and  has 
the  blessing  of  the  First  Presidency.  I 
have  a  personal  testimony  that  it  is 
approved  of  God,  for  as  I  pray  for 
knowledge  of  this  truth  I  have  a  good, 
warm  feeling  in  my  heart.  I  give  you 
this  testimony  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

Elder  Theodore  M.  Burton,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us. 

Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy  will  now  ad- 
dress us. 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


We  have  received  from  the  Lord  a 
divine  commission  to  carry  his  message 
of  salvation  to  the  nations  and  peoples 
of  the  earth. 


We  announce  that  God  has  restored 
to  us  in  this  day  the  fullness  of  his 
everlasting  gospel. 

We  have  received  anew  the  same 


PRESIDENT  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 


143 


priesthood,  the  same  keys,  the  same 
doctrines,  the  same  organization,  the 
same  plan  of  salvation  that  Jesus  gave 
the  saints  in  his  day.  And  we  are  now 
commanded  to  offer  this  restored  re- 
ligion to  all  men  everywhere  as  rapidly 
as  our  strength  and  ability  permit. 

Restoration  of  the  gospel 

Our  Lord's  beloved  disciple  John 
saw  in  vision  the  restoration  of  the 
gospel  in  our  day  and  recorded  in  the 
Bible  this  testimony:  "...  I  saw  an- 
other angel  fly  in  the  midst  of  heaven, 
having  the  everlasting  gospel  to  preach 
unto  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth." 

Then,  as  guided  by  the  spirit  of  in- 
spiration, he  recorded  that  this  restored 
gospel  was  to  be  preached  "to  every 
nation,  and  kindred,  and  tongue,  and 
people"  before  the  hour  of  God's  judg- 
ment, before  the  second  coming  of  the 
Son  of  Man.  (See  Rev.  14:6-7.) 

The  restoration  of  gospel  knowledge 
commenced  in  modern  times  in  the 
spring  of  1820.  The  promised  angel  be- 
gan the  process  of  revealing  gospel 
truths  and  powers  in  September  of 
1823.  By  November  of  1831  the 
restoration  was  sufficiently  advanced 
for  the  Lord  to  say  to  the  world  through 
Joseph  Smith:  "O  inhabitants  of  the 
earth,  I  have  sent  forth  mine  angel 
flying  through  the  midst  of  heaven, 
having  the  everlasting  gospel,  who  hath 
appeared  unto  some  and  hath  com- 
mitted it  unto  man,  who  shall  appear 
unto  many  that  dwell  on  the  earth. 

"And  this  gospel  shall  be  preached 
unto  every  nation,  and  kindred,  and 
tongue,  and  people."  (D&C  133:36-37.) 

Commandment  to  preach  gospel 

We  are  thus  commanded  to  preach 
the  restored  gospel  in  all  the  world. 

We  are  to  carry  its  saving  truths  to 
every  nation,  and  kindred,  and  tongue, 
and  people. 

We  are  to  raise  the  warning  voice 
and  testify  of  the  mighty  things  which 
God  hath  wrought  in  our  day. 

We  are  to  gather  the  lost  sheep  of 
Israel  into  the  fold  of  their  true 
Shepherd. 

We  are  to  take  the  message  of  salva- 
tion to  the  ends  of  the  earth. 


Now  what  have  we  done  to  fulfill 
the  divine  decree,  and  what  must  we 
yet  do? 

From  the  day  of  the  organization  of 
the  Church  in  April  1830  to  the  present 
moment,  faithful  members  of  the 
Church  have  taught  the  gospel  and 
testified  of  its  divinity.  With  unweary- 
ing diligence  we  have  offered  the  saving 
truths  to  as  many  of  our  Father's 
children  as  our  strength  and  circum- 
stances have  permitted. 

The  restored  gospel  was  preached  in 
the  United  States  and  Canada,  in  Great 
Britain,  western  Europe,  and  Scandi- 
navia. Soon  missionaries  were  in  the 
islands  of  the  Pacific,  in  Mexico  and 
South  America,  and  in  a  host  of 
nations. 

Missionary  service 

Ten  times  ten  thousand  missionaries 
and  more  have  left  farm  and  factory, 
shop  and  store,  and  the  halls  of  higher 
learning — voluntarily  and  at  their  own 
expense — to  devote  three  hundred  thou- 
sand man  years  of  service  in  preaching 
the  gospel. 

Ten  times  a  hundred  thousand  and 
more  have  believed  their  message. 

Ten  times  ten  million  and  more  have 
heard  the  warning  voice. 

But  with  it  all,  we  have  scarce  com- 
menced the  assigned  labor.  We  have 
yet  to  preach  the  gospel  to  the  ten  times 
two  hundred  million  people  in  Russia, 
China,  India,  Asia,  Malasia,  Indonesia, 
and  so  on. 

But  this  we  shall  assuredly  do,  for  we 
are  on  the  Lord's  errand;  we  are  en- 
gaged in  his  work;  he  has  decreed  its 
over-all  success  and  triumph;  and  none 
can  stay  his  hand. 

We  have  done  as  much,  or  nearly 
so,  in  days  past  and  present,  as  our 
numbers  and  means  allowed.  At  our 
present  rate  of  growth,  the  Church  is 
doubling  in  membership  every  20  or  25 
years.  Will  it  be  long,  at  this  rate,  be- 
fore we  have  25,000  missionaries  serv- 
ing at  one  time?  Or  50,000?  Or  100,000? 
Or  as  many  as  the  needs  of  the  ministry 
require  to  fulfill  the  divine  command 
to  the  uttermost? 

Furthermore,  our  means  of  travel 
and  teaching  are  improving.  Today  we 


144  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  6 

have  jet  planes  and  radio  and  tele- 
vision. Who  knows  what  we  shall  have 
tomorrow?  Whatever  the  scientific  ad- 
vances may  be,  they  shall  be  used  for 
the  furtherance  of  the  Lord's  work  and 
for  the  spread  of  truth  in  the  earth. 

With  it  all,  however,  the  face-to-face 
and  voice-to-ear  testimony  of  the  elders 
of  Israel  will  always  be  required  in 
teaching  the  gospel.  One  elder  will 
always  have  to  stand  with  one  believ- 
ing soul  in  the  waters  of  baptism  to 
perform  that  ordinance  without  which 
no  accountable  man  can  be  saved. 

Future  growth  of  Church 

What  then  of  the  future  growth  of 
the  Church?  Eventually,  in  a  millen- 
nial day,  the  knowledge  of  God  shall 
cover  the  earth  as  the  waters  cover  the 
sea,  meaning  that  every  living  soul  on 
earth  shall  be  converted  to  the  truth, 
for  truth  shall  prevail. 

In  the  meantime,  we  shall  go  forward 
according  to  the  divine  timetable,  a 
timetable  under  which  the  Lord  will 
prepare  the  way  for  us  to  teach  the 
gospel  in  one  nation  after  another  as 
rapidly  as  our  strength  and  means  are 
sufficient  for  us  to  do  the  work. 

Nephi  foresaw  that  we  shall  estab- 
lish congregations  of  the  saints  in  all 
nations  and  among  all  peoples  and 
kindreds  before  the  promised  unity  of 
the  faith.  Speaking  of  this  dispensation, 
he  said: 

"...  I  beheld  the  church  of  the  Lamb 
of  God,  and  its  numbers  were  few,  be- 
cause of  the  wickedness  and  abomina- 
tions of  the  whore  who  sat  upon  many 
waters;  nevertheless,  I  beheld  that  the 
church  of  the  Lamb,  who  were  the 
saints  of  God,  were  also  upon  all  the 
face  of  the  earth;  and  their  dominions 
upon  the  face  of  the  earth  were  small, 
because  of  the  wickedness  of  the  great 
whore  whom  I  saw."  (1  Ne.  14:12.) 

Ordinances  of  exaltation 

And  John  the  Revel  ator  recorded 
that  the  faithful  in  latter  days  would 
praise  the  Lord  by  saying:  "Thou  art 
worthy  ...  for  thou  wast  slain,  and 
hast  redeemed  us  to  God  by  thy  blood 
out  of  every  kindred,  and  tongue,  and 
people,  and  nation; 

"And  hast  made  us  unto  our  God 


Third  Day 

kings  and  priests:  and  we  shall  reign  on 
the  earth."  (Rev.  5:9-10.) 

That  is,  before  the  millennial  era, 
before  the  time  when  Christ  shall  reign 
personally  upon  the  earth,  the  elect  of 
God  among  every  kindred,  the  saints 
who  speak  every  tongue,  the  converts 
among  all  peoples  and  nations,  having 
first  believed  the  restored  gospel,  will 
go  to  the  temples  of  God  and  receive 
the  ordinances  of  exaltation  whereby 
they  qualify  to  become  kings  and 
priests. 

A  witness  to  all  nations 

Truly  did  the  Lord  Jesus  say  of  our 
day:  ".  .  .  this  Gospel  of  the  Kingdom 
shall  be  preached  in  all  the  world,  for 
a  witness  unto  all  nations,  and  then 
shall  the  end  come. . . ."  (Joseph  Smith 
1:31.) 

And  truly  did  Joseph  Smith  prophesy: 
".  .  .  the  Standard  of  Truth  has  been 
erected;  no  unhallowed  hand  can  stop 
the  work  from  progressing;  persecutions 
may  rage,  mobs  may  combine,  armies 
may  assemble,  calumny  may  defame, 
but  the  truth  of  God  will  go  forth 
boldly,  nobly,  and  independent,  till  it 
has  penetrated  every  continent,  visited 
every  clime,  swept  every  country,  and 
sounded  in  every  ear,  till  the  purposes 
of  God  shall  be  accomplished,  and  the 
great  Jehovah  shall  say  the  work  is 
done."  (Documentary  History  of  the 
Church,  Vol.  4,  p.  540.) 

In  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

The  congregation  and  choir  will  now 
join  in  singing  "How  Firm  a  Founda- 
tion," conducted  by  Jay  E.  Welch. 


The  congregation  and  choir  then 
sang  the  hymn,  "How  Firm  a  Foun- 
dation." 


President  Dyer 

Elder  John  Longden,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  will  be  our  next  speaker.  He 
will  be  followed  by  Elder  Paul  H. 
Dunn  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy, 
and  who  is  now  serving  as  president  of 
the  New  England  Mission. 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 


145 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 


As  we  approach  the  end  of  this 
sacred,  spiritual  feast  we  have  attended, 
including,  of  course,  the  Primary  and 
Sunday  School  conferences,  I  am  sure 
we  are  all  of  one  heart;  we  now  await 
anxiously  the  blessing  of  our  revered 
Prophet,  President  David  O.  McKay,  so 
I  should  like  to  suggest  as  my  thought 
that  all  of  us  must  be  better,  more 
dedicated,  more  knowledgeable,  more 
tolerant,  more  truly  spiritual  leaders 
of  men.  As  we  have  listened  to  our 
great  leaders  during  this  conference,  I 
venture  to  say  we  have  all  made  reso- 
lutions to  be  more  valiant  in  the 
service  of  our  Master. 

Zone  of  influence 

Those  who  know  me  best  have  heard 
me  say  before  that  each  of  us  has  our 
own  zone  of  influence.  How  am  I  us- 
ing my  influence?  How  are  you?  Are 
we  leading  our  fellowmen  up  the  path 
to  higher,  greater  achievements?  Or 
are  we  despoiling  our  leadership  quali- 
ties by  helping  others  in  the  paths  of 
folly,  unbelief,  bitterness,  and  unhap- 
piness?  We  lead  by  example. 

In  a  tribute  paid  to  a  great  states- 
man who  is  no  longer  with  us,  one  of 
his  fellows  who  knew  him  best  said 
of  him:  "He  was  a  great  leader  of 
men.  He  stood  boldly  by  the  things 
he  believed  to  be  right."  I'm  certain 
this  is  true  of  this  man. 

Always,  when  I  hear  tributes  like 
this,  I  find  myself  applying  them  to  the 
great  men  I  sustain  as  prophets  of  God. 
Today,  and  in  past  years,  this  same 
tribute  and  much  more  can  be  said  of 
the  men  who  are  prophets  in  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  Each  of  these  great  men  has 
given  us,  in  the  past  days,  so  much 
food  for  thought.  Each,  in  his  own 
right,  is  a  great  leader.  How  are  we 
at  following  leadership? 

Example  of  custodian 

May  I  share  a  rich  experience  with 
you?  Not  too  long  ago,  when  I  was  on 
the  campus  of  one  of  our  Church 


schools,  a  professor  called  my  attention 
to  a  man  close  by.  He  said  he  was  a 
custodian  there.  He  didn't  have  a  col- 
lege degree,  but  he  and  his  wife  had 
been  blessed  with  seven  children;  each 
of  them  had  earned  a  college  degree. 
Each  had  found  a  companion  of  his 
choice,  and  had  married  in  the  temple. 
The  sons  had  all  filled  honorable  mis- 
sions for  the  Church. 

As  the  professor  left,  I  introduced 
myself  to  this  gentleman.  In  the 
course  of  the  conversation,  he  related 
this  story  to  me: 

A  few  days  before,  he  found  a  wallet. 
In  order  to  find  some  identification,  he 
opened  it  and  discovered  some  porno- 
graphic pictures.  Rather  than  turn  it 
over  to  the  lost  and  found  department, 
he  personally  called  the  young  man 
who  owned  the  wallet,  and  when  he 
came  to  claim  it,  the  custodian  showed 
his  own  wallet  to  the  young  lad.  It 
contained  a  picture  of  his  wife,  their 
children,  and  grandchildren;  he  said, 
"This  is  the  kind  of  wallet  I  would 
like  to  see  you  accumulate." 

The  young  man,  quite  ashamed,  re- 
moved the  pictures  from  his  wallet, 
tore  them  up,  and  threw  them  in  the 
wastebasket.  A  good  leader,  this  care- 
taker? "For  where  your  treasure  is, 
there  will  your  heart  be  also."  (Matt. 
6:21.) 

False  concepts 

A  young  lad  with  some  problems 
came  to  my  office  to  seek  advice.  I 
discovered  that  in  his  home,  his  school, 
and  even  in  his  church,  he  had  not  been 
really  touched  by  a  good  leader.  He 
complained  that  some  of  his  peers  had 
not  acted  as  they  had  spoken,  yet  here 
was  a  precious  soul,  a  spirit  child  of 
God,  who  instinctively  wanted  better 
things  of  life. 

I  believe  young  people  generally  are 
basically  endowed  with  a  desire  to 
please  their  peers,  to  believe  in  a 
supreme  being,  and  it  is  most  simple 
for  the  real  young  to  pray  to  him  and 
express  heartfelt  wishes,  thoughts,  and 


146 

Sunday,  April  6 

desires.  It  is  when  their  peers  give 
them  false  concepts  of  life,  when 
adults  disappoint  them  by  their  actions, 
when  the  lack  of  our  own  integrity 
shows  through,  that  the  very  young 
begin  to  form  wrong  opinions  and  start 
wrong  practices,  thus  ending  up  on 
wrong  paths. 

Warfare  with  evil 

I  quote  from  a  discourse  given  by 
President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  in  the 
general  priesthood  meeting  of  October 
1954.  To  me,  it  is  an  enthralling 
thought  that  the  priesthood  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  is  the  army  of 
the  Lord,  "the  Army  to  which  the  Lord 
looks  to  carry  on  his  great  warfare  with 
evil.  .  .  . 

"We  are  to  fight  .  .  .  the  foes  of 
righteousness,  we  are  to  fight  a  life 
and  death  struggle  for  ourselves,  not 
only,  but  for  those  who  are  associated 
with  us,  for  the  membership  of  the 
Church."  (Conference  Report,  October 
1954,  p.  78.) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


The  power  of  Jesus  Christ 

President  David  O.  McKay,  one  of 
the  greatest  leaders  of  men  of  all  time, 
our  living  Prophet,  said: 

"The  greatest  power  in  the  world 
today,  and  the  power  that  is  needed  to 
thwart  the  schemes  of  the  adversary, 
is  the  power  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

"That  man  is  greatest  who  is  Christ- 
like, and  what  you  think  of  Christ  is 
largely  what  you  will  be." 

In  the  opening  remarks  of  this  con- 
ference read  by  Brother  Robert  McKay, 
President  McKay  challenged  us  to 
"bravely  and  heroically  choose  a  better 
course  of  life."  So,  whoever  we  are, 
wherever  we  may  be,  whether  young  or 
old,  may  we  determine  to  be  better 
parents,  better  citizens,  better  members 
of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  better  leaders  of  men. 

With  deep  emotion  and  thanksgiv- 
ing, may  I  add  my  testimony  of  the 
divinity  of  this  great  work  to  those 
already  expressed,  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  PAUL  H.  DUNN 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


President  McKay,  my  beloved  broth- 
ers and  sisters:  This  is  always  a  very 
humbling  experience.  I  too  seek  the 
faith  of  your  prayers  in  my  behalf. 
I  have  been  most  uplifted,  as  I  have 
sensed  you  have,  by  the  great  messages 
of  this  conference,  the  sweet  testi- 
monies that  have  been  borne,  the  great 
truths  that  have  been  emphasized 
again. 

These  experiences  and  messages 
have  brought  to  my  attention,  as  it 
relates  to  our  responsibility,  an  ex- 
perience I  had  a  few  years  ago  while 
serving  as  a  religion  teacher  on  the 
University  of  Southern  California 
campus. 

Incident  at  PTA  convention 

Because  of  my  particular  position  in 
directing  the  institute  program,  I  was 
invited  by  that  great  institution  to 
participate  in  what  was  known  as  a 


PTA  convention  discussing  the  prob- 
lems concerning  our  youth.  I  suppose 
I  was  invited  as  a  member  because  of 
the  great  work  that  this  Church  does 
for  its  young  people. 

I  remember  that  the  president  of  the 
university  himself  was  sponsoring  a 
little  luncheon  to  be  held  before  the 
conference.  As  I  entered  the  cafeteria, 
there  assembled  around  the  table  were 
those  who  would  participate  in  the 
meeting  that  was  to  ensue.  I  had  not 
met  my  colleagues  who  were  to  dis- 
cuss the  problems  of  youth  with  me, 
and  this  was  a  chance  for  us  to  get 
acquainted.  I  noticed  when  I  went  in 
to  take  my  seat  that  there  were  appro- 
priate name  cards  identifying  each 
one  of  us  and  that  I  was  to  be  seated 
next  to  a  full  navy  commander. 

As  we  sat  down,  the  navy  com- 
mander leaned  over  and  said  to  me, 
"You're  the  Latter-day  Saint,  aren't 


PRESIDENT  PAUL  H.  DUNN 


147 


you?"  And  I  wondered  what  I  had  done 
to  tip  him  off. 

I  said,  "Yes,  sir,  I  am,  how  did  you 
know?" 

"Well,"  he  said,  pointing  to  the 
cup  that  I  had  turned  over  as  I  took 
my  chair,  "I  noticed  you  weren't  going 
to  partake  of  that  liquid." 

I  said,  "Yes,  sir,  but  I  happen  to  know 
a  lot  of  people  who  aren't  members  of 
my  faith  that  don't  use  that  liquid. 
How  would  you  know?" 

He  said,  "Well,  it  is  the  way  you 
turned  your  cup  over."  He  said,  "You 
have  that  Mormon  twist  in  your 
wrist." 

A  salute  to  the  Church 

I  immediately  started  to  exercise  my 
own  faith  as  a  missionary  and  at- 
tempted to  teach  him  a  little  about  the 
Word  of  Wisdom.  He  interrupted  me 
and  said,  "Young  man,  I  didn't  invite 
this  conversation  to  get  a  dissertation 
from  you  at  this  time.  But  I  would  like 
to  take  this  opportunity,  if  I  may,  to 
salute  you.  May  I  do  that?" 

Well,  now,  to  a  former  PFC,  that  is 
great  tribute.  I  said,  "Please,  sir,  go 
right  ahead." 

"Well,"  he  said,  "I  don't  mean  you 
personally."  I  must  confess  that  hurt 
my  ego  a  little. 

He  said,  "I  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  salute  your  church  and 
that  great  body  you  represent  here 
today.  As  you  know,  I  am  directing 
one  of  the  navy  testing  programs 
educationally  throughout  the  United 
States,  and  wherever  I  go  I  watch  you 
people  with  great  interest,  and  I  sup- 
pose I  have  seen  many  of  you  without 
your  knowing  it,  and  I  would  like  you 
to  know,  Mr.  Dunn,  that  I  feel  secure 
in  the  presence  of  the  Latter-day  Saint 
people." 

He  said,  "You  have  something,  I 
don't  know  what  it  is  [you  and  I  do — 
the  priesthood,  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
which  beckons  all  to  come],  but,"  he 
added,  "I  feel  that  one  day  this  coun- 
try— in  fact  the  world — will  look  to 
you  for  direction.  Thank  you,  sir,  for 
being  what  you  are  and  for  the  great 
influence  of  your  church." 


Can  you  appreciate  in  some  small 
measure  the  thrill  that  was  mine  as  a 
representative  of  God's  true  Church? 
You  have  had  like  experiences,  and  I 
thought  about  that  again  today  and 
these  past  days  as  we  have  been  re- 
minded of  our  great  responsibilities, 
as  parents,  as  teachers,  and  as  leaders. 

Tribute  to  parents 

I  would  like  to  pay  a  tribute  to  you 
wonderful  parents  who  have  trained 
up  your  children  in  the  way  that  they 
should  go,  that  you  might  send  into 
the  mission  field  the  choice  spirits  that 
you  have.  My,  what  a  leaven  in  the 
worldly  loaf  they  are.  And  I  testify  to 
you  that  they  are  great  men  and 
women,  testifying  to  the  divinity  of  our 
Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ. 

I  am  located  in  an  area  where  there 
is  a  great  cultural  and  traditional  in- 
fluence, where  intellectualism  abounds. 
I  would  just  like  to  share  a  few  thoughts 
that  I  might  direct  to  those  people, 
particularly  as  they  relate  to  this  time 
of  year. 

As  members  of  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  we  with 
many  others  of  the  Christian  world 
have  anticipated  the  coming  of  Easter 
and  its  celebration  in  commemoration 
of  the  resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Meaning  of  Christ  for  our  times 

Anticipating  Easter  in  an  era  that 
has  been  described  as  "post-Christian"; 
in  an  age  when  modern  science  and 
technology  have  given  rise  to  the  "secu- 
lar city,"  as  they  prefer  to  call  it; 
when  an  analytical  philosophy  has 
described  as  meaningless  all  proposi- 
tions that  go  beyond  certain  defined 
limits  of  sense  experience;  when  bibli- 
cal scholarship  has  mythologized  the 
New  Testament,  and  a  new  radical 
theology  has  proclaimed  the  death  of 
God,  I  think  we  need  to  raise  anew  the 
question  of  the  meaning  of  Jesus  Christ 
for  our  time.  Of  course,  for  many  of 
our  contemporaries,  caught  up  in  the 
cross  currents  of  a  predominantly  secu- 
lar culture,  the  life,  death,  and  resur- 
rection of  Jesus  Christ  can  have  little 
or  no  meaning. 


148  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  6 

I  raise  the  question— What  is  the 
meaning  of  Jesus  Christ  for  our  times? 
— not  as  preliminary  to  the  presenta- 
tion of  a  legal  brief  in  defense  of  the 
fact  of  the  resurrection,  nor  to  afford 
an  opportunity  to  argue  in  support  of 
our  belief  in  the  resurrection.  This  is 
not  the  occasion  for  religious  argument. 
This  is  an  occasion  to  bear  witness  to 
the  hope,  the  joy,  and  the  faith  that 
we  have  in  the  divine  message  that 
Christ  lives.  Our  presence  here  today 
is  evidence  of  that  faith,  and  what  I 
hope  to  say  is  intended  as  an  added 
witness  to  that  faith. 

Faith  of  early  Christians 

Jesus  Christ  has  meant  many  things 
to  many  people,  but  there  can  be  no 
mistake  about  what  he  meant  to  the 
early  Christians.  New  Testament  faith 
was  based  upon  the  belief  that  in  the 
life,  death,  and  resurrection  of  Jesus 
Christ,  God,  our  Father,  in  a  decisive 
manner,  had  prepared  the  way  for  man 
to  enter  the  world,  live  the  complete 
life,  and  again  regain  his  presence. 
Motivated  by  this  belief,  early  Chris- 
tians went  forth  to  proclaim  the  gos- 
pel, or  the  "good  news."  It  was  the 
overwhelming  impact  of  the  "good 
news,"  centering  in  the  resurrection, 
that  caused  Christians  to  face  the 
threat  of  the  dungeon,  the  sword,  and 
the  cross.  Early  Christianity  moved 
forward  under  the  compelling  faith 
that  the  resurrected  Jesus  was  Christ, 
the  Lord. 

That  the  resurrection  was  central  to 
the  early  Christian  message  cannot  be 
doubted.  Writing  to  the  Corinthians, 
Paul  said,  ".  .  .  if  Christ  be  not  raised, 
your  faith  is  vain.  ..."  (1  Cor.  15:17.) 
Read  in  its  context,  it  is  clear  that 
Paul  is  not  trying  to  prove  the  resur- 
rection of  Christ  in  this  statement  He 
is  here  appealing  to  the  one  thing  that 
all  Christians  accepted  in  order  to  prove 
another  point,  namely,  that  because  of 
his  resurrection  Jesus  was  the  Messiah, 
the  Savior;  and  through  the  redemptive 
mission  of  Jesus,  as  the  Christ,  as  the 
Savior,  man's  own  immortality  and 
eternal  life  were  assured.  This  was  the 
gospel.  This  was  the  "good  news." 
This  was  the  faith  of  early  Christianity. 


Third  Day 

Faith  today  in  Christ's  mission 

Now,  after  almost  two  thousand 
years,  in  the  passing  time  of  a  century 
characterized  by  a  decline  in  religious 
faith,  the  restored  gospel  joyfully  pro- 
claims anew,  with  as  much  enthusiasm 
and  vigor  as  did  the  first  century 
Christians,  that  Christ  is  risen.  Our 
confidence  in  man's  salvation  through 
the  atonement  of  Christ  is  a  matter 
of  faith,  not  completely  understood, 
yet  the  central  meaning  of  Jesus  Christ 
for  our  time,  as  for  all  time,  is  to  be 
found  in  that  faith — faith  in  man's 
salvation  through  the  resurrection. 

Salvation  in  this  sense  is  a  gift  to 
a  man  through  the  grace  of  God.  But 
those  who  are  familiar  with  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  know  that  it  is  also  a  religion  of 
merit.  Our  concern  is  not  only  with 
the  future  but  also  with  the  past,  and 
especially  with  the  present.  Mormon- 
ism  touches  every  phase  of  life;  it  is  a 
gospel  of  work,  of  play,  of  service,  of 
prayer,  of  hope.  And  belief  in  immor- 
tality looms  large  in  this  picture. 

What  eternal  life  embraces 

Eternal  life,  however,  does  not 
merely  embrace  the  future;  it  also  em- 
braces the  past  and  the  present.  This 
means  that  the  present  is  determinative 
of  what  the  future  holds  for  man,  both 
as  an  individual  and  as  society.  This 
world,  therefore,  is  not  regarded  as 
some  condemned  region  in  space  where 
man  awaits  transportation  to  heaven 
or  hell. 

Man  and  the  world  share  a  common 
destiny — man  and  the  world  are  to 
be  saved  together.  Man's  purpose  in 
the  world  is  to  progressively  know  and 
to  live  the  revelations  of  God  reflected 
in  his  own  soul  and  the  creations 
about  him.  Man  will  never  be  worthy 
of  or  capable  of  appreciating  a  more 
glorious  state  of  existence  until  he  has 
in  some  measure  learned  to  appreciate 
the  meaning,  beauty,  and  problems 
of  the  one  in  which  he  now  finds 
himself.  This  means  that  while  the 
past  and  future  are  important,  the 
present  is  the  greatest  of  all  time, 
because  it  holds  the  promise  of  all 
that  is  to  come. 


PRESIDENT  PAUL  H.  DUNN 


149 


Jesus  taught  divine  principles 

With  this  view  in  mind,  I  raise  again 
the  question  of  the  meaning  of  Jesus 
Christ  for  today.  Within  this  dimen- 
sion of  the  gospel  we  find  the  mean- 
ing of  Christ  in  the  very  urgent  and 
serious  problems  that  we  face  as  indi- 
viduals and  as  a  nation.  Some  of  these 
problems  come  from  the  past  and  con- 
tinue to  haunt  us;  other  problems  are 
of  modern  making  and  are  peculiar 
to  our  age — peculiar  at  least  in  the 
sense  that  they  are  in  a  new  setting. 
It  is  in  the  imaginative  and  creative 
solution  of  old  problems  and  in  the 
struggle  with  novel  problems  against 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  that  he 
takes  on  new  meaning  for  us  today. 

Jesus  taught  in  terms  of  universal, 
divine  principles,  and  men  were  left 
with  the  responsibility,  and  their  free 
agency,  to  implement  those  principles. 
When  he  was  asked  how  often  an- 
other should  be  forgiven,  he  answered 
with  a  statement  that  urged  a  limit- 
less spending  of  forgiveness.  When 
asked  what  acts  were  legal  on  the 
Sabbath,  he  answered  with  a  state- 
ment that  made  it  plain  that  people 
should  be  considered  over  institutions. 
When  asked,  "Who  is  my  neighbor?" 
he  answered  with  a  parable  in  which  a 
neighbor  was  described  as  "a  certain 
man"  who  was  in  need  of  help. 

If  Jesus  had  merely  given  moral 
rules  in  terms  of  the  culture  of  his 
times,  his  teaching  would  have  long 
since  been  out  of  date.  But  his  teach- 
ings are  bound  to  no  single  culture, 
nor  to  any  age.  Each  succeeding  age  is 
left  to  discover  a  way  of  making  the 
gospel  principles  of  Jesus  Christ  live 
in  terms  of  its  own  conception  of  so- 
ciety. When  this  is  done,  we  are  com- 
pelled to  recognize  that  his  ideal  goes 
far  beyond  not  only  what  man  has  put 
into  practice  but  also  what  most  men 
have  thought  possible. 

Merging  of  real  and  ideal 

To  speak  of  our  age,  therefore,  as  the 
"post-Christian"  age  is  a  mistake  for 
the  simple  reason  that  the  Christian 
age,  in  any  real  sense,  has  not  yet 
been  fully  achieved.  If  the  fault  is 
said  to  be  in  Jesus  because  he  was  too 


idealistic  for  this  hardheaded,  practical 
world,  our  witness  is  that  Jesus  was 
as  much  of  a  realist  as  an  idealist — the 
real  and  ideal  merge  in  his  life  and 
teachings.  It  is  the  world  that  has  not 
been  realistic  and  has  not  been  able 
to  take  him  at  his  word.  He  said  that 
mankind  is  a  brotherhood.  The  world 
has  said  that  mankind  ought  to  be  a 
brotherhood.  We  have  failed  to  take 
his  realism  seriously,  and  our  problems 
multiply  and  grow  in  complexity. 

In  regard  to  the  frustration,  futility, 
and  meaninglessness  in  which  an  in- 
creasing number  of  individual  lives  are 
submerged,  our  witness  is  that  the 
passing  years  continue  to  establish  the 
validity  of  Jesus  Christ's  estimate  of 
human  personality  as  the  supreme 
value  in  the  universe.  To  the  disturbed, 
wandering  youth  of  our  time,  we  testify 
that  personality,  that  people,  that  hu- 
man beings  are  precious,  and  that  life  is 
worth  living. 

As  to  the  solution  of  many  of  the 
personal  problems  with  which  con- 
temporary man  is  plagued,  our  witness 
is  that  modernity  as  well  as  antiquity 
give  support  to  Jesus'  view  that  person- 
ality is  fulfilled  not  in  the  self-cen- 
teredness  of  either  the  occidental  or 
oriental  variety,  but  rather  in  service 
to  humanity.  Human  experience  today, 
as  always,  confirms  that  whosoever 
would  save  his  life  will  lose  it,  and 
whosoever  shall  lose  his  life  in  the 
interest  and  service  of  others  shall 
save  it. 

Solution  of  personal  and 
social  problems 

I  have  said  that  the  meaning  of 
Jesus  Christ  for  our  time  is  to  be  found 
in  his  death  and  resurrection,  which 
assures  man's  immortality.  We  have 
also  said  that  the  application  of  his 
ideal  to  the  central  and  crucial  prob- 
lems of  our  day  gives  us  further  insight 
into  his  meaning  for  us.  He  stands  as 
an  eternal  symbol  of  our  Heavenly 
Father's  interest  in  and  suffering  for 
the  needs  of  humanity.  As  we  see 
God's  will  revealed  through  him  for  the 
solution  of  our  personal  and  social 
problems,  so  our  faith  is  made  sure 
that  he  will  be  forever  meaningful  in 
the  lives  of  men. 


150 

Sunday,  April  6 

We  believe  that  the  best  and  most 
effective  efforts  being  made  today  to- 
ward the  elimination  of  ignorance  and 
human  suffering  are  in  accordance  with 
the  Savior's  inspiration  and  revelation. 
In  him  and  his  gospel  are  to  be  found 
the  faith  and  hope  of  the  future.  So 
it  is  with  a  deep  sense  of  its  permanent 
and  universal  meaning  that  we  read 
his  statement  as  he  departed  from  his 
disciples:  ". . .  lo,  I  am  with  you  alway, 
even  unto  the  end  of  the  world."  (Matt. 
28:20.) 

May  the  experience  of  this  Easter 
season  make  us  more  responsive  to 
his  inspiration  and  more  conscious  of 
our  responsibilities,  I  pray,  as  I  give  you 
my  solemn  witness  that  God  lives,  that 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

Jesus  is  the  Christ,  in  the  name  of  our 
beloved  Savior,  even  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

President  McKay  has  not  been  able 
to  attend  any  of  the  conference  ses- 
sions, but  we  have  felt  of  his  spirit 
and  partaken  of  his  blessings.  May  we 
who  are  here  as  representatives  of  the 
Church  express  our  love  and  apprecia- 
tion for  this  great  man,  and  convey 
our  blessings  upon  you,  President 
McKay,  and  your  lovely  companion. 

President  McKay  has  asked  that  his 
son,  Robert  R.  McKay,  read  his  clos- 
ing message  of  the  conference. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 

(Read  by  his  son  Robert  R.  McKay) 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters:  As  we 
approach  the  conclusion  of  this  out- 
standing annual  conference  of  the 
Church,  my  soul  is  filled  with  appre- 
ciation and  thanksgiving  for  the  privi- 
lege we  have  had  of  partaking  of  the 
wonderful  spirit  and  feeling  of  brother- 
hood that  have  permeated  the  meetings 
held  during  the  past  three  days. 

I  am  impressed  with  the  thought 
that  everyone  who  has  attended,  either 
in  person  or  by  listening  in,  no  matter 
where  he  or  she  may  be,  could  not  help 
but  leave  this  conference  with  a  greater 
desire  and  determination  to  be  a  better 
man  or  a  better  woman,  a  better  citi- 
zen of  his  own  city,  county,  or  nation, 
than  he  or  she  has  ever  been  before. 

Responsibility  to  contribute 

However,  we  cannot  go  from  this 
conference  without  an  added  responsi- 
bility to  contribute  to  a  better  life 
around  us.  As  individuals,  we  must 
think  nobler  thoughts.  We  must  not 
encourage  base  thoughts  nor  low  as- 
pirations. If  we  do,  we  shall  radiate 
them  to  others.  If  we  think  noble 
thoughts,  if  we  encourage  and  cherish 
noble  aspirations,  there  will  be  that 
radiation  when  we  meet  people,  espe- 
cially when  we  associate  with  them. 


Every  man,  every  person  radiates 
what  he  or  she  is.  Every  person  is  a 
recipient  of  radiation.  The  Savior  was 
conscious  of  this  fact.  Whenever  he 
came  into  the  presence  of  an  indi- 
vidual, he  sensed  that  radiation, 
whether  it  was  the  woman  of  Samaria 
with  her  past  life;  whether  it  was  the 
woman  who  was  to  be  stoned,  or  the 
men  who  were  to  stone  her;  whether 
it  was  the  statesman,  Nicodemus,  or 
one  of  the  lepers.  Christ  was  ever  con- 
scious of  the  radiation  from  the  indi- 
vidual, and,  to  a  degree,  so  are  you,  and 
so  am  I.  It  is  what  we  are  and  what 
we  radiate  that  affects  the  people 
around  us. 

As  it  is  true  of  the  individual,  so  it 
is  true  of  the  home.  Our  homes  radiate 
what  we  are,  and  that  radiation  comes 
from  what  we  say  and  how  we  act  in 
the  home.  No  member  of  this  Church, 
no  husband  or  father,  has  the  right 
to  utter  an  oath  in  his  home,  or  ever 
to  express  a  cross  word  to  his  wife  or 
to  his  children.  By  your  ordination  and 
your  responsibility,  you  cannot  do  it 
as  a  man  who  holds  the  priesthood 
and  be  true  to  the  spirit  within  you. 
You  contribute  to  an  ideal  home  by 
your  character,  controlling  your  pas- 
sion,  your    temper,    guarding  your 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


151 


speech,  because  those  things  will  make 
your  home  what  it  is,  and  what  it  will 
radiate  to  the  neighborhood.  You  do 
what  you  can  to  produce  peace  and 
harmony,  no  matter  what  you  may 
suffer. 

True  to  the  divine 

The  man  who  is  true  to  his  manhood 
will  not  lie  against  the  truth.  There 
is  within  every  man  that  which  is 
divine. 

The  man  who  will  be  true  to  the 
divine  within  him  is  true  to  his  Lord 
and  to  his  fellowmen.  The  man  who 
is  untrue  to  that  which  he  knows  to 
be  right  is  wavering  and  weakening. 
He  may  go  so  far  that  he  will  step 
out  of  the  light,  out  of  that  divine 
presence,  and  woe  be  unto  him  when 
he  does. 

We  have  declared  to  the  world  that 
we  have  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ; 
that  we  are  going  to  stand  against 
vice  and  sin.  Shall  we  forsake  this 
cause  in  order  to  please  men,  or  be- 
cause we  desire  to  give  lip  service 
rather  than  heart  service?  No!  We 
shall  stand  true  to  ourselves,  true  to 
the  divine  within  us,  true  to  that  truth 
which  we  have  received.  We  need  to 
know  that  it  is  not  good  to  have  evil 
surrounding  us  to  draw  away  our  young 
men  and  women  and  lead  them  into 
the  darkness  of  misery  and  despair. 
When  we  are  thrown  into  the  com- 
pany of  men  who  try  to  tempt  us,  let 
us  be  true  unto  the  death. 

We  know  that  man  is  a  dual  being. 
He  is  physical;  he  has  his  appetites, 
passions,  desires,  just  as  any  animal 
has;  but  he  is  also  a  spiritual  being, 
and  he  knows  that  to  subdue  the  ani- 
mal instincts  is  to  achieve  advancement 
in  the  spiritual  realm.  A  man  who  is 
subject  to  his  physical  appetites  and 
passions  only,  who  denies  any  reality 
of  a  spirit,  is  truly  of  the  animal  world. 
Man  is  a  spiritual  being,  and  his  real 
life  is  the  spirit  that  inhabits  his  body. 
He  is  a  son  of  God,  and  he  has  within 
him  that  which  will  cause  him  to  yearn 
and  to  aspire  to  become  dignified,  as 
a  son  of  God  should  be  dignified.  The 
dignity  of  man,  not  the  degradation  of 
man,  has  been  emphasized  throughout 
this  conference. 


Men  of  truth 

All  men  who  have  moved  the  world 
have  been  men  who  will  stand  true  to 
their  conscience — such  men  as  Peter, 
James,  and  Paul,  and  their  brethren 
of  the  ancient  apostles,  and  also  others. 
When  the  religious  leaders  of  Palmyra, 
New  York,  turned  against  the  youthful 
Joseph  Smith  for  what  he  had  seen 
and  heard  in  the  Sacred  Grove,  he 
said,  having  a  testimony  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  in  his  bosom:  "I  had  seen  a 
vision;  I  knew  it,  and  I  knew  that 
God  knew  it,  and  I  could  not  deny 
it,  neither  dared  I  do  it.  .  .  ."  (Joseph 
Smith  2:25.) 

Joseph  Smith  was  true  to  his  testi- 
mony to  the  last.  When  he  approached 
his  martyrdom  at  Carthage,  Illinois, 
he  said  to  those  who  were  with  him: 
"I  am  going  like  a  lamb  to  the  slaugh- 
ter, but  I  am  calm  as  a  summer's 
morning.  I  have  a  conscience  void  of 
offense  toward  God  and  toward  all 
men."  (Documentary  History  of  the 
Church,  Vol.  6,  p.  555.)  He  was  true 
to  his  testimony  and  to  his  manhood. 
He  was  a  man  who  possessed  divine 
manhood. 

Defense  of  truth 

That  is  the  manhood  a  true  member 
of  this  Church  should  possess  in  de- 
fending the  truth.  That  is  the  man- 
hood we  all  need,  as  we  labor  in  our 
callings  to  inspire  our  young  people 
with  that  same  truth.  It  is  that  truth 
that  we  need  in  combating  the  error 
and  evil  which  exist  in  this  critical 
period  in  the  history  of  our  own  coun- 
try and  that  of  the  world  1 

Courage  to  maintain  our  ideals  is  an 
area  in  which  we  can  manifest  man- 
hood and  activity  and  merit  the  ap- 
proval of  God.  These  are  times  when 
men  should  keep  their  heads,  and  not 
be  swept  from  their  moorings  by  every 
will-o'-the-wisp  theory  that  is  offered 
as  a  panacea  for  our  present  ills.  The 
times  call  for  couragous  youth  to  hold 
aloft  the  moral  standard.  In  that  field 
we  may  find  the  truest  courage. 

Our  greatest  heroes  are  not  always 
found  on  the  battlefield,  although  we 
read  of  such  men  daily.  We  find 
them  also  among  our  youth  at  home — 


152  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  6 

young  men  and  young  women  who 
will  stand  up  fearlessly  and  denounce 
those  things  which  they  know  will 
sap  the  character,  the  very  life-giving 
energy,  of  youth. 

Message  for  the  world 

What  a  message  the  Church  has  for 
this  distracted  world:  Its  appeal  is  to 
all,  to  the  rich  and  the  poor,  the 
strong  and  the  weak,  the  learned  and 
the  unlearned.  It  proclaims  God  to 
be  not  only  the  one  supreme  ruler  of 
the  universe,  but  the  Father  of  each 
individual — a  God  of  justice,  yet  a 
God  of  love,  constantly  watching  over 
and  guiding  even  the  humblest  of  his 
children.  With  its  complete  organiza- 
tion, the  Church  offers  service  and  in- 
spiration to  all.  It  is  preeminently  a 
social  religion.  Instead  of  taking  men 
out  of  the  world,  through  its  priesthood 
quorums  and  auxiliary  organizations  it 
seeks  to  develop  perfect,  God-like  men 
in  the  midst  of  society,  and  through 
them  to  solve  the  problems  of  society. 

There  is  not  a  principle  that  is  taught 
by  the  Savior  of  men  that  is  not  also 
applicable  to  the  growth,  development, 
and  happiness  of  mankind.  Every  one 
of  his  teachings  touches  the  true 
philosophy  of  living.  I  accept  them 
wholeheartedly,  and  it  is  a  joy  to  study 
and  teach  them.  Every  phase  of  the 
restored  Church  is  applicable  to  the 
welfare  of  the  human  family. 

I  appeal  to  the  youth  to  be  cou- 
rageous in  maintaining  the  moral  and 
spiritual  values  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  The  world  needs  moral  heroes! 
The  most  important  thing  in  life  is  not 
the  discoveries  being  made  in  our 
secular  world,  but  a  belief  in  the  reality 
of  moral  and  spiritual  values.  After 
all,  "For  what  is  a  man  profited,  if  he 
shall  gain  the  whole  world,  and  lose 
his  own  soul?  or  what  shall  a  man 
give  in  exchange  for  his  soul?"  (Matt. 
16:26.) 

Triumph  of  the  truth 

We  cannot  truly  believe  that  we  are 
the  children  of  God,  and  that  God 
exists,  without  believing  in  the  final 
inevitable  triumph  of  the  truth  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  If  we  believe 
that,  we  shall  have  less  worry  about 


Third  Day 

the  destruction  of  the  world  and  the 
present  civilization,  because  God  has 
established  his  Church  never  to  be 
thrown  down  nor  given  to  another 
people.  And  as  God  lives,  and  his 
people  are  true  to  him  and  to  one  an- 
other, we  need  not  worry  about  the 
ultimate  triumph  of  truth. 

And,  young  men  and  women,  if  you 
have  that  testimony  on  your  side,  you 
can  pass  through  the  dark  valley  of 
slander,  misrepresentation,  and  abuse, 
undaunted  as  though  you  wore  a  magic 
suit  of  armor  that  no  bullet  could 
enter,  no  arrow  could  pierce.  You  can 
hold  your  head  high,  toss  it  fearlessly 
and  defiantly,  and  look  every  man 
calmly  and  unflinchingly  in  the  eye. 
You  can  feel  the  great  expansive  world 
of  more  health  surging  through  you  as 
the  quickened  blood  courses  through 
the  body  of  him  who  is  gladly,  glori- 
ously proud  of  physical  health.  You 
will  know  that  all  will  come  out  right 
in  the  end;  that  it  must  come;  that  all 
must  flee  before  the  great  white  light 
of  truth,  as  the  darkness  slinks  away 
into  nothingness  in  the  presence  of 
the  sunburst. 

So,  with  truth  as  our  guide,  our 
companion,  our  ally,  our  inspiration, 
we  may  tingle  with  the  consciousness 
of  our  kinship  with  the  Infinite,  and 
all  the  petty  trials,  sorrows,  and  suf- 
ferings of  this  life  will  fade  away  as 
temporary,  harmless  visions  seen  in  a 
dream. 

Testimony  of  resurrection 

Today  as  we  commemorate  the  com- 
ing forth  from  the  tomb  of  the  cruci- 
fied Lord,  I  bear  my  testimony  to 
you  and  to  all  the  world  that  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  accepts  the  resurrection  not  only 
as  being  real,  but  as  the  consummation 
of  Christ's  divine  mission  on  earth. 

I  know  with  my  whole  soul  thai 
as  Christ  lives  after  death,  so  shall  all 
men,  each  taking  his  place  in  the 
next  world  for  which  he  has  best 
fitted  himself. 

Answer  to  prayer 

I  have  cherished  from  childhood 
the  truth  that  God  is  a  personal  being, 
and  is,  indeed,  our  Father  whom  we 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


153 


can  approach  in  prayer  and  receive 
answers  thereto.  I  cherish  as  one  of 
the  dearest  experiences  of  life  the 
knowledge  that  God  hears  the  prayer 
of  faith.  It  is  true  that  the  answers 
to  our  prayers  may  not  always  come 
as  direct  and  at  the  time,  nor  in  the 
manner,  we  anticipate;  but  they  do 
come,  and  at  a  time  and  in  a  manner 
best  for  the  interests  of  him  who  offers 
the  supplication. 

There  have  been  occasions,  how- 
ever, when  I  have  received  direct  and 
immediate  assurance  that  my  petition 
was  granted.  At  one  time,  particularly, 
the  answer  came  as  distinctly  as  though 
my  Heavenly  Father  stood  by  my  side 
and  spoke  the  words.  These  experi- 
ences are  part  of  my  very  being  and 
must  remain  so  long  as  memory  and 
intelligence  last.  Just  as  real  and  just 
as  close  to  me  seems  the  Savior  of  the 
world.  I  feel  as  I  have  never  felt  be- 
fore that  God  is  my  Father.  He  is  not 
just  an  intangible  power,  a  moral 
force  in  the  world,  but  a  personal  God 
with  creative  power,  the  governor  of 
the  world,  the  director  of  our  souls.  I 
would  have  all  men,  and  especially 
the  young  people  of  the  Church,  feel 
so  close  to  our  Father  in  heaven  that 
they  will  approach  him  daily — not  in 
public  alone,  but  in  private.  If  our 
people  will  have  this  faith,  great  bless- 
ings will  come  to  them.  Their  souls 
will  be  filled  with  thanksgiving  for 
what  God  has  done  for  them;  they  will 
find  themselves  rich  in  favors  be- 
stowed. It  is  not  imagination  that  we 
can  approach  God  and  receive  light 
and  guidance  from  him,  and  that  our 
minds  will  be  enlightened  and  our 
souls  thrilled  by  his  Spirit. 

Conference  messages 

God  bless  these  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church  for  the  inspirational 
messages  they  have  given  us  through- 
out this  conference.  They  have  testified 
as  to  the  truth  of  the  restored  gospel, 
and  have  borne  their  testimonies  mat 
God,  the  Father,  and  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ  have  appeared  in  these  latter 
days  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and 
that  the  gospel  in  its  fullness  has  been 
restored  to  die  earth. 


Blessings  extended 

We  send  greetings  and  blessings  to 
our  missionaries  and  the  mission 
presidencies  in  their  respective  fields 
of  duty  throughout  the  world.  We 
deeply  appreciate  the  unselfish  service 
they  are  rendering. 

God  bless  our  young  men  in  the 
service  of  our  country,  wherever  they 
may  be.  To  each  of  you  I  send  my 
greetings  and  a  message  of  confidence 
and  trust,  and  say  to  you:  Keep  your- 
selves morally  clean.  Being  soldiers 
or  sailors  is  no  justification  for  in- 
dulgence in  vulgarity,  intemperance, 
or  immorality.  Others  may  be  impelled 
to  do  these  things  because  of  the 
beastliness  of  war,  but  you  who  are 
members  of  the  Church  and  hold  the 
priesthood  of  God  cannot  so  indulge 
with  impunity.  For  your  own  sweet 
lives,  and  for  others  who  trust  you, 
keep  yourselves  unpolluted.  We  pray 
that  God's  protecting  care  and  divine 
guidance  will  be  with  each  of  you. 

And  now,  my  dear  brethren  and 
sisters,  my  fellow  workers,  with  all  the 
power  that  the  Lord  has  given  me  I 
bless  each  of  you  and  pray  that  from 
this  hour  you  may  go  forth  with  re- 
newed determination  to  discharge  your 
duties  more  faithfully,  more  success- 
fully under  the  inspiration  of  God 
than  ever  before. 

Gratitude  for  support 

My  heart  is  full  of  appreciation  for 
your  service  and  your  presence  here, 
and  for  the  privilege  of  being  asso- 
ciated with  you  in  this  great  cause. 
I  am  grateful  to  you  all  for  your  loyal 
support  and  your  prayers  in  my  behalf. 
This  gospel  gives  us  a  chance  to  live 
above  this  old  world  and  its  tempta- 
tions and,  through  self-control  and 
self-mastery,  to  live  in  the  spirit,  and 
that  is  the  real  life  here  and  hereafter. 

God  bless  you  in  your  individual 
lives,  in  your  home  life,  in  your  Church 
activities,  and  give  you  the  comfort  that 
comes  to  every  soul  who  loses  himself 
for  Christ's  sake,  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


154  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  6 

President  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

Testifying  of  the  effectiveness  of  the 
conference  broadcasts  to  various  coun- 
tries of  the  world,  we  have  received  a 
number  of  telegrams,  one  from  Chile  in 
South  America  indicating  that  the 
messages  have  been  received  through 
thirty-five  Chilean  stations  in  most  of 
South  America.  A  second  wire  from 
Chile  indicates  the  effectiveness  of  the 
broadcasts  in  that  country.  A  wire  from 
Fort  Ord,  California,  where  190  LDS 
servicemen  have  been  listening  to  the 
procedures  of  the  conference  has  been 
received;  and  from  the  Franco-Belgian 
Mission  we  have  a  cable  indicating  that 
the  messages  were  coming  through 
very  clearly,  and  expressing  their  ap- 
preciation for  the  broadcasts. 

We  express  our  deep  appreciation  to 
the  following  who  have  furnished  the 
singing  for  this  conference:  The  Tab- 
ernacle Choir  for  their  excellent  per- 
formance on  the  Saturday  morning 
and  Sunday  morning  broadcast  sessions, 
and  again  this  afternoon.  To  the  Brig- 
ham  Young  University  Faculty  Priest- 
hood Chorus,  who  furnished  the  music 
for  the  Saturday  evening  priesthood 
meeting.  To  the  Ogden  Institute  of 
Religion  and  the  University  of  Utah 
Institute  of  Religion,  who  furnished 
the  music  for  the  sessions  on  Friday; 
and  to  the  Primary  Children's  Chorus, 
who  had  402  children,  one  each  from 
402  wards,  who  furnished  the  music  for 
the  Saturday  afternoon  session. 

We  also  express  thanks  and  deep  ap- 
preciation to  the  conductors  and  organ- 
ists for  these  various  singing  groups. 

President  McKay  desires  that  I  ex- 
press his  appreciation  also  to  all  who 
have  in  any  way  contributed  to  the 
success  and  inspiration  of  this  great 
conference  of  the  Church. 

He  is  especially  grateful  as  already 
expressed  to  his  beloved  associates,  the 
General  Authorities,  for  their  loyal 
support  and  diligence  in  service,  and 
for  their  inspirational  messages  de- 
livered during  the  various  sessions  of 
this  conference. 

We  appreciate  the  careful  and  effi- 
cient attention  given  by  local  and  na- 


Third  Day 

tional  press  representatives,  and  by 
representatives  of  radio  and  television 
in  reporting  the  sessions  of  this  con- 
ference. 

We  are  most  grateful  for  the  coopera- 
tion of  city  officials,  city  traffic  officers, 
the  Fire  Department  and  Red  Cross, 
who  have  been  on  hand  to  render 
assistance  and  service  whenever  and 
wherever  needed. 

We  thank  the  Tabernacle  ushers  for 
their  courtesy  and  consideration  in 
seating  the  great  audiences  of  these 
conference  sessions. 

As  heretofore  mentioned,  we  are  most 
grateful  to  the  owners  and  managers 
of  the  many  radio  and  television  sta- 
tions throughout  the  United  States, 
Canada,  Mexico,  Chile,  and  in  other 
countries,  who  have  carried  these 
broadcasts,  thus  permitting  millions  to 
participate  in  the  sessions  of  this  great 
conference. 

We  thank  the  translators  for  their 
untiring  efforts  in  translating  the  mes- 
sages of  the  conference  into  six  lan- 
guages for  broadcast  to  various  parts  of 
the  world. 

Where  practicable,  it  is  suggested 
that  ward  sacrament  meetings  be  held 
this  evening  in  the  various  wards. 

And  now  to  those  of  you  who  return 
to  your  homes  in  automobiles:  We  re- 
mind the  drivers  of  your  cars  to  use 
the  utmost  care,  obey  the  traffic  rules, 
and  be  courteous  and  alert. 

And  now  as  this  conference  draws  to 
a  close,  the  Tabernacle  Choir  will 
favor  us  with  "Psalm  148"  and  "Sing 
We  Now  at  Parting,"  conducted  by 
Richard  P.  Condie. 

The  benediction  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  A.  Elihu  Whatcott,  president  of 
the  Cedar  Stake,  after  which  this  con- 
ference will  stand  adjourned  for  six 
months. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  num- 
bers, "Psalm  148,"  and  "Sing  We  Now 
at  Parting." 

President  A.  Elihu  Whatcott  of  the 
Cedar  Stake  offered  the  benediction. 
Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


SUMMARY  OF  CONFERENCE  MUSIC 


155 


Summary  of  Conference  Music 

The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir  fur- 
nished the  musical  numbers  for  the 
Saturday  morning  and  Sunday  morning 
and  afternoon  sessions  of  the  confer- 
ence; Richard  P.  Condie,  conductor; 
and  Jay  E.  Welch,  assistant  conductor. 

The  choral  music  for  the  Friday 
morning  session  was  furnished  by  the 
Ogden  Institute  of  Religion  Chorus 
under  the  direction  of  Ladd  R.  Cropper. 
The  University  of  Utah  Institute  of  Re- 
ligion Chorus,  directed  by  Douglas  W. 
Stott,  provided  the  singing  in  the  Fri- 
day afternoon  session. 

The  singing  for  the  Saturday  after- 
noon session  was  furnished  by  the 


Primary  Children's  Chorus.  Judith 
Wirthlin  Parker  conducted  the  chorus. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Fac- 
ulty Priesthood  Chorus,  with  Harold 
H.  Goodman  conducting,  furnished  the 
choral  music  for  the  General  Priest- 
hood meeting  on  Saturday  evening. 

Richard  P.  Condie  directed  the  sing- 
ing of  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir 
on  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ 
broadcast  Sunday  morning,  with  the 
Spoken  Word  by  Elder  Richard  L. 
Evans. 

Accompaniments  on  the  organ  were 
played  by  Alexander  Schreiner,  Robert 
N.  Cundick  and  Roy  M.  Darley,  Tab- 
ernacle organists. 

JOSEPH  ANDERSON 
Clerk  of  the  Conference 


SALT  LAKE  TABERNACLE  Ch 

The  following  broadcast,  written  and 
announced  by  Richard  L.  Evans,  and 
originating  with  Station  KSL,  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah,  was  presented  from 
9:35  to  10:00  a.m.  Sunday,  April  6, 
1969,  through  the  courtesy  of  the 
Columbia  Broadcasting  System's  net- 
work throughout  the  United  States, 
parts  of  Canada,  and  through  other 
facilities  to  several  points  overseas: 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome 
you  within  these  walls  with  Music  and 
the  Spoken  Word  from  the  Crossroads 
of  the  West. 

CBS  and  its  affiliated  stations  bring 
you  at  this  hour  another  presentation 
from  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City, 
with  Richard  Condie  conducting  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  Alexander  Schreiner, 
Tabernacle  Organist,  and  the  spoken 
word  by  Richard  Evans. 

(Pause) 

The  Choir  sings  a  "Galilean  Easter 
Carol"  by  R.  Deane  Shure:  ".  .  .  Joy 
dawned  again  on  Easter  day,  the  sun 
shone  out  with  fairer  ray,  when  to 
their  longing  eyes  restored,  die  apostles 
saw  their  risen  Lord. 

(Choir:  "Galilean  Easter  Carol"— 
Shure) 

(Organ  background) 

Announcer:  Alexander  Schreiner  at 
the  Tabernacle  Organ  on  Temple 
Square  today  recalls  the  jubilant 
phrases  of  the  "Toccata  in  B  Minor" 
by  Gigout. 

(Organ:  "Toccata  in  B  Minor"— 
Gigout) 

(Organ  background) 

Announcer:  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
turns  now  to  the  music  of  George 
Careless  with  the  words  of  Eliza  R. 
Snow:  "Behold  the  Great  Redeemer 
Die,  a  broken  law  to  satisfy.  He  dies 
a  sacrifice  for  sin;  .  .  .  that  man  may 
live  and  glory  win." 

(Choir:  "Behold  the  Great  Re- 
deemer Die" — Careless) 

Organ  background) 

THE  SPOKEN  WORD 

Announcer:  Some  of  the  loneliest  of 
loneliness  in  life  comes  with  loss  of 
loved  ones,  and  some  of  the  most  sober- 


IIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

ing  concern  comes  with  wondering 
where  they  are  and  when  we  again 
shall  see  them.  Moved  by  such 
searching  thoughts  Andrew  Jackson 
said:  "Heaven  will  not  be  heaven  to 
me  if  I  do  not  meet  my  wife  there."1 
Heaven  to  be  heaven  must  have  within 
it  that  which  makes  of  heaven  a  won- 
derfully happy  home — with  loved  ones 
as  a  part  of  all  that  makes  completeness 
in  an  everlastingness  of  life.  How 
could  it  be  otherwise?  How  could  all 
this  order,  all  this  beauty — the  earth, 
the  sky,  the  sea,  the  glory  of  spring, 
the  magnificent  succession  of  all  sea- 
sons, the  love  of  life,  the  love  of  loved 
ones,  the  endless  evidence  of  Provi- 
dence, of  plan,  of  purpose — the  mind 
and  memory  of  man — how  could  all 
this  be  other  than  eternal  and  of  per- 
sonal continuance.  "When  I  consider 
the  wonderful  activity  of  the  mind," 
said  Cicero,  "so  great  a  memory  of 
what  is  past,  and  such  capacity  for 
penetrating  the  future,  when  I  behold 
such  a  number  of  arts  and  sciences, 
and  such  a  multitude  of  discoveries  .  .  . 
I  believe  and  am  firmly  persuaded  that 
a  nature  which  contains  so  many  things 
within  itself  cannot  but  be  immortal."2 
"Seems  it  strange  that  thou  shouldst 
live  forever,"  asked  Edward  Young. 
"Is  it  less  strange  that  thou  shouldst 
live  at  all?"3  Life  is  the  miracle,  and 
that  it  should  be  always  is  no  more  a 
miracle  than  that  it  is  at  all.  And  so 
the  meaning,  the  message  of  this  mo- 
ment: that  He  who  gave  us  birth  and 
life  and  loved  ones  has  given  us  also 
the  limitless  possibilities  of  everlast- 
ing life.  And  what  of  death? 

"Ayl  it  will  come, — the  bitter  hour! — 
but  bringing 
A  better  love  beyond,  more  subtle- 
sweet; 

A  higher  road  to  tread,  with  happier 
singing, 

And  no  cross-ways  to  part  familiar 
feet!"4 


1Andrew  Jackson 
2Cicero 

3Edward  Young,  Night  Thoughts,  vii 
4Sir  Edwin  Arnold,  The  New  Lucian 


TABERNACLE  CHOIR  Ai 

(Organ:  Without  Announcement — 
"Sweet  Hour  of  Prayer" — Bradbury) 
As  time  permits 

(Organ  background) 

Announcer:  Alexander  Schreiner, 
Tabernacle  Organist,  has  presented  a 
hymn  tune  by  William  Bradbury: 
"Sweet  Hour  of  Prayer." 

From  Mascagni's  Cavalleria  Rusti- 
cana  we  hear  a  cherished  hymn:  "We 
will  sing  of  the  Lord  now  victorious! 
All  the  terrors  of  death  were  in  vainl 
Let  us  sing  of  the  Christ  ever  glorious. 
He  is  risen  in  glory  to  reign!" 

(Choir:  "The  Lord  Now  Victorious" 
— Mascagni) 

(Organ  background) 

Announcer: 

The  heavens  resound  with  His  praises 
eternal, 

in  might  and  glory  they  combine 
to  tell  His  name  through  earth  and 
oceans 

that  man  may  hear  the  word  divine. 

He  holds  the  suns  in  the  blue  vaulted 
heavens, 


D  ORGAN  BROADCAST  157 

He  plants  His  foot  upon  the  world; 
the  myriad  stars  bow  in  willing  sub- 
jection; 

the  universe  His  hand  unfurld. 

(Choir:   "The   Heavens  Resound"— 
Beethoven) 
(Organ  background) 
(As  the  Dew) 

Announcer:  Again  we  leave  you  with- 
in the  shadows  of  the  everlasting  hills. 
May  peace  be  with  you  this  day — and 
always. 

This  concludes  the  two  thousand  and 
sixty-eighth  presentation  continuing 
the  40th  year  of  this  traditional  broad- 
cast from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square,  brought  to  you  by  CBS 
and  its  affiliated  stations,  originating 
with  KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

Richard  Condie  conducted  the  Tab- 
ernacle Choir,  Alexander  Schreiner 
was  at  the  Organ.  The  Spoken  Word 
by  Richard  Evans. 

In  another  seven  days,  at  this  same 
hour,  Music  and  the  Spoken  Word 
will  be  heard  again  from  the  Cross- 
roads of  the  West. 

This  is  the  CBS  Radio  Network. 


Index 


Page 


Anderson,  Elder  Joseph  (Statistical  Report) 

Authorities  Present   

Auxiliary  Officers  Sustained  


.  67 
1,  2 

..  72 


B 


Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft 


10 


Disharmony  of  some  members,  10;  Tares  among  the  wheat,  11;  The 
precepts  of  men,  11;  Publishing  differences  with  Church,  11;  Birth 
control,  12;  False  reasoning  in  population  limitation,  12;  Subversion 
of  educational  system,  12;  Sex  education  in  the  schools,  13;  Responsi- 
bility of  parents,  13;  Sensitivity  training,  13;  Standards  attacked,  14; 
Demoralizing  influences,  14;  President  Cannon's  test. 

Bracken,  Lee  (Priesthood  Meeting)  102 


A  peculiar  people,  50;  What  is  man?  50;  What  is  God?  50;  Man's 
eternal  nature,  51;  System  of  continuing  education,  51;  Continuous 
revelation,  51;  Office  of  a  prophet,  52;  Man's  salvation,  52;  Salvation 
and  damnation,  52;  Graded  state  of  future  life,  53;  Love  of  God  and 
man,  53;  Acceptance  of  gospel  principles,  53. 

Brown,  President  Hugh  B.  (Priesthood  Meeting)   Ill 

A  sense  of  humor,  111;  Story  of  Canadian  recruitment,  111;  Training 
as  militia  officers,  112;  A  man  of  character,  112;  When  is  success  a 
failure?  113;  Each  is  being  tested,  113;  The  rights  of  the  priesthood, 
114;  Divinity  of  the  work,  114. 

Brown,  Bishop  Victor  L   33 

Widow's  tithing,  33;  Principle  of  tithing,  34;  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith's  explanation,  34;  Testimonies  on  tithepaying,  34;  Lesson  on 
tithing,  35;  The  earth  is  the  Lord's,  36. 

Burton,  Elder  Theodore  M  139 

A  complex  world,  139;  Making  decisions,  139;  Good  and  evil,  140; 
Value  of  obedience,  140;  Pattern  for  gaining  knowledge,  140;  Con- 
cept of  asking,  141;  Gaining  further  knowledge,  141;  Salvation  for 
the  dead,  141;  GIANT  system,  142;  Further  light  and  knowledge,  142. 


Brown,  President  Hugh  B. 


3,  4,10,  15,  18,  21,25,70,73,  115, 
116,  120,  123,  126,  129,  133 

   50 


Brown,  President  Hugh  B. 


C 


Cahoon,  President  Lysle  R.  (Priesthood  Meeting) 


97 


Christiansen,  Elder  EIRay  L  

The  gospel  plan,  39;  Encouragement  in  adversity,  39;  Teachings  from 
Liberty  Jail,  39;  Trials  can  bring  blessings,  40;  Doubt  not,  fear  not, 
40;  Build  upon  the  rock,  40. 


39 


160 


INDEX 


Page 


Church  Finance  Committee  Report   69" 

Cullimore,  Elder  James  A   41 

Guidance  for  the  Church,  41;  Man's  free  agency,  41;  Need  for  guid- 
ance, 42;  Responsibility  in  following  counsel,  43;  Obedience  brings 
happiness,  43. 

D 

Dunn,  Elder  Loren  C   21 

Availability  of  drugs,  21;  Reason  for  drug  use,  21;  Importance  of 
home  example,  22;  Faith  in  Heavenly  Father,  22;  Intelligent  obedi- 
ence, 22;  Responsibility  of  communication,  22;  Love  in  the  home,  23. 

Dunn,  Elder  Paul  H.  146 

Incident  at  PTA  convention,  146;  A  salute  to  the  Church,  147; 
Tribute  to  parents,  147;  Meaning  of  Christ  for  our  times,  147;  Faith 


of  early  Christians,  149;  Faith  today  in  Christ's  mission,  148;  What 
eternal  life  embraces,  148;  Jesus  taught  divine  principles,  149; 
Merging  of  real  and  ideal,  149;  Solution  of  personal  and  social  prob- 
lems, 149. 

Dyer,  President  Alvin  R  66,  67,  73,  76,  79,  81,  82,  84,  87,  91, 

134,  135,  139,  142,  144,  150,  154 

Dyer,  President  Alvin  R   54 

The  precepts  of  men,  54;  The  "new  morality,"  54;  Sex  education 
programs,  54;  Classroom  programs,  55;  Results  in  other  countries, 
55;  Sensitivity  training,  56;  Personal  agency  jeopardized,  56;  Church 
methods  preserve  rights,  56;  Flexibility  in  marriage  laws,  56;  "Youth 
for  alcohol"  movement,  57;  Opposition  to  evil  influences,  57;  Pattern 


of  gospel  laws,  57. 

E 

Edling,  Wilford  G.  (Finance  Committee  Report)   69 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   73 


Responsibility  for  teaching  children,  73;  Patronizing  the  cheap  or 
trashy  side,  74;  Honest  and  wise  men  needed,  74;  Obligations  of  par- 
ents, 75;  World  no  better  than  its  homes,  75;  Innocence  of  children, 


75;  Learn  and  live  gospel,  76. 

F 

Farnsworth,  Ross  Nash  (Priesthood  Meeting)    99 

Fifth  Session   92 

Finance  Committee  Report,  Church   69 

First  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   26 

First  Day — Morning  Meeting   3 

First  Session   3 

Fourth  Session   66 


INDEX 


161 


G 

Page 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained   70 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  Present   1 

General  Officers  and  Other  Authorities  Present   2 

General  Priesthood  Meeting   92 

H 

Hanks,  Elder  Marion  D   23 

Convictions  of  early  Christians,  23;  Reasons  for  total  commitment, 
24;  Firstborn  and  Only  Begotten,  24;  His  temptation,  24;  The  servant 
of  all,  25;  Commitment  to  Christ,  25. 

Hinckley,  Elder  Gordon  B   58 

Memorial  service  for  Dwight  D.  Eisenhower,  58;  Preeminence  of  Jesus 
of  Nazareth,  59;  The  hope  of  immortality,  59;  Relevance  of  Jesus' 
teachings,  59;  Testimony  of  infantryman,  59;  Faith  of  mother,  60; 
The  Master  of  life,  60;  Example  of  miraculous  contrast,  60;  Way  to 
improve  world,  61;  Power  of  example,  61;  The  hope  of  mankind,  61. 

Hunter,  Elder  Howard  W  135 

Splendor  of  Corinth,  135;  Paul's  missionary  labors,  135;  Letter  to 
Corinthians,  136;  Witness  of  Christ's  resurrection,  136;  Personal  wit- 
ness, 137;  A  challenging  question,  137;  Nature  of  resurrected  body, 
137;  Analogy  misunderstood,  137;  Redemption  of  the  soul,  138;  First 
fruits  of  resurrection,  138;  Atonement  of  Christ,  138. 

Hunter,  Elder  Milton  R   82 

A  great  and  marvelous  work,  82;  The  Book  of  Mormon,  82;  Testi- 
monies of  divinity,  83;  The  Three  Witnesses,  83;  Believers  and  non- 
believers,  84;  Formula  of  Moroni,  84. 


Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W   27 

The  paths  that  Jesus  walked,  27;  "He  ...  is  risen,"  27;  The  Mount  of 
Olives,  27;  Significance  of  Easter,  28;  Witness  of  Peter,  28;  Paul's 
testimony,  29;  Testimony  on  Mars  Hill,  29;  Testimony  of  eyewit- 
nesses, 30;  Witness  of  Joseph  Smith,  30;  Sureness  of  resurrection,  30; 
Question  and  answer  of  Job,  30;  Vision  of  John,  31. 


Lee,  Elder  Harold  B  129 

Questions  recall  scriptures,  129;  True  concept  of  God,  130;  Man 
created  in  God's  image,  130;  Eternal  life,  130;  Advice  to  truth  seekers, 
131;  Fullness  of  knowledge,  131;  Begin  with  first  principles,  132; 
Knowledge  of  character  of  God,  132;  True  knowledge  through 
revelation,  132;  "Certainty  that  succeeds  doubt,"  133. 

Longden,  Elder  John  145 

Zone  of  influence,  145;  Example  of  custodian,  145;  False  concepts, 
145;  Warfare  with  evil,  146;  The  power  of  Jesus  Christ,  146. 


162 


INDEX 


M 

Page 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R  142 

Restoration  of  the  gospel,  143;  Commandment  to  preach  gospel, 
143;  Missionary  service,  143;  Future  growth  of  Church,  144;  Ordi- 
nances of  exaltation,  144;  A  witness  to  all  nations,  144. 

McKay,  President  David  O   4 

Progress  of  the  Church,  4;  Mankind's  welfare,  5;  Need  for  more 
godliness,  5;  Home,  the  strength  of  a  nation,  5;  Intelligent  home 
building,  6;  Unchastity  a  dominant  evil,  6;  Marriage  ordained  of 
God,  6;  Sacredness  of  marriage  covenant  threatened,  7;  Responsibility 
of  parenthood,  7;  Needs  of  children,  8;  Evils  of  divorce,  8;  Marriage  a 
sacred  obligation,  8;  Temple  marriage,  9;  Standard  of  purity,  9. 

McKay,  President  David  O.  (Priesthood  Meeting)    93 

Fundamental  virtues,  93;  Strength  in  resistance,  94;  Sacred  covenants, 
94;  Keep  true  to  covenants,  94;  Duties  of  priesthood  bearers,  95; 
".  . .  Act  well  thy  part,"  95;  Appreciation  of  fellowship,  95;  Statement 
on  Communism,  96;  Neutrality  of  Church,  96;  Responsibility  to  teach 
truth,  96;  Defense  of  the  truth,  97. 

McKay,  President  David  0  15a 

Responsibility  to  contribute,  150;  True  to  the  divine,  151;  Men  of 
truth,  151;  Defense  of  truth,  151;  Message  for  the  world,  152;  Triumph 
of  the  truth,  152;  Testimony  of  resurrection,  152;  Answer  to  prayer, 
152;  Conference  messages,  153;  Blessings  extended,  153;  Gratitude 
for  support,  153. 

Mason,  James  Stanton  (Priesthood  Meeting)  100 

Monson,  Elder  Thomas  S  126 

Story  of  Arthur  Patton,  126;  Will  Arthur  live  again?  127;  The  plan 
of  life,  127;  The  experience  known  as  death,  128;  God's  purposes  to 
be  fulfilled,  128;  We  walk  by  faith,  128;  Mrs.  Patton,  Arthur  lives! 
129. 

Music,  Summary  of  Conference  155 

O 

Obituaries   69 

P 

Packer,  Elder  Boyd  K.  (Priesthood  Meeting)  104 

Service  in  military  forces,  104;  Assistance  for  servicemen,  105;  New 
echelon  of  leadership,  195;  Importance  of  home  teacher,  105;  Stake 
executive  secretary,  105;  Pilot  seminars,  106;  Chaplain's  report,  106; 
Churchwide  training  seminars,  106;  The  armor  of  God,  106. 

Passed  Away,  Those  Who  Have   69 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E   62 

The  law  of  chastity,  62;  Standards  of  right  and  wrong,  62;  Teaching 
the  facts  of  life,  63;  Safeguards  in  sex  instruction,  63;  Co-creators  with 
God,  63;  Place  for  sex  education,  64;  Casualties  from  immorality,  64; 
Can  God  bless  America?  64;  God  a  significant  presence,  65;  Moral 
law  irrevocable,  65;  Adultery  next  to  murder,  65. 


INDEX  163 

Page 

Priesthood  Meeting,  General    92 

R 

Richards,  Elder  Franklin  D   18 

True  and  false  freedoms,  19;  Principle  of  loyalty,  19;  Loyalty  to  God, 
20;  Loyalty  to  country,  19;  Choice  for  loyalties,  20;  True  freedom, 
20. 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand   87 

A  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder,  87;  Difference  between  man-made 
and  divine  doctrines,  88;  Teachings  on  Godhead,  88;  Condition  fore- 
told by  Moses,  88;  Little  children  redeemed  through  Christ,  89;  Mar- 
riage for  time  and  eternity,  89;  Scriptural  affirmation,  90;  Reality  of 
resurrection,  90;  The  Church  that  Isaiah  promised,  91. 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G.  (Priesthood  Meeting)  107 

Pattern  for  gospel  teaching,  107;  Modern  instruction,  108;  Failure  to 
teach  children,  108;  Home  Evening  inaugurated,  109;  Purpose  of  home 
teaching,  109;  Youth  targets  of  evil  one,  1 10;  True  principles  ridiculed, 
110;  Children  to  be  strengthened,  110. 

S 

Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  156 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   66 

Second  Day — Morning  Meeting   49 

Second  Session    26 

Seventh  Session  134 

Simpson,  Bishop  Robert  L   85 

Lack  of  integrity,  85;  Led  away  from  the  good,  85;  Others  turned  from 
truth,  85;  Eternal  judgment  undeviating,  86;  Things  the  Lord  hates, 
86;  Bad  habits  tip  the  scale,  87;  The  way  clearly  marked,  87. 

Sixth  Session   115 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G   79 

Parable  of  the  sower,  79;  Membership  alone  not  enough,  80;  Becoming 
productive,  80;  Serving  each  other,  81;  Example  of  service,  81. 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding  26,  31,  33,  36,  38,  43,  48 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding  121 

The  thief  of  eternal  life,  121;  Restitution  must  be  made,  121;  Three 
kingdoms  prepared,  122;  Seek  the  Lord  early,  122;  Obligation  to  keep 
commandments,  122;  The  time  to  prepare,  123;  Diligence  in  seeking, 
123. 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma   31 

Leadership  of  Jesus  Christ,  31;  A  plan  of  life,  32;  Individual  salva- 
tion, 32;  A  gospel  of  truth,  32;  Missionary  enterprise,  32;  Gospel  can 
redeem  mankind,  33. 


164 


INDEX 


Page 

Stapley,  Elder  Delbert  L   44 

The  power  of  example,  44;  "I  am  the  light,"  44;  Value  of  good  exam- 
ple, 44;  Gospel  standards  and  ideals,  45;  "Follow  thou  me,"  45;  Men 
believe  what  they  see,  45;  Parental  example,  46;  Brigham  Young's 
counsel,  46;  Examples  from  scripture,  46;  Responsibility  of  leaders, 
47;  Lord's  power  over  his  saints,  47;  From  wickedness  to  righteous- 
ness, 47;  Return  to  evil  ways,  48;  Our  obligation  and  challenge,  48. 

Statistical  Report,  1968  .   67 

Sustaining  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers   70 

T 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  156 

Tanner,  President  N.  Eldon  49,  50,  54,  58,  61,  66,  92,  93, 

97,  104,  107,  111,  115 

Tanner,  President  N.  Eldon   116 

Commemoration  of  resurrection,  1 16;  Predictions  of  resurrection,  1 16; 
Purpose  of  Christ's  mission,  1  IT;  Betrayal  and  trial,  117;  The  cruci- 
fixion, 118;  Evidences  of  resurrection,  118;  Appearance  on  American 
continent,  119;  Modern-day  testimony,  119;  Doubting  Thomases, 
119;  Acceptance  on  faith,  119;  Immortality  and  eternal  life,  120; 
Good  news  of  gospel,  120. 

Taylor,  Elder  Henry  D    36 

The  principle  of  love,  36;  Charity  and  love,  36;  Missionary  experience, 
37;  Ways  to  demonstrate  love,  37;  Love  an  eternal  principle,  37; 
Solution  for  major  ills,  38;  Power  to  change  world,  38. 

Third  Day— Afternoon  Meeting  134 

Third  Day— Morning  Meeting  115 

Third  Session   49 

Tuttle,  Elder  A.  Theodore  124 

Conditions  in  the  world,  124;  Courage  to  face  problems,  124;  God  lives 
today,  124;  Testimony  brings  confidence,  125;  Appeal  to  truthseekers, 
125;  Preparation  dispels  fear,  126. 

V 

Vandenberg,  Bishop  John  H   15 

Many  paths  to  travel,  16;  The  strait  gate,  16;  Story  by  Van  Dyke,  17; 
Counsel  of  Helaman,  17;  "Narrow  is  the  way,"  17;  Words  of  a  mis- 
sionary, 18;  The  proven  way,  18. 

Y 

Young,  Elder  S.  Dilworth   77 

The  meaning  of  space,  77;  A  controlling  intelligence,  77;  Jesus  Christ, 
the  Creator,  77,  Offer  of  eternal  lives,  78;  Relationship  with  fellow- 
men,  78;  Love  of  Christ,  78;  Eternal  family  relationships,  78;  Obedi- 
ence to  first  principles,  79. 


