Om.  J&uuOiecL  Jmnhf.- fifth, 
ANNUAL 

COHFCREnCE 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

GphiL  2,  3,  4  and.  6 
1955 

With  Report  of  Discourses 

+ 

Published  by 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Printed  in  the  United  States  of  America 


Education  Lives  As  Long  As  You  Read 

GOOD  BOOKS 


Our  Lord  of  the  Gospels  $5.00 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

Stalwarts  of  Mormonism  $2.50 

Preston  Nibley 

The  World  and  the  Prophets  $2.50 

Dr.  Hugh  Nibley 

Know  the  Bible  .....$2.50 

Benjamin  A! ward 

Masterpieces  of  Latter-day  Saint  Leaders  $2.00 

Compiled  by  N.  B.  Lundwall 

A  Marvelous  Work  and  a  Wonder  $1 .75 

LeGrand  Richards 

Prophecy  and  Modern  Times  $1.75 

W.  Cleon  Skousen 

Book  of  Mormon  Evidences  in 

Ancient  America   $6.00 

Leatherette  Edition— $7.50 

Dewey  Farnsworth 

Presidents  of  the  Church  $4.00 

Preston  Nibley 
New  revised  edition  including  biographical  sketch  of 
President  David  O.  McKay 

Brigham  Young,  the  Man  and  His  Work  $3.00 

Preston  Nibley 


AIL  PRICES  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE 


DESERET   BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  STORE  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 

44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


The  One  Hundred  Twenty-fifth  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Twenty-fifth  An- 
nual Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  held  in 
the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 
Saturday,  Sunday,  Monday,  and  Wed- 
nesday, April  2,  3,  4,  and  6,  1955. 

The  general  sessions  of  the  Confer- 
ence were  held  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00 
p.m.,  Sunday,  Monday,  and  Wednesday, 
and  the  General  Priesthood  meeting  was 
held  in  the  Tabernacle  Saturday  eve- 
ning, April  2,  at  7:00. 

The  proceedings  of  the  general  ses- 
sions were  broadcast  and  telecast  over 
Station  KSL,  and  by  arrangement 
through  KSL  over  the  following  stations: 

In  Utah:  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KJAM 
at  Vernal,  KVNU  at  Logan,  KSUB  at 
Cedar  City. 

In  Idaho:  KID  and  KID-TV  at  Idaho 
Falls,  KWIK  at  Pocatello,  KRXK  at 
Rexburg,  KBAR  at  Burley  (Sunday 
only),  KEEP  at  Twin  Falls,  KFXD  at 
Nampa,  KBOI  at  Boise. 

In  Oregon:  KWRC  at  Pendleton, 
KLBM  at  LaGrande,  KOIN-TV  at  Port- 
land (Sunday  morning  only),  KBES- 
TV  at  Medford  (Sunday  morning  only). 

In  Nevada:  KLAS  (Sunday  afternoon 
only)  and  KLAS-TV  (Sunday  morning 
only)  at  Las  Vegas,  KELY  at  Ely, 
KZTV-TV  at  Reno  (Sunday  morning 
only). 

In  Arizona:  KTYL  at  Mesa,  KOOL-TV 
at  Phoenix  (Sunday  morning  only). 

In  Colorado:  KEXO  at  Grand  Junc- 
tion, KLZ-TV  at  Denver  (Sunday 
morning  only). 

In  California:  KBLA  at  Burbank, 
KEEN  at  San  Jose  (Sunday  afternoon 
only),  KSRO  at  Santa  Rosa  (Sunday 
afternoon  only),  and  the  following  Sun- 
day morning  only:  KOVR-TV  at  Stock- 
ton, KEYT-TV  at  Santa  Barbara, 
KFMB-TV  at  San  Diego,  KNX-TV  at 
Los  Angeles,  KGO-TV  at  San  Francisco. 

In  Washington:  Sunday  morning 
only:  KTNT-TV  at  Tacoma,  KHQ-TV 


at  Spokane,  KIMA-TV  at  Yakima, 
KEPR-TV  at  Pasco. 

In  New  Mexico:  KVBC  at  Farming- 
ton  (Sunday  only). 

In  Texas:  KTSM  at  El  Paso  (Sunday 
morning  only). 

In  Texas:  KTSM  at  El  Paso  (Sunday 
morning  only). 

In  Hawaii:  KGMB  at  Honolulu  (Sun- 
day morning  only  by  delayed  broad- 
casts). 

The  proceedings  of  the  general  ses- 
sions were  also  televised  over  KSL  tele- 
vision station,  Channel  5. 

All  general  sessions  of  the  Confer- 
ence were  broadcast  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  on  Temple  Square,  in  Barratt  Hall 
(60  North  Main  Street),  over  a  loud- 
speaking  system  and  by  television. 
Thousands,  in  addition,  listened  to  the 
services  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds  by 
means  of  amplifying  equipment. 

The  proceedings  of  the  General  Priest- 
hood meeting  were  broadcast  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall,  in  Barratt  Hall,  over  pub- 
lic address  systems,  and  by  direct  wire 
over  a  public  address  system  to  members 
of  the  Priesthood  assembled  in  73  other 
buildings  in  Utah,  Idaho,  Wyoming, 
Nevada,  Colorado,  Washington,  Oregon, 
Arizona,  and  California. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  services  at  each  of  the 
sessions  of  the  Conference,  including  the 
General  Priesthood  meeting. 

A  full  report  of  Columbia  Broadcast- 
ing Company's  Tabernacle  Choir  and 
Organ  broadcast  is  also  included  in  this 
record,  as  is  also  a  full  account  of 
Columbia's  Church  of  the  Air  program. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
Present 

The  First  Presidency:  David  O. 
McKay,  Stephen  L  Richards,  and  J. 
Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Harold  B.  Lee, 
Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Mark  E.  Petersen,  Henry  D.  Moyle, 
Delbert  L.  Stapley,  Marion  G.  Romney, 
LeGrand  Richards,  Adam  S.  Bennion, 
Richard  L.  Evans,  and  George  Q.  Morris. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Thomas  E.  McKay,  Clifford  E.  Young, 
Alma  Sonne,  EIRay  L.  Christiansen, 
John  Longden,  Hugh  B.  Brown,  and 
Sterling  W.  Sill. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy: 
Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins, 
Oscar  A.  Kirkham,  Seymour  Dilworth 
Young,  Milton  R.  Hunter,  Bruce  R. 
McConkie,  and  Marion  Duff  Hanks. 

Presiding  Bishopric:  Joseph  L.  Wirth- 
lin,  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  and  Carl  W. 
Buehner. 

General  Officers  and  Other 
Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  A.  William 
Lund,  Assistant. 

Members  of  the  General  Welfare 
Committee,  Church  Welfare  Program. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Edu- 
cation and  Administrator  Church  Board 
of  Education,  Directors  and  Associate 
Directors  of  Institutes,  and  Seminary 
instructors. 


Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Coun- 
selors, Presidents  of  Temples,  Patriarchs, 
High  Priests,  Seventies,  Elders,  General, 
Stake,  and  Ward  officers  of  Auxiliary 
Associations,  etc.,  from  all  parts  of  the 
Church. 

Mission  Presidents:  Richard  L.  Evans, 
Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  City;  Delbert 
G.  Taylor,  Eastern  States;  J.  Howard 
Maughan,  New  England;  Isaac  A  Smoot, 
Northern  States;  Lorin  L.  Richards, 
Great  Lakes;  G.  Eugene  England,  North 
Central  States;  M.  Ross  Richards,  East 
Central  States;  Alvin  R.  Dyer,  Central 
States;  Peter  J.  Ricks,  Southern  States; 
Samuel  A.  Hendricks,  West  Central 
States;  Claude  W.  Nalder,  Central  At- 
lantic States;  LeGrand  F.  Smith,  Texas- 
Louisiana;  Albert  Lewis  Elggren,  West- 
ern States;  Bryan  L.  Bunker,  California; 
Thomas  W.  Gardner,  Northern  Cali- 
fornia; James  A  McMurrin,  Northwest- 
ern States;  J.  Melvin  Toone,  Canadian; 
Scott  Zimmerman,  Western  Canadian; 
Harold  I.  Bowman,  Spanish-American; 
Claudious  Bowman,  Mexican;  Golden 
R.  Buchanan,  Southwest  Indian;  Gordon 
M.  Romney,  Central  American;  and  D. 
Arthur  Haycock,  Hawaii. 


FIRST  DAY 
GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


The  General  Priesthood  meeting  of 
the  Church  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle 
at  7:00  p.m.,  Saturday,  April  2,  1955. 

The  Tabernacle  was  filled  to  over- 
flowing. The  Assembly  Hall  just  south 
of  the  Tabernacle  and  the  Barratt  Hall 
were  also  filled  to  capacity  with  people. 
In  both  of  these  buildings  provision  was 
made  for  those  present  to  see  and  hear 
the  services  by  television  as  they  were 
broadcast  from  the  Tabernacle.  In  ad- 
dition the  services  were  broadcast  by 
direct  wire  to  members  of  the  Priest- 
hood who  had  assembled  in  17  Church 
buildings  in  Utah,  10  in  Idaho,  2  in 
Wyoming,  3  in  Nevada,  1  in  Colorado, 
4  in  Washington,  2  in  Oregon,  and  32 
in  California. 

The  singing  for  the  session  was  fur- 
nished by  the  Men's  Chorus  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir. 


President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  services  of  this  meet- 
ing, which  commenced  promptly  at  the 
time  appointed. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  the  second  most  happy  sur- 
prise we  have  had  today.  This  afternoon, 
in  the  midst  of  the  snowstorm,  we 
found  this  Tabernacle  filled  to  over- 
flowing by  members  of  the  Primary 
Ward  and  Stake  Boards, — an  overflow 
meeting  even  during  that  blizzard.  Now 
tonight,  in  the  midst  of  this  most  un- 
precedented snowstorm,  we  find  the 
Tabernacle  filled,  people  standing,  over- 
flow meetings,  well  attended.  It  is  an 
indication  of  the  interest,  faith,  and 
loyalty  of  members  of  the  Church. 

We  have  here  a  notice  from  Bishop 


ELDER  WENDELL  B.  MENDENHALL 


Isaacson  that  the  plane  carrying  the 
flowers  for  Conference  was  not  able  to 
land  on  account  of  the  snowstorm  and 
had  to  fly  to  Denver.  The  flowers  will 
be  sent  back  as  soon  as  possible.  An- 
other surprise!  A  demonstration  of  the 
means  of  transportation  in  this  age. 

What  I  am  going  to  read  now  must 
not  be  taken  as  a  precedent,  but  I  am 
going  to  read  it.  I  have  a  letter  here 
from  Mr.  Hendry,  the  Vice  President 
and  General  Manager  of  Intermountain 
Theatres: 

"All  stake  presidents,  Bishops,  and 
their  wives  are  invited  to  attend  a  spe- 
cial preview  showing  of  the  new  motion 
picture,  "A  Man  Called  Peter,"  deeply 
spiritual  story  of  Mr.  Peter  Marshall,  to 
be  held  on  Tuesday,  April  5,  at  9:30 
a.m.  at  the  Utah  and  the  Capitol 
Theatres.  The  picture  is  being  shown  at 
both  theatres  simultaneously  at  this 
time." 

You  are  all  invited.  I  read  it  because  "A 
Man  Called  Peter"  is  well  worth  seeing, 
and  has  a  message  of  spirituality  most 
timely  for  the  nation  at  this  time.  We 
thank  Mr.  Hendry  and  his  associates 
for  this  courteous  invitation  to  Presi- 
dencies of  stakes  and  Bishoprics,  who 
may  make  arrangements  accordingly. 

This  General  Priesthood  session  is 
the  opening  session  of  the  One  Hundred 
Twenty-Fifth  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  You  will  be  interested  to  know 
that  these  services  are  being  broadcast 
in  the  Assembly  Hall,  in  Barratt  Hall, 
over  a  public  address  system,  and  in  ad- 
dition are  being  broadcast  by  direct  wire 
over  a  public  address  system  to  members 
of  the  Priesthood  assembled  as  follows: 

In  Utah,  17  Church  buildings;  In 


Idaho,  10;  Wyoming,  2;  Nevada,  3; 
Colorado,  1;  Washington,  4;  Oregon,  2; 
Arizona,  2;  California,  32;  a  total  of  71 
sessions  in  addition  to  these  on  this 
Temple  Block. 

The  singing  during  this  session  will 
be  furnished  by  the  Men's  Chorus  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  with  Elder  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall  as  director,  and  Elder  Alex- 
ander Schreiner  at  the  organ.  We  shall 
open  by  the  Men's  Chorus  of  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  singing,  "Jesus,  Lover  of  My 
Soul,"  conducted  by  Elder  Cornwall,  af- 
ter which  Elder  Gordon  M.  Romney, 
president  of  the  Central  American  Mis- 
sion, will  offer  the  invocation. 


Singing  by  the  Men's  Chorus,  "Jesus, 
Lover  of  My  Soul." 

Elder  Gordon  Romney,  President  of 
the  Central  American  Mission,  offered 
the  invocation. 

The  Men's  Chorus  then  sang  the 
hymn,  "O  Say,  What  Is  Truth?" 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Last  December  Elder  Wendell  B. 
Mendenhall  was  appointed  to  go  on  a 
special  mission  to  New  Zealand  to  at- 
tend to  matters  important  to  the  build- 
ing of  the  School  near  Hamilton,  New 
Zealand,  and  to  have  in  mind  some 
ideal  locations,  any  of  which  might  be 
suitable  for  the  building  of  a  temple. 
He  performed  his  duty  well.  We  should 
like  to  hear  from  him  tonight.  I  think 
you  will  be  pleased  to  get  the  spirit  of 
that  mission. 

We  should  like  to  hear  as  our  first 
speaker,  Elder  Wendell  B.  Mendenhall, 
who  is  president  of  the  San  Joaquin 
Stake. 


ELDER  WENDELL  B.  MENDENHALL 

President  of  the  San  Joaquin  Stake 


President  McKay,  President  Richards, 
President  Clark  and  President 
Smith,  fellow  members  of  the  Priest- 
hood of  God,  I  pray  that  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  will  give  me  utterance  this 
night,  that  I  may  bring  to  you  a  message 
of  the  people  who  dwell  deep  in  the 
South  Pacific.  I  ask  our  Heavenly  Father 
to  bless  me  that  I  may  bring  to  you  the 
spirit  of  these  people  who  have  lived 
for  many  hundreds  of  years,  tucked 


away  in  the  South  Pacific  Islands,  a 
people  who  have  the  blood  of  Israel 
flowing  richly  in  their  veins. 

I  thank  President  McKay  and  the 
First  Presidency  for  the  assignment 
which  was  given  me,  and  I  was  very 
humble  in  the  performance  of  this  duty, 
knowing  something  of  the  nature  of  the 
mission  which  I  had  to  perform. 

My  good  brethren,  I  invite  you  tonight 
to  indulge  with  me  and  imagine  that 


4  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  2 

each  of  you  was  a  returned  missionary 
from  one  of  the  many  South  Pacific  Is- 
lands. I  invite  you  to  do  this  in  order 
that  you  may  fully  appreciate  the 
things  that  are  being  done  in  the  inter- 
ests of  those  people  who  are  members  of 
the  Church.  I  am  grateful  I  know  them, 
that  I  know  their  hearts  and  their  feel- 
ings. I  am  above  all  grateful  for  the 
simplicity  of  their  souls,  for  the  implicit 
trust  they  have  in  God,  their  eternal 
Father. 

I  pray  to  my  Heavenly  Father  daily 
that  I  shall  never  in  all  my  life  be  any- 
thing but  one  of  them,  that  I  can  keep 
the  spirit  of  their  simple  faith,  their 
humility,  and  their  trust  in  things  that 
are  divine.  They  literally  believe  in  the 
words  of  God  and  in  the  words  of  the 
prophets  of  God.  They  believe  if  they 
keep  the  commandments  of  God,  God 
will  bless  them  and  this  is  the  premise 
upon  which  they  live.  I  only  wish  every 
member  of  the  priesthood  of  the  Church 
could  have  been  there  and  could  have 
witnessed  the  manifestation  of  the  spirit 
of  those  men  and  women  and  children 
when  they,  for  the  first  time,  saw  the 
Prophet  of  the  Living  God  in  this  age. 

We  must  remember  that  in  the  land 
of  New  Zealand  the  Prophet  of  God 
has  never  stood,  and  to  our  knowledge  it 
is  the  first  time  in  recorded  history  that 
the  Prophet  of  God  had  set  his  foot  in 
this  land.  These  people  truly  appreciated 
this  glorious  experience. 

One  night,  as  we  were  getting  ready  to 
hold  a  meeting  to  set  up  the  itinerary 
for  President  McKay,  a  woman  got  up 
in  the  audience  and  said,  "President 
Mendenhall,  we  do  not  care  whether 
we  hear  a  single  word  from  the  Prophet 
of  God.  All  we  want  is  to  see  him.  If  I 
can  just  bring  my  six  children  and  let 
them  see  him,  it  will  serve  them  all  the 
days  of  their  lives." 

I  wish  all  the  membership  of  the 
Church  could  have  heard  her  humble 
testimony.  I  wish  every  member  of  the 
Church  could  have  the  same  simplicity 
of  faith,  that  humility  to  believe  in  very 
deed  in  the  greatness  of  the  Prophet  of 
the  Living  God.  The  experiences  which 
followed  President  McKay's  visit  there 
were  many  and  touched  the  hearts  of 
thousands. 

As  President  McKay  told  you,  one  of 
my  assignments  was  to  select  several 


First  Day 

likely  spots  on  which  a  temple  could  be 
built.  Several  spots  which  looked  like 
they  might  be  desirable  were  found, 
but  as  I  was  traveling  in  a  car  one  after- 
noon I  came  upon  another  spot  and 
without  any  question  of  a  doubt  I  knew 
the  reason  why  the  temple  should  be 
there.  I  drove  up  over  the  top  of  a  hill 
overlooking  the  area  and  my  decision 
was  confirmed. 

The  next  morning  at  daylight  I  went 
back  by  myself  to  look  around  and  take 
some  pictures.  About  ten  days  later 
President  McKay  came.  He  arrived  at 
the  college  at  Hamilton  after  dark.  At 
daylight  the  next  morning  we  set  out 
to  look  over  the  properties.  We  drove 
up  over  this  hill,  opened  a  gate  and 
went  out  into  the  paddock.  We  drove  up 
to  the  spot  I  had  seen.  There  were  five 
of  us  in  the  car  and  as  we  stopped, 
three  of  the  brethren  got  out  on  the 
right  side  while  President  McKay  and 
I  got  out  on  the  left.  He  took  me  by  the 
arm  and  we  walked  about  15  or  20 
paces  from  the  car  and  he  turned  to  me 
and  said,  "What  do  you  think?" 

I  had  not  said  a  word  to  him.  No  one 
else  knew  a  thing.  When  President 
McKay  looked  around  the  area  and  saw 
this  beautiful  hill,  he  said,  "This  is 
the  place  where  the  temple  should  be," 
and  this  statement  confirmed  the  thing 
which  was  in  my  heart.  Then  a  week 
later  President  McKay  came  back  to  this 
beautiful  spot  and  I  bear  witness  to  you, 
my  brethren,  that  I  saw  the  Prophet  of 
this  Church  in  the  spirit  of  vision  and 
when  he  walked  away  from  that  hill,  he 
knew  the  House  of  the  Lord  was  to  be 
erected  upon  that  particular  spot. 

The  property  was  not  ours.  It  lay 
between  two  pieces  of  property  owned 
by  the  Church.  We  had  to  investigate 
and  find  out  if  it  was  possible  to  pur- 
chase this  property.  It  was  owned  by 
three  brothers,  their  sister,  and  mother. 
I  went  to  see  these  people.  I  had  been 
to  see  them  before,  however,  and  they 
had  told  me  they  did  not  want  to  sell. 
One  day  as  we  were  leaving  the  college 
the  three  brothers  came  up  to  the  car 
and  said  they  would  like  to  see  me. 
President  McKay  went  on  up  to  the 
house  and  I  stayed  and  talked  with 
them.  They  said,  "President  Menden- 
hall, we  have  decided  we  do  not  want 
to  sell  the  property  at  all,  but  after 


ELDER  WENDELL 

President  McKay  has  finished  his  tour, 
will  you  come  and  see  us?" 

The  day  President  McKay  left  for 
Australia,  Elder  George  Biesinger,  who 
is  in  charge  of  the  construction,  and  I, 
went  back  to  see  the  Murray  brothers. 
We  sat  on  the  hill  that  morning  and 
talked  to  them  about  their  property,  and 
about  eleven  o'clock  we  decided  we 
would  go  see  an  attorney.  There  were 
two  of  the  brothers  present  so  they 
called  the  other  brother  who  was  fish- 
ing. They  called  the  sister  from  another 
community  and  they  got  their  mother 
and  all  went  into  town.  At  three  o'clock 
that  afternoon  they  had  decided  to  sell 
the  property. 

Eilder  Biesinger  and  I  had  gone  over 
the  property  very  thoroughly  and  had 
put  a  valuation  on  it  by  breaking  it 
down  into  various  lots  and  acres.  We 
met  with  the  attorney  and  he  over- 
priced the  property  considerably.  After 
discussing  the  matter  for  about  an  hour, 
he  said,  "Would  you  be  willing  to  con- 
sider this  purchase  if  I  break  this  prop- 
erty down  my  way  and  arrive  at  its 
valuation?"  And  we  hazarded  the  chance 
and  said,  "Yes." 

He  figured  the  property  his  way,  not 
knowing  what  was  in  our  hearts  or  that 
we  had  our  own  valuation  on  paper  in 
our  pockets.  He  passed  his  paper  to  us. 
We  looked  at  it.  It  was  exactly  the  same 
figure,  right  to  the  penny,  we  had  fig- 
ured that  morning  before  going  to  his 
office.  At  five-thirty  that  evening  we 
had  the  signed  papers.  The  attorney  had 
his  stenographer  go  to  his  home  to  draw 
up  the  contract.  It  then  had  to  go 
through  the  Land  Court,  the  Aggrega- 
tion Court,  to  determine  whether  the 
government  would  approve  this  pur- 
chase. 

We  had  already  been  to  the  House 
of  Parliament.  President  McKay  and 
his  party  had  had  a  visit  with  the  deputy 
prime  minister  and  we  had  visited  with 
the  Minister  of  Lands  and  Maori  Af- 
fairs and  others  concerned.  Following 
our  visits  to  the  different  offices,  and  due 
to  the  favorable  impression  President 
McKay  had  made  on  these  men,  we 
were  assured  that  the  Minister  of  Lands 
and  Maori  Affairs  would  come  and  view 
the  property. 

In  the  meantime  the  property  was 
turned  down  by  the  Aggregation  Court 


B.  MENDENHALL  5 

but  the  Minister  did  not  know  this.  At 
ten  o'clock  the  next  morning  he  came 
and  we  escorted  him  over  the  property 
and  later  he  said,  "It  will  take  about  two 
weeks  to  determine  whether  we  will  ap- 
prove this  purchase  or  not."  And  as  we 
drove  by  the  beautiful  buildings  under 
construction  around  the  college,  he 
turned  to  me  and  asked,  "Mr.  Menden- 
hall,  what  are  your  intentions  concern- 
ing this  school?  Is  it  for  Maoris  only?" 
I  said,  "No  sir,  Mr.  Corbett.  This  school 
is  for  Maoris  and  Pakihas  (meaning 
English)  alike.  We  believe  in  develop- 
ing the  Maori  people  to  the  highest 
standard  of  any  people  in  this  land," 
and  he  replied,  "That  is  the  very  policy 
I  believe  in." 

As  we  drove  out  of  the  gate  Mr.  Cor- 
bett turned  to  me  and  said,  "Will  you 
please  take  this  dictation?"  I  took  a 
pad  from  my  pocket  and  he  said  some- 
thing to  this  effect:  "Received  personal 
assurance  this  day  from  the  Minister 
of  Lands  and  Maori  Affairs  that  the 
New  Zealand  Government  will  not  op- 
pose the  acquisition  of  this  property." 
And  the  transaction  was  closed.  The 
property  is  now  owned  by  the  Church 
and  will  soon  be  ready  to  be  used  for 
the  purpose  of  building  a  temple  and 
the  development  of  the  school  and 
farm  lands.  To  my  knowledge  there  is 
no  other  project  underway  in  the 
Church  that  is  comparable  to  this  one  in 
New  Zealand. 

In  1949  President  Gordon  C.  Young 
bought  the  first  piece  of  property  in 
New  Zealand  for  the  Church  on  which 
the  college  was  to  be  built.  There  is  a 
very  spiritual  story  back  of  this  purchase 
and  the  way  it  was  purchased,  similar 
to  the  one  I  have  just  related.  However, 
a  portion  of  the  property  was  acquired 
and  later  on  additional  property  was 
purchased.  Elder  George  Biesinger  was 
sent  to  be  the  building  director.  They 
started  out.  They  had  no  transportation 
permits.  They  had  nothing  with  which 
to  build.  They  had  no  timber.  One  of 
the  first  things  they  had  to  have  was  a 
brick  plant.  Then  they  had  to  have  con- 
crete. Then  they  had  to  have  someone 
teach  them  how  to  proceed.  They  had 
to  have  labor,  and  so  they  established 
themselves  on  this  basis. 

They  acquired  a  rock  quarry  and 
more  than  4,000  acres  of  timberland. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  2 

They  purchased  a  sawmill  and  started 
to  saw  timber.  They  started  to  crush 
rock.  The  concrete  started  to  arrive  from 
America.  They  taught  the  Maori  boys 
how  to  make  bricks.  They  built  a  big 
planing  mill  in  which  to  do  their  shop- 
work.  They  had  to  get  all  their  machin- 
ery and  materials  as  well  as  all  the  in- 
struments that  are  necessary  for  build- 
ing. They  had  to  develop  the  property 
for  farming  and  they  went  out  and 
called  about  200  boys  to  give  of  their 
time  and  service  to  this  building  pro- 
gram. 

The  boys  came  to  the  college  and 
were  supported  by  their  parents  and  by 
the  mission  district.  By  the  time  Presi- 
dent McKay  arrived  most  of  the  boys 
had  already  worked  for  two  years.  Some 
of  them  had  returned  home.  President 
McKay  asked  many  of  them  if  they 
knew  anything  about  their  trade  when 
they  first  came  to  work  and  they  told 
him  no,  they  knew  nothing  about  con- 
struction work. 

Under  the  direction  of  Brother  Bie- 
singer  the  group  sent  there  from  Zion 
have  done  a  marvelous  job  in  directing 
this  work.  The  women  who  have  gone 
from  here  are  working  12  and  14  hours 
a  day  on  this  program.  Every  one  is 
working  in  the  sawmills,  in  the  rock 
crushers,  in  the  lime  pits,  in  the  cement 
plant,  in  the  planing  mill,  in  the  tim- 
ber, and  some  are  laying  brick.  You 
have  never  seen  such  a  pioneer  organi- 
zation in  your  life,  or  conditions  under 
which  they  are  working.  They  have 
built  5  chapels  and  have  made  all  the 
materials  for  these  chapels  right  at  the 
college  site.  The  school  is,  undoubtedly, 
in  progress  now.  Families  are  learning 
how  to.  produce.  They  are  learning  how 
to  live.  Boys  are  learning  trades.  Every- 
one is  learning  something  about  life 
during  the  construction  of  this  school. 
It  is  amazing  what  is  being  done  under 
the  direction  of  these  people  who  have 
been  called  to  go  there  to  direct  this 
great  work.  It  is  the  finest  single  mis- 
sionary in  New  Zealand,  and  without  a 
doubt  it  is  the  dawn  of  a  great  period 
of  progress  for  the  Church  in  New 
Zealand.  Everyone  has  his  eyes  on  this 
vast  building  program. 

Brother  Biesinger  is  on  his  sixth  year 
in  New  Zealand.  He  has  his  wife  and 
six  children  there,  three  of  the  children 


First  Day 

having  been  born  in  New  Zealand.  We 
cannot  give  this  man  too  much  credit 
for  the  things  he  has  done.  I  want  you 
to  know  that  he  has  put  in  many  more 
hours  than  most  of  us  can  appreciate, 
and  his  life  is  dedicated  and  devoted  to 
this  work,  to  the  building  of  the  school 
and  to  the  building  of  missions  and 
other  projects  in  the  Pacific. 

President  McKay  assigned  Elder  Bie- 
singer and  me  to  go  through  the  mission 
to  call  men  to  come  to  help  build  and 
to  help  finish  the  school.  We  were  going 
to  locate  15  or  20  men.  We  covered  all 
but  four  districts  of  the  mission  and 
came  back  with  100  men.  Some  of  them 
owned  their  own  business.  Some  were 
carpenters,  bricklayers.  There  were  farm- 
ers, plumbers,  and  they  just  dropped 
their  work  and  said,  "We  are  willing 
to  give  our  time  and  our  services  to 
the  building  of  this  college."  They 
knew  nothing  at  all  about  the  temple 
at  this  time.  They  were  only  coming 
to  build  the  college  in  response  to  a 
call. 

About  six  o'clock  one  morning  I  was 
talking  to  a  man  and  he  said,  "Presi- 
dent Mendenhall,  I  have  only  been  a 
member  of  the  Church  for  two  weeks. 
May  I  bring  my  wife  and  go  to  the 
college  and  build?  I  will  spend  the 
rest  of  my  life  doing  anything  you 
want  me  to  do."  Following  this  con- 
versation another  man  came  up  to  me 
and  said,  "I  have  milked  cows  all  my 
life.  You  must  have  a  dairy  at  the 
college.  I  have  12  cows  and  a  milking 
plant  and  if  you  will  bring  a  truck  and 
take  the  12  cows,  I  will  give  you  both 
the  milking  plant  and  the  cows  and  I 
will  devote  the  rest  of  my  life  on  the 
dairy." 

We  had  a  man  who  has  spent  most 
of  his  time  in  bed  for  over  two  years 
call  to  us  one  morning  as  we  went  by 
and  wave  a  50  pound  note  from  his 
window.  He  asked  us  to  come  in,  which 
we  did.  He  said,  "I  can't  help  build 
this  college  but  I  will  support  one  man 
for  two  years  and  here  is  a  50  pound 
note  for  my  first  installment  in  keeping 
that  man  on  the  job." 

I  was  talking  to  a  man  on  the  college 
grounds  one  day  and  I  said,  "Who  are 
you?"  He  replied,  "I  belong  to  so-and- 
so,  who  is  my  wife  and  she  is  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Church."  I  said,  "What  are 


ELDER  WENDELL 

you  doing  here?"  He  answered,  "I  came 
here  because  my  wife  asked  me  to 
come."  I  said,  "Do  you  do  everything 
your  wife  asks  you  to  do?"  and  he  re- 
plied, "Sure  I  do.  She  is  a  Mormon 
and  I  believe  what  she  says."  I  said, 
"Are  you  a  member  of  the  Church?" 
and  he  answered,  "No  sir."  Then  I 
asked,  "Why  aren't  you  a  member  of 
the  Church?"  and  he  replied,  "Because 
my  wife  hasn't  asked  me." 

Well,  that  is  the  way  these  things 
go.  Today,  that  man  is  a  member  of 
the  Church.  Someone  besides  his  wife 
asked  him. 

My  brethren,  these  people  have  real 
faith.  They  are  willing  to  respond  to 
the  call  of  authority,  and  this  vast  pro- 
gram that  is  in  progress  in  New  Zea- 
land merits  our  humble  prayers  and 
our  humble  attention.  I  pray  humbly 
that  all  of  us  may  have  an  interest  in 
these  people.  We  owe  a  great  deal  to 
Matthew  Cowley  who  spirited  this  pro- 
gram to  a  great  extent  and  I  testify  to 
you  and  as  President  McKay  would  do 
also,  that  on  many  occasions  while  we 
were  there,  Brother  Cowley's  presence 
was  actually  felt. 

President  McKay  talked  of  this  one 
night  in  the  little  town  of  Tauranga, 
where  Brother  Cowley  first  started  his 
early  mission,  and  I  testify  to  you  that 
the  grand  and  powerful  spirit  of  that 
man,  as  well  as  his  influence,  was  felt 
many  times  while  President  McKay  was 
touring  that  mission. 

At  the  close  of  the  tour  there  was  a 
great  farewell  given  for  President  and 
Sister  McKay  at  the  Auckland  Airport. 
Following  the  dancing  and  singing  pre- 
pared for  this  farewell,  an  announce- 
ment was  made  over  the  loudspeaker 
that  there  would  be  a  closing  prayer. 
Everyone,  including  the  airport  offi- 
cials removed  their  hats.  A  very  per- 
sonal friend  of  President  McKay's  stood 
up  to  the  microphone  and  offered  a 
most  beautiful  prayer.  As  I  looked 
around  I  saw  hundreds  of  people  with 
their  heads  bowed.  Jim  Elkington,  a 
Maori  man  whom  President  McKay  has 
known  for  34  years,  gave  this  prayer 
and  asked  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  to 
remain  with  President  and  Sister  McKay 
and  Brother  Murdock.  It  was  most 
touching  indeed. 

Just  before  President  McKay  left,  a 


B.  MENDENHALL  7 

parting  message  to  the  people  of  New 
Zealand  was  read  and  I  should  like 
to  read  it  to  you. 

"Our  assigned  week  in  New  Zealand 
is  ended— one  short  week.  Truly  time 
rushes  by  us  like  the  wind.  The  wel- 
come extended  to  Sister  McKay,  Presi- 
dent Murdock  and  me  by  the  people 
of  this  great  country  will  ever  remain 
one  of  our  hearts'  treasures.  To  the 
Government,  County,  Municipal  and 
City  Officials,  to  the  many  non-mem- 
ber friends,  to  the  Church  officials,  mis- 
sionaries in  the  field,  and  at  the  col- 
lege, to  the  thousands  of  loyal  members 
of  the  Church,  who  have  so  graciously 
expressed  their  love  in  the  meaningful 
'haere  mai,  haere  mai',  to  each  one 
and  to  all,  we  say  with  hearts  full  of 
gratitude  to  you,  and  especially  for  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  that  makes  us 
one,  'Thank  you.  Goodbye,  and  God 
bless  you.'  Affectionately,  David  O. 
McKay." 

The  influence  of  the  prophet  of  the 
Lord  in  all  the  Pacific  is  historical,  and 
the  blessings  of  the  temple  in  the  Pa- 
cific will  do  more  for  those  people  such 
as  nothing  in  all  the  history  of  Mor- 
monism  has  done  for  them.  This  brings 
to  them  the  fulness  of  the  Gospel. 

God  bless  them  for  their  desire  to 
serve  him  and  to  keep  his  command- 
ments, and  I  bear  my  witness  to  you  I 
know  that  these  things  are  true,  and 
the  Gospel  is  true,  and  my  life  is  only 
important  to  me  and  to  others  as  I  keep 
the  commandments  of  God  and  serve 
him,  all  of  which  I  ask  in  Jesus'  name. 
Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Typical  of  the  world  mission  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  we  shall  now 
ask  you  to  come  from  under  the  South- 
ern Cross  of  New  Zealand  up  to  near 
the  Arctic  Circle,  where  in  June  there 
is  no  night,  as  we  hope  the  Gospel  will 
shine  in  the  hearts  of  all  some  day, 
night  and  day  and  forever. 

When  the  Finnish  Mission  was  first 
organized,  President  Henry  A.  Matis 
was  appointed  president.  He  has  just 
recently  been  released.  He  is  with  us 
here  tonight,  and  will  be  our  next 
speaker. 


8 

Saturday,  April  2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  HENRY  A.  MATIS 

Former  President  of  the  Finnish  Mission 


First  Day 


President  McKay,  President  Richards, 
President  Clark,  President  Smith, 
fellow  brethren  of  the  Priesthood,  I 
am  privileged  to  be  with  you  this  even- 
ing. I  bring  you  greetings  from  Finland, 
as  we  would  say — "Terveisia  lahetys- 
saarnajilta  ja  jasenilta  Suomen  lahety- 
skentalta" — or  greetings  from  the  mis- 
sionaries, and  members  of  the  Finnish 
Mission. 

I  am  appreciative,  brethren,  being  the 
weakest  of  the  weak,  of  standing  before 
you  and  testifying  to  the  goodness  of 
our  Heavenly  Father  to  me  in  his  work 
of  the  ministry.  I  am  appreciative,  also, 
of  the  opportunity  that  we  have  had  of 
serving  him,  particularly  in  the  country 
of  Finland. 

As  a  great  missionary  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  the  Prophet  Alma  said,  "O 
that  I  were  an  angel,  and  could  have  the 
wish  of  mine  heart,  that  I  might  go 
forth  and  speak  with  the  trump  of  God, 
with  a  voice  to  shake  the  earth,  and  cry 
repentance  unto  every  people!"  (Alma 
29:1.) 

Brethren,  I  have  had  the  wish  of  my 
heart,  I  have  been  a  missionary.  I  have 
had  the  opportunity  of  crying  repent- 
ance to  the  Finnish  people.  Possibly  a 
little  personal  history  would  give  you 
some  background  as  to  why  I  am  ap- 
preciative of  this  opportunity,  and  of 
this  blessing. 

I  was  born  near  the  borders  of  Utah 
in  a  little  mining  town  called  Telluride, 
Colorado.  After  finishing  college,  I  went 
to  Pittsburgh,  Pennsylvania,  in  the  East- 
tern  States  Mission,  to  hear  the  Gospel 
message.  The  Lord  needed  to  prepare 
me,  brethren,  so  that  I  could  accept  the 
truths  of  the  Gospel.  I  bear  testimony 
that  he  prepared  me  for  the  Gospel  as 
well  as  that  he  prepared  me  to  go  to 
Finland.  You  see,  it  is  unusual  in  that 
I  am  of  Finnish  descent.  My  father  and 
mother  were  Finnish.  They  came  to  a 
land  of  promise  not  knowing  about  the 
Gospel.  I  was  reared  without  the  Gos- 
pel. 

In  1904,  Elder  Francis  M.  Lyman 
dedicated  the  land  of  Finland  to  the 
preaching  of  the  Gospel.  Because  there 
was  no  religious  freedom  at  that  time, 


very  little  proselyting  was  done,  even 
in  the  Swedish  language,  which  was 
universal  at  that  time.  However,  the 
Lord  blessed  this  little  country,  and  in 
1917  Finland  gained  its  independence 
from  Czarist  Russia.  In  1921  the  Finns 
received  their  religious  freedom.  We 
know  from  history  the  Lord  spared  Fin- 
land, and  in  his  wisdom  and  in  his 
kindness,  blessed  that  country  so  that  it 
would  receive  the  Gospel  in  its  fullness, 
taught  in  the  Finnish  language. 

It  was  under  such  circumstances, 
when  the  war-ridden  but  humble  Finns 
thanked  their  God,  our  Heavenly  Father, 
for  their  preservation,  that  Elder  Ezra 
Taft  Benson  visited  Finland  during  his 
tour  of  the  European  Missions  in  1946. 
There,  Elder  Benson,  accompanied  by 
President  Eben  R.  T.  Blomquist  of  the 
Swedish  Mission,  in  the  little  farming 
community  of  Larsmo  in  Northern  Fin- 
land dedicated  the  land  to  the  preaching 
of  the  Gospel,  and  particularly  in  the 
native  Finnish  tongue.  After  a  very  suc- 
cessful tour  of  the  European  missions, 
Elder  Benson  returned  to  his  home  and 
the  Lord's  work  in  Zion.  Early  in  the 
spring  of  the  following  year,  Elder  Ezra 
Taft  Benson  left  this  city  by  train  to  go 
to  an  eastern  city  on  business.  The 
Lord,  in  some  miraculous  way,  caused 
that  Elder  Benson  would  get  off  the 
train  to  make  a  purchase  and  that  the 
train  would  leave  without  him.  Breth- 
ren, this  was  unusual,  but  what  was 
more  unusual  about  the  circumstances 
was  that  President  John  K.  Edmunds 
of  the  Chicago  Stake  asked  me  to  meet 
Elder  Benson  at  the  airport.  I  did  this, 
thanking  my  Heavenly  Father  for  the 
opportunity  of  being  of  service,  but 
Elder  Benson,  who  was  looking  for 
someone  to  open  the  mission  in  Finland, 
observed  that  I  was  interested  in  that 
country  and  that  I  was  of  Finnish  ex- 
traction. I  am  thankful  for  that  small 
incident,  because  I  bear  testimony  to 
you  that  it  was  arranged  by  our  Heav- 
enly Father  so  that  my  wife,  I,  and  our 
family  could  go  to  Finland  to  serve  him. 

We  have  been  in  Finland  seven  years. 
It  is  difficult  to  compress  seven  years 
into  the  few  minutes  that  I  stand  be- 


ELDER  HEh 

fore  you,  but,  brethren,  I  wish  to  bear 
testimony  to  you  that  our  Heavenly 
Father's  spirit  was  with  us  during  our 
time  in  the  Finnish  Mission.  We  have 
been  proselyting  among  a  sincere,  hum- 
ble people.  The  missionaries  we  have 
received  have  been  the  best  in  the 
Church  and  the  Lord  has  sent  them  at 
a  particular  time  to  that  mission  that 
they  might  further  his  work  there. 

We  enjoyed  every  minute  of  our  mis- 
sion. In  fact,  when  we  left  Finland  it 
was  like  leaving  home.  Also,  when  we 
left  there  were  five  hundred  members, 
as  well  as  eleven  meeting  places  which 
were  evidences  of  the  Lord's  blessings 
to  us. 

Time  in  athletic  Finland  is  computed 
either  before  the  XV  Olympic  Games 
or  after  the  Olympic  games  in  1952 
which  were  held  in  Helsinki.  By  permis- 
sion of  the  First  Presidency,  we  in  the 
Finnish  Mission  received  permission  to 
assist  in  these  Olympic  Games.  We  not 
only  assisted  the  American  officials  and 
athletes,  but  we  also  had  the  opportun- 
ity to  teach  them  the  Gospel  princi- 
ples, to  make  the  Church  known  to 
the  leading  athletes  of  the  world.  One 
event,  however,  overshadowed  the  Olym- 
pics in  1952,  and  that  was  the  visit  of 
our  beloved  leader,  President  David  O. 
McKay.  The  Finns  will  never  forget  the 
visit  of  President  David  O.  McKay,  Sis- 
ter McKay,  and  their  party.  We  were 
grateful  to  have  Sister  McKay  spend  her 
seventy-fifth  birthday  in  Finland,  on 
John's  Day  of  "Juhannus"  as  the  Finns 
would  say.  I  wish  to  take  this  opportun- 
ity to  thank  President  McKay  again  in 
behalf  of  the  Finns,  the  Finnish  mem- 
bers and  those  missionaries  who  were  in 
Finland,  for  his  visit  during  that  time. 

We  remember  that  Finland  always 
pays  her  debts.  This  is  one  thing  that 
we  as  Americans  remember.  But  do  we 
as  members  of  the  Church  know  how 
that  has  been  of  benefit  to  the  Church 
and  to  the  Gospel?  In  1948  Congress 
passed  Public  Law  265  in  which  all  of 
the  money  that  Finland  pays  on  her 
war  debt  will  be  returned  back  to  her  in 
the  form  of  scholarships  and  purchase 
of  educational  equipment.  This  gave  the 
missionaries  opportunity  to  hold  English 
classes,  to  teach  English,  but  primarily 
to  teach  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Also, 
Sister  Matis  was  asked  to  be  the  English 


Y  A.  MATIS  9 

examiner,  which  gave  her  the  oppor- 
tunity to  contact  many  hundreds  of 
Finnish  citizens  who  have  applied  for 
these  scholarships.  Brethren,  when  we 
needed  help  the  most,  the  Lord  blessed 
us  through  the  war  debt  that  Finland 
owed  the  United  States. 

Probably  little  did  President  Brigham 
Young  know  when  he  sent  the  pioneers 
into  Western  Canada  that  his  vision 
would  assist  the  Finnish  Mission.  But, 
brethren,  during  the  recent  Korean  War 
when  very  few  missionaries  were  sent 
from  the  wards  and  stakes  here  in  the 
United  States,  the  missionaries  from 
Canada  saved  the  day  for  the  Finnish 
Mission,  as  I  am  sure  they  did  for  other 
missions.  The  missionaries  from  Canada 
were  a  God-send  to  our  little,  young 
Finnish  Mission. 

In  1948,  we  had  the  opportunity  of 
registering  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  in  Finland,  that  is, 
to  have  the  same  status  as  any  other 
church  in  that  country.  It  gave  us  the 
opportunity  of  proselyting  and  of  own- 
ing property  in  the  name  of  the  Church. 
It  gave  us  the  opportunity  of  printing 
literature  and  of  holding  meetings,  but 
it  also  gave  us  the  responsibility  of 
keeping  a  register  of  all  our  Finnish 
members.  Now,  what  did  that  mean, 
brethren?  It  meant  that  each  member  of 
another  church  who  wanted  to  join 
the  L.D.S.  Church  must  go  to  his  priest 
and  say,  "I  want  to  be  a  Mormon."  This 
is  necessary  before  baptism.  You  see 
that  our  baptisms  were  reduced,  but  the 
strength  of  our  members  and  the  testi- 
monies of  our  members  were  increased. 
We  received  sincere  members,  humble 
members,  but,  brethren,  best  of  all,  the 
Finnish  Saints  cannot  be  like  Nicodemus 
of  old,  who  went  to  his  Master  by  night. 
The  Finnish  Saint  must  go  to  his  Master 
and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ,  openly. 

Another  very  important  blessing  from 
our  Father  in  Heaven  to  the  Finnish 
Mission  and  to  the  people  there  was 
the  microfilming  program.  When  per- 
mission was  given  to  microfilm,  the 
blessings  that  resulted  from  that  were 
beyond  measure.  I  was  grateful,  breth- 
ren, that  I  received  my  own  genealogy 
on  my  mother's  and  father's  lineage 
back  to  1600.  But  more  important  is  the 
fact  that  I  received  a  further  testimony 
of  the  Lord's  goodness  and  of  his  plan 


10  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  2 

in  that  one  of  my  ancestors  was  the 
first  Archbishop  of  Finland,  Bishop  Isak 
Rothevius.  This  Archbishop  of  the 
Lutheran  Church  began  the  keeping  of 
Lutheran  Church  records,  while  I,  his 
descendant,  was  instrumental  in  the 
microfilming  of  those  same  records. 

Any  story  of  the  Finnish  Mission, 
brethren,  would  not  be  complete  unless 
I  mentioned  the  names  of  Anders  Jo- 
hannsen  and  Loviisa  Johannsen.  This 
fine  Swedish-speaking  couple  were  the 
true  Mormon  pioneers  in  Finland.  They 
joined  the  Church  over  seventy  years 
ago.  What  is  remarkable  about  this  is 
that  for  about  twenty-five  years  they 
had  very  little  contact  with  the  mis- 
sionaries who  came  over  from  the  Swed- 
ish Mission.  Regardless  of  this  loss  of 
contact,  they  remained  true  and  faithful 
to  their  covenants  that  they  had  made 
with  their  Heavenly  Father  in  baptism. 
The  descendants  of  Anders  and  Loviisa 
Johannsen  were  among  that  small  group 


First  Day 

of  Saints  who  met  with  Elder  Benson  in 
Larsmo  on  July  16,  1946,  when  he  re- 
dedicated  Finland  to  the  preaching  of 
the  Gospel. 

I  bear  testimony  to  you,  brethren, 
that  I  know  this  Church  is  true.  I  know 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  a  prophet 
of  our  Heavenly  Father  sent  to  restore 
the  Gospel  truths  on  this  earth.  I  bear 
you  my  testimony  that  I  know  that  God 
lives,  and  that  he  answers  prayers.  I 
bear  testimony  to  you  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer  of 
all  mankind.  I  ask  the  Lord  to  bless 
you,  to  bless  us  during  this  Conference 
time  and  to  bless  his  work  throughout 
the  world.  I  do  this  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  now  hear  from  President  J. 
Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


My  brethren,  I  pray  that  the  Lord 
will  bless  me  and  will  bless  you 
in  the  very  short  time  that  I  shall 
stand  before  you.  The  time  is  slipping. 
I  know  that  President  McKay  has  some 
very  important  matters  to  take  up  and 
likewise  President  Richards. 

I  had  thought  when  I  came  that  I 
might  read  to  you  from  I  Corinthians 
12:11  and  following,  in  which  Paul, 
after  reciting  the  blessings  which  come 
from  the  Gospel,  and  the  gifts,  com- 
pared the  body  of  the  Church  to  a 
human  body.  In  the  course  of  his  dis- 
cussion he  said  something  to  the  effect 
that  the  head  is  not  without  the  feet, 
the  eyes  not  without  the  ear.  He  spoke 
of  the  unity  necessary  in  the  Church, 
spoke  of  the  members  that  were  seem- 
ingly important  and  of  those  who  were 
not  so  important,  and  yet  bound  them 
all  together  as  essentials  in  one  whole. 

I  had  thought  that  I  might  read  that 
and  then  apply  it  a  little  differently, 
because  in  the  latter  part  of  his  ad- 
dress on  that  point  he  noted  that  some 
were  called  to  be  apostles  and  some 


other  members  to  the  administration  of 
the  Church. 

But  I  had  thought  I  might  give  just 
a  little  different  turn  to  that  great  ser- 
mon on  the  unity  of  the  Church  in 
Christ.  I  thought  I  might  point  out 
that  our  Gospel  comes  in  "one  package." 
We  may  not  choose  the  particular  thing 
that  we  like  and  ignore  everything  else, 
nor  submerge  nor  subdue  it.  Every- 
thing that  the  Lord  has  revealed,  except 
those  things  which  have  been  fulfilled 
by  his  own  life  and  mission  and  those 
things  which  in  his  wisdom  he  has  re- 
lieved or  absolved  us  from  doing,  such 
as  the  carrying  on  of  the  United  Order, 
the  building  of  the  temple  in  Missouri, 
and  like  things, — everything  else  is  part 
and  parcel  of  the  Gospel.  We  may  not, 
I  repeat,  say  to  ourselves,  nor  to  one 
another,  that  this  is  the  important  thing 
or  that  is  the  important  thing,  the 
others  being  non-essential  or  unessen- 
tial. We  have  no  right  to  draw  dis- 
tinctions and  differences  among  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord. 

The  Lord  has  given  us  nothing  that 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


11 


is  useless  or  unnecessary.  He  has  filled 
the  Scriptures  with  the  things  which 
we  should  do  in  order  that  we  may 
gain  salvation. 

When  we  partake  of  the  Sacrament 
we  covenant  to  obey  and  keep  his  com- 
mandments. There  are  no  exceptions. 
There  are  no  distinctions,  no  differ- 
ences. 

And  so  I  had  thought  that  I  would 
urge  as  a  part  of  the  unity  concerning 
which  I  have  taken  the  liberty  always 
to  speak  in  this  meeting  of  the  Priest- 
hood, as  a  part  of  this  unity  we  should 
try  to  be  united  in  the  matter  of  Gos- 
pel doctrines  and  practices,  each  and 
all  of  us  trying  so  to  serve  the  Lord  that 
we  might  meet  and  satisfy  the  covenant 
which  we  make  when  we  eat  the  bread 
and  drink  the  water  in  remembrance  of 
his  body  and  of  his  blood. 

I  do  not  think  this  is  a  slight  matter. 
There  are  groups,  not  many  but  some, 
who  take  this  road  to  the  left  and  call 
it  the  most  important,  another  takes  the 
road  to  the  right  with  the  same  plea, 
another  emphasizes  this  point,  another 
that  point,  belittling  some  other  points, 
and  declaring  that  certain  things  are  of 
the  essence,  and  other  things  may  be 
ignored.  I  do  not  read  anywhere  that 
the  Lord  has  given  to  us,  individually, 
the  right  to  say  which  is  most  import- 
ant. We  should  seek  to  keep  all  of  the 
commandments.  I  repeat,  speaking  in 
the  language  of  today,  the  Gospel  is 
"one  package." 

I  hope  and  pray  that  the  Lord  will 
give  us  that  unity,  along  with  all  the 
other  unities  about  which  we  know.  I 
repeat  what  I  have  said  so  often  here, 
that  we  being  truly  united,  there  is 


nothing  that  the  Lord  wants  to  be  done 
that  will  fail  of  doing  if  we  set  our 
hands  and  our  hearts  thereto.  And  I  pray 
again  that  we  may  see  the  necessity  of 
accepting  the  Gospel  and  all  of  it,  that 
we  may  be  saved  and  exalted  in  his 
presence. 

I  bear  my  testimony  to  the  truthful- 
ness of  the  Gospel,  that  God  lives,  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Atoning  Sacri- 
fice and  all  that  that  involves.  I  bear 
my  testimony  to  the  Restoration  of  the 
Gospel  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  to  the  reality  of  the  First  Vision. 
I  bear  my  testimony  to  the  powers  and 
to  the  authorities  which  were  first 
given  and  then  exercised  by  the  Pro- 
phet, and  that  have  been  bestowed  upon 
and  exercised  by  all  those  who  have 
followed  in  his  place  from  Brigham 
Young  down  to  President  McKay.  And 
I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  if  I  did 
not  believe  these  things  and  accept  them 
I  should  not  feel  that  I  was  worthy  to 
be  a  member  of  this  Church.  We  must 
accept  it  all,  belittling  nothing,  sha- 
dowing nothing,  but  openly  espousing, 
advocating,  living  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel. 

God  give  us  this  power,  I  humbly 
pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  congregation  will  now  join  in 
singing,  "Do  What  Is  Right."  Under 
the  leadership  of  Elder  Cornwall. 


The  congregation  and  chorus  sang 
the  hymn,  "Do  What  Is  Right." 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


It  is  a  high  privilege  to  greet  you,  my 
brethren  of  the  Priesthood  of  our 
Lord.  It  is  a  very  humbling  thought 
to  realize  that  I  stand  in  the  presence  of 
this  great  congregation  in  the  Taber- 
nacle, and  that  my  words  are  heard  by 
the  vast  numbers  gathered  in  the  meet- 
ing places  mentioned  by  President  Mc- 
Kay. The  power  and  the  influence  and 
the  potentialities  of  this  vast  group  of 


men  overwhelm  me.  I  think  of  what 
they  have  accomplished,  and  what  they 
are  still  to  accomplish  in  the  advance- 
ment of  our  Father's  Kingdom  in  this 
world. 

I  rejoice  tonight  in  the  brotherhood 
of  the  Holy  Priesthood,  in  the  regard 
and  the  love  which  we  hold  for  each 
other,  in  our  common  purpose,  and  our 
mutual  understanding.  I  love  my  breth- 


12 

Saturday,  April  2 

ren.  I  think  I  understand  them.  I  never 
feel  strange  in  their  presence.  We  speak 
the  same  language.  We  are  dominated 
by  the  same  spirit,  and  I  am  sure  that 
there  is  a  bond  uniting  the  brethren  of 
the  priesthood  that  transcends  any 
earthly  ties  among  men,  and  if  the 
peoples  of  this  world  could  only  under- 
stand the  bond  that  binds  us  together, 
they  would  begin  to  comprehend  what 
is  meant  by  the  brotherhood  of  man. 

So  I  rejoice,  my  brethren,  in  associa- 
tion with  you.  I  am  grateful  to  be 
united  with  you  in  giving  our  service  to 
this  greatest  of  all  the  causes  in  this 
world.  I  am  grateful,  as  are  you,  for 
this  remarkable  power  that  God  has 
given  to  us,  this  authentic  endowment 
of  his  own  divine  authority  to  admin- 
ister the  ordinances  of  the  Holy  Gospel, 
to  bless  our  fellowmen,  and  to  bless  our 
families  and  ourselves. 

I  look  upon  the  priesthood  as  an  in- 
vestiture of  power  and  wisdom  which 
can  come  in  equal  measure  from  no 
other  source  of  which  I  am  aware.  A 
man  of  the  priesthood,  as  I  understand 
it,  is  entitled  to  the  inspiration  of  God 
in  presiding  over  his  family.  If  he  is 
called  to  office,  he  is  entitled  to  inspira- 
tion to  guide  him  in  the  administration 
of  his  office.  If  he  is  called  to  go  out 
into  the  mission  field, — we  have  received 
notable  examples  of  such  calls  tonight, 
he  is  entitled  to  receive  the  great  in- 
spiration that  the  Lord  gives  to  men  in 
the  performance  of  their  duty.  If  he  is 
called  on  to  bless  the  sick,  he  has  the 
divine  power  to  bestow  the  blessings 
that  come  of  the  Lord.  If  he  is  called 
on  to  ordain  his  fellowmen,  he  has  the 
authentic  authority  to  give  to  them  the 
Holy  Priesthood  and  the  offices  therein. 

All  of  these  blessings,  which  almost 
defy  in  their  magnitude  our  finite  con- 
ception, belong  to  and  are  a  part  of  the 
Holy  Priesthood  which  we  bear.  We  are 
entitled  to  exercise  them,  these  high 
privileges,  and  bestow  these  blessings, 
if  we  live  to  be  worthy  of  the  spirit  and 
power  of  the  priesthood,  keeping  all  the 
commandments,  as  President  Clark  has 
so  well  said, — not  a  few,  but  all  the 
commandments, — in  order  that  we  may 
be  true  vessels  of  the  Lord  into  which 
his  Holy  Spirit  may  be  poured,  and  out 
of  which  that  Spirit  may  come  to  those 
to  whom  we  minister. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

I  pray,  my  brethren,  that  we  may  ap- 
preciate this  wonderful  gift  that  has 
come  to  us,  and  show  by  our  lives  that 
we  are  grateful  to  our  Lord  for  it.  I 
look  upon  the  priesthood  as  an  instru- 
mentality of  service.  I  am  sure  that  it 
was  not  bestowed  upon  any  of  us  merely 
for  his  own  aggrandizement,  but  it  was 
given  to  men  to  use  for  the  blessing  of 
themselves,  their  families,  and  their 
fellowmen,  and  the  more  it  is  used  the 
more  potent  it  becomes  within  the  serv- 
ant of  the  Lord  who  ministers  under 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Priesthood. 

We  are  told  very  definitely  in  that 
great  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Coven- 
ants, which  I  often  characterize  as  the 
Constitution  of  the  priesthood,  that  one 
cannot  minister  in  any  degree  of  un- 
righteousness, for  if  he  do  so,  amen  to 
the  priesthood  of  that  man.  His  effort, 
his  labors,  his  ministry  will  not  be  ef- 
ficacious. He  must  have  the  background 
of  righteousness  to  make  him  able,  cap- 
able, of  administering  the  powers  of 
the  Holy  Priesthood. 

I  cannot  forbear  to  read  to  you  those 
well-known  verses  of  the  conclusion  of 
the  121st  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  which  express  in  such  beauti- 
ful language,  I  sometimes  think  the 
most  beautiful  to  be  found  in  all  litera- 
ture, the  spirit  of  the  priesthood  as  it 
has  come  to  us  with  the  fulness  of  the 
everlasting  Gospel. 

"Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  charity 
towards  all  men,  and  to  the  household 
of  faith,  and  let  virtue  garnish  thy 
thoughts  unceasingly;  then  shall  thy 
confidence  wax  strong  in  the  presence 
of  God;  and  the  doctrine  of  the  priest- 
hood shall  distil  upon  thy  soul  as  the 
dews  from  heaven. 

"The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  con- 
sant  companion,  and  thy  scepter  an 
unchanging  scepter  of  righteousness  and 
truth;  and  thy  dominion  shall  be  an 
everlasting  dominion,  and  without  com- 
pulsory means  it  shall  flow  unto  thee 
forever  and  ever."  (D.  &  C.  121:45-46.) 

Where  could  we  expect  to  secure  a 
more  encouraging  and  hopeful  promise 
than  in  those  words  of  latter-day  scrip- 
ture? I  pray  that  we  may  live  to  be  the 
beneficiaries  of  that  incomparable  pro- 
nouncement. 

Now,  my  brethren,  if  I  have  any  duty 
to  counsel,  I  would  like  to  say  just  a 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


13 


word,  looking  toward  the  future  that 
may  await  us,  a  word  that  has  oft  been 
repeated  in  assemblies  of  this  kind.  I 
am  sure  that  it  is  wise  to  look  to  the 
future.  I  am  sure  that  in  our  affairs  we 
would  do  well  to  provide  for  such  safe- 
guards in  our  finances,  in  our  business 
expansions,  as  to  meet  a  day  that  may 
not  be  quite  so  propitious  as  recent 
times  have  been.  I  hope  that  my  breth- 
ren will  not  have  to  pass  through  some 
of  the  experiences  I  have  seen  passed 
through  before,  and  I  believe  that  with 
caution  and  wisdom  they  can  avoid 
some  of  those  tragedies  that  have  come 
in  times  past. 

I  have  always  believed,  my  brethren, 
that  gambling  is  not  legitimate  business. 
I  have  always  believed  that  legitimate 
business  contemplates  a  fair  exchange  of 
services  for  services  or  property,  or 
property  for  property,  in  which  ex- 
change both  parties  benefit.  I  have  al- 
ways believed  that  any  attempts  to  get 
something  for  nothing,  to  take  undue 
chances,  is  not  only  attended  with  de- 
moralization of  business  integrity,  but 
often  with  great  tragedy.  In  my  experi- 
ence of  half  a  century  I  have  seen  many 
of  those  tragedies.  And  so,  out  of  my 
regard  for  you  I  warn  you  against  un- 
wise expansion,  and  incurrence  of  debt, 
but  to  keep  as  well  as  you  may  within 
safe  grounds,  that  the  circumstances  of 
the  future  may  not  rise  to  plague  you 
and  embarrass  you,  and  I  believe  that 


the  Lord  would  have  you  do  this  be- 
cause I  believe  he  wants  you  free — free 
from  the  bondage  of  onorous  and  em- 
barrassing debts,  free  from  obligations 
to  creditors  that  might  impair  your 
service  in  his  great  Cause. 

I  believe  he  wants  you  free  to  perform 
his  work,  to  respond  to  the  calls  that 
he  makes  of  you,  and  I  have  seen  al- 
together too  many  in  a  position  of  find- 
ing it  difficult  to  respond  to  such  calls 
when  they  are  under  the  bondage  of 
debt. 

The  Lord  bless  you  that  wisdom  may 
come  with  your  priesthood, — a  superior 
wisdom, — and  a  discernment  which  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  gives  to  you.  May  all 
be  well  with  you.  You  have  done  a 
great  work  for  the  Church,  and  I  know 
you  stand  ready  to  continue  that  great 
service,  and  I  know  that  no  greater 
happiness  can  come  into  your  lives  than 
the  satisfaction  which  follows  from  sin- 
cere, devoted,  helpful  service  in  the 
Cause  of  our  Lord. 

May  that  unity  which  President  Clark 
pleads  for  prevail  among  us,  that  the 
bonds  of  brotherhood  may  be  strength- 
ened even  as  the  years  go  by.  The  Lord 
bless  us  that  that  brotherhood  may  be 
brought  to  the  support  of  our  beloved 
President  who  represents  all  of  us  in  his 
great  administration  of  this  work  and 
its  extension  throughout  this  world,  I 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


This  has  been  truly  a  spiritual  hour. 
Everyone  present  has  felt  the  power 
of  his  Priesthood.  Everyone  has  felt 
the  sincerity  in  the  testimonies  that  have 
been  borne  by  our  Brethren. 

Messages  that  are  coming  from  the 
assemblies  mentioned  at  the  opening  of 
the  meeting  indicate  that  they,  too,  are 
partaking  of  this  same  spirit.  I  trust 
that  my  duty  in  answering  some  of  your 
questions  of  a  practical  nature  may  not 
detract  in  any  way,  but  if  possible  add 
to  the  spiritual  influence  thus  far  mani- 
fested. 

The  question  has  been  asked:  Is  it 
proper  in  the  administration  of  ward 
affairs,  for  the  bishop  to  add  to  the 
budget  assignment  for  ward  operations, 


the  cost  of  one  or  more  of  the  Church 
magazines?  If  so,  should  he  designate 
the  magazine  that  the  members  of  the 
ward  should  take?  The  answer:  No 
ward,  stake,  or  mission  is  under  obli- 
gation to  raise  an  assigned  quota  for 
any  magazine  published  by  the  Church, 
and  it  should  not  be  included  in  the 
budget. 

Second:  Should  a  member  of  the 
bishopric  be  present  always  in  the  Jun- 
ior Sunday  School  when  the  Sacrament 
is  administered  in  view  of  the  fact  that 
the  Junior  Sunday  School  is  presided 
over  by  sisters?  This  answer  should  be 
given  by  the  Superintendency  of  the 
Sunday  School,  but  we  will  mention 
this  one  fact:  There  should  be  a  mem- 


14  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  2 

ber  of  the  Bishopric  present,  or  one  ap- 
pointed by  them  holding  the  Melchize- 
dek  Priesthood  in  the  Junior  Sunday 
School  when  the  Sacrament  is  admin- 
istered. 

Next,  there  is  a  question  which  in- 
dicates the  necessity  of  being  more  care- 
ful about  permitting  fathers  or  other 
relatives  to  assist  in  ordinances  of  the 
Fast  Meeting.  For  example,  if  a  father 
asks  to  baptize  his  son,  the  bishop  of 
course  will  know  whether  the  father  is 
worthy,  or  whether  he  holds  the  Priest- 
hood. But  suppose  the  father  of  the  son 
lives  in  another  ward,  and  appears  at 
the  baptismal  service  and  requests  the 
right  to  baptize.  The  bishop  who  has 
that  baptismal  service  under  his  direc- 
tion, should  be  sure  that  this  father 
has  the  authority,  and  that  will  apply 
in  blessing  a  child,  or  in  confirming  a 
baptized  member.  It  is  suggested,  there- 
fore, that  the  bishop  will  explain  in 
announcing  a  baptismal  ceremony  or 
the  confirmation,  that  if  any  father  be- 
longing to  another  ward  wishes  to  par- 
ticipate he  should  apply  to  the  bishop 
before  the  ordinance,  and  the  bishop 
should  request  him  to  bring  his  recom- 
mend from  the  ward  of  which  he  is  a 
member.  We  need  not  particularize  to 
tell  you  why. 

Next:  It  is  reported  that  recently 
some  members  who  have  been  here  for 
only  a  few  years,  indeed  a  few  months, 
from  the  mission  field,  entered  the 
temple  and  were  unable,  of  course,  to 
understand  the  ceremony,  they  could 
not  understand  the  English  language. 
Bishops,  under  these  conditions,  it 
would  be  well  for  you  not  to  be  in  a 
hurry  to  issue  recommends  to  the  temple 
to  those  who  do  not  understand  the 
services  nor  the  ordinances.  Their  going 
might  prove  more  injurious  to  them 
than  helpful. 

In  order  to  assist  members  of  the 
Church  better  to  understand  the  temple 
ceremony,  arrangements  are  being  made, 
and  have  been  made  for  them  to  hear 
that  ceremony  in  their  native  tongue. 
This  will  apply  now  already  to  six,  pos- 
sibly seven,  nationalities.  The  ceremony 
has  been  translated  into  other  lan- 
guages and  as  fast  as  we  possibly  can, 
notice  will  be  given  when  the  ceremony 
will  be  presented  to  particular  nation- 
alities. We  already  have  the  ceremony 


First  Day 

in  Spanish,  as  you  know,  with  good  re- 
sults. We  have  already  had  a  ceremony 
in  the  temple  in  the  Swedish  language. 
The  ceremony  is  now  in  German,  about 
completed  in  Norwegian,  Danish, 
French,  and  the  Dutch  language.  Bish- 
ops, you  may  very  rightfully  and  wise- 
ly, ask  the  members  who  apply  to  you 
for  recommends  to  the  temple,  to  wait 
a  few  weeks,  probably  months,  and  first 
hear  the  ceremony,  impressive  as  it  is, 
in  their  native  tongue.  Then,  afterwards, 
they  may  go  through  and  will  under- 
stand the  significance  of  it. 

Indeed,  there  are  of  those  who  speak 
the  English  language,  some  who  do  not 
comprehend  the  significance  of  that 
holy  ordinance. 

Many  of  our  people  write  over  to 
vicars  for  information  in  foreign  coun- 
tries, particularly  in  England.  Some- 
times they  are  unable  to  furnish  the 
records,  even  if  they  are  willing,  the 
Church  officials  in  England,  and  be- 
cause the  law  will  not  permit  them  to 
send  money  out  of  England,  they  are 
therefore  unable  to  return  the  funds 
you  have  sent.  Do  you  get  that  con- 
dition? You  cannot  get  money  back; 
they  cannot  furnish  you  the  informa- 
tion. People  seeking  genealogical  in- 
formation, therefore,  from  England, 
should  carry  on  their  correspondence 
through  the  Genealogical  Office,  and 
not  write  directly  to  the  Churchmen  in 
England. 

There  are  one  or  two  other  items  but 
the  Brethren  of  the  Twelve  will  pre- 
sent those  to  you  on  their  visits. 

I  would  just  like  to  say  a  few  words 
in  conclusion,  and  I  hope  not  to  tres- 
pass too  much  upon  your  time.  In  Sep- 
tember 1946,  the  Board  of  Directors  of 
the  United  States  Steel  held  an  official 
meeting  here  in  this  city.  At  the  con- 
clusion of  their  directors  meeting  they 
invited  some  of  the  officials  of  the 
Church  to  a  dinner  as  their  guests. 
There  were  present  in  that  group  men 
nationally  known  throughout  business 
circles,  Mr.  Irving  S.  Olds,  Chairman  of 
the  Board,  Mr.  Sewell  L.  Avery,  and 
others.  Mr.  Olds  was  the  Master  of 
Ceremonies.  At  the  conclusion  of  that 
dinner,  Mr.  Olds  said,  "Now,  we  have 
not  planned  for  any  speeches,  but  if 
any  present  would  like  to  make  any 
comments  or  remarks,  now  is  the  time." 


PRESIDENT  a 

Mr.  Nathan  L.  Miller,  Director  and 
General  Counsel  for  the  United  States 
Steel  Corporation,  former  Governor  of 
New  York  State,  arose.  I  remember  well 
his  opening  sentence:  "I  am  one  of 
those  New  Englanders  who  have  har- 
bored all  the  ill-stories  that  have  been 
circulated  about  the  Mormons;  but  I 
will  confess  that  this  visit  has  extended 
my  horizons!"  He  then  said,  "No  one 
can  walk  or  drive  around  this  city,  ob- 
serve its  cleanliness,  its  wide,  well-kept 
streets,  the  physical  accomplishments 
evident  on  every  hand  without  being 
impressed  with  a  feeling  that  there  is 
something  peculiarly  distinctive  here — 
something  different  from  that  felt  in 
any  other  city.  I  don't  know,"  he  con- 
tinued, "whether  to  call  it  a  spirit- 
uality— yes,  that  is  it! — there  is  evi- 
dence of  a  spirituality,  the  lack  of  which 
is  felt  in  other  cities."  He  said  he  had 
been  searching  for  the  source  of  it;  but 
could  not  find  that  source  until  he 
heard  the  tributes  paid  the  Pioneers 
during  a  brief  interview  in  the  office  of 
the  First  Presidency.  There  was  a  faith, 
a  great  ideal,  a  greatness  among  the 
founders  of  this  State  which  the  des- 
cendants evidently  have  succeeded  in 
a  degree  to  hold.  "Your  very  isolation," 
he  continued,  "has  been  a  contributing 
factor  in  helping  the  Pioneers  to  main- 
tain the  high  standards  that  character- 
ized the  lives  of  the  founders  of  this 
State." 

Mr.  Miller  has  now  passed,  but  I 
wish  he  had  been  here  tonight  and  par- 
taken of  the  spirit  of  these  men  men- 
tioned, who  are  devoting  their  all  to 
the  advancement  of  the  work. 

Brother  Mendenhall  left  his  own  af- 
fairs and  from  a  business  standpoint, 
they  require  great  directing,  went  to 
New  Zealand  on  his  own  responsibility 
and  appointed  many  of  those  men  who 
directed  those  builders  of  the  school, 
and  responded  to  the  second  appoint- 
ment willingly,  and  to  another  appoint- 
ment. It  matters  not  what  it  costs.  Bro- 
ther Biesinger,  down  there,  mentioned 
by  Brother  Mendenhall,  has  left  his 
own  business.  I  asked  him  down  there, 
"What  has  become  of  your  business?" 
He  said,  "That  is  all  right,  it  is  gone, 
but  I  am  here.  This  is  my  mission 
now."  All  he  has  he  would  like  to  give 
to  the  work. 


/ID  O.  McKAY  15 

I  met  Brother  Going  down  there  who 
is  building  fifteen  of  our  chapels  in 
Samoa.  His  business,  too,  is  not  so  suc- 
cessful. He  said,  "I  can  arrange  that.  I 
will  be  ready  to  devote  all  the  time  that 
is  necessary." 

Brother  Matis  said  nothing  other  than 
that  he  has  spent  seven  years  over  in 
the  mission  field,  but  he  had  a  pros- 
perous position,  an  important  position 
with  an  important  company  who  said, 
"Yes,  we  will  give  him  a  leave  of  ab- 
sence." When  that  leave  of  absence  was 
up  we  communicated  with  Brother  Ma- 
tis. "No,"  he  said,  "this  is  my  mission. 
Do  not  worry  about  that.  I  will  be  all 
right."  And  so  another  year  passed  and 
another  year,  and  seven  years.  You  have 
heard  his  testimony  tonight  how  God 
has  blessed  him. 

This  afternoon  Brother  Moyle  brought 
Brother  Leo  Ellsworth  into  the  office. 
He  is  a  prosperous  man  of  responsi- 
bility, governing  probably  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  dollars.  He  had  just  built 
a  new  home.  He  and  his  wife  had  not 
even  completed  their  landscaping.  The 
call  came  to  him  to  help  the  Church  in 
a  great  enterprise.  I  did  not  know  that 
until  this  afternoon.  They  left  their  new 
house  and  have  spent  months  now  on 
this  other  call.  He  left  his  own  business. 
My  heart  was  moved  when  I  heard 
him  say,  "When  I  came  back  I  found 
my  business  even  better  than  when  I 
left  it."  He  bore  testimony  of  how  the 
Lord  had  blessed  him — "And  this  is 
my  work  now." 

The  brother  who  will  offer  the  bene- 
diction tonight,  President  of  the  East- 
ern States  Mission,  received  word  that 
unless  he  could  get  home,  give  up  his 
mission,  he  would  lose  his  business. 
Well,  he  had  received  an  honorable  re- 
lease but  he  said  nothing  about  this 
threatened  loss  of  his  business  unless 
he  would  give  up  his  work,  and  he  was 
going  to  say  nothing  about  it. 

These  are  but  a  few  practical  in- 
stances of  the  faith  and  devotion  of  the 
leaders  and  members  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ.  I  bear  you  testimony  to- 
night that  the  power,  the  spiritual  pow- 
er of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  which 
comes  from  a  testimony  of  the  truth  of 
the  revealed  and  Restored  Gospel  is 
operative  throughout  the  entire  Church, 
and  it  is  that  power  that  gives  the 


16 

Saturday,  April  2 

strength  to  it.  It  is  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation.  Put  the  Lord  to  the 
test  and  you  will  find  that  he  will  an- 
swer and  prove  to  you  that  he  is  over- 
ruling your  affairs  as  well  as  the  Church 
affairs.  Financially,  you  may  lose  some- 
thing, but  the  spiritual  gain  will  far 
outweigh  that  seemingly  financial  loss. 

Even  before  we  came  into  this  meet- 
ing tonight,  one  of  the  bishops  said  to 
me  (I  happened  to  meet  him) :  "Since 
my  appointment,  it  is  marvelous  what 
the  Lord  has  done  for  us,  and  how  he 
has  opened  up  the  way." 

And  so,  my  beloved  brethren,  in  be- 
half of  all  the  Church,  and  particularly 
in  behalf  of  the  General  Authorities,  I 
thank  you  for  your  devotion,  for  your 
faith  in  the  destiny  of  God's  Church. 
"Seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God,  and 
his  righteousness;  and  all  these  things 
shall  be  added  unto  you."  (Matt.  6:33.) 

May  the  Lord  give  us  power  so  to  do, 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

I  will  not  take  time  to  read  all  these, 
although  you  would  probably  be  inter- 
ested. Notwithstanding  this  most  un- 
usual storm,  we  have  on  the  Tabernacle 
Grounds,  7,987  men  of  the  Priesthood, 
8,000  approximately.  In  the  other  as- 
semblies, 16,747,  a  total  tonight  in  the 
Priesthood  Meeting  of  24,734.  This  is 
the  largest  on  record. 

The  Men's  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  will  sing,  "Thou  Art  Repose," 
under  the  dirction  of  Elder  Cornwall, 
after  which  President  Delbert  G.  Taylor, 
president  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission, 
will  offer  the  benediction. 

Tomorrow  morning  at  10  o'clock  we 
will  meet  in  the  Tabernacle  in  the 
second  session  of  our  Conference.  The 
Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast  will  be 
from  8:00  to  8:30  o'clock  tomorrow 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

morning.  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be  the 
speaker.  The  Tabernacle  Choir  Broad- 
cast will  be  from  9:00  to  9:30.  Elder 
Hugh  B.  Brown,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve, 
will  be  heard  over  NBC  "Faith  in  Ac- 
tion" series  tomorrow  morning,  the  pro- 
gram to  be  released  locally  over  KDYL 
from  8:45  to  9:00  a.m. 

Those  desiring  to  attend  the  Church 
of  the  Air  and  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
Broadcast  must  be  in  their  seats  at  7:50 
a.m.  It  is  requested  that  the  audience 
during  the  broadcast  refrain  from  making 
any  noise.  Large  crowds  will  undoubt- 
edly be  waiting  outside  the  closed  doors. 
We  suggest  and  earnestly  plead  with 
those  thus  standing  that  they  be  cour- 
teous when  the  doors  are  opened  and 
considerate  of  others  in  the  crowd. 
Please  avoid  pushing  or  crowding.  Let 
us  remember  to  be  courteous  and  con- 
siderate to  others  who  are  also  standing, 
and  tonight  we  have  had  an  excellent 
demonstration  of  reverence,  and  also 
of  the  interest  in  this  proceeding.  Hun- 
dreds are  standing  up  in  the  gallery  and 
in  the  doorways.  I  have  not  seen  one, 
not  one,  move  from  his  position,  al- 
though it  must  be  tiresome  after  two 
hours, — an  example,  brethren,  for  all 
the  Church  in  all  our  assemblies.  God 
bless  you  all. 

Singing  by  the  Men's  Chorus,  "Thou 
Art  Repose." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Thank  you,  brethren.  Brother  Rom- 
ney,  who  offered  the  invocation,  is  one 
other  who  has  given  of  his  interests. 
President  Taylor  will  now  offer  the 
benediction. 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by 
President  Delbert  G.  Taylor  of  the  East- 
ern States  Mission. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETINGS 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 

Columbia  Broadcasting  Company's 
Church  of  the  Air  was  presented  at 
8:00  a.m.,  Sunday,  April  3,  1955.  The 
program  as  presented  was  as  follows: 


The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  di- 
rection of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  furnished 
the  music  for  this  service,  with  Frank 
W.  Asper  at  the  organ.  Richard  L. 
Evans  was  the  announcer. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


17 


Music:  Organ  and  humming  choir: 
"Sweet  Is  the  Work." 

Announcer:  The  Church  of  the  Air 
is  presented  by  CBS  Radio  so  that  men 
of  many  faiths  may  speak  to  a  nation- 
wide congregation.  Today's  service 
comes  to  you  from  the  "Mormon"  Tab- 
ernacle on  Temple  Square,  through  the 
facilities  of  Station  KSL  in  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  where  the  annual  General 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  is  this  week  in  ses- 
sion. The  speaker  will  be  Elder  Harold 
B.  Lee,  member  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church.  Music 
will  be  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting,  and 
Frank  Asper  at  the  organ. 

The  Service  opens  on  a  theme  from 
Psalm  137:  "Here  by  Babylon's  wave, 
though  heathen  hands  have  bound  us, 


though  afar  from  our  land,  the  pains  of 
death  surround  us;  Sion!  Thy  men  still 
in  our  heart  we  are  keeping,  and  still 
we  turn  to  Thee,  our  eyes  all  sad  with 
weeping." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "By  Babylon's 
Wave."— Gounod.) 

Announcer:  We  shall  now  hear  on 
this  Church  of  the  Air  Service,  Elder 
Harold  B.  Lee^  a  member  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  fre- 
quently referred  to  as  the  "Mormon" 
Church.  Educator,  former  Commissioner 
of  Salt  Lake  City,  Chairman  of  the 
Servicemen's  Committee,  and  Managing 
Director  of  the  Church  Welfare  Pro- 
gram, Brother  Lee  has  titled  today's 
talk:  "Blessed  is  He  that  cometh  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord." 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


The  Sunday  before  Easter  is  generally 
celebrated  by  many  Christian  sects 
as  Palm  Sunday  in  commemoration 
of  our  Lord's  triumphal  entry  into  Jeru- 
salem. 

My  text  today  is  taken  from  the  "Ho- 
sanna  shout"  which  sounded  from  the 
multitude  who  jubilantly  acclaimed 
Jesus,  the  lowly  Nazarene  as  he  rode 
triumphantly  into  Jerusalem  from  Beth- 
any on  a  colt  which  had  been  borrowed 
for  that  occasion.  As  the  animal  upon 
which  he  rode  had  been  designated  in 
their  literature  as  the  "ancient  symbol 
of  Jewish  royalty"*  and  their  acquaint- 
anceship with  the  might  of  His  Messi- 
anic power  impressed  the  appropriate- 
ness of  his  kingly  right  to  such  an  entry, 
they  cast  their  garments  before  him  and 
cast  palm  branches  and  other  foliage  in 
His  path  as  though  carpeting  the  way  of 
a  king.  What  might  at  first  have  been 
but  the  humble  testimony  of  a  faithful 
few,  increased  into  a  mighty  chorus  of 
voices  as  the  multitude  shouted  in  har- 
mony: 

Blessed  be  the  King  that  cometh  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord.  Hosanna,  to  the  Son 
of  David. 


*Zech.  9:9. 


And  then  perhaps  as  they  remembered 
the  angels'  announcement  to  the  shep- 
herds on  the  night  of  His  birth,  they 
reverently  repeated  the  theme  of  the 
angels'  song:  "Peace  in  heaven,  and 
glory  in  the  highest."  And  again,  prob- 
ably remembering  the  charge  he  had 
given  His  disciples  to  carry  on  after  he 
would  be  taken  from  them,  and  as  a 
supplication  for  their  Master  and  those 
who  would  carry  on  after  His  ascension, 
as  well  as  in  the  remembrance  of  the 
ancient  prophets  whom  they  revered, 
came  the  expressions  of  adulation  from 
the  multitude:  "Blessed  is  he  that  com- 
eth in  the  name  of  the  Lord." 

At  the  commencement  of  His  minis- 
try, He  seemingly  had  seldom,  and  then 
only  guardedly,  declared  that  He  was 
the  Christ  who  should  take  away  the 
sins  of  the  world,  but  now  His  earthly 
ministry  was  reaching  a  consummation 
and  His  fearful  agony  on  the  cross  was 
near.  It  seemed  altogether  appropriate 
that  He  should  now  demonstrate  His 
kingly  place  as  the  King  of  Kings  and 
the  Prince  of  Peace.  Thus  demonstrated, 
His  devoted  disciples  could  thereafter 
likewise  bear  witness  to  the  divinity  of 
His  mission  as  the  Savior  of  mankind 
and  the  "rock"  upon  which  His  church 


18  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  3 

was  to  be  founded  in  the  Meridian  of 
Times. 

There  was  an  occasion  during  His 
ministry  when  His  chiefest  Apostle, 
Peter,  had  fervently  declared  his  faith 
and  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  mis- 
sion of  the  Master:  "Thou  art  the  Christ, 
the  Son  of  the  Living  God."  The  Lord 
had  replied  to  Peter  by  declaring,  "flesh 
and  blood  hath  not  revealed  this  unto 
thee,  but  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven" 
and  that  upon  "this  rock"  or  in  other 
words,  the  revealed  testimony  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  the  revelation  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ — His  Church  is  founded  and 
"the  gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail 
against  it."  It  was  of  this  same  founda- 
tion upon  which  the  Church  was  laid 
to  which  the  Apostle  Paul  made  refer- 
ence when  he  wrote  to  the  Ephesian 
Saints:  "Now  therefore,  ye  are  no  more 
strangers  and  foreigners  but  fellow  citi- 
zens with  the  saints  and  of  the  house- 
hold of  God;  And  are  built  upon  the 
foundation  of  the  apostles  and  prophets, 
Jesus  Christ  himself  being  the  chief 
cornerstone."  (Eph.  2:19-20.) 

In  the  few  minutes  alloted  to  me  in 
this  brief  Church  of  the  Air  address,  I 
would  like  to  make  some  explanation  as 
to  just  'how  blessed  is  he  that  cometh 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord',  from  that  day 
even  to  the  present  time. 

At  the  commencement  of  His  minis- 
try, the  Master  chose  twelve  men  whom 
he  separated  from  the  rest  by  the  name, 
Apostles.  These  were  to  be  special  wit- 
nesses of  the  sanctity  of  His  life,  and  of 
His  divine  mission,  and  to  be  responsi- 
ble for  transmitting  to  the  latest  pos- 
terity, a  genuine  account  of  His  doc- 
trines, and  principles,  and  ordinances 
essential  to  the  salvation  of  the  human 
soul.  History  records  that  these  men,  as 
udged  by  worldly  standards,  were  "il- 
iterate,  poor,  and  of  mean  extraction." 
It  would  seem  that  He  avoided  using  in 
this  ministry,  persons  endowed  with  the 
advantages  of  fortune  or  birth  or  en- 
riched with  the  treasures  of  eloquence 
or  learning,  lest  "the  fruits  of  their  em- 
bassy, and  the  progress  of  the  gospel 
should  be  attributed  to  human  and  na- 
tural causes."  Mosheim. 

True  servants  in  the  Kingdom  of  God, 
when  properly  authorized,  received  an 
endowment  of  holy  power  except  for 
which  their  ministry  would  be  as  the 


Second  Day 

"tinkling  of  brass  and  the  sounding  of 
cymbals."  This  heavenly  endowment  to 
His  chosen  Twelve,  came  as  a  result  of 
three  sacred  experiences.  First,  they  were 
baptized  of  water,  maybe  by  John  the 
Baptist,  or  possibly  as  the  only  ones  He 
did  baptize,  by  the  Master,  himself,  for 
John  records  that  He  and  His  disciples 
were  in  Judea  "and  there  He  tarried 
with  them,  and  baptized."  (John  3:22) 
Then  He  "breathed  on  them  and  said 
unto  them,  receive  ye  the  Holy  Ghost," 
(John  20:22)  which  in  all  likelihood 
was  the  confirmation  and  the  commis- 
sion to  receive  the  Holy  Ghost,  or  the 
baptism  of  the  Spirit,  by  the  laying  on 
of  hands  for  that  was  the  procedure 
followed  thereafter  by  His  disciples. 

The  meaning  of  this  baptism  of  water 
and  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  one  who 
comes  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  is  best 
understood  by  the  words  of  a  prophet  on 
the  Western  Continent.  Addressing  a 
group  of  baptized  converts  he  said  this: 
"There  is  no  other  name  given  whereby 
salvation  cometh;  therefore  I  would  that 
you  should  take  upon  you  the  name  of 
Christ,  all  of  you  that  nave  entered  into 
the  covenant  with  God  that  ye  should 
be  obedient  unto  the  end  of  your  lives." 
(Mosiah  5:8) 

The  third  of  the  remarkable  spiritual 
experiences  to  which  the  disciples  were 
privileged  is  thus  described  by  the 
Master,  himself:  "Ye  have  not  chosen 
me  but  I  have  chosen  you  and  ordained 
you, — that  whatsoever  ye  should  ask  the 
Father  in  my  name  He  may  give  it 
you."  (John  15:16)  Try  to  imagine  if 
you  can,  being  "called"  by  the  Master 
and  "ordained"  under  His  hands.  That 
these  ordinations  resulted  in  an  endow- 
ment of  power  from  on  high  as  well  as 
giving  authority  to  act  officially  as  the 
Lord's  representatives,  is  well  attested  by 
the  miraculous  events  that  followed, 
which  made  of  them,  "men  different" 
because  of  that  divine  commission. 

Not  alone  were  these  special  apostolic 
witnesses  to  receive  and  enjoy  these 
heavenly  gifts.  They  were  commissioned 
to  transmit  them  by  ordinations  to  oth- 
ers who  had  received  the  witness  of  the 
divine  mission  of  the  risen  Lord.  Acting 
by  authority  of  their  priestly  office,  it 
was  as  though  the  Lord  were  saying  as 
He  did  through  a  prophet  in  recent 
times:  "And  I  will  lay  my  hand  upon 


ELDER  HA1 

you  by  the  hand  of  my  servant  .  .  . 
and  ye  shall  receive  the  Holy  Ghost." 
(Doc.  &  Cov.  36:2) 

The  historians  have  given  us  a  sum- 
mary and  a  thrilling  description  of  how 
men  so  chosen  and  so  ordained  were 
blessed  with  heavenly  gifts  because  they 
"came  in  the  name  of  the  Lord." 

After  the  departure  of  Jesus  from 
them,  he  gave  them  the  first  proof  of 
that  majesty  and  power  by  which  he  was 
exalted,  by  the  radiant  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  upon  them  on  the  day  of  Penta- 
cost  according  to  His  promise  .  .  .  Dr. 
Mosheim  in  his  Ecclesiastical  history 
writes  that  "no  sooner  had  the  apostles 
received  this  special  gift,  this  celestial 
guide,  than  their  ignorance  was  turned 
into  light,  their  doubts  into  certainty, 
their  fears  into  firm  and  invincible  forti- 
tude, and  their  former  backwardness 
into  an  ardent  and  inextinguishable 
zeal  .  .  ."  The  growth  of  the  Church 
among  the  Gentile  nations  during  this 
period  was  most  phenomenal.  How  was 
it  possible  that  a  handful  of  apostles, 
who  as  fishermen  and  publicans  could 
engage  the  learned  and  the  mighty  as 
well  as  the  simple  and  those  of  low  de- 
gree to  forsake  their  religion  and  em- 
brace a  new  religion?  There  can  be  but 
one  answer  to  that  question.  There  were 
undoubted  marks  of  a  celestial  power, 
perpetually  attending  their  ministry. 
There  was  in  their  very  language  an 
"incredible  energy  or  amazing  power  of 
sending  light  into  the  understanding 
and  conviction  of  the  heart."*  Then 
the  historians  enumerate  the  miracles, 
the  gift  of  prophecy,  the  power  of  dis- 
cernment, a  contempt  for  riches,  and  a 
serene  tranquility  in  the  face  of  death, 
all  the  while  maintaining  their  lives 
above  reproach,  and  then  conclude  with 
this  declaration:  "Thus  were  the  mes- 
sengers of  the  divine  Savior,  the  heralds 
of  his  spiritual  and  immortal  kingdom, 
furnished  for  their  glorious  work  as  the 
voice  of  ancient  history  so  loudly  testi- 
fies."* 

As  we  review  again  the  matchless  and 
unselfish  devotion  of  these  early  prophets 
and  martyrs  to  the  gospel  of  Christ,  may 
we  bow  in  reverence  and  repeat  with  a 
greater  appreciation  and  comprehension 

*  Mosheim's  Ecclesiastical  History,  Vol.  1, 
pp.  56-58. 


)LD  B.  LEE  19 

as  with  the  multitude  in  Jerusalem  on 
the  occasion  of  the  triumphal  entry  the 
words:  "How  blessed  is  he  that  cometh 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord." 

The  place  of  these  heaven-endowed 
messengers  who  represent  the  Lord  in 
every  dispensation  of  the  gospel  upon  the 
earth  may  be  illustrated  by  an  incident 
related  by  a  traveler  in  northern  Europe. 
Our  traveler  was  leaving  by  boat  from 
Stockholm,  Sweden  out  into  the  Bal- 
tic Sea.  To  do  so,  the  boat  had  to  pass 
through  a  thousand  or  more  islands. 
Standing  on  the  foreward  deck,  the 
traveler  found  himself  becoming  impa- 
tient because  of  what  seemed  to  him  to 
be  a  careless  course.  Why  not  a  course 
near  to  this  island  or  another  and  more 
interesting  than  the  one  the  pilot  had 
chosen?  Almost  in  exasperation  he  was 
saying  to  himself,  "What's  wrong  with 
the  old  pilot?  Has  he  lost  his  sense  of 
direction?  Suddenly  he  was  aware  of 
markers  along  the  charted  course  which 
appeared  as  mere  broom  handles  stick- 
ing up  in  the  water.  Someone  had  care- 
fully explored  these  channels  and  had 
charted  the  safest  course  for  ships  to  take. 
So  it  is  in  life's  course  on  the  way  to 
immortality  and  eternal  life:  "God's  en- 
gineers" by  following  a  blueprint  made 
in  heaven,  have  charted  the  course  for 
safest  and  happiest  passage  and  have 
forewarned  us  of  the  danger  areas. 

How  dreary  and  frustrated  is  the 
human  soul  who  not  only  does  not  come 
"in  the  name  of  the  Lord,"  but  who  dis- 
regards the  guide-posts  marked  out  by 
"God's  engineers"  of  the  above  illustra- 
tion! Of  this  the  Apostle  to  the  Gentiles 
wrote:  "If  in  this  life  only  we  have  hope 
in  Christ,  we  are  of  all  men  most  miser- 
able." (I  Cor.  15:19)  That  misery  cer- 
tainly can  only  be  matched  in  him 
who  in  this  life,  has  no  faith  or  hope  in 
Christ.  Without  such  faith,  man  is,  as 
someone  has  said,  "but  a  creature  of 
circumstance."  Truly,  as  the  Master  in- 
structed his  faithful  Peter,  His  Church, 
the  true  religion  in  which  He  was  the 
"chief  cornerstone"  was  to  be  built  upon 
a  "rock,"  the  rock  of  revelation.  All 
others  are  tossed  about  by  storm  on  the 
waves  of  time. 

But  what  strength  and  fortitude  comes 
to  him  who  puts  his  trust  in  the  Lord! 
I  recently  heard  a  missionary  for  the 
Church  tell  of  an  incident  which  oc- 


20 

Sunday,  April  3 

curred  in  an  atheist-dominated  country. 
A  young  student  with  a  fervent  belief 
in  God  and  in  the  mission  of  the  Savior 
of  the  world  was  ridiculed  and  abused 
by  her  teacher  who  scorned  the  idea  of 
a  God.  As  a  punishment,  the  teacher  re- 
quired that  she  write  twenty  times, 
"There  is  no  God."  The  young  student 
refused.  In  a  rage  the  teacher  demanded 
that  she  write  her  denial  of  God,  fifty 
times  and  added,  as  a  veiled  threat, 
"If  you  don't,  something  terrible  will 
happen."  That  night  mother  and 
daughter  fasted  and  prayed  far  into  the 
night  to  that  God  whom  they  could  not 
and  dared  not  deny.  When  school  time 
came  the  next  morning,  mother  and 
daughter  went  to  see  the  teacher.  The 
school  convened  and  the  teacher  had 
not  arrived.  As  they  waited,  the  princi- 
pal of  the  school  came  to  inform  them 
that  the  teacher  had  died  suddenly  in 
the  night  of  a  heart  attack.  Something 
terrible  had  happened  but  not  to  this 
young  girl  who  came  without  fear  "in 
the  name  of  the  Lord." 

The  triumphal  entry  of  Jesus  into 
Jerusalem,  which  is  commemorated  on 
this  Sunday  was  in  truth  but  a  prelude 
to  the  greater  day  of  triumph  only  a  few 
days  distant.  Before  His  crucifixion,  He 
had  spoken  of  His  personal  triumph  over 
worldly  things,  when  He  said:  "In  me 
ye  might  have  peace.  In  the  world  ye 
have  tribulation;  but  be  of  good  cheer, 
7  have  overcome  the  world."  (John  16: 
33)  But  there  was  yet  that  greater  day 
of  victory  when  he  triumphed  over 
death  and  opened  the  way  to  a  universal 
resurrection.  The  Apostle  Paul  in  exul- 
tation wrote  to  the  Corinthians:  "Death 
is  swallowed  up  in  victory — O  death 
where  is  thy  sting?  O  grave  where  is 
thy  victory?  .  .  .  Thanks  be  to  God 
which  giveth  us  the  victory  through  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ."  (I  Cor.  15:54-7) 

Today  as  did  they  in  past  dispensa- 
tions, we  declare  boldly,  that  "The  fun- 
damental principles  of  our  religion  are 
the  testimony  of  the  Apostles  and  Pro- 
phets concerning  Jesus  Christ,  that  He 
died,  was  buried,  and  rose  again  the 
third  day,  and  ascended  into  heaven; 
and  all  other  things  which  pertain  to 
our  religion  are  only  appendages  to  it."* 

O  that  the  inhabitants  of  an  unre- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

pentant  world  would  humble  themselves 
and  with  faith  in  the  Redeemer  of  man- 
kind join  in  the  chorus  of  the  multitude 
who  welcomed  the  Master  into  the 
Holy  City,  "Blessed  be  the  King  that 
cometh  in  the  name  of  the  Lord!  Ho- 
sanna  to  the  Son  of  David.  Peace  in 
heaven  and  glory  in  the  highest.  Blessed 
is  He  that  cometh  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord."  For  that  I  pray  humbly  in  the 
name  of  the  King  of  Kings,  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 


*  Teachings,  p.  121. 


(The  Choir  sang:  "All  Creatures  of 
Our  God  and  King." — Anon.) 

Music:  Organ  and  humming  choir: 
"Sweet  is  the  Work." 

Announcer:  You  have  been  attending 
CBS  Radio's  Church  of  the  Air.  Today's 
Service  came  to  you  from  the  "Mormon" 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  through 
the  facilities  of  Station  KSL  in  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  where,  this  week,  the  annual 
General  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  in 
session.  The  speaker  was  Elder  Harold 
B.  Lee,  member  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church. 

Music  was  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir, 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting,  with 
Frank  Asper  at  the  organ. 

CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

The  following  broadcast,  written  and 
announced  by  Richard  L.  Evans,  and 
originating  with  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 
City,  was  presented  from  9:00  to  9:30 
a.m.  Sunday,  April  3,  1955,  through  the 
courtesy  and  facilities  of  the  Columbia 
Broadcasting  System's  network,  through- 
out the  United  States.  The  broadcast 
was  as  follows: 

(The  organ  played  "As  the  Dew,"  and 
on  signal  the  Choir  and  organ  broke  into 
the  hymn,  "Gently  Raise,"  singing  the 
words  to  the  end  of  the  second  line,  and 
humming  to  end  the  verse  for  an- 
nouncer's background.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome 
you  within  these  walls  with  music  and 
the  spoken  word  from  the  Crossroads  of 
the  West. 

The  CBS  Radio  Network  and  its  af- 
filiated stations  bring  you  at  this  hour 
another  presentation  from  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  with  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall   conducting  the  Tabernacle 


THE  SPOK 

Choir,  Frank  Asper,  Tabernacle  organist, 
and  the  spoken  word  by  Richard  Evans. 

The  Choir  opens  with  the  worshipful 
moving  music  of  the  "Cherubim  Song" 
by  Panchenko:  "To  thee  we  sing  .  .  . 
to  Thee  O  Lord,  Our  God,  .  .  .  hear 
Thou  our  prayer." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Cherubim  Song." 
— Panchenko.) 

Announcer:  Frank  Asper's  first  organ 
offering  is  the  quietly  expressive  "Pray- 
er" from  the  Gothique  suite  by  Leon 
Boellmann. 

(Organ  selection:  "Prayer." — Boell- 
mann.) 

Announcer:  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
next  sings  Vivien  Bard's  setting  for 
these  profoundly  comforting  words 
from  the  45th  Psalm:  "Be  still  and  know 
that  I  am  God  ...  He  maketh  wars  to 
cease  unto  the  end  of  the  earth;  He 
breaketh  the  bow,  and  cutteth  the  spear 
in  sunder;  ...  He  burneth  the  chariot 
in  fire  .  .  .  Be  still  and  know  that  I 
am  God." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Be  Still"— Bard.) 

Announcer:  From  the  works  of  Ralph 
Kinder,  Dr.  Asper  recalls  a  descriptive 
writing  that  symbolizes  the  ever  won- 
drous season,  of  the  fulfillment  of  faith 
and  the  assurance  of  everlasting  life: 
"In  Springtime." 

(Organ  selection:  "In  Springtime." — 
Kinder.) 

Announcer: 

Of  the  seventh  day  preceding  Easter, 
John  the  Beloved  and  others  record  how 
the  multitude  acknowledged  the  Master 
for  what  He  was:  the  King  of  Israel, 
Messiah,  and  Saviour.  Less  than  one 
week  later,  with  false  accusation  and 
the  mockeries  of  men,  he  was  on  the 
cross — and  there  was  death  and  dark- 
ness and  despair.  But  these  were  fol- 
lowed by  dawn  and  light  and  life,  by 
resurrection  and  redemption  from  death. 
Some  nineteen  centuries  have  passed 
since  then,  and  the  "opposition  in  all 
things"  is  still  sharply  in  evidence:  Still 
there  is  the  struggle  of  evil  and  good, 
error  and  truth,  darkness  and  light, 
death  and  life.  But  despite  all  discour- 
agements, and  sometimes  despair,  there 
is  the  blessed  reasuring  certainty  that 
the  Lord  God  who  gave  us  lire  and 
made  us  in  His  image  will,  with  our 
willingness,  lead  us  to  further  light,  to 
fuller  life,   and  happiness.    For  this 


V  WORD  21 

cause  were  all  the  commandments  given 
— and  for  this  He  sent  His  only  be- 
gotten Son  not  to  condemn,  but  to  save 
the  world1 — that  same  beloved  Son  who 
said:  "They  that  be  whole  need  not  a 
physician,  but  they  that  are  sick"2 — 
that  same  beloved  Son  who  said:  "Come 
unto  me,  all  ye  that  labour  and  are 
heavy  laden,  and  I  will  give  you  rest."3 
And  to  the  sick,  the  suffering,  the  sor- 
rowing, to  the  injured  and  offended,  to 
the  puzzled  and  perplexed,  to  those 
withdrawn  within  themselves,  to  the 
falsely  dealt  with  and  deceived,  to  those 
who  have  lost  their  loved  ones,  to  those 
who  live  in  loneliness — to  all,  there  is 
help  from  Him  who  even  now  sits  at 
His  Father's  side,  and  who  was  sent  to 
encourage,  to  heal,  to  love,  to  lift  the 
lives  of  men,  to  lead  the  way  to  hap- 
piness and  everlasting  life.  What  else 
would  any  father  wish  for  his  children? 
What  else  would  we  wish  for  our  own 
— but  happiness  and  everlasting  life 
with  our  loved  ones?  And  for  this  cause 
are  all  the  counsels  and  commandments 
of  God  given.  There  are  no  unessential 
commandments,  none  that  we  can  safely 
ignore  or  set  aside  (unless  God  shall 
withdraw  it  or  declare  it  fulfilled).  And 
blessedly,  the  same  sure  things  that 
lead  to  happiness  hereafter,  lead  also  to 
happiness  here.  We  would  say,  in  words 
recorded  by  John:  "For  God  sent  not 
his  Son  into  the  world  to  condemn  the 
world"1  but  to  save.  We  would  say,  in 
the  words  uttered  at  the  hour  of  His 
ascension,  that  ".  .  .  this  same  Jesus 
.  .  .  shall  so  come  in  like  manner  as  ye 
have  seen  him  go  into  heaven."4  And 
we  would  say  in  the  words  of  Job,  but 
with  conviction  of  our  own:  "...  I 
know  that  my  Redeemer  liveth  .  .  ."5 
(Organ  selection:  "Though  Deepening 
Trials." — Careless.) 

Announcer:  We  have  heard  a  hymn 
melody  by  George  Careless  with  the 
words  of  Eliza  R.  Snow:  "Though  Deep- 
ening Trials  Throng  Your  Way,  press 
on,  press  on,  ye  Saints  of  God!  Ere  long 
the  resurrection  day  will  spread  its  life 
and  truth  abroad." 
And  now  the  Choir  closes  with  a  fer- 


iSee  John  3:17 
2Matthew  9:12 
3Matthew  11:28 
"Acts  1:9-11 
sjob  19:25 


22 

Sunday,  April  3 

vent  and  earnest  utterance — a  prayer 
from  Verdi's  Othello:  "Lord,  hear  our 
prayer,  O  hear  our  supplication  .  .  . 
Lord  God  in  heaven  above  .  .  .  give  us 
love  and  truth  and  life  eternal  . . ." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Lord,  Hear  Our 
Prayer" — Verdi.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  leave  you 
within  the  shadows  of  the  everlasting 
hills.  May  peace  be  with  you,  this  day 
— and  always. 

This  concludes  the  thirteen  hundred 
and  thirty-seventh  presentation,  contin- 
uing the  26th  year  of  this  traditional 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

broadcast  from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle 
on  Temple  Square,  brought  to  you  by 
CBS  Radio  and  its  affiliated  stations, 
and  originating  with  Radio  Station  KSL 
in  Salt  Lake  City. 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducted  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  with  its  three  hun- 
dred seventy-five  singing  voices.  Frank 
Asper  was  at  the  organ.  The  spoken 
word  by  Richard  Evans. 

In  another  seven  days,  at  this  same 
hour,  music  and  the  spoken  word  will 
be  heard  once  more  from  the  Crossroads 
of  the  West. 


SUNDAY  MORNING  GENERAL  CONFERENCE  SESSION 


The  Sunday  morning  general  session 
commenced  promptly  at  10:00  a.m.,  with 
President  David  O.  McKay  presiding 
and  conducting  the  services. 

The  Tabernacle  was  crowded  to  ca- 
pacity with  people  who  had  assembled 
early  in  the  morning  to  listen  to  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broad- 
cast and  the  Conference  session  which 
followed.  Notwithstanding  the  weather, 
the  Assembly  Hall  and  the  Barratt  Hall 
were  also  crowded  with  people  who  were 
unable  to  obtain  accommodation  in  the 
Tabernacle,  and  who  attended  the  Con- 
ference services  by  means  of  television 
as  they  were  broadcast  from  the  Taber- 
nacle. The  services  were  also  televised 
over  eighteen  television  stations  in  Utah, 
Idaho,  Oregon,  Nevada,  Arizona,  Cali- 
fornia, Washington  and  Colorado.  By 
arrangement  with  KSL  Radio  Station  of 
Salt  Lake  City,  provision  was  made  for 
the  services  to  be  broadcast  over  a  large 
number  of  radio  stations. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  the 
music  for  this  session. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  Sunday  morning  thousands  are 
assembled  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall  and  Barratt  Hall,  and 
other  thousands  are  listening  in  over 
radio  and  television  stations.  This  is 
the  second  session  of  the  One  Hundred 
Twenty-fifth  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  The  first  session  was  not  broad- 
cast. It  was  a  General  Priesthood  meet- 
ing held  last  evening  in  the  Tabernacle, 


with  overflow  meetings  in  the  Assembly 
Hall,  in  Barratt  Hall,  and  by  direct 
wire  over  a  public  address  system  to 
members  of  the  Priesthood  assembled  in 
17  Church  buildings  in  Utah;  10  in 
Idaho;  2  in  Wyoming;  3  in  Nevada;  1 
in  Colorado;  5  in  Washington;  2  in 
Oregon;  2  in  Arizona  and  32  in  Cali- 
fornia; a  total  of  73  buildings  in  which 
the  Priesthood  met  last  evening. 

For  your  interest  we  should  like  to  say 
that  as  nearly  as  the  ushers  could  count 
there  were  assembled  in  that  Priest- 
hood meeting  last  evening  over  25,000 
men  and  boys  —  24,734  reported  last 
evening,  with  20  other  places  to  account 
for,  and  this  morning  we  have  received 
an  additional  419,  making,  as  I  say, 
over  25,000,  —  the  largest  Priesthood 
Meeting  ever  held  in  the  Church. 

The  speakers  last  evening  were  Elders 
Wendell  B.  Mendenhall,  president  of  the 
San  Joaquin  Stake,  and  Henry  A.  Matis, 
formerly  president  of  the  Finnish  Mis- 
sion, and  members  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency. 

The  Men's  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  under  the  direction  of  Elder  J. 
Spencer  Cornwall,  furnished  the  music. 

Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  was  the  speaker 
on  Columbia's  Church  of  the  Air  pro- 
gram this  morning  at  8  o'clock,  and 
Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown  was  heard  over 
NBC  network  Faith  in  Action  series 
from  8:45  to  9  a.m. 

We  are  now  assembled,  as  I  stated, 
in  the  second  session  of  the  One  Hun- 
dred Twenty-Fifth  Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church.  All  the  General  Authori- 
ties of  the  Church,  I  think,  are  in  at- 
tendance.   Elder  Joseph  Anderson  is 


PRESIDENT  Di 

Clerk  of  the  Conference.  These  services 
and  all  general  sessions  of  the  Confer- 
ence will  be  broadcast  in  the  Assembly 
Hall,  in  Barratt  Hall,  and  over  a  public 
address  system  and  by  television. 

The  services  this  moming  will  also 
be  televised  over  KSL,  Channel  5  of 
Salt  Lake  City,  and  over  18  television 
stations  in  Utah,  Idaho,  Oregon,  Ne- 
vada, Arizona,  California,  Washington, 
and  Colorado. 

They  likewise  will  be  heard  over  Ra- 
dio Station  KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City,  and 
by  arrangement  through  KSL  over  14 
radio  stations  in  Utah,  Idaho,  Oregon, 
Nevada,  Arizona,  New  Mexico,  and  Tex- 
as. The  names  of  these  stations  have 
already  been  announced  to  the  televi- 
sion and  radio  audiences. 

We  desire  most  appreciatively  to  ex- 
press our  gratitude  to  these  various  tele- 
vision and  radio  stations  for  their  cour- 
tesy in  making  available  their  time  and 
facilities  for  these  broadcasts.  It  is  truly 
a  great  service. 

To  the  audience,  those  who  are  as- 
sembled in  person,  and  to  the  thousands 
comprising  the  television  and  radio  aud- 
iences, the  First  Presidency  and  General 
Authorities  extend  a  most  hearty  wel- 
come, and  pray  that  our  souls  may  be 
uplifted  and  inspired  by  our  assembling 
together  in  this  great  Conference  of  the 
Church.  God  bless  you  all. 

We  have  greetings  from  a  number  of 
people,  —  telegrams  from  those  who 
were  listening  in  to  the  Priesthood 
Meeting — all  expressing  appreciation  for 
the  opportunity  they  had.  We  shall  not 
take  time  to  read  these  telegrams,  but 
express  appreciation  to  those  who  have 
sent  them. 

We  acknowledge  the  presence  of 
prominent  visitors  who  are  in  attendance 
this  morning.  It  is  difficult  to  name  all, 
but  we  have  asked  for  names  of  those. 
We  may  miss  some.  We  have  the  Sec- 
retary of  Agriculture,  our  fellow-worker 
in  the  Twelve,  Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson; 
United  States  Senators,  Arthur  V.  Wat- 
kins  and  Wallace  F.  Bennett;  Repre- 
sentatives in  the  House,  I  think,  Wil- 
liam A.  Dawson,  and  H.  Aldous  Dixon, 
although  I  cannot  see  them;  the  Gover- 
nor of  the  State,  the  Honorable  J. 
Bracken  Lee;  Mayor  of  the  City  the 
Honorable  Earl  J.  Glade;  Ernest  L. 
Wilkinson  of  the  educators,  and  presi- 


'ID  O.  McKAY  23 

dent  of  the  B.Y.U.;  Dr.  A.  Ray  Olpin, 
president  of  the  University  of  Utah;  Dr. 
Daryl  Chase,  president  of  the  Utah 
State  Agricultural  College;  Dr.  Arthur 
Bruhm  of  the  Dixie  College;  Dr.  E. 
Allan  Bateman,  State  Superintendent 
of  Public  Instruction. 

I  see  a  telegram  from  Superintendent 
M.  Lynn  Bennion  that  he  was  unable  to 
attend  this  morning  because  of  condi- 
tions that  prevented  his  coming.  We 
have  with  us  also  Dr.  William  P.  Miller, 
president  of  Weber  College;  Dr.  John  L. 
Clarke,  president  of  Ricks  College;  Dr. 
Lester  B.  Whetten  of  Snow  College; 
Dr.  Royden  Braithwaite  of  the  Agricul- 
tural College;  Dr.  Howard  McDonald, 
president  of  Los  Angeles  State  College; 
others  whom  probably  we  have  not  ob- 
served will  please  realize  that  you  are 
welcomed  with  these  whom  I  have 
named. 

We  have  before  us  also  our  mission 
presidents  from  the  United  States,  Mex- 
ico, Guatemala,  Canada;  stake  presi- 
dents, counselors,  and  bishoprics.  To  all 
we  extend  a  hearty  welcome  and  express 
satisfaction  and  joy  in  your  presence  and 
your  cooperative  spirit  in  these  gather- 
ings of  this  great  Conference. 

The  Choir  singing  for  this  morning's 
session  will  be  by  the  Salt  Lake  Taber- 
nacle Choir,  with  J.  Spencer  Cornwall 
conducting  and  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper 
at  the  organ.  The  Choir  and  congrega- 
tion will  now  join  in  singing,  "High  on 
the  Mountain  Top,"  with  Elder  Richard 
P.  Condie  conducting. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Alvin  R.  Dyer,  president  of  the 
Central  States  Mission. 

All  join  with  the  Choir  in  singing. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn,  "High  On  the  Mountain  Top." 

Elder  Alvin  R.  Dyer,  President  of  the 
Central  States  Mission,  offered  the  open- 
ing prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

"The  Lord's  Prayer"  will  be  sung  by 
the  Tabernacle  Choir,  conducted  by 
Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall.  Following 
the  Choir's  singing  we  shall  hear  from 
President  David  O.  McKay. 

The  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  'The 
Lord's  Prayer," — Gates. 


24 

Sunday,  April  3 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 
PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


Second  Day 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters:  The 
sense  of  responsibility  of  this  mo- 
ment is  overwhelming.  In  antici- 
pation of  it  I  have  prayed  earnestly, 
daily,  for  inspiration  and  strength,  and 
now  I  ask  you  for  your  sympathetic  co- 
operation and  your  prayers  that  the  in- 
terests of  the  Church,  the  establishing 
of  the  kingdom  of  God  among  men, 
may  be  enhanced. 

"And  lift  up  an  ensign  of  peace,  and 
make  a  proclamation  for  peace  unto  the 
ends  of  the  earth."  (D.  &  C.  105:39.) 

This  quotation  is  from  a  revelation 
given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  when 
Zion's  Camp  was  at  Fishing  River,  June 
22,  1834.  In  that  one  sentence,  the  Lord 
sets  forth  one  of  the  great  purposes  of 
his  Church — to  bring  about  harmony  in 
human  relations;  in  the  individual  to 
experience  a  mental  or  spiritual  state  in 
which  there  is  personal  freedom  from 
"disquieting  or  perturbing"  conditions 
that  might  interfere  with  the  consumma- 
tion of  God's  purposes  to  bring  about  the 
immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man. 

Considering  world  conditions,  I  think 
it  is  highly  gratifying  to  note  the  com- 
mendable efforts,  the  wise,  conservative 
judgment  manifest  by  the  President  of 
the  United  States,  the  Secretary  of  State, 
and  other  sincere  statesmen  in  Congress, 
including  our  own  worthy  Senators  and 
Representatives  to  foster  the  cause  of 
peace  and  to  avert  a  world-wide  clash 
of  arms.  But  it  is  very  apparent  that 
international  conditions  at  present  cen- 
tering at  Quemoy  and  Matsu  Islands  are 
filled  with  such  volatile  problems  that 
a  defiant  move  on  the  part  of  Chinese 
communists  might  disrupt  the  already 
precarious  peace  of  the  world. 

We  love  peace,  but  not  peace  at  any 
price.  There  is  a  peace  more  destructive 
of  the  manhood  of  living  man  than  war 
is  destructive  of  the  body.  "Chains  are 
worse  than  bayonets." 

After  the  Savior's  resurrection  when 
he  appeared  to  his  disciples  assembled  in 
an  upper  room,  his  divine  greeting  was 
"Peace  be  unto  you."  (John  20:19.) 
Even  before  his  resurrection,  he  said: 
"Peace  I  leave  with  you,  my  peace  I 
■give  unto  you:  not  as  the  world  giveth, 
give  I  unto  you.   Let  not  your  heart  be 


troubled,  neither  let  it  be  afraid."  (Ibid., 
14:27.) 

We  believe  firmly  that  the  basis  upon 
which  world  peace  may  be  permanently 
obtained  is  not  by  sowing  seeds  of  dis- 
trust and  suspicion  in  people's  minds; 
not  by  engendering  enmity  and  hatred 
in  human  hearts;  not  by  individuals  or 
nations  arrogating  to  themselves  the 
claim  of  possessing  all  wisdom,  or  the 
only  culture  worth  having;  not  by  war 
with  resulting  suffering  and  death  from 
submarines,  poison  gas,  or  explosions  of 
nuclear  bombs.  Nol  The  peace  that 
will  be  permanent  must  be  founded 
upon  the  principles  of  righteousness  as 
taught  and  exemplified  by  the  Prince  of 
Peace,  our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ, 
".  . .  for  there  is  none  other  name  under 
heaven  given  among  men,  whereby  we 
must  be  saved."  (Acts  4:12.) 

My  theme  this  morning  is:  What  are 
we  doing  as  a  Church  and  as  members 
thereof  to  proclaim  this  peace? 

Recently,  as  you  know,  it  was  my 
privilege  and  duty,  accompanied  by 
Sister  McKay  and  President  Franklin  J. 
Murdock,  who  acted  as  secretary,  to 
visit  some  of  the  far-off  missions  of  the 
Church. 

With  the  theme  in  mind  of  proclaim- 
ing the  gospel  of  peace  to  the  inhabitants 
of  the  world,  I  should  like  to  comment 
on  observations  made  of  four  effective 
factors  operative  in  the  spreading  of  the 
gospel. 

First,  we  note  the  excellent  work  be- 
ing done  by  the  11,500  missionaries 
throughout  the  world,  390  of  whom  it 
was  our  privilege  to  meet  on  this  recent 
tour.  Each  one  of  these  pays  his  or 
her  own  expenses,  conforms  to  the  re- 
quirements and  laws  of  the  country,  and 
teaches  the  principles  that  constitute 
the  basis  of  the  restored  religion  of  Jesus 
Christ.  All  are  appointed  messengers 
proclaiming  the  glad  tidings  of  the  re- 
stored gospel,  giving  of  themselves,  as 
well  as  of  their  means  for  the  good  of 
the  world. 

A  second  favorable  factor  is  a  better 
understanding  by  officials  of  govern- 
ments and  municipalities  regarding  the 
purposes  of  Mormon  missionary  work. 
Old  stories  that  used  to  be  extant  accus- 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


25 


ing  missionaries  of  sinister  motives  are 
now  repeated  only  by  the  prejudiced  and 
uninformed.  United  States  consuls,  or 
their  representatives,  mayors  of  munici- 
palities, and  other  officials,  met  us,  bade 
us  welcome,  and  proffered  to  render  any 
service  to  make  our  visit  profitable. 
Newspaper  reporters,  radio  announcers, 
television  representatives  were  on  hand 
to  learn  the  purposes  of  the  tour,  and 
without  exception  gave  fair  and  unpreju- 
diced reports  of  our  visit. 

The  third  observation  (and  this  is 
important)  is  the  need  to  put  forth  every 
effort  within  reason  and  practicability 
to  place  within  reach  of  Church  mem- 
bers in  these  distant  missions  every  edu- 
cational and  spiritual  privilege  that  the 
Church  has  to  offer. 

It  is  only  recently  that  some  of  these 
missions  have  been  visited  by  a  General 
Authority.  With  modern  means  of 
transportation  available,  it  is  now  possi- 
ble and  very  practical  to  have  these  far- 
off  missions  visited  as  the  missions  here 
in  the  United  States  have  been  visited. 
Accordingly,  and  this  you  will  be 
pleased  to  hear,  at  a  meeting  of  the  First 
Presidency  and  Council  of  the  Twelve 
held  March  17,  1955,  it  was  unanimously 
decided  that  these  distant  missions 
should  be  included  with  other  missions 
in  the  annual  appointments  of  mem- 
bers of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

Besides  these  visits,  educational  insti- 
tutions are  being  made  available  for 
the  young  people.  In  Nukualofa,  for 
example,  in  the  Tongan  Islands,  under 
the  able  presidency  of  D'Monte  W. 
Coombs,  Professor  Ermel  J.  Morton, 
principal,  and  an  able  staff,  there  is 
now  established  in  full  working  order 
the  Liahona  College,  accommodating 
three  hundred  students,  and  employing 
fourteen  teachers.  It  is  a  credit  to  the 
Church  and  to  the  Tongan  Islands.  In- 
deed, it  is  one  of  the  show  places  of 
passengers  of  the  steamship  Tofua,  and 
her  sister  ship,  the  Matua.  While  the 
ships  are  loading  and  unloading  cargo 
at  Nukualofa,  the  passengers  take  buses 
out  to  Liahona  to  visit  the  school  and 
inspect  the  work  that  is  being  done  by 
the  students. 

At  Pesega,  Samoa,  under  the  presi- 
dency of  President  Howard  B.  Stone,  the 
.school  already  established  accommodates 


from  six  hundred  to  one  thousand  stu- 
dents. Another  is  planned  at  Maupa- 
saga,  American  Samoa.  Thus  will  the 
branches  be  strengthened  in  far  distant 
lands  with  visits  of  the  Twelve,  whose 
duty  it  is  to  set  in  order  the  affairs  of 
the  Church  in  all  the  world,  with  edu- 
cational advantages  to  prepare  students 
for  the  preaching  of  the  gospel,  and 
finally,  with  a  temple  within  easy  reach 
of  those  whose  influence  in  the  mission 
field  will  become  a  strength  to  the 
branches,  and  a  means  of  proclaiming 
peace. 

The  fourth  observation  I  wish  to  make 
is  the  influence  of  the  power  of  example. 
One  of  the  most  impressive  features  of 
our  recent  South  Pacific  tour  was  the 
participation  of  youth  in  meetings,  in  the 
welcomes  extended,  and  in  the  fare- 
wells, and  the  orderly  conduct  of  the 
children,  without  an  exception.  The 
school  at  Liahona  in  Tonga  radiated  not 
only  culture  and  refinement,  but  also 
the  true  spirit  of  the  gospel.  The  same 
features  existed  in  Tahiti  under  Acting 
President  Larson  H.  Caldwell;  New  Zea- 
land, presided  over  by  President  Sidney 
J.  Ottley;  Australia,  under  President 
Charles  V.  Liljenquist;  in  Samoa,  as  I 
have  already  stated,  under  President 
Howard  B.  Stone;  in  Hawaii,  under 
President  D.  Arthur  Haycock;  and  in  the 
stake,  under  President  Edward  L.  Clis- 
sold.  Strangers  who  were  present,  (and 
they  were  there  by  the  hundreds),  had  a 
good  demonstration  of  what  the  Church 
is  doing  properly  to  interest  and  to  di- 
rect the  youth. 

Herein  lies  the  responsibility  of  mem- 
bership. The  gospel  of  peace  should 
find  its  most  fruitful  effects  in  the  homes 
of  Church  members.  Flowers  in  our 
gardens  require  good  soil  and  a  favor- 
able climate.  So  children,  to  be  healthy 
and  happy,  should  have  a  favorable 
mental  and  emotional  atmosphere  in 
the  home. 

Soon  after  our  return  from  the  South 
Pacific,  I  received  a  letter  from  Presi- 
dent Ward  C.  Holbrook,  a  state  official, 
stating  that  the  divorce  rate  in  Utah  is 
such  as  to  give  cause  for  most  serious 
consideration.  It  is  inconsistent  to  go 
abroad  to  proclaim  peace  if  we  have 
not  peace  in  our  own  lives  and  homes. 

The  greatest  trust  that  can  come  to 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  3 

a  man  and  woman  is  the  placing  in 
their  keeping  the  life  of  a  little  child. 
If  a  man  defaults  who  is  entrusted  with 
other  people's  funds,  whether  he  be  a 
bank,  municipal,  or  state  official,  he  is 
apprehended  and  probably  sent  to  prison. 
If  a  person  entrusted  with  a  government 
secret  discloses  that  secret,  and  betrays 
his  country,  he  is  called  a  traitor.  What 
must  the  Lord  think,  then,  of  parents 
who,  through  their  own  negligence  or 
wilful  desire  to  indulge  their  selfishness, 
fail  properly  to  rear  their  children,  and 
thereby  prove  untrue  to  the  greatest 
trust  that  has  been  given  to  human 
beings?  In  reply  the  Lord  has  said: 
".  .  .  the  sin  be  upon  the  heads  of  the 
parents."  (D.  &  C.  68:25.) 

The  happiest  homes  in  the  world 
should  be  found  among  members  of  the 
Church.  Statistics  on  broken  homes, 
with  resultant  divorces,  should  alert  all 
citizens,  and  particularly  members  of 
the  Church  to  greater  activity  in  pre- 
serving harmony  in  home  circles.  Let 
us  begin  at  once  as  parents  to  maintain 
the  kind  of  influence  or  home  atmos- 
phere that  will  contribute  to  the  normal 
moral  development  of  the  children  and 
eliminate  from  the  home  those  elements 
which  cause  discord  and  strife. 

Fathers  and  mothers  sometimes  by  un- 
wise conduct  unwittingly  influence  their 
children  toward  delinquency.  Among 
these  unwise  acts,  I  mention  first,  dis- 
agreeing, or  quarreling  on  the  part  of 
parents  in  the  presence  of  children. 
Sometimes  such  quarrels  arise  out  of  an 
attempt  to  correct  or  to  discipline  a 
child.  One  parent  criticizes,  the  other 
objects,  and  the  good  influence  of  the 
home,  so  far  as  the  child  is  concerned, 
is  nullified.  A  child  of  such  parents  can 
never  say  truthfully  in  after  life  what 
John  Ruskin  writes  of  his  memory  of 
home: 

"I  never  heard  my  father's  or  mother's 
voice  once  raised  in  any  question  with 
each  other;  nor  saw  an  angry  or  even 
slightly  hurt  or  offended  glance  in  the 
eyes  of  either  ...  I  never  saw  a  mo- 
ment's trouble  or  disorder  in  any  house- 
hold matter." 

I  name  as  a  second  unwise  condition 
those  parents  who  pollute  the  home 
atmosphere  with  "vulgarity"  and  "pro- 
fanity."  I  use  the  term  "vulgarity"  in 


Second  Day 

the  sense  used  by  David  Starr  Jordan. 
"To  be  vulgar,"  he  writes,  "is  to  do  that 
which  is  not  the  best  of  its  kind.  It  is  to 
do  poor  things  in  poor  ways,  and  to  be 
satisfied  with  that.  ...  It  is  vulgar  to 
wear  dirty  linen  when  one  is  not  en- 
gaged in  dirty  work.  It  is  vulgar  to  like 
poor  music.  .  .  .  To  find  amusement  in 
trashy  novels,  to  enjoy  vulgar  theatres, 
to  find  pleasure  in  cheap  jokes,  to  tol- 
erate coarseness  and  looseness  in  any  of 
its  myriad  forms." 

Parents  are  particularly  untrue  to 
their  trust  who  will  use  profane  words 
in  the  home.  Profanity  is  a  national 
vice.  Parents  pollute  their  home  when 
they  use  it.  People  of  our  nation  would 
stand  on  a  higher  moral  plane  if  they 
would  but  follow  the  general  order 
given  by  the  Father  of  our  country  to 
his  soldiers,  July  1,  1776.  Said  he — or 
wrote  he  at  that  time: 

"The  General  is  sorry  to  be  informed 
that  the  foolish  and  wicked  practice  of 
profane  cursing  and  swearing,  a  vice 
heretofore  little  known  in  an  American 
army,  is  growing  into  fashion.  He  hopes 
the  officers  will,  by  example  as  well  as 
influence,  endeavor  to  check  it,  and  that 
both  they  and  the  men  will  reflect  that 
we  can  have  little  hope  of  the  blessing 
of  heaven  on  our  arms  if  we  insult  it 
by  our  impiety  and  folly.  Added  to  this, 
it  is  a  vice  so  mean  and  low,  without 
any  temptation,  that  every  man  of  sense 
and  character  detests  and  despises  it." 

I  continue,  vulgarity  and  profanity 
among  the  young  is  often,  though  not 
always,  the  result  of  the  presence  of 
those  evils  in  the  home. 

To  quarreling  of  parents  before  chil- 
dren, to  vulgarity,  and  to  the  condemna- 
tory use  of  profanity,  there  may  be  added 
a  third  contributing  factor  to  parental 
delinquency,  and  that  is  the  non-con- 
formity in  the  homes  to  Church  stand- 
ards. Remember,  fellow  parents,  that 
children  are  quick  to  detect  insincerity, 
and  they  resent  in  their  feelings  false 
pretension.  Parents,  of  all  people  on 
earth,  should  be  honest  with  their  chil- 
dren. Keep  your  promises  to  them  and 
speak  the  truth  always.  Children  are 
more  influenced  by  sermons  you  act 
than  by  sermons  you  preach.  It  is  the 
consistent  parent  who  gains  the  trust 
of  his  child.   When  children  feel  that 


PRESIDENT  D 

you  reciprocate  their  trust,  they  will  not 
violate  your  confidence  nor  bring  dis- 
honor to  your  name. 

"The  parent  must  live  truth,  or  the 
child  will  not  live  it.  The  child  will 
startle  you  with  its  quickness  in  punctur- 
ing the  bubble  of  your  pretended  knowl- 
edge; in  instinctively  piercing  the  heart 
of  a  sophistry  without  being  conscious 
of  process;  in  relentlessly  enumerating 
your  unfulfilled  promises;  in  detecting 
with  a  justice  of  a  court  of  equity  a 
technicality  of  speech  that  is  virtually  a 
lie.  He  will  justify  his  own  lapses  from 
truth  by  appeal  to  some  white  lie  told 
to  a  visitor  and  unknown  to  be  over- 
heard by  the  little  ones,  whose  mental 
powers  we  ever  underestimate  in  theory 
though  we  may  overpraise  in  words. 

"If  truth  be  the  rock-foundation  of 
the  child's  character,  as  a  fact,  not  as  a 
theory,  the  future  of  that  child  is  as 
fully  assured  as  it  is  possible  for  human 
pre-vision  to  guarantee."  (Wm.  George 
Jordan,  The  Power  of  Truth.) 

The  fourth  observation:  parents  who 
fail  to  teach  obedience  to  their  children. 
Within  the  last  decade  there  have  been 
rampant  some  wild  theories  about  the 
self-determination  of  children,  and  the 
preservation  of  their  individuality.  Some 
of  these  theorists  believe  that  children 
should  be  permitted  to  solve  their  own 
problems  without  guidance  from  parents. 
There  is  some  virtue  in  this,  but  there 
is  more  error.  This  theory  has  gained 
momentum  in  practice  because  of  re- 
action to  arbitrary  government  by  par- 
ents. 

Commenting  upon  this,  one  educator 
rightly  says:  "Thousands  of  conventions 
are  laid  down  by  society  today,  conven- 
tions which  are  often  institutionalized 
and  crystallized.  Whether  he  likes  it 
or  not,  every  individual  must  conform 
to  these  conventions  if  he  is  to  be  either 
efficient  or  happy.  If  he  does  not  con- 
form, society  brings  all  sorts  of  pressure 
to  bear  upon  him.  He  may  be  jailed 
for  certain  kinds  of  nonconformity.  For 
other  less  serious  kinds  he  may  become 
soured,  disappointed,  and  even  neurotic. 

"If  the  home  does  not  develop  obedi- 
ence, society  will  demand  it  and  get  it. 
It  is  therefore  better  for  the  home  with 
its  kindness,  sympathy,  and  understand- 
ing to  train  the  child  in  obedience 


/ZD  O.  McKAY  27 

rather  than  callously  to  leave  him  to  the 
brutal  and  unsympathetic  discipline 
that  society  will  impose  if  the  home 
has  not  already  fulfilled  this  obliga- 
tion." 

The  best  time  to  teach  the  child 
obedience  is  between  the  ages  of  two  to 
four.  It  is  then  that  the  child  should 
learn  that  there  are  limits  to  his  actions, 
that  there  are  certain  bounds  beyond 
which  he  cannot  pass  with  impunity. 
This  conformity  to  home  conditions  can 
be  easily  obtained  with  kindness,  but 
with  firmness.  "Train  up  a  child  the 
way  he  should  go:  and  when  he  is  old, 
he  will  not  depart  from  it."  (Proverbs 
22:6.)  In  this  old  adage  the  word  train 
has  great  significance. 

Fifth,  there  are  parents  who  say:  We 
will  let  our  children  grow  to  manhood 
and  womanhood  and  choose  for  them- 
selves. In  taking  this  attitude  parents 
fail  in  the  discharging  of  a  parental 
responsibility.  Parents  and  teachers  are 
God's  fellow  workers.  The  Father  of  all 
mankind  expects  parents,  as  his  repre- 
sentatives, to  assist  him  in  shaping  and 
guiding  human  lives  and  immortal  souls. 
That  is  the  highest  assignment  which 
the  Lord  can  bestow  upon  man. 

The  most  effective  way  to  teach  re- 
ligion in  the  home  is  not  by  preaching 
but  by  living.  If  you  would  teach  faith 
in  God,  show  faith  in  him  yourself;  if 
you  would  teach  prayer,  pray  yourself. 
Would  you  have  them  temperate?  Then 
you  yourself  refrain  from  intemperance. 
If  you  would  have  your  child  live  a  life 
of  virtue,  of  self-control,  of  good  report, 
then  set  him  a  worthy  example  in  all 
these  things.  A  child  brought  up  un- 
der such  home  environment  will  be 
fortified  for  the  doubts,  questions,  and 
yearnings  that  will  stir  his  soul  when 
the  real  period  of  religious  awakening 
comes  at  twelve  or  fourteen  years  of 
age. 

It  is  then  that  he  needs  positive  teach- 
ing regarding  God  and  truth  and  his 
relations  with  others.  Activity  in  the 
Church  is  a  good  safeguard  during 
youth.  Continual  absence  from  Church 
makes  continual  absence  easy.  Other 
interests  in  life  make  the  growing  youth 
indifferent  to  religion.  Success  makes 
him  think  that  religion  is  not  essential 
to  his  happiness,    "It  is  a  law  of  life 


28 

Sunday,  April  3 

that  use  gives  strength;  a  capacity  un- 
used weakens  and  dies.  It  is  as  true  of 
religious  instincts  as  of  any  other.  One 
need  not  be  a  sinner  to  lose  God;  he 
need  only  forget  Him." 

With  respect  to  the  responsibility  of 
parents  teaching  religion  to  their  chil- 
dren, the  Lord  is  very  explicit  in  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Section  68, 
25th  to  28th  verse: 

"And  again,  inasmuch  as  parents  have 
children  in  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her  stakes 
which  are  organized,  that  teach  them  not 
to  understand  the  doctrine  of  repentance, 
faith  in  Christ  the  Son  of  the  living 
God,  and  of  baptism  and  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  the 
hands,  when  eight-  years  old,  the  sin 
be  upon  the  heads  of  the  parents. 

"For  this  shall  be  a  law  unto  the  in- 
habitants of  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her 
stakes  which  are  organized. 

"And  their  children  shall  be  baptized 
for  the  remission  of  their  sins  when  eight 
years  old,  and  receive  the  laying  on  of 
the  hands. 

"And  they  shall  also  teach  their  chil- 
dren to  pray,  and  to  walk  uprightly  be- 
fore the  Lord." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  strive  to 
have  fewer  broken  homes,  and  in  our 
homes  to  have  harmony  and  peace. 
From  such  homes  will  go  men  and 
women  motivated  with  a  desire  to  build, 
not  to  destroy. 

Thus  in  our  homes,  in  our  wards, 
branches,  and  stakes,  we  may  join  the 
appointed  messengers  in  organized  mis- 
sions, and  consistently  proclaim  the  re- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

stored  gospel  of  peace  unto  the  ends  of 
the  earth. 

"Follow  with  reverent  steps  the  great 
example 

Of  him  whose  holy  work  was  'doing 
good'; 

So  shall  the  wide  earth  seem  our  Father's 
temple, 

Each  loving  life  a  psalm  of  gratitude. 

"Then  shall  all  shackles  fall:  the  stormy 
clangor 

Of  wild  war  music  o'er  the  earth  shall 
cease; 

Love  shall  tread  out  the  baleful  fire  of 
anger, 

And  in  its  ashes  plant  the  tree  of  peace." 

(Whittier) 

I  hope  that  in  the  hearts  of  those  who 
are  listening  there  will  have  been  awak- 
ened a  realization  that  example  in  the 
home  is  entirely  essential  to  the  proc- 
lamation of  peace  abroad.  The  strangers 
who  come  to  visit  us  will  see  that  our 
lives  comport  with  the  proclamation  of 
peace,  with  the  ensign  of  peace  that  the 
Church  holds  up  before  the  world.  O 
Father,  help  us,  that  we  may  be  thus 
blessed  by  the  guidance  of  thy  Holy 
Spirit,  we  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  EIRay 
L.  Christiansen,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve, 
who  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Marion 
G.  Romney. 


ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


JIfter  listening  to  President  David  O. 

/I  McKay's  timely  and  helpful  mes- 
JLlsage,  brothers  and  sisters,  I  am  sure 
that  you  feel,  as  did  I,  to  say  again  in 
your  hearts: 

We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet, 
To  guide  us  in  these  latter  days; 
We  thank  thee  for  sending  the  gospel 
To  lighten  our  minds  with  its  rays. 

May  we  utter  that  thanks  and  show 
it  in  a  fervent  and  personal  response 
to  this  appeal  of  our  great  leader. 

I  am  sure  that  what  I  shall  say  will 


not  be  new  to  anyone,  but  it  is  a  matter 
to  which  we  should  give  serious  con- 
sideration. The  Latter-day  Saints  are  a 
blessed  people  because  they  have  made 
covenants  with  the  Lord.  As  he  made 
covenants  with  Israel  of  old,  so  he  has 
made  covenants  with  us,  and  we  have 
made  personal  and  individual  covenants 
with  him. 

A  covenant  is  a  bond;  a  solemn  agree- 
ment. It  involves  at  least  two  indi- 
viduals, and,  of  course,  both  parties  must 
abide  by  the  conditions  of  the  covenant 
in  order  to  make  it  effective  and  bind- 


ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 


29 


ing.  The  gospel  in  its  fulness,  as  it  has 
been  restored,  is  the  new  and  everlast- 
ing covenant  of  God.  The  new  and 
everlasting  covenant  embodies  all  cove- 
nants, bonds,  and  obligations  that  are 
required  of  the  Lord  for  peace  in  the 
world,  for  peace  in  the  hearts  of  men, 
and  for  the  salvation  and  exaltation  of 
man. 

In  a  revelation  given  to  the  Church 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  the 
Lord,  bidding  the  people  to  hearken  and 
listen  together  to  his  voice  "while  it  is 
yet  day,"  said  to  them: 

And  even  so  I  have  sent  mine  everlasting 
covenant  into  the  world,  to  be  a  light  to  the 
world,  and  to  be  a  standard  for  my  people, 
and  for  the  Gentiles  to  seek  to  it,  and  to  be 
a  messenger  before  my  face  to  prepare  the 
way  before  me.  (D.  &  C.  45:9.) 

Why  does  the  Lord  make  or  require 
covenants  and  commandments  and  ob- 
ligations and  laws?  I  have  heard  peo- 
ple ask,  if  he  loves  us  why  does  he  re- 
strict us?  Just  as  any  father  would 
restrict  his  child,  if  it  is  a  blessing  to 
that  child,  so  our  Father  gives  us  these 
laws  and  ordinances  and  command- 
ments and  covenants,  not  that  we  should 
be  burdened  or  restricted  by  them,  but 
that  we  may  be  lifted  up  and  made  free, 
that  our  burdens  may  be  light;  that  we 
may,  through  obedience  to  them,  more 
nearly  perfect  our  lives  and  thereby  pre- 
pare ourselves  for  the  glories  that  await 
those  who  are  willing  to  conform  to  the 
laws  and  ordinances  of  the  gospel.  His 
laws  are  not  grievous;  they  are  not 
burdensome. 

Covenants  made  with  the  Lord  are 
eternal  in  their  nature.  Agreements 
made  between  men  end  when  those 
men  are  dead.  Such  agreements  are  not 
eternal.  The  Lord  made  it  very  clear 
that  the  covenants  he  makes  with  men 
are  eternal  and  that  those  which  are 
between  man  and  man  shall  be  shaken 
and  destroyed  eventually. 

Behold,  mine  house  is  a  house  of  order, 
saith  the  Lord  God,  and  not  a  house  of 
confusion. 

And  everything  that  is  in  the  world, 
whether  it  be  ordained  of  men,  by  thrones, 
or  principalities,  or  powers,  or  things  of 
name,  whatsoever  they  may  be,  that  are  not 
by  me  or  by  my  word,  saith  the  Lord,  shall 
be  thrown  down,  and  shall  not  remain 
after  men  are  dead,  neither  in  nor  after 


the  resurrection,  saith  the  Lord  your  God. 
(Ibid.,  132:8,  13.) 

Every  member  of  this  Church  has 
made  covenants  with  God.  When  we 
entered  into  the  waters  of  baptism  and 
were  confirmed  members  of  the  Church, 
we  entered  into  a  covenant  with  him. 
In  section  twenty-two  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  the  Lord  refers  to  bap- 
tism as  "a  new  and  everlasting  covenant, 
even  that  which  was  from  the  begin- 
ning." And  in  another  revelation  to 
Joseph  Smith  given  in  1830,  the  Lord 
said,  concerning  baptism  and  the  cove- 
nants associated  with  it  (and  I  often 
wonder  if  we  consider  seriously  enough 
those  covenants  and  obligations  that  are 
connected  with  our  entering  into  the 
waters  of  baptism  and  into  membership 
in  this  Church),  this  he  said: 

All  those  who  humble  themselves  before 
God,  and  desire  to  be  baptized,  and  come 
forth  with  broken  hearts  and  contrite  spirits, 
and  witness  before  the  church  that  they 
have  truly  repented  of  all  their  sins,  and 
are  willing  to  take  upon  them  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  having  a  determination  to 
serve  him  to  the  end,  and  truly  manifest 
by  their  works  that  they  have  received  of 
the  Spirit  of  Christ  unto  the  remission  of 
their  sins,  shall  be  received  by  baptism  into 
his  church.  (Ibid.,  20:37.) 

Those  requirements  and  expectations 
are  rather  definite.  The  obligations  and 
covenants  are  clearly  stated.  Both  the 
blessings  of  becoming  a  member  of  the 
Church  and  the  obligations  of  such 
membership  should  be  understood  and 
impressed  upon  all  candidates  for  bap- 
tism and  membership  in  the  Church, 
both  the  young  and  the  old. 

Again,  when  we  partake  of  the  sacra- 
ment of  the  Lord's  supper,  we  enter  into 
covenants  with  him.  We  make  a  cove- 
nant that  we  will  take  upon  us  the 
name  of  the  Son.  That  means,  it  seems 
to  me,  to  be  like  him  as  nearly  as  pos- 
sible, to  do  as  he  would  do,  to  live  in 
our  everyday  lives  as  he  would  live,  to 
be  a  true  disciple  of  Christ. 

Now,  he  who  takes  upon  him  the 
name  of  Christ  surely  will  obliterate 
from  his  life  such  things  as  profane  and 
vulgar  language,  and  evil  thinking, 
"For,"  says  the  Lord,  "as  he  thinketh 
in  his  heart,  so  is  he."  (Prov.  23:7.) 

Surely  those  who  take  upon  them  the 
name  of  Christ  will  be  honest  and  true, 


30  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  3 

chaste  and  benevolent  and  virtuous  and 
will  do  good  to  all  men. 

When  we  partake  of  the  sacrament, 
we  make  a  covenant  to  keep  his  com- 
mandments, all  of  them,  certainly  to 
love  the  Lord  our  God  with  all  our 
hearts,  and  with  all  our  might,  and 
with  all  our  strength,  and  to  love  our 
neighbor  as  ourselves.  By  keeping  the 
commandments  made  in  the  sacrament 
service,  one  is  promised  that  his  Spirit 
will  be  with  him,  to  guide  him,  to  direct 
him,  to  warn  him,  and  to  teach  him. 
There  is  nothing  more  desirable  that 
one  could  ask  than  to  have  the  ac- 
companiment of  the  Spirit  of  God. 

Let  us  be  grateful  for  the  privilege 
we  have  each  week  of  going  to  the 
sacrament  table  and  there  renewing  our 
covenants  with  the  Lord.  Let  us  also 
leave  the  sacrament  table  with  a  de- 
termination to  keep  the  covenant  that 
we  make  there. 

When  we  are  ordained  to  the  priest- 
hood we  enter  into  what  is  known  as 
the  oath  and  covenant  of  the  priest- 
hood. We  agree  to  magnify  and  honor 
that  priesthood  by  living  by  every  word 
that  proceedeth  from  the  mouth  of  God. 

Always  there  are  blessings  promised 
to  those  who  keep  the  covenants  made 
with  the  Lord.  In  the  eighty-fourth 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
the  Lord  mentions  such  promises,  when 
he  says: 

For  whoso  is  faithful  unto  the  obtaining 
these  two  priesthoods  of  which  I  have 
spoken,  and  the  magnifying  their  calling, 
are  sanctified  by  the  Spirit  unto  the  renew- 
ing of  their  bodies. 

They  become  the  sons  of  Moses  and  of 
Aaron  and  the  seed  of  Abraham,  and  the 
church  and  kingdom,  and  the  elect  of  God. 

Therefore,  all  those  who  receive  the  priest- 
hood, receive  this  oath  and  covenant  [or 
enter  into  it]  of  my  Father,  which  he  can- 
not break,  neither  can  it  be  moved.  (D.  &  C. 
84:33-34,  40.) 

Wilford  Woodruff,  speaking  upon  this 
revelation,  made  note  of  the  marvelous 
blessings  that  await  the  faithful  bearers 
and  sharers  of  the  priesthood;  our  wives 
are  not  without  the  same  blessings  that 
come  to  the  men  who  bear  the  priest- 
hood.  Said  Wilford  Woodruff: 

Do  we  comprehend  that  if  we  abide  the 
laws  of  the  priesthood  we  shall  become  heirs 
of  God  and  joint-heirs  of  Jesus  Christ?  Who 


Second  Day 

can  comprehend  that  by  obeying  the  celes- 
tial law,  all  the  Father  hath  shall  be  given 
unto  us,  exaltations,  thrones,  principalities, 
powers,  dominions.  Who  can  comprehend 
it?  And  yet  it  is  here  stated. 

Now,  if  we  keep  the  laws  and  cove- 
nants of  baptism,  and  honor  the  priest- 
hood and  its  covenants,  we  are  then 
permitted  to  enter  into  the  temple  of 
the  Lord  and  there  again  make  cove- 
nants with  him,  which  covenants  if 
kept  will  qualify  us  for  the  fulness  of 
joy  in  our  Father's  kingdom;  and  to  be- 
come endowed  with  powers,  rights, 
blessings,  and  promises  of  blessings  that 
may  embellish  our  lives  and  bless  us 
eternally  and  bring  us  joy  that  is  beyond 
our  power  to  comprehend. 

We  may  also  enter  into  that  order 
of  the  priesthood  known  as  the  "new 
and  everlasting  covenant  of  marriage." 
Those  who  remain  true  to  that  cove- 
nant and  to  all  other  covenants  are 
promised  of  the  Lord  that  they  will 
come  forth  in  the  resurrection  of  the 
just  with  their  husbands  and  their  wives 
as  their  companions,  and  with  their  chil- 
dren, if  they  are  faithful  and  keep  the 
covenants  which  they  shall  make,  to  live 
with  them  in  a  state  of  never-ending 
happiness.  What  hope,  what  assurance, 
what  joy  that  should  bring  to  the  hearts 
of  menl  The  great  joy  and  consolation 
that  comes  from  the  divine  assurance 
that  the  family  ties  may  transcend  the 
boundaries  of  death  and  continue  eter- 
nally is  priceless  to  all  who  love  their 
families  and  their  friends. 

We  are  indeed  a  covenant-making 
people.  I  hope  and  pray  that  we  are 
also  a  covenant-keeping  people.  Un- 
speakable joy,  indescribable  blessings 
and  associations  with  those  that  we  love 
await  all  who  receive  the  covenants  of 
God  and  who  endure  to  the  end,  faith- 
ful and  true. 

For— 

Eye  hath  not  seen,  nor  ear  heard,  neither 
have  entered  into  the  heart  of  man,  the 
things  which  God  hath  prepared  for  them 
that  love  him.  (I  Cor.  2:9.) 

And,  of  course,  he  has  said  that  they 
that  love  him  will  keep  his  command- 
ments. 

May  we  go  forth  from  this  conference 
more  determined  than  ever  so  to  do,  I 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  the 
Lord.  Amen. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


31 


My  beloved  brothers  and  sisters,  you 
assembled  in  this  building  and  you 
who  look  in  by  television  and  who 
listen  in  by  radio:  I  plead  with  you  to 
implore  the  Lord  to  give  me  his  Spirit 
while  I  address  you  the  next  few  mo- 
ments. I  have  sought  humbly  for  his 
help,  and  I  believe  he  will  give  me  his 
Spirit.  If  he  gives  you  his  Spirit,  too, 
these  few  minutes  will  be  worth  your 
while  and  mine,  and  be  to  the  glory  of 
God.  I 
I  thought  at  first  I  would  bore  you 
with  a  written  speech,  but  I  believe  I 
can  do  it  without  one.  Moreover,  as  I 
give  you  the  message  I  have  for  you,  I 
want  to  look  you  straight  in  the  eye. 

My  office  is  that  of  a  special  witness 
of  the  Redeemer  and  of  his  gospel.  I 
desire  to  have  the  spirit  of  that  office 
and  to  testify  to  you  of  some  eternal 
truths  which  are  worth  while  to  my 
brethren  and  sisters  in  the  Church  who 
have  fervent  testimonies,  to  members 
of  my  own  family,  whom  I  love,  to 
every  one  of  you  who  is  looking  in  on 
this  conference  from  the  outside,  to  every 
soul  who  hears  my  voice,  and  to  all  the 
ends  of  the  earth.  What  I  have  to  say 
I  did  not  learn  through  my  five  senses. 
I  have  learned  a  lot  about  the  truth 
through  my  natural  senses,  the  concepts 
I  have  came  from  what  I  have  heard 
and  read,  but  the  truths  to  which  I 
testify  I  have  learned  through  revela- 
tion. 

Now,  do  not  misunderstand,  I  do  not 
propose  to  give  a  startling  account  of  an 
open  vision.  I  have  not  seen  one. 
Neither  have  I  heard  an  audible  voice. 
Revelation  comes  through  three  or  four 
channels.  One  is  the  open  vision;  an- 
other is  the  audible  voice;  another  is 
the  witness  of  the  Spirit.  Enos  spoke  of 
this  method— the  witness  of  the  Spirit — 
when  he  said  that  he  heard  the  voice  of 
God  say  unto  him,  .  .  .  "thy  sins  are 
forgiven  thee."  (Enos  5.)  And  then  a 
little  later,  after  he  had  prayed  for  his 
brethren,  the  Nephites,  he  said, 

...  the  voice  of  the  Lord  came  into  my 
mind  again,  saying:  I  will  visit  thy  breth- 


ren according  to  their  diligence  in  keeping 
my  commandments.  (Ibid.,  10.) 

Recently  I  heard  a  famous  character 
say,  "What  the  world  needs  today  is  a 
prophet."  That  was  a  wise  statement, 
but  it  is  not  exactly  correct.  The  things 
the  peoples  of  the  world  need  today  are 
ears  to  hear  the  living  prophet,  because 
we  already  have  one.  He  has  been  sent 
by  Almighty  God,  not  only  to  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Church,  but  also  to  you 
other  good  people  who  are  seeing  and 
hearing  this  service  by  television  and 
hearing  it  over  the  radio.  Most  of  the 
last  three  quarters  of  an  hour  that 
prophet  has  been  standing  before  you, 
if  you  have  been  where  you  could  see 
into  this  session.  If  you  have  not  seen 
him,  you  have  heard  his  voice.  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay  is  a  prophet  of 
the  Living  God.  If  you  are  the  type  of 
person  who  would  have  believed  that 
Moses  was  a  prophet,  had  you  lived  in 
his  day,  you  know  that  President  McKay 
is  a  prophet.  If  you  would  have  ac- 
cepted Elijah  or  even  the  Son  of  Man, 
you  will  accept  President  David  O. 
McKay  as  a  prophet  of  the  Living  God. 

There  are  other  prophets  who  will 
talk  to  you  during  this  conference.  Two 
I  will  mention,  the  men  who  stand  with 
President  David  O.  McKay.  As  James 
and  John  stood  beside  Peter  after  the 
passing  of  the  Redeemer,  so  President 
Stephen  L  Richards  and  President  J. 
Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  stand  with  President 
McKay.  The  three  of  them  are  proph- 
ets as  much  as  any  men  who  ever  lived 
upon  the  earth  have  been  prophets.  I 
plead  with  you  to  hear  their  voices. 

There  will  be  other  men  speak  to  you 
in  the  sessions  of  this  conference  who 
have  been  called  with  the  same  calling 
as  the  Twelve  Apostles  in  the  days  of 
the  Savior.  These  men  will  speak  words 
of  eternal  life.  They  will  bear  record 
of  the  truths  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
which  you  will  need  to  accept  and  live 
by  if  you  are  to  be  true  followers  of 
Christ.  These  men  will  preach  and 
teach  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  he 
himself  defined  it. 


32  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  3 

That  there  may  be  no  misunderstand- 
ing as  to  what  that  gospel  is,  I  want 
to  read  two  or  three  verses  from  the 
statement  of  the  Savior.  After  he  had 
told  his  disciples  that  if  the  Church  was 
built  upon  his  gospel  his  Father  would 
show  forth  his  own  works  in  it,  but 
that  if  it  was  not  built  upon  his  gospel, 
but  upon  the  works  of  men  or  upon  the 
works  of  the  devil,  they  would  have 
joy  in  their  works  for  a  season,  but  by 
and  by  the  end  would  come  when  they 
would  be  thrown  down  and  cast  into 
the  fire,  he  said: 

.  .  .  this  is  the  gospel  which  I  have  given 
unto  you — that  I  came  into  the  world  to 
do  the  will  of  my  Father,  because  my 
Father  sent  me. 

And  my  Father  sent  me  that  I  might  be 
lifted  up  upon  the  cross;  and  after  that  I  had 
been  lifted  up  upon  the  cross,  that  I  might 
draw  all  men  unto  me,  that  as  I  have  been 
lifted  up  by  men  even  so  should  men  be 
lifted  up  by  the  Father,  to  stand  before  me, 
to  be  judged  of  their  works,  whether  they 
be  good  or  whether  they  be  evil — 

And  for  this  cause  have  I  been  lifted  up; 
therefore,  according  to  the  power  of  the 
Father  I  will  draw  all  men  unto  me,  that 
they  may  be  judged  according  to  their 
works.  (3  Nephi  27:13-15.) 

And  then  he  added: 

Now  this  is  the  commandment:  Repent, 
all  ye  ends  of  the  earth,  and  come  unto 
me  and  be  baptized  in  my  name,  that  ye 
may  be  sanctified  by  the  reception  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  that  ye  may  stand  spotless  be- 
fore me  at  the  last  day. 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  this  is  my 
gospel.  .  .  .  (Ibid.,  27:20-21.) 

In  this  short  statement  the  Master 
named  four  eternal  verities  upon  which 
all  else  in  his  gospel  is  founded:  first, 
the  relationship  between  himself  and 
his  Father;  second,  the  fact  of  his  atone- 
ment; third,  the  universal  resurrection; 
and  fourth,  the  judgment. 

As  to  the  relationship  between  himself 
and  his  Father,  he  said:  "I  came  into 
the  world  to  do  the  will  of  my  father; 
because  my  father  sent  me."  This 
verity,  so  simply  put,  is  the  cornerstone 
of  his  gospel.  A  Christian  brotherhood 
can  no  more  be  built  without  the  ac- 
ceptance of  the  fact  that  Jesus  is  the 
Son  of  God  than  the  superstructure  of 
this  great  building  can  be  supported 
without  its  foundation.  The  very  burden 


Second  Day 

of  the  Master's  message  during  all  his 
life  was  that  he  is  the  Son  of  God. 
The  Father  himself,  who  seldom  speaks 
on  any  other  question,  time  after  time 
bore  witness  that  Jesus  is  his  Son.  That 
fact  is  an  essential  part  of  the  message 
of  the  restoration. 

That  the  atonement  was  a  fact  is  as 
essential  to  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
as  is  the  Sonship  of  Jesus.  We  have  the 
sacrament  to  remind  us  every  week  of 
his  atonement.  The  only  purpose,  or 
at  least  the  main  purpose,  for  which 
Jesus  came  into  the  world  was  to  make 
the  atonement.  Others  could  have  been 
sent  to  preach  the  gospel.  As  a  matter 
of  fact,  others  have  been  sent  in  every 
other  dispensation — Abraham,  Enoch, 
Moses,  for  example,  and  in  this  dispen- 
sation the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  These 
great  prophets  taught  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  as  plainly  as  did  Jesus  himself. 
But  in  the  Meridian  of  Time  Jesus  came. 
He  came  not  only  to  teach  the  gospel, 
but  also  to  be  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world.  He  was  the  only  one  who  quali- 
fied to  be  the  Redeemer,  first,  because 
he  and  he  alone  had  life  within  him- 
self— eternal  life,  which  he  inherited 
from  his  divine  Father.  He  was  the  only 
one  who  ever  lived  a  sinless  life  upon 
the  earth,  and  he  alone  was  foreordained 
to  be  the  Redeemer. 

The  resurrection  is  inherent  in  the 
atonement.  Jesus  said  he  came  to  do 
the  will  of  his  Father,  and  that  the  will 
of  his  Father  was  that  he  should  be 
lifted  up  upon  the  cross.  He  further 
said  that  the  purpose  for  which  he  was 
to  be  lifted  up  upon  the  cross  was  that 
he  might  draw  all  men  to  him.  That 
he  does  through  the  resurrection. 

The  purpose  for  which  men  are  to 
come  before  him  after  the  resurrection 
is  that  they  may  be  judged  of  the  works 
which  they  have  done  in  the  flesh. 

These  are  the  fundamentals  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  as  he  put  them 
in  his  own  language.  Having  stated 
them,  he  followed  with  the  command- 
ment, 

Repent,  all  ye  ends  of  the  earth,  and  come 
unto  me  and  be  baptized  in  my  name,  that 
ye  may  be  sanctified  by  the  reception  of 
the  Holy  Ghost.  (Ibid.,  27:20.) 

Now,  all  men  who  believe  in  Jesus 
and  want  to  be  his  followers  will  have 


PRESIDENT  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


33 


to  accept  those  four  verities.  They  will 
also  have  to  obey  the  commandment. 
When  the  commandment  is  obeyed, 
they  will  receive  the  witness  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  Surely  they  will  receive 
it.  It  comes  to  every  man  who  will  live 
for  it.  As  an  example,  I  read  to  you  a 
few  lines  from  the  testimony  of  a  mis- 
sionary in  the  field.  Six  months  ago 
today,  he  sat  here  in  this  building  on 
his  way  to  the  mission  field.  After 
being  in  a  foreign  land  for  five  months, 
learning  a  foreign  language,  he  wrote 
this  to  his  parents: 

When  I  first  came  over  here  and  started 
in  this  missionary  work,  I  did  not  know 
if  I  was  going  to  be  able  to  last  it  out. 
It  was  really  hard  on  me  to  go  out  from 
door  to  door  and  have  the  people  laugh 
at  me  and  not  listen  to  me.  And  for  a 
while  there  I  really  wondered  if  I  did  have 
a  testimony  of  the  gospel.  I  knew  that  if 
I  did  not  have  a  very  strong  one  that  I 
would  not  be  able  to  stick  it  out.  The 
devil  was  really  working  on  me,  too,  be- 
cause I  had  a  feeling  of  unrest  and  uncon- 
tentedness,  and  I  did  not  have  the  desire 
to  go  out  and  give  the  message  to  the  peo- 
ple. 

But  today  there  is  nothing  I  would  rather 
do.  The  Lord  has  blessed  me  with  a  .very 
strong  testimony  of  the  gospel.  I  know 
without  any  doubt  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
the  Son  of  God,  and  that  God  lives  and 
he  has  a  body  of  flesh  and  bones.  I  know 
that  Joseph  Smith,  Jr.  was  and  is  a  prophet 
of  God,  that  he  restored  the  gospel  here  on 
the  earth  in  these  latter  days.  I  know  that 
the  leaders  of  the  Church  today  are  proph- 
ets, seers,  and  revelators,  and  there  is  noth- 
ing I  would  rather  do  than  tell  these  peo- 
ple we  come  in  contact  with  that  I  know 
that  these  things  are  true.  .  .  . 


I  pray  that  I  may  be  a  worthy  representa- 
tive of  my  family  and  my  Church  and  the 
Lord,  and  I  bear  you  this  testimony  through 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  and  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ. 

Now,  there  is  a  twenty-year-old  lad 
who  has  that  witness.  He  knows,  be- 
cause he  has  been  touched  through  the 
sixth  sense,  if  you  will,  the  witness  of 
the  Spirit,  that  these  eternal  verities  are 
true. 

Oh,  my  beloved  brothers  and  sisters, 
my  good  friends  whom  I  have  never 
seen  and  who  have  never  seen  me,  I 
bear  witness  to  you  that  there  is  revela- 
tion in  this  day,  that  there  is  a  power 
from  God  which  wants  to  come  into 
our  hearts  and  bring  us  peace,  that  peace 
which  will  be  conducive  to  the  peace 
of  the  world,  of  which  our  great  living 
prophet  spoke  this  morning.  I  bear  this 
witness  to  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Marion  G.  Romney  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  has  just  addressed 
us.  The  Choir  and  Congregation  will 
now  join  in  singing,  "We  Thank  Thee 
O  God  For  a  Prophet,"  conducted  by 
Elder  Richard  P.  Condie.  After  the 
singing  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 
of  the  First  Presidency  will  speak  to  us. 

All  join  in  singing,  "We  Thank  Thee 
O  God  For  a  Prophet." 


The  Choir  and  congregation  joined  in 
singing  the  hymn,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O 
God,  For  a  Prophet." 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


My  brothers  and  sisters:  Those  whom 
I  see  and  those  who  are  viewing 
and  listening  whom  I  do  not  see, 
I  stand  before  you  with  gratitude  that  I 
have  been  present  today  and  heard  the 
great  messages  that  have  been  delivered. 
While  my  own  personal  feelings  are  of 
no  consequence,  I  had  really  contem- 
plated doing  little  more  than  bearing 
my  testimony,  but  our  President  has 
seen  fit  to  change  somewhat  the  pro- 


gram that  I  understood  was  to  be  fol- 
lowed, and  so  I  face  you  with  his  ex- 
pression that  I  occupy  more  of  your 
time.  I  have  been  greatly  impressed 
with  the  President's  message  and  partic- 
ularly that  part  of  it  which  dealt  with 
the  home  and  with  what  I  might  call 
discipline  in  the  home.  Discipline  is 
not  a  rod.  It  is  love,  kindness,  con- 
sideration, and  understanding. 

We  are  blessed  that  there  come  to  us, 


34  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  3 

we  invite  them  to  our  homes,  spirits 
from  the  other  world.  As  they  thus 
come  at  our  invitation  they  impose  upon 
us  an  obligation  which,  in  one  sense,  a 
true  sense,  is  divine.  So  entrusted  to 
our  care  is  a  spirit  created  by  the  Father 
who  comes  here  pursuant  to  the  great 
plan  which  was  devised  before  the 
foundations  of  the  world  were  laid. 
Bound  up  in  that  plan  is  not  alone  the 
past  before  we  came,  but  the  present, 
while  we  are  here,  and  the  future,  the 
eternities  that  are  to  come,  and  we  shall 
not  escape  responsibility  if  in  any  way 
we  fall  short  of  that  mission  which  we 
assumed  when  we  brought  into  this 
world  that  little,  pure,  holy  spirit  to  be 
guided  and  directed  by  us. 

Generations  ago  the  Psalmist  sang: 
"What  is  man,  that  thou  art  mindful 
of  him?  and  the  son  of  man,  that  thou 
visitest  him? 

"For  thou  hast  made  him  a  little  lower 
than  the  angels,  and  hast  crowned  him 
with  glory  and  honour."  (Psalms  8:4-5.) 

The  Psalmist  must  have  had  in  mind 
and  was  perhaps  referring  to  the  great 
announcement  made  in  the  opening  of 
the  sacred  record,  "So  God  created  man 
in  his  own  image,  in  the  image  of  God 
created  he  him;  male  and  female  cre- 
ated he  them."  (Gen.  1:27.) 

In  those  statements,  in  that  declara- 
tion, pregnant  with  meaning,  is  bound 
up  the  whole  plan  of  life  and  salvation, 
our  existence  before  we  came,  our  exist- 
ence here,  and  our  existence  hereafter. 
God  created  us  spiritually.  He  created 
the  bodies  through  whom,  down  through 
the  ages  he  has  provided  tabernacles, 
temples  for  those  spirits  which  he  had 
created.  He  brought  us  here,  offsprings 
of  his  love,  tabernacled  with  his  hopes 
and  his  prayers,  that  we  would  go  for- 
ward and  live  through  our  existence 
here  in  accordance  with  his  will,  that 
we  might  then,  passing  on,  reach  the 
high  destiny  which  he  had  planned  for 
us. 

That  we  might  never  be  in  a  position 
from  the  very  first,  that  we  might  not 
know  what  he  wished  us  to  do,  he  gave 
the  gospel  from  the  very  beginning  that 
men  might  know  his  ways,  know  what 
they  had  to  do  in  order  that  they  might 
fulfil  their  measure  of  creation  and  reach 
that  high  destiny  he  had  provided. 


Second  Day 

It  is  my  faith,  and  I  believe  history 
will  bear  me  out,  that  there  never  has 
been  a  time  in  the  history  of  the  world, 
in  the  darkest  hours  of  paganism  when 
men  did  not  have  in  their  possession  so 
much  of  the  truth,  and  more,  as  they 
were  able  to  live.  Sometimes  that  truth 
was  besmirched,  sometimes  it  was 
dimmed,  sometimes  it  was  distorted, 
but  down  underneath  it  all  always  were 
some  elemental  truths,  because  men  had 
in  their  minds  at  least  the  traditions  of 
the  gospel  preached  from  the  beginning, 
had  in  their  minds  certain  fundamental 
things  which  concerned  their  salvation. 

God  has  made  it  clear,  as  I  understand 
it,  that  he  holds  his  children  responsible 
for  the  truth  which  he  reveals  to  them, 
and  if  they  are  not  in  a  position  to  live 
all  the  truth,  they  are  in  the  position 
to  live  that  which  he  gives.  Pushing  it, 
perhaps  to  the  extreme,  we  know  that 
from  the  beginning,  God  taught  as  part 
of  the  gospel  the  mission,  the  life,  the 
work,  the  death  of  his  Only  Begotten 
Son,  who  was  to  atone  for  the  bringing 
upon  us  of  mortality. 

You  know,  I  can  see  underneath  the 
sacrifices  that  were  offered,  the  human 
sacrifices,  in  the  country  to  the  south  of 
us  among  the  Lamanites,  sacrifices  that 
finally  led  to  cannibalism,  the  eating 
of  a  part  of  the  sacrifice — I  see  a  clear 
suggestion  of  the  sacrifice  distorted  al- 
most beyond  recognition,  which  God 
was  to  make  and  made  through  his  Only 
Begotten  Son  for  our  redemption. 

We  ought  to  remember,  I  feel  always, 
the  truths  which  God  has  given  to  us. 
We  live  in  revolutionary  and  evolution- 
ary time.  The  Lord  has  vouchsafed  to 
us  some  of  the  greatest  discoveries  of  all 
times;  he  has  increased  beyond  the 
wildest  dreams  of  the  most  imaginative 
poet,  our  powers  of  transmission  of 
speech.  He  has  increased  our  powers 
of  speed  of  transportation.  He  has  dis- 
covered to  us  great  secrets  of  energy 
which  we  know  how  to  create  but  not 
yet  how  to  control. 

We  have  looked  at  these  things,  and 
we  have  said  in  our  hearts,  and  in  our 
speech,  that  the  old  has  been  "out- 
moded." We  see  the  results,  and  we 
believe.  But  it  has  been  rather  an  easy 
transition  from  the  outmoding  of  these 
material  instrumentalities  given  by  God 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


35 


for  our  good  (and  we  shall  yet  use  them 
for  the  promulgation  of  truth  though 
not  yet  do  I  catch  a  glimpse  even  of 
how  in  all  cases  they  shall  be  used,  but 
yet  they  will  be  so  used) — it  has  been 
an  easy  transition,  I  say,  to  affirm  that 
since  the  physical  has  become  outmoded, 
so  is  "outmoded"  the  moral  and  the 
spiritual  of  the  past.  In  the  darkness 
they  are  crying  out,  as  we  have  heard, 
for  a  prophet.  Brother  Romney  said 
that  what  they  need  is  a  listening  ear 
for  the  prophet  they  have. 

But  it  is  wholly  fantastic,  as  I  see  it, 
for  us  to  think  that  man  himself  is 
"outmoded,"  or  his  moral  and  spiritual 
past.  We  still  have  the  five  senses,  all 
we  learn  and  know  and  experience 
comes  through  those  five  senses.  Man 
has  not  been  given  another  sense  by 
these  great  discoveries.  Man  still  thinks 
as  he  has  always  thought,  more  poig- 
nantly, perhaps,  more  deeply  in  certain 
lines  than  heretofore,  but  he  still  thinks, 
he  still  speaks,  he  is  still  guided  by  the 
same  great  passions  of  love,  hate,  am- 
bition, desire  to  serve  the  Lord  and  all 
the  rest  of  it.  We  have  not  changed. 
We  are  as  God  made  us  originally,  save 
as  we  have  somehow  in  some  things 
subverted  our  feelings,  our  passions,  our 
urges,  our  ambitions. 

What  I  would  like  to  get  to  you  today 
is  my  feeling  that  the  spiritual  in  man, 
the  spirit  of  man  is  in  no  sense  what- 
ever "outmoded."  He  stands  today  as 
he  stood  when  he  came  from  the  garden. 
God  is  still  God;  Jesus  is  the  Christ. 
There  is  no  change  in  that.  There  has 
been  no  change  in  the  great  spiritual 
truths  that  are  essential  to  our  progress 
spiritually  and  to  our  eventual  salva- 
tion and  exaltation.  Nothing  is  changed 
there. 

Moreover,  we  of  this  Church  have 
our  testimony  and  our  knowledge  that 
God  still  speaks  to  us,  that  he  does  not 
permit  us  to  wander  in  darkness  and 
in  silence,  uninstructed,  uninspired, 
without  revelation.  No  principle  of  the 
gospel  is  more  glorious  than  that  princi- 
ple of  continuous  revelation  because  we 
know  that  so  often  as  it  is  necessary  our 
Heavenly  Father  will  again  reveal  to  us 
all  that  it  is  necessary  that  we  should 
know,  in  addition  to  what  we  now  have. 

We  are  not  moving  blindly,  we  are 


not  moving  by  the  maxims  of  the  past 
only.  We  are  not  moving  alone,  guided 
only  by  the  revelations  given  in  ancient 
times.  We  are  moving  forward  under 
revelations  given  in  modern  times  and 
are  moving  forward  under  a  knowledge 
that  if  we  need  further  light,  it  shall 
be  given  to  us. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  leave  with 
you  my  testimony  that  God  lives,  that 
the  eternal  truths  are  today  as  they 
have  always  been,  no  change,  that  God 
expects  us  to  keep  his  commandments. 
I  give  you  my  testimony  that  this  is  the 
Restored  Gospel,  that  Joseph  is  a  Proph- 
et, that  the  First  Vision  was  a  reality, 
that  the  man  who  now  stands  as  the 
President  of  the  Church  possesses  all  the 
keys  and  powers  that  were  possessed  by 
the  Prophet  Joseph,  that  God  expects 
us,  as  has  been  said  here  today,  to  keep 
all  of  his  commandments  to  the  end 
that  we  may  be  saved  and  exalted  in 
his  presence,  and  for  this  I  humbly  pray, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Before  we  go  off  the  air  at  one  minute 
to  twelve  o'clock,  I  wish  to  express  ap- 
preciation to  the  Tacoma  Stake  for 
having  sent,  through  the  kindness  of  the 
Puyallup  Valley  Daffodil  Festival  Com- 
mittee, 3,500  freshly  cut  daffodils  for 
the  beautification  of  the  Tabernacle 
during  the  Conference  sessions.  We  re- 
ceived a  letter  last  evening  through  Bish- 
op Isaacson  that  these  daffodils  have 
been  sent  but  the  storm  prevented  the 
plane  from  landing  at  the  Salt  Lake 
airport,  and  so  they  continued  on  to 
Denver.  I  am  mentioning  appreciation 
now  because  they  will  come  back  soon, 
we  hope,  but  those  who  are  listening  in 
at  Tacoma  may  not  hear  our  apprecia- 
tion when  we  receive  them  and  when 
they  are  decorating  this  building  with 
perfume  and  beauty,  which  will  bear  to 
each  one  present  the  best  wishes  and 
love  of  those  who  have  sent  them,  I  re- 
peat again,  the  Puyallup  Valley  Daffo- 
dil Festival  Committee  in  Tacoma. 

We  thank,  also,  the  Berkeley  Stake  of 
California  for  these  lovely  calla  lilies 
which  you  have  admired  and  which  are 
so  conducive  to  the  beauty  of  these  dec- 
orations. 

We  express,  also,  appreciation  to  the 


36 

Sunday,  April  3 

Choir,  members  of  which  have  been 
here  since  seven  o'clock  this  morning,  to 
the  conductors,  to  the  organists,  to  the 
officers  of  this  great  organization. 

We  appreciate  what  the  city  officials 
are  doing  and  have  done  in  directing 
traffic  this  stormy  morning.  They  are 
always  on  hand  during  our  great  Con- 
ferences to  protect  life  and  to  look  after 
the  convenience  of  those  who  are  here 
in  attendance. 

Scores  of  telegrams  have  come  from 
those  who  have  been  favored  this  morn- 
ing over  the  radio  and  television  and 
have  participated  in  these  exercises.  We 
shall  not  take  time  to  read  them,  but  we 
thank  those  of  our  associates  who  have 
taken  the  time  to  tell  how  clearly  the 
messages  given  this  morning  have  gone 
over  the  wire. 

Any  important  messages  or  calls  that 
have  come  to  us  for  persons  supposed  to 
be  in  attendance  at  the  Conference,  will 
be  announced  at  the  dismissal  of  the 
meeting  over  the  public  address  system 
on  the  grounds.  Similar  messages  this 
afternoon  will  be  treated  accordingly. 
Please  listen  carefully  on  dismissal  to 
these  announcements. 

As  heretofore  announced,  the  singing 
this  morning  has  been  furnished  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  and  Congregation, 
with  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  and  Richard 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

P.  Condie,  conducting.  Brother  Frank 
W.  Asper  has  been  at  the  organ. 

The  closing  song  by  the  Choir  will 
be,  "Worthy  Is  the  Lamb,"  under  the 
direction  of  Elder  Cornwall. 

The  benediction  will  be  offered  by 
President  Bryan  L.  Bunker,  president  of 
the  California  Mission,  following  which 
this  Conference  will  be  adjourned  until 
2:00  o'clock  this  afternoon. 


The  Choir  sang  as  the  concluding 
number,  "Worthy  Is  The  Lamb." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

I  am  not  sure  that  when  I  was  men- 
tioning the  presidents  of  missions  who 
were  doing  the  work  in  the  South  Seas, 
that  I  mentioned  President  Sidney  J. 
Ottley,  who  presides  over  the  New  Zea- 
land Mission.  He,  with  the  others 
named,  is  carrying  on  the  work  down 
in  that  particular  area. 

President  Bryan  L.  Bunker,  who  pre- 
sides over  the  California  Mission,  will 
now  offer  the  benediction. 


Elder  Bryan  L.  Bunker,  President  of 
the  California  Mission,  offered  the  clos- 
ing prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  third  session  of  the  Conference 
commenced  at  2:00  p.m.,  Sunday,  April 
3. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  the 
music  for  this  session. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Members  of  the  Church  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in 
Salt  Lake  City  in  the  third  session  of 
the  One  Hundred  Twenty-Fifth  An- 
nual Conference  of  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

For  those  who  are  unable  to  enter  the 
building,  we  announce  that  these  ser- 
vices are  being  broadcast  in  the  Assem- 
bly Hall,  in  Barratt  Hall,  over  a  public 
address  system,  and  by  television.  These 
services  are  also  being  televised  over 


KSL-TV,  Channel  5  in  Salt  Lake  City, 
and  are  being  heard  over  radio  through 
KSL  over  18  radio  stations  in  Utah, 
Idaho,  Nevada,  Washington,  Arizona, 
Colorado,  California,  and  New  Mexico. 
The  names  of  these  stations  have  already 
been  announced  to  the  radio  audience. 

We  have  received  many  telegrams, 
and  continue  to  receive  them,  from  lis- 
teners in  the  stakes  named  last  evening 
and  today.  They  all  report  that  the 
services  have  been  heard  clearly,  and 
they  express  appreciation.  We  shall  not 
take  time  to  read  them.  There  are  too 
many.  There  is  one,  however,  to  which  I 
wish  to  make  reference,  and  that  is  one 
from  San  Diego,  in  which  the  Service- 
men assembled  send  greetings  to  their 
parents.  The  others  should  be  printed 
in  the  Church  Section  of  the  Deseret 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


37 


News.  I  think  you  will  be  interested  in 
them. 

The  music  for  this  session  will  be 
rendered  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  under 
the  direction  of  Elder  Cornwall,  with 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ.  We 
shall  begin  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
singing,  "For  Unto  us  a  Child  is  Born." 
The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Peter  J.  Ricks,  president  of  the 
Southern  States  Mission. 


The  Choir  sang  the  anthem,  "For 
Unto  Us  a  Child  is  Born." 

President  Peter  J.  Ricks  of  the  South- 
ern States  Mission  offered  the  opening 
prayer. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing, 
"Light  in  Darkness,"  under  the  direction 
of  Brother  J.  Spencer  Cornwall.  After 
the  singing  President  Stephen  L  Rich- 
ards of  the  First  Presidency  will  address 


The  Choir  rendered  a  selection,  "Light 
in  Darkness." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Stephen  L  Richards  of  the 
First  Presidency  will  be  our  first  speaker 
this  afternoon.  He  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith. 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice 
with  you  in  this  great  conference 
of  the  Church.  I  have  been  com- 
ing to  conferences  for  a  half  century. 
I  think  I  have  seldom  missed  a  session. 
I  cannot  remember  of  ever  having  at- 
tended a  more  enlightening  and  inspir- 
ing session  than  that  of  this  morning. 
I  feel  certain  that  all  who  were  present 
here  or  who  heard  the  proceedings  must 
have  been  deeply  impressed. 

Naturally,  I  have  an  earnest  and  a 
prayerful  desire  to  make  some  little  con- 
tribution to  these  proceedings,  and  I 
earnestly  solicit  your  co-operation  and 
sympathy  and  your  prayers  in  an  un- 
dertaking to  that  end.  I  am  taking  the 
liberty  of  addressing  my  remarks  in 
large  measure  to  our  friends  who  pay 
us  the  courtesy  and  the  honor  to  give 
some  attention  to  these  proceedings. 

We  are  approximating  the  Easter 
time,  as  we  were  so  well  apprised  this 
morning  in  the  beautiful  sermons  of 
Brother  Lee  and  Brother  Brown.  At  this 
time  the  whole  world  may  focus,  in  a 
measure  at  least,  its  attention  upon 
Christianity,  for  I  cannot  think,  even  in 
countries  of  adverse  philosophies,  that 
attention  will  not  be  given  to  the 
progress  of  that  we  call  Christianity,  and 
I  propose,  if  I  may,  to  discuss  some 
phases  of  that  great  theme — Christian- 
ity. 


Recently  I  heard  a  minister  in  an 
eloquent  address  over  the  radio  define 
Christianity  as  "the  Society  of  the 
Friends  of  Jesus."  The  dictionary  de- 
fines Christianity  as  "the  body  of  Chris- 
tian believers."  Is  there  a  significant 
distinction  between  these  two  defini- 
tions? Is  an  adequate  concept  of  Chris- 
tianity available  to  us  and  to  the  world, 
and  is  it  important?  I  have  thought 
that  matters  pertaining  to  this  subject 
might  be  worth  our  consideration  for  a 
short  time. 

"The  Society  of  the  Friends  of  Jesus" 
is  a  nice-sounding  phrase.  I  had  never 
heard  it  before.  The  use  of  the  word 
society  may  be  somewhat  difficult  of 
justification  because  society  usually  con- 
templates something  more  of  an  inte- 
grated unit  of  people  with  companion- 
ship and  association,  generally  of  a 
friendly  character  and  common  purpose. 
There  is  so  much  diversity  of  in- 
terpretation effort,  and  purpose  in 
Christendom  as  to  make  questionable 
the  application  of  the  word  society. 
However,  that  consideration  might  be 
regarded  as  somewhat  technical,  and  I 
do  not  press  it. 

The  more  important  difference  in  the 
two  definitions  I  have  quoted  is  the 
distinction  between  friends  and  believ- 
ers. 

I  may  be  unduly  apprehensive,  but 


38 

Sunday,  April  3 

I  think  I  discern  in  this  gracious  use  of 
the  word  friends  a  tendency  which  is 
supported  by  many  of  the  circumstances 
which  come  to  our  attention  to  forsake 
and  depart  from  the  concept  that  no 
one  may  be  classified  as  Christian  ex- 
cept he  "believe"  in  Jesus  Christ  and 
the  principles  for  which  he  stands.  All 
of  us  have  friends  with  whom  we  are 
cordial,  to  whose  principles  of  conduct 
and  life  we  do  not  subscribe.  A  friend 
of  the  historical  character,  Jesus,  may 
have  esteem  and  admiration  for  his  life, 
his  teachings,  and  accomplishments,  but 
he  may  not  be  a  Christian  believer  as 
the  old  definition  designates  one  to  be 
counted  in  the  body  of  Christianity. 

I  cannot  bring  myself  to  think  that 
the  Savior  himself  would  be  satisfied 
with  this  new  definition,  however  well 
intended  it  may  have  been.  The  Lord 
used  the  term  friends  most  impressively 
— not  quite,  I  fear,  in  the  same  sense  in 
which  it  is  used  in  the  definition.  You 
all  remember  the  great  pronouncement 
to  his  disciples: 

"Greater  love  hath  no  man  than  this, 
that  a  man  lay  down  his  life  for  his 
friends. 

"Ye  are  my  friends,  if  ye  do  whatso- 
ever I  command  you. 

"Henceforth  I  call  you  not  servants; 
for  the  servant  knoweth  not  what  his 
lord  doeth;  but  I  have  called  you  friends; 
for  all  things  that  I  have  heard  of  my 
Father  I  have  made  known  unto  you." 
(John  15:13-16.) 

The  essence  of  the  friendship  here 
set  forth  lies  in  belief  and  acceptance  of 
the  divinity  of  the  Master.  It  is  in- 
conceivable that  he  should  extend  the 
friendship  he  so  beautifully  described 
to  any  others  than  those  who  were  be- 
lievers. We  know  of  his  compassion,  his 
mercy,  and  concern  for  all  our  Father's 
children,  but  it  should  never  be  forgotten 
that  he  set  forth  in  unequivocal  lan- 
guage the  eligibility  of  those  admitted 
to  the  circle  of  his  friendship. 

"Ye  are  my  friends,  if  ye  do  whatso- 
ever I  command  you."  (Ibid.,  15:14.) 

If  I  could  feel  that  the  speaker  to 
whom  I  listened  had  in  mind  such  a 
quality  of  friendship  as  the  Savior  por- 
trays, I  would  have  little  hesitancy  in 
the  acceptance  of  his  definition,  but  I 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

heard  nothing  in  his  sermon  to  indicate 
that  was  his  concept. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  it  may 
well  seem  to  you  that  I  have  overplayed 
this  matter  of  definitions,  but  the  other 
aspect  of  the  subject  which  I  have  men- 
tioned I  am  sure  cannot  be  too  strongly 
emphasized.  Is  there  available  to  man- 
kind today  an  interpretation  of  Chris- 
tianity and  the  definition  of  a  Christian 
which  may  be  safely  accepted  and  re- 
lied upon?  As  a  Christian  believer  I 
am  assured  that  there  is,  and  that  all 
men  may  know,  if  they  will  to  acquire 
the  knowledge,  who  is  a  Christian  ac- 
ceptable to  the  author  of  Christianity, 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

I  hope  you  will  bear  in  mind  that  I 
do  not  bring  these  matters  forward 
with  any  assumption  on  my  part  that  I 
have  the  right  to  judge  of  the  Christian 
status  of  my  fellow  men.  No  one,  under 
the  declaration  of  the  Savior,  has  the 
right  of  judgment  of  his  fellows  unless 
he  be  specifically  commissioned  so  to  do. 
Scarcely  anyone  fully  conscious  of  the 
responsibility  of  exercising  such  judg- 
ment would  ever  seek  it,  for  the  Lord 
has  said:  "For  with  what  judgment  ye 
judge,  ye  shall  be  judged.  .  .  ."  (Matt. 
7:2.) 

My  purpose  in  pointing  out  some  of 
the  attributes  of  a  Christian  is  to  en- 
able each  man  to  determine  for  himself 
the  state  of  his  worthiness  of  this  hon- 
orable designation. 

I  believe  that  no  man  can  count  him- 
self Christian  who  is  not  concerned 
about  religion,  who  does  not  have  re- 
gard for  things  divine,  and  for  his  own 
standing  in  relation  thereto.  Irrespec- 
tive of  what  his  antecedents  and  his 
affiliations  may  have  been  and  are,  it 
is  most  difficult  to  understand  how  he 
can  be  justified  in  the  designation  of 
Christian  if  he  has  lost  or  never  had 
vital  interest  in  religion. 

I  am  sorry  to  say  there  may  be  very 
large  numbers  in  such  a  category.  Many 
do  not  resent  their  classification  as 
Christians.  Many  welcome,  and  some 
seek,  the  reputation  for  practising  Chris- 
tian virtues.  I  know  of  few,  if  any, 
men  who  are  not  pleased  to  be  called 
"a  Christian  gentleman,"  although  there 
has  never  been  evident,  in  many  cases, 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


39 


any  interest  or  activity  in  the  Christian 
religion. 

There  are  two  significant  articles  in 
a  recent  issue  of  a  popular  magazine. 
One  article  is  entitled,  "What  Are  We 
Worried  About?"  and  the  caption  of  the 
other  article  is,  "64,000,000  Americans 
Do  Not  Go  to  Church.  What  Do  They 
Believe?" 

I  mention  concern  about  religion  as 
an  essential  element  in  the  Christian 
faith.  According  to  the  first  article, 
about  five  thousand  persons  in  many 
walks  of  life  and  different  localities  were 
interviewed  on  the  question,  "What 
kinds  of  things  do  you  worry  about 
most?"  The  report  is  that  "An  over- 
whelming majority  answered  solely  in 
terms  of  personal  or  family  problems 
(health,  finances,  employment,  chil- 
dren's welfare,  etc.)— 43%  were  worried 
about  family  finances,  wages,  expenses, 
etc.  30%  mentioned  personal  problems 
such  as  marriage  difficulties,  children's 
welfare,  and  so  on.  24%  were  worried 
about  health — their  own  or  of  someone 
in  the  family.  Only  8%  were  worried 
about  world  problems,  occasioned  chief- 
ly by  the  possibility  of  being  drafted." 

The  article  does  not  state  that  the 
matter  of  religion  was  ruled  out,  but  it 
appears  from  the  report  that  no  one  who 
answered  was  worried  about  religion  in 
any  form.  It  may  be  that  a  subsequent 
article  which  is  promised  may  give  at- 
tention to  that  subject. 

Now  if  worry  contemplates  anxiety 
and  deep  concern,  is  it  not  significant 
that  no  one  of  this  great  number  inter- 
viewed expressed  any  anxiety  or  fearful 
concern  about  things  religious?  If  this 
poll  may  justifiably  be  interpreted  (and 
perhaps  its  authors  would  not  approve 
such  an  interpretation)  as  further  gravi- 
tation of  the  people  of  our  country 
toward  materialism,  then  I  think  it 
carries  serious  import  for  all  of  us. 

I  think  I  speak  for  this  entire  con- 
gregation who  listens  to  these  services, 
and  I  know  that  I  speak  for  myself,  when 
I  say  that  there  is  no  matter  fraught 
with  more  anxiety  and  deep  concern 
among  all  the  problems  that  confront 
us  than  the  religious  welfare  of  our- 
selves, our  families,  and  our  fellow 
men.  I  firmly  believe  that  this  is  an 
essential  characteristic  of  a  Christian, 


and  I  earnestly  appeal  to  every  man  who 
discovers  within  himself  a  growing 
tendency  to  shrug  off  religious  thinking 
and  participation  to  stop  and  consider 
the  effect  of  his  spiritual  lethargy  on 
himself,  his  family,  his  friends,  and  his 
standing  as  a  Christian. 

I  mentioned  another  article  in  the 
magazine  which  has  some  relevance  to 
the  measure  which  a  man  may  apply 
to  his  own  standing  as  a  Christian.  I 
cannot  see  how  anyone  can  logically  and 
consistently  take  on  the  designation  of 
Christian  unless  he  accepts  the  divinity 
of  the  Christ  according  to  the  scriptural 
record  of  the  Christ.  Without  the  rec- 
ord, of  course,  there  would  be  for  us  no 
Christ.  Christ  is  our  Lord  of  the  Gos- 
pels, as  President  Clark  has  so  aptly 
designated  him  in  his  book.  If  the 
Gospels  constitute  the  record  and  the 
history,  how  can  we  without  building  up 
an  artificial  and  imaginary  record  fail 
to  accept  the  divinity  of  the  Father  and 
the  Son  and  still  call  ourselves  Chris- 
tians? 

The  article  asserts  that  the  64,000,000 
Americans  who  do  not  go  to  Church  are 
not  necessarily  irreligious;  that  many 
have  a  profound  faith  in  God  but  do  not 
believe  that  any  existing  organized  re- 
ligion is  a  satisfactory  expression  of 
God's  will.  I  do  not  attempt  to  contro- 
vert this  statement,  although  I  believe 
that  we  will  all  agree  that  going  to 
Church  and  worship  are  evidences  of 
one's  acceptance  of  a  Supreme  Being  and 
are  calculated  to  foster  and  develop  that 
acceptance. 

It  is  further  pointed  out  in  this  arti- 
cle that  the  great  Lincoln  never  affiliated 
himself  with  any  church,  but  of  course 
there  would  be  no  warrant  for  any  state- 
ment that  he  was  not  a  believing,  Chris- 
tian man.  There  are  many  things  in 
his  life  and  utterances  to  support  the 
conclusion  that  he  was  a  man  of  faith 
and  prayer  who  would  have  resented  a 
charge  that  he  was  not  a  Christian 
believer. 

It  seems  to  me  that  in  the  present 
state  of  world  affairs  it  is  particularly 
important  that  men  should  examine  the 
state  of  their  inner  feelings  about  this 
matter.  It  is  frequently  stated  from 
many  different  sources  that  the  present 
overshadowing  conflict  in  the  world  is 


40 

Sunday,  April  3 

essentially  between  that  which  is  Chris- 
tian and  that  which  is  anti-Christ.  I 
recognize  that  there  may  be  many  not 
religiously  inclined  who  would  not  ac- 
cept this  generalization.  Many  would 
probably  prefer  to  define  the  issues  as 
drawn  between  the  political  concepts 
and  systems  of  the  so-called  free  world 
and  the  ideologies  of  statism  and  com- 
munism. However  the  issue  may  be 
defined,  I  am  personally  convinced  that 
the  cause  of  the  free  world  may  be  im- 
measurably promoted  and  furthered  by 
an  enlarged  acceptance  of  the  Christian 
concept.  That  concept,  better  than  any- 
thing else,  it  seems  to  me,  furnishes  the 
fundamental  understanding  of  man's  in- 
herent right  to  freedom.  However  much 
illustrations  from  the  past  may  serve 
to  justify  the  eternal  quest  and  struggle 
for  liberty,  there  is  nothing  in  all  history 
which  so  thoroughly  supports  the  strug- 
gle as  does  the  knowledge  and  under- 
standing of  the  nature  and  origin  of 
man  himself. 

Where  may  we  find  that  all-essential 
explanation?  I  think  I  may  answer  for 
all  Christian  believers,  in  the  Christian 
theology,  where  man  is  given  a  dig- 
nity and  majesty  of  birth  and  purpose 
transcending  any  sphere  which  may  be 
created  for  him  by  the  imaginative  ra- 
tionalization of  man.  This  man  of 
Christian  origin  is  as  a  matter  of  divine 
right  a  free  man,  invested  with,  the 
power  of  choice,  without  restraint,  ex- 
cept that  necessarily  imposed  to  give  all 
his  fellows  the  same  measure  of  free- 
dom and  liberty. 

I  think,  my  brethren  and  sisters  and 
my  friends,  and  I  hope  many  heard  this 
morning,  that  no  better  exposition  of 
the  fundamental  Christian  concept  of 
family,  the  foundation  of  society,  and 
the  essentials  involving  and  underlying 
our  freedom,  has  ever  been  brought  be- 
fore us  and  the  world  than  came  from 
that  inspiring,  comprehensive  and  pow- 
erful discourse  of  President  McKay  this 
morning.  Would  that  all  men  all  over 
this  world  might  have  heard  it. 

This  man  of  the  Christian  concept  is 
not  only  free  to  act  for  himself,  but  he 
is  also  designed  to  live  in  a  free  society, 
operating  under  the  ennobling  and  ex- 
alted concept  that  all  men  are  brothers 
in  the  family  of  a  divine  parent.  In  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Dan 

battle  for  the  freedom  of  men  is  there 
a  satisfactory  and  promising  substitute 
for  this  Christian  concept?  I  think  there 
is  not,  and  I  doubt  that  on  serious  con- 
sideration there  will  be  many  in  the 
free  world  who  will  contend  that  there 
is. 

Facing  the  problems  that  confront  the 
world  under  the  stress  of  the  anxieties 
of  the  threat  of  a  devastating  and  anni- 
hilating war,  is  it  going  too  far  to  ask 
men  and  women  in  this  land  which  has 
come  to  be  the  leader  in  the  cause  of 
freedom  to  subject  themselves,  their 
lives,  and  their  feelings  to  their  own 
scrutiny  to  answer  to  their  consciences 
whether  they  are  truly  Christian  in  be- 
lief and  purpose?  All  who  can  so  con- 
scientiously classify  themselves  are  in  a 
position  to  make  a  contribution  to  the 
noble  cause  our  country  espouses,  which 
I  am  sure  can  come  from  no  other  source 
in  equal  measure. 

I  am  content  for  this  occasion  to  leave 
the  matter  of  Christian  definition  with 
this  comment:  I  would  be  willing  to 
accept  the  minister's  statement  that 
"Christianity  is  the  Society  of  the  Friends 
of  Jesus,"  if  friends  could  be  interpreted 
as  the  Savior  pronounced: 

"Ye  are  my  friends,  if  ye  do  whatso- 
ever I  command  you."  (John  15:14.) 

I  owe  it  to  myself  and  to  my  fellow 
members  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  to  make  an  addi- 
tional statement,  particularly  for  the 
benefit  of  those  not  of  our  number  who 
may  listen  to  these  proceedings.  We 
would  like  all  to  know  that  additional 
evidences  for  the  divinity  of  the  Christ, 
and  for  the  support  of  the  Christian  con- 
cept have  providentially  come  to  the 
world  in  these  latter  days,  and  that  a 
fulness  of  the  Lord's  gospel,  and  the  au- 
thority and  power  to  administer  it  have 
been  restored  to  the  earth  through  his 
chosen  servant  for  the  enlightenment 
and  blessing  of  all  mankind;  and 
further,  that  this  enlarged  understand- 
ing of  the  true  nature  of  Christianity  is 
available  to  all  who  will  sincerely  and 
humbly  seek  to  know  it;  and  that 
knowledge  of  it,  the  adoption  of  the 
restored  gospel  as  a  way  of  life,  will 
immeasurably  enhance  the  prospect  of 
the  triumph  of  the  forces  of  freedom  over 
their  opponents.     I  extend  to  all  an 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


41 


earnest  invitation  to  investigate  for 
themselves. 

In  conclusion,  I  leave  this  parting 
word.  I  have  deep  respect,  esteem,  and 
love  in  my  heart  for  all  men  and  women 
everywhere  who  may  be  rightly  counted 
Christian.  I  have  regard  for  all  who 
practise  the  Christian  virtues.  I  know 
that  the  Christ  loves  those  who  love 
him,  and  who  serve  him,  even  with 
limited  knowledge  of  his  real  nature  and 
his  true  gospel. 

God  bless  Christianity,  "the  body  of 


Christian  believers,"  and  true  friends  of 
Jesus,  I  ask  humbly  in  the  name  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

You  have  just  heard  President  Stephen 
L  Richards  of  the  First  Presidency  of 
the  Church.  We  will  now  hear  from 
Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to  the 
Church.  He  will  be  followed  by  Bishop 
Isaacson. 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 


Brothers  and  sisters,  I  seek  an  interest 
in  your  faith  and  prayers.  This  is 
a  humbling  experience,  and  I  hope 
that  I  will  always  appreciate  the  honors 
and  the  blessings  that  have  been  given 
to  me  and  that  I  shall  always  appre- 
ciate the  blessings  of  the  Lord. 

The  other  night  a  cartoon  appeared 
in  The  Deseret  News  which  showed 
Uncle  Sam  deluged  in  the  overflowing 
contents  of  a  large  horn  of  plenty.  The 
title  read,  "Isn't  it  time  we  count  our 
blessings?"  These  cartoonists  have  a 
gift  of  catching  the  essence  of  a  situa- 
tion and  portraying  it  very  graphically. 
We  live  in  a  land  blessed  above  all 
other  nations — not  only  a  choice  land, 
but  also  a  choice  generation.  In  ad- 
dition to  all  the  luxuries  of  modern  liv- 
ing, we  have  the  blessings  of  the  fulness 
of  the  gospel.  Today  we  do  not  have 
the  physical  opposition  of  hardship  and 
persecution  that  we  had  in  the  earlier 
days. 

The  Church  is  growing  very  rapidly, 
and  our  missionaries  are  having  amaz- 
ing success.  The  people  of  the  world 
are  impressed  with  the  accomplishments 
of  the  Church.  But,  brothers  and  sis- 
ters, if  we  learn  anything  from  history — 
and  history  is  our  greatest  teacher — we 
learn  that  our  present  favorable  condi- 
tions may  have  a  hidden  danger.  Some 
of  these  dangers  were  referred  to  by 
President  McKay  this  morning.  Do  you 
remember  what  happened  so  often  in 
the  Book  of  Mormon?  When  the  peo- 
ple were  righteous,  they  enjoyed  pros- 


perity. With  prosperity  came  a  feel- 
ing of  self-sufficiency  and  pride.  They 
forgot  to  acknowledge  the  Lord  as  the 
Giver  of  all  their  blessings.  They  lost 
their  humility.  Not  until  they  were 
chastened  and  humbled  did  righteous- 
ness and  prosperity  return. 

Let  us  enjoy  the  prosperity  in  which 
we  live,  with  humble  gratitude  in  our 
hearts,  expressing  our  thanks  to  the  Lord. 
Let  us  be  humble  in  all  our  prayers. 
Beware  of  lip  service.  Remember  how 
the  Lord  criticized  the  hypocrites  who 
prayed  openly  for  the  glory  of  men.  He 
said, 

Verily  I  say  unto  you,  they  have  their 
reward.  (Matt.  6:5.) 

It  is  not  always  the  words  we  use  in 
prayer  that  count  so  much  as  the  spirit 
in  which  they  are  said.  If  we  are  truly 
humble,  we  will  acknowledge  the  hand 
of  the  Lord  in  all  our  righteous  en- 
deavors. Praying  without  humility  is 
praying  without  faith.  You  just  cannot 
have  true  faith  without  humility.  What 
better  example  do  we  have  than  the 
simple,  humble  prayer  of  a  child? 

President  George  Albert  Smith  has 
told  a  story  which  I  think  will  bear 
repeating. 

It  was  about  a  nine-year-old  boy  who 
was  to  undergo  a  serious  operation.  As 
they  prepared  to  give  him  the  anes- 
thetic, he  asked  those  attending  him  to 
pray  for  him.  When  they  told  him  they 
could  not,  he  said,  "If  you  can't  pray 


42 

Sunday,  April  3 

for  me,  will  you  please  wait  while  I 
pray  for  myself?" 

They  removed  the  sheet,  and  he  knelt 
on  the  operating  table,  bowed  his  head 
and  said,  "Heavenly  Father,  I  am  an 
orphan  boy.  I  am  awful  sick.  Won't 
you  please  make  me  well?  Bless  these 
men  who  are  going  to  operate  that  they 
will  do  it  right.  If  you  will  make  me 
well,  I  will  try  to  be  a  good  man.  Thank 
you,  Heavenly  Father,  for  making  me 
well." 

When  he  finished  praying,  he  lay 
down.  The  doctors'  and  nurses'  eyes 
were  filled  with  tears.  Then  he  said, 
"I  am  ready." 

The  operation  was  successful,  and  the 
boy  speedily  recovered. 

The  doctor  later  said,  "I  have  oper- 
ated on  hundreds  of  people,  men  and 
women  who  thought  they  had  faith  to 
be  healed,  but  never,  until  I  stood  over 
that  little  boy  have  I  felt  the  presence 
of  God  as  I  felt  it  then.  That  boy 
opened  the  windows  of  heaven  and 
talked  to  his  Heavenly  Father  as  one 
would  talk  to  another,  face  to  face.  I 
am  a  better  man  for  having  had  the 
experience  of  hearing  a  small  boy  talk 
to  his  Father  in  heaven  as  if  he  were 
present." 

Humility  is  one  of  the  qualities  that 
help  build  faith.  Would  a  missionary 
be  successful  if  he  were  not  humble?  He 
has  to  be  teachable  with  a  receptive 
mind  before  he  can  teach  others,  and 
to  be  teachable,  he  must  be  humble. 
And  we  should  all  be  missionaries. 

All  the  requirements  of  living  the 
gospel  become  easier  through  humility. 

A  young  man  told  me  his  experience 
in  becoming  a  member  of  the  Church, 
which  is  typical  of  many  in  their  activi- 
ties of  investigating  the  Church.  He 
said  the  missionaries  came  to  the  lesson 
on  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  He  and  his 
wife  were  both  users  of  tobacco.  After 
the  meeting  was  over  and  the  mission- 
aries had  left,  they  talked  it  over  with 
each  other  and  decided  between  them- 
selves, "Well,  if  that  is  what  the  Lord 
wants  and  if  this  is  the  Lord's  Church, 
we  will  try  it."  He  said  that  he  was  not 
particularly  concerned  about  himself, 
he  thought  he  could  do  it  easily;  he 
was  worried  about  his  wife;  she  had 
never  tried  to  quit  before.  On  the  other 
hand,  he  had  quit  several  times.  After 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

proving  to  himself  that  he  could  quit, 
of  course,  he  went  back  to  the  use  of 
cigarets  again.  But  he  said  in  this  case, 
it  was  just  the  reverse.  His  wife  quit 
without  any  apparent  difficulty,  but  he 
had  tremendous  difficulty.  He  became 
nervous  and  irritable.  He  could  not 
rest.  He  was  cranky  among  his  fellow 
workers.  He  could  not  sleep  at  night. 
But  inasmuch  as  his  wife  had  quit,  he 
was  not  going  to  be  outdone  by  her. 
So,  one  night,  he  became  so  restless,  so 
disturbed  that  he  could  not  sleep,  and 
his  wife  suggested  to  him  that  he  pray 
about  it.  He  thought  that  was  a  good 
joke.  He  ridiculed  the  idea  of  prayer; 
he  said,  "This  is  something  I  have  to 
do.  Nobody  can  help  me  with  this.  I 
can  do  this."  But  as  the  night  passed, 
and  he  had  done  everything  he  could 
to  stimulate  sleep  and  rest  without  any 
success,  finally  in  despair  he  humbled 
himself  enough  to  kneel  at  the  side  of 
the  bed  and  pray  vocally.  According  to 
his  own  testimony,  he  said  that  he  got 
up  from  his  prayer,  got  into  bed,  went 
to  sleep,  and  has  never  been  tempted 
by  cigarets  since.  He  has  absolutely 
lost  the  taste  for  tobacco.  He  said, 
"The  Word  of  Wisdom  was  not  a  health 
program  for  me.  It  was  a  lesson  in 
humility."  He  said,  "I  had  to  learn 
humility."  That  is  what  it  meant  to 
him.  As  it  is  with  many  of  the  re- 
quirements of  the  Church,  we  have  to 
demonstrate  humble  obedience. 

It  is  a  humbling  experience  to  look 
into  the  sky  and  contemplate  the  stars — 
just  try  to  count  all  those  you  can  see 
with  the  naked  eye.  Throughout  the 
ages,  man  has  tried  to  count  them,  and 
as  telescopes  have  been  made  larger  and 
larger,  the  scope  has  increased  until  we 
realize  the  utter  impossibility  of  num- 
bering all  the  stars.  How  small  are  we 
then,  when  we  consider  that  God  is  the 
Master  and  Creator  of  the  universe. 

Just  stand  on  the  rim  of  the  Grand 
Canyon  and  feel  your  insignificance  as 
you  gaze  on  the  grandeur  and  immensity 
of  nature  or  watch  the  beauties  of 
Niagara  and  realize  your  own  weakness 
in  the  presence  of  such  great  power. 

Then  ask  yourself  as  David  asked  our 
Maker  and  the  Creator  of  all:  "What  is 
man  that  thou  art  mindful  of  him?" 
(Ps.  8:4.) 

Yes,  God  is  mindful  of  you  and  me 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


43 


because  we  are  his  children.  He  has 
given  us  this  earth  and  all  we  have — 
the  very  air  we  breathe,  food  to  eat, 
life  itself.  He  rewards  us  for  every  good 
deed.  Of  ourselves  we  are  nothing. 
Brothers  and  sisters,  let  us  not  be  self- 
sufficient.  Let  us  not  forget  to  be  hum- 
ble and  acknowledge  the  Lord,  who  is 
so  good  to  us. 

King  Benjamin  told  his  people: 

And  now,  in  the  first  place,  he  hath 
created  you,  and  granted  unto  you  your 
lives,  for  which  ye  are  indebted  unto  him. 

And  secondly,  he  doth  require  that  ye 
should  do  as  he  hath  commanded  you;  for 
which  if  ye  do,  he  doth  immediately  bless 
you;  and  therefore  he  hath  paid  you.  And  ye 
are  still  indebted  unto  him,  and  are,  and 
will  be  forever  and  ever;  therefore,  of  what 
have  ye  to  boast? 

And  now  I  ask,  can  ye  say  aught  of  your- 
selves? I  answer  you,  Nay.  Ye  cannot  say 
that  ye  are  even  as  much  as  the  dust  of 
the  earth;  yet  ye  were  created  of  the  dust 
of  the  earth;  but  behold,  it  belongeth  to 
him  who  created  you.  (Mosiah  2:23-25.) 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  be  not  lifted 
up  in  the  pride  of  your  hearts  that  you 
forget  the  Giver  of  all  your  blessings. 
Do  not  let  self-righteousness  rob  you  of 


humility  before  God.  Acknowledge  him 
in  all  things.   Let  your  faith  be  simple 
and  childlike. 
On  one  occasion, 

.  .  .  came  the  disciples  unto  Jesus,  saying, 
Who  is  the  greatest  in  the  kingdom  of 
heaven? 

And  Jesus  called  a  little  child  unto  him, 
and  set  him  in  the  midst  of  them, 

And  said,  Verily  I  say  unto  you,  Except 
ye  be  converted,  and  become  as  little  chil- 
dren, ye  shall  not  enter  into  the  kingdom 
of  heaven. 

Whosoever  therefore  shall  humble  himself 
as  this  little  child,  the  same  is  greatest  in 
the  kingdom  of  heaven.    (Matt.  18:1-4.) 

May  we  then  be  humble  as  a  little 
child  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Eldred 
G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to  the  Church. 
Bishop  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  of  the  Church  will  be 
our  next  speaker.  The  Presiding  Bishop- 
ric of  the  Church  holds  the  Presidency 
of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood. 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


President  McKay,  President  Richards, 
President  Clark,  my  beloved  breth- 
ren of  the  General  Authorities,  my 
dear  brothers  and  sisters  and  friends: 
I  feel  very  humble  in  standing  be- 
fore this  great  audience  today,  and  I 
sincerely  ask  for  a  solemn  prayer  in 
your  hearts  in  my  behalf.  I  am  grate- 
ful to  be  here  with  you  in  this  great 
general  conference  of  the  Church.  Truly, 
we  have  been  spiritually  strengthened 
and  built  up  in  our  faith.  We  come 
here  for  that  purpose,  and  I  pray  that 
the  Lord  will  help  me  that  I  may  say 
something  that  will  give  you  strength 
and  increase  your  faith  and  your  testi- 
mony. 

We  spend  much  of  our  time  in  our 
business  and  temporal  affairs,  in  our 
educational,  social,  and  recreational 
life.  We  spend  a  great  deal  of  our  time 
in  government  and  politics.  Probably 


that  is  as  it  should  be,  but  I  wonder 
how  much  time  we  actually  spend  in 
developing  the  spiritual  side  of  our 
lives — probably,  may  I  say,  the  better 
part  of  our  lives?  The  older  I  become, 
the  more  I  realize  that  this  is  the  better 
side  of  our  lives  and  certainly  the  most 
important  side  of  our  lives. 

It  is  not  uncommon  for  thousands  of 
us  Latter-day  Saints  to  bow  our  heads  in 
prayer  and  close  our  eyes,  and  to  follow 
the  prayer  of  him  who  may  be  mouth. 
Truly  we  are  a  praying  people.  The 
world  has  judged  us  to  be  a  praying 
people,  and  we  confess  that  we  not  only 
pray  in  large  gatherings  at  conference, 
but  we  also  pray  every  day  of  our  lives, 
and  we  accept  the  principle  of  prayer. 

I  would  like  to  say  a  few  words  about 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  I  am  directing 
my  remarks  particularly  to  those  con- 
cerned with  Aaronic  Priesthood  boys 


44  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  3 

from  twelve  to  twenty-one.  There  are 
approximately  seventy  thousand  of  them 
in  the  stakes  of  the  Church,  not  count- 
ing the  missions.  We  also  have  about 
that  same  number  of  Senior  members 
of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  wonderful 
men  who  bear  the  Aaronic  Priesthood, 
or  a  total  of  approximately  140,000  men 
and  boys  holding  that  wonderful  priest- 
hood, the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  which 
gives  them  the  power  and  the  blessing 
and  the  authority  and  the  responsibility 
of  acting  in  the  name  of  God,  our  Eter- 
nal Father. 

I  hope,  parents,  that  you  will  take  an 
interest  in  these  Aaronic  Priesthood 
boys.  Fathers  and  mothers,  help  them 
on  Sunday  mornings.  They  are  sleepy; 
they  are  tired;  they  are  growing  boys. 
Help  them  to  get  up  on  Sunday  morn- 
ing and  attend  their  priesthood  meet- 
ings. You  wonderful  wives  of  the  Senior 
members,  encourage  your  husbands  on 
Sunday  morning  to  get  up  in  time  to 
put  on  their  Sunday  clothes  and  go  to 
Church.  That  will  give  to  them  and 
to  you  great  blessings  that  you  will  not 
know  any  other  way. 

May  I  try  briefly  to  portray  some  of 
the  incidents  concerning  the  restoration 
of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood?  I  would 
like  to  take  you  back  to  the  beautiful 
Susquehanna  River,  near  Harmony, 
Pennsylvania.  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver 
Cowdery,  two  young  men,  age  twenty- 
three  and  twenty-two,  respectively,  stood 
on  those  beautiful  banks  of  the  Sus- 
quehanna River  in  Pennsylvania.  Their 
faces  reflected  the  seriousness  of  their 
thoughts.  It  was  evident  that  peace 
permeated  their  entire  beings,  and  every 
act  bespoke  humility  and  faith  in  God, 
their  Eternal  Father.  They  had  inten- 
tionally secluded  themselves  from  the 
world  that  they  might  seek  the  counsel 
of  their  Father  in  heaven. 

May  15,  1829— it  was  a  beautiful  day. 
Winter  was  over.  Spring  was  in  the 
air.  Nature  had  painted  the  leaves  of 
the  trees  with  a  delicate  green.  The 
song  of  the  birds  overhead  blended  with 
the  sounds  of  the  river  to  produce 
harmonious  overtones  that  added  seren- 
ity to  that  beautiful  occasion.  The  sun 
cast  its  golden  rays  through  the  motion- 
less leaves  of  the  semi-dense  overgrowth, 
making  a  wonderful  study  in  light  and 
shadow.    All  was  calm  and  peaceful, 


Second  t)ay 

that  day.  It  was  indeed  a  sacred  spot 
and  a  sacred  hour.  Cares  and  worries 
and  concern  were  largely  overcome  by 
the  handiwork  of  God.  The  harmonious 
beauty  that  surrounded  them  contributed 
to  the  sacredness  of  the  place  and  of 
the  occasion,  but  the  seriousness  of  their 
mission  made  them  semi-oblivious  to  it. 
They  now  knelt  together  in  humble 
prayer,  seeking  guidance  from  God, 
their  Eternal  Father. 

These  two  young  men  were  concerned 
about  the  principle  of  baptism  for  the 
remission  of  sins,  and  they  desired  to 
know  more  concerning  the  details  of 
this  sacred  ordinance.  What  was  the 
proper  mode?  How,  and  to  whom,  and 
by  whom  should  this  ordinance  be  per- 
formed? In  their  work  of  translating 
the  Book  of  Mormon  they  had  become 
concerned  regarding  the  problem,  as 
they  contrasted  the  instructions  of  that 
sacred  book  with  the  practices  of  the 
churches  of  that  day.  They  knew,  how- 
ever, that  their  Father  in  heaven  would 
supply  the  wisdom  they  now  sought. 

And  while  they  were  engaged  in 
prayer,  a  messenger,  whom  God  had 
sent,  appeared  to  them,  and  he  spoke 
unto  them.  "I  am  thy  fellow  servant." 
The  resurrected  John  the  Baptist  now 
stood  before  them — he,  who  had  come 
out  of  the  wilderness  crying  repentance 
to  the  people  of  his  day;  he,  who  had 
baptized  our  Lord  and  Savior  at  Beth- 
abara  in  the  River  Jordan.  Yes,  this 
was  the  same  John  who  on  that  sacred 
occasion  heard  the  Father's  voice  from 
heaven  declare,  "This  is  my  beloved 
Son,  in  whom  I  am  well  pleased." 
(Matt.  3:17.)  This  was  the  same  John 
who  witnessed  the  Holy  Ghost  descend 
on  Jesus;  he,  the  literal  descendant 
of  Aaron  who  held  the  keys  of  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  by  right  and  ordi- 
nation; he  of  whom  the  Lord  said, 
"No  greater  prophet  born  of  woman" 
(see  Luke  7:28);  he,  who  had  been 
beheaded  for  his  courageous  denuncia- 
tion of  sin  and  for  his  love  of  truth. 
Now  he  stood  before  them  in  majesty; 
the  glory  that  surrounded  him  was  far 
more  brilliant  than  the  May  sunshine. 
His  presence  dispelled  all  doubts  and 
all  fears,  and  these  two  young  men 
opened  their  souls  to  partake  of  his 
great  wisdom. 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


45 


He  then  laid  his  hands  upon  their 
heads  and  conferred  upon  them  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  keys  which  he  had 
held  throughout  the  centuries.  The 
words  of  that  ordination  prayer  were  in- 
delibly impressed  upon  the  minds  of 
these  two  young  men: 

Upon  you  my  fellow  servants,  in  the 
name  of  Messiah  I  confer  the  Priesthood 
of  Aaron,  which  holds  the  keys  of  the  min- 
istering of  angels,  and  of  the  gospel  of  re- 
pentance, and  of  baptism  by  immersion  for 
the  remission  of  sins;  and  this  shall  never 
be  taken  again  from  the  earth,  until  the 
sons  of  Levi  do  offer  again  an  offering  unto 
the  Lord  in  righteousness.  (D.  &  C.  13.) 

He  then  told  them  that  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  was  an  appendage  of  the 
Melchizedek  Priesthood,  that  it  had  not 
the  power  of  the  laying  on  of  hands  for 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  but  that  this 
power  should  later  be  given  to  them. 
Then  he  told  these  two  young  men  that 
he  came  under  the  direction  of  Peter, 
James,  and  John,  who  held  the  keys  of 
the  Priesthood  of  Melchizedek,  which 
priesthood,  in  due  time,  would  be  con- 
ferred upon  them  and  which  later  was 
conferred  upon  them. 

These  two  young  men  were  then  di- 
rected by  this  messenger  to  go  down  into 
the  river,  that  beautiful  Susquehanna 
River.  Joseph  Smith  was  instructed  to 
baptize  Oliver,  and  Oliver,  in  turn, 
was  instructed  to  baptize  Joseph.  They 
were  then  to  ordain  each  other  to  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  by  the  laying  on  of 
hands.  Joseph  ordained  Oliver  to  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  first,  and  Oliver 
then  ordained  Joseph. 

This  glorious  spiritual  experience  that 
followed  their  baptism  and  ordination 
to  the  priesthood  was  accompanied  by 
the  spirit  of  prophecy.  As  they  left  this 
hallowed  spot,  their  hearts  were  light. 
The  Aaronic  Priesthood  was  again  re- 


stored to  the  earth  by  an  angel  of  God 
to  his  servants,  the  first  time  in  many 
centuries  for  man  to  be  divinely  com- 
missioned with  the  priesthood.  This 
vision  demonstrated  conclusively  that 
the  heavens  were  not  closed  and  gave 
positive  proof  of  the  promise  of  the 
resurrection. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I  know 
this  priesthood  was  restored  to  the  earth. 
I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I  know 
God  lives  and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
the  Son  of  God,  our  Redeemer  and  our 
Savior,  our  Elder  Brother.  I  bear  you 
my  testimony  that  I  know  this  is  the 
true  work  that  we  are  engaged  in,  and  I 
know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet 
of  God.  I  know  that  President  David 
O.  McKay  is  a  true,  living  prophet  of 
God,  our  Eternal  Father,  and  I  bear  you 
that  testimony,  and  I  know  it  to  be  true, 
and  I  know  it  by  the  power  and  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost,  that  testifies  to  me  that 
this  is  true.  I  bear  you  that  testimony 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Bishop  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  of  the  Church. 

The  congregation  will  now  join  in 
singing,  "Redeemer  of  Israel,"  conduct- 
ed by  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall. 

After  the  singing,  Elder  Ezra  Taft 
Benson  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
will  speak  to  us.  We  are  very  happy  to 
have  Elder  Benson  with  us.  His  duties  as 
Secretary  of  Agriculture  in  the  Cabinet 
of  the  President  of  the  United  States 
may  compel  him  to  leave  before  the  end 
of  the  Conference,  but  we  are  happy 
to  have  him  with  us  today. 


Singing  by  the  Choir  and  congrega- 
tion, "Redeemer  of  Israel." 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends, 
seen  and  unseen:  I  approach  this 
assignment  this  afternoon  in  deep 
lumility.  It  is  truly  a  sobering  expe- 
rience and  yet  a  signal  honor.  I  seek 
the  inspiration  of  heaven  and  your  faith 


and  prayers  as  I  attempt  to  speak  for  a 
few  moments. 

I  am  very  grateful  for  the  oppor- 
tunity of  being  here  at  this  great  con- 
ference. I  am  grateful  to  President 
McKay  for  inviting  me  to  come,  and  I 


46 

Sunday,  April  3 

would  like  to  say  to  him,  in  response 
to  his  kind  words,  that  I  am  sure  no 
one  on  earth  is  as  happy  as  I  that  I  am 
able  to  be  here  today. 

I  am  very  grateful  that  the  Lord  per- 
mitted our  plane  to  land  during  the 
storm  last  night,  just  in  time  to  get  to 
that  great  priesthood  meeting.  As 
President  McKay  referred  to  the  fact 
that  seventy-one  different  gatherings 
were  assembled  last  night,  and  that  we 
had  never  had  this  many  outlets  for  the 
general  priesthood  meeting,  I  thought  of 
a  rather  humorous  thing  that  was  said 
by  one  of  our  national  entertainers  on 
TV,  who  is  helping  in  a  promotion  pro- 
gram for  greater  consumption  of  dairy 
products.  We  have  had  some  excess  of 
these  commodities.  This  entertainer  has 
been  employed  by  the  farmers  of  this 
country,  through  the  American  Dairy 
Association,  whose  president  is  one  of 
our  stake  presidents.  On  the  air  he  ex- 
pressed his  pride  at  being  associated  with 
this  great  organization,  not  only  an  or- 
ganization of  farmers,  but  also  many 
millions  of  dairy  cows.  "Now,"  he  said, 
"ladies  and  gentlemen,  there  may  be 
organizations  with  more  branches,  but  I 
am  sure  there  is  no  organization  with 
more  outlets." 

I  rejoice  with  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  in  this  great  conference.  I  have 
received  a  spiritual  uplift  from  the  testi- 
monies borne,  and  I  am  particularly 
grateful  that  I  was  able  to  hear  the 
messages  of  the  First  Presidency  in  the 
priesthood  conference  session  last  night 
and  again  today.  I  cannot  think  of  a 
richer  experience  than  the  experience 
of  the  last  twenty-four  hours. 

I  am  grateful  for  all  of  the  blessings 
that  are  mine.  I  have  been  sitting  here 
today  enumerating  them.  I  am  grateful 
to  be  able  to  live  in  this  day,  to  enjoy 
the  freedoms  and  the  liberties  which  are 
ours  and  the  associations  which  we  have 
in  the  Church  and  in  this  great  nation. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  confidence  and 
the  love  of  my  brethren  and  sisters  in 
the  Church. 

As  I  listened  to  that  great  message  of 
the  President  this  morning,  a  message 
which  we  all  need  in  our  homes,  my 
heart  filled  with  gratitude  and  thanks- 
giving that  the  Prophet  of  God  could 
in  very  deed  speak  as  one  having  au- 
thority on  this  very  sacred  and  important 
subject  of  the  home  and  family.   I  am 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

grateful  for  my  home  and  my  family.  I 
am  grateful  for  my  companion  andl  for 
her  inspiration,  strength,  and  help.  I 
know  that  I  could  not  have  accom- 
plished the  little  that  I  have  achieved, 
without  her  great  faith,  devotion,  and 
support. 

I  am  grateful  that  I  have  come  from 
a  good  Latter-day  Saint  home. 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  the  opportunity 
that  has  been  mine  to  associate  with 
my  brethren  of  the  General  Authorities. 
For  nine  glorious  years  I  had  almost 
daily  association  with  them.  The  last 
two  years  I  have  been  in  their  presence 
much  less  frequently,  and  I  am  sure 
they  will  never  know  fully  how  much 
I  have  missed  the  very  close  and  inti- 
mate association  of  those  earlier  years. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  faith  and  prayers 
of  the  Saints  and  for  the  support  of  good 
people  everywhere  in  the  responsibilities 
which  are  mine  now  in  the  government 
as  well  as  in  the  Church.  I  thank  God 
for  the  letters  that  have  come  during 
hours  of  stress  from  faithful  members 
of  the  Church  and  good  people  else- 
where. 

President  McKay  spoke  of  these  won- 
derful mission  presidents,  and  they  are 
wonderful  men.  As  he  did  so  I  thought 
of  one  who  lies  ill  in  a  local  hospital, 
whose  illness  I  learned  about  since  com- 
ing to  this  conference — one  with  whom 
I  had  the  great  pleasure  of  walking  the 
streets  of  Holland  at  the  close  of  the 
war — one  of  the  most  valiant.  Presi- 
dent Cornelius  Zappey,*  if  you  are  lis- 
tening in  today,  may  I  say  to  you  that 
we  love  you,  that  God  loves  you  for 
your  devotion,  and  it  is  our  prayer  that 
he  may  see  fit  to  restore  you  fully  and 
speedily  to  health  and  strength.  It  is 
my  hope  and  prayer  that  someday  we 
may  be  able  to  team  up  again  as  mis- 
sionaries, if  not  in  this  life,  then  in  the 
eternities  to  come. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  glorious  saving 
principles  of  the  gospel,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  for  my  progenitors  who  had 
the  courage  and  the  strength  to  accept 
the  truth  when  they  heard  it  and  to  join 
themselves  with  an  unpopular  people. 
I  am  grateful  for  the  rich  heritage  which 
is  mine.  I  am  thankful  for  the  mission 


•President  Zappey  passed  away  April  22,  1955.  He 
was  a  former  president  of  both  the  Netherlands  and 
the  East  Central  States  Missions.  He  had  been  re- 
leased from  the  latter  mission  in  March  1955. 


ELDER  EZRA 

of  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet,  and  for 
those  who  have  succeeded  him,  for  their 
valiant  devotion  to  the  truth.  I  am 
grateful  that  I  have  been  made  the  re- 
cipient of  the  priceless  blessings  that 
have  come  through  the  gospel. 

Today  I  have  in  my  heart  a  love  not 
only  for  these,  but  also  for  all  of  God's 
children.  I  have  no  ill  feeling  toward 
any  human  being.  With  you,  I  hate 
sin,  but  I  love  the  sinner.  We  all  have 
need  to  repent. 

I  rejoice  in  the  spread  of  the  gospel 
and  the  growth  of  the  Church  in  all 
the  world.  I  have  been  thrilled  as  I 
have  read  the  accounts  of  President 
McKay's  visits  to  the  missions  in  the 
South  Pacific.  I  thrilled  with  the  mes- 
sages last  night  from  two  of  our  as- 
sociates who  reported  on  missionary  ac- 
tivities in  the  South  Pacific  and  way  up 
in  far-off  Finland.  I  am  very  grateful, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  all  of  these 
priceless  blessings. 

I  realize  that  through  the  ages  there 
has  been  a  tendency  for  truth  to  be 
pretty  much  on  the  scaffold  and  error 
on  the  throne.  I  recognize  that  there 
has  been  a  tendency  to  revere  prophets 
dead  and  to  persecute  the  living  oracles. 
I  recognize  that  there  are  two  great 
forces  in  the  world.  And  as  the  Book 
of  Mormon  prophet  said, 

For  it  must  needs  be,  that  there  is  an 
opposition  in  all  things.  (2  Nephi  2:11.) 

I  am  grateful  that  we  have  our  free 
agency  which  to  me  is  an  eternal  bless- 
ing, an  eternal  principle.  I  recognize 
that  today  Satan,  the  adversary,  is  still 
alert.  He  is  not  using  the  means  of 
persecution  towards  this  people  which 
he  once  used,  but  he  is  still  the  enemy 
of  truth,  and  he  is  using  other  methods 
today.  He  is  probably  using  the  method 
of  encouraging  complacency.  He  is 
probably  making  an  effort  to  lull  us 
away  into  a  false  security  because  things 
seem  well  in  Zion.  One  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon  prophets  said  this  would  be 
the  case  in  the  last  days.  You  remem- 
ber Nephi's  prediction  when  he  said: 

For  behold,  at  that  day  shall  he  rage  in 
the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men,  and  stir 
them  up  to  anger  against  that  which  is 
good. 

And  others  will  he  pacify,  and  lull  them 
away  into  carnal  security,  that  they  will 


•AFT  BENSON  47 

say:  All  is  well  in  Zion,  yea,  Zion  pros- 
pereth,  all  is  well — and  thus  the  devil 
cheateth  their  souls,  and  leadeth  them 
away  carefully  down  to  hell. 

Therefore,  wo  be  unto  him  that  is  at 
ease  in  Zion! 

Wo  be  unto  him  that  crieth:  All  is  well! 
(Ibid.,  28:20-21,  24-25.) 

Now,  of  course,  the  Church  itself  is 
God's  great  instrument  to  build  and  to 
save  and  to  exalt  men  everywhere, 
through  the  application  of  the  simple 
principles  of  the  gospel.  It  is  a  way  of 
life  that  will  make  men  happy,  and 
"men  are,  that  they  might  have  joy." 
This  great  instrument  must  withstand 
opposition  and  complacency. 

The  program  of  the  Church,  the  mis- 
sion of  the  Church  is  to  build  character, 
to  lift  men  and  women  up,  through 
giving  them  an  opportunity  to  partici- 
pate and  take  responsibility.  It  is  our 
great  privilege  to  learn  of  the  truth  and 
help  to  spread  it  to  God's  children 
everywhere,  thus  providing  the  means  of 
leading  them  to  exaltation. 

In  the  last  few  weeks  I  have  had  the 
glorious  privilege  of  visiting  eleven  of 
our  Latin  American  countries.  The 
visit  was  threefold  in  character.  First 
of  all,  it  was  a  response  to  invitations 
from  leaders  of  those  nations,  particu- 
larly ministers  of  agriculture;  it  also 
provided  an  opportunity  to  get  better 
acquainted  with  their  agriculture,  and 
also  to  learn  something  of  the  results 
of  the  exports  which  we  are  making 
into  those  nations,  of  breeding  stock, 
such  as  beef  cattle,  dairy  cattle,  hogs, 
poultry,  and  also  many  strains  of  seeds; 
it  also  provided  an  opportunity,  so  the 
President  of  the  United  States  thought, 
to  help  strengthen  the  bonds  of  friend- 
ship and  understanding  with  our  splen- 
did neighbors  south  of  the  border. 

I  want  to  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  it  was  a  most  satisfying  experi- 
ence. I  am  very  grateful  for  the  con- 
tacts I  had  with  the  Presidents  of  those 
nations,  with  the  ministers  of  agricul- 
ture, and  with  the  people  generally.  I 
appreciate  the  opportunity  of  visiting  on 
ranches,  farms,  and  plantations,  getting 
into  the  homes  of  the  people  and  feel- 
ing of  their  warm  spirit  and  their 
friendliness  toward  the  people  of  the 
United  States. 

I  think  the  outlook  down  there  is  most 
encouraging.    Those  countries  are  on 


48 

Sunday,  April  3 

the  march  today,  and  they  want  to  team 
up  with  the  United  States.  They  have 
a  deep  love  and  respect  for  our  people 
here.  They  admire  and  respect  our 
technology,  our  methods,  our  free  enter- 
prise system.  They  are  very  anxious 
to  raise  the  standards  of  living  of  their 
own  people  by  adopting  the  practices 
which  we  have  followed  in  this  coun- 
try. There  is  an  economic  awakening 
in  many  of  those  countries,  and  I  look 
for  unheard  of  developments  in  the 
years  ahead.  I  hope  that  those  develop- 
ments will  include  an  increase  and  a 
spread  of  the  restored  gospel.  They  are 
moving,  as  it  were,  almost  from  the  one- 
horse  handplow  to  the  caterpillar 
tractor  overnight.  They  are  not  doing 
it  with  the  slow  transition  as  we  have 
done  it  here. 

I  found  they  like  to  be  referred  to  as 
Americans.  They  are  very  proud  that 
they  have  thousands  of  their  students 
here  in  the  United  States  learning  our 
way  of  life  and  learning  of  our  agricul- 
ture and  our  technology.  I  found  they 
were  very  happy  to  learn  that  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints  the  Promised  Land, 
the  land  of  Zion,  includes  all  of  North 
and  South  America.  I  was  pleased  to 
find,  too,  that  there  is  evidence  that 
communism  has  largely  failed  in  those 
countries.  True,  there  are  some  danger 
spots,  still,  but  there  is  evidence  that 
political  stability  is  increasing.  I  was 
very  much  pleased  as  I  visited  personally 
with  the  Presidents  of  those  republics, 
to  hear  them  speak  out  in  support  of  the 
principles  of  freedom  which  have  meant 
so  much  to  our  great  nation  and  our 
good  neighbor  to  the  north  of  us. 

Our  technical  aid  down  south  is  pay- 
ing off.  They  need  technical  assistance 
and  encouragement  more  than  they  need 
grants.  I  feel  that  the  future  is  bright, 
and  I  am  very  happy  that  our  Church 
missions  are  spreading  out  in  those 
lands. 

I  came  back  impressed  that  those  peo- 
ple want  us  to  help  them  to  help  them- 
selves. The  future  looks  bright,  and  I 
said  to  some  of  my  associates  upon  my 
return  that  if  I  were  a  young  man  of 
twenty-five  today,  I  would  consider 
heading  south.  Probably  when  we  get 
the  inter-American  highway  completed, 
it  will  be  easier  for  us  to  visit  our 
neighbors  to  the  south.   I  hope  so. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

I  was  pleased,  too,  to  find  in  the 
travels  to  these  eleven  countries,  that 
our  Mormon  people  are  found  in  almost 
every  nation.  Generally  speaking,  they 
are  giving  a  good  account  of  themselves. 
I  was  pleased  with  the  contacts  I  had 
with  them.  Beginning  in  Cuba,  in  our 
visit  with  the  then  President-elect, 
Batista,  and  continuing  through  ten 
other  nations — I  was  pleased  that  we 
had  the  opportunity  to  say  something 
about  the  Church  and  explain  the  funda- 
ments of  the  gospel. 

Sister  Benson  is  a  more  effective  mis- 
sionary, I  think,  than  her  husband.  It 
seems  to  me  we  have  been  shipping 
Church  books  down  there  for  days 
since  our  return.  We  have  sent  many 
copies  of  our  literature,  mostly  in  re- 
sponse to  conversations  which  she  had 
with  the  gracious  wives  of  the  Presi- 
dents, ministers  of  agriculture,  the  am- 
bassadors, and  others. 

I  was  pleased  to  meet  our  servicemen 
in  Puerto  Rico  from  Ramsey  Air  Force 
Base  and  from  Fort  Buchanan.  In  the 
Virgin  Islands  where  I  met,  as  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Virgin  Islands  Corporation 
Board,  I  was  surprised,  as  a  certain 
technician,  an  electrical  engineer,  was 
invited  in  to  consult  with  us,  to  find 
that  he  was  a  member  of  the  Church. 
As  similar  experiences  were  repeated,  I 
thought  of  the  comment  made  by  a 
businessman  from  the  northcentral 
states  sometime  ago  who  registered  in  a 
Washington  hotel  and  asked  if  there 
were  any  Mormons  in  Washington. 
The  hotel  clerk  replied,  "I  suppose  there 
are.   They  seem  to  be  everywhere." 

Well,  I  found  them  down  there.  Not 
very  many,  but  a  few  of  them  almost 
everywhere  I  In  Trinidad,  which  is  in 
the  British  orbit,  we  found  a  member 
of  the  Church  serving  as  one  of  the 
secretaries  of  the  consulate.  In  Vene- 
zuela we  had  received  advance  letters 
from  one  or  two  families  expressing  the 
hope  that  we  might  hold  a  service  while 
we  were  there.  Then  when  I  had  the 
pleasure  of  addressing  the  American 
Chamber  of  Commerce  in  Caracas,  who 
should  be  presiding  there  as  president, 
but  one  of  our  Mormon  boys  from 
Tooele,  Utah.  It  was  a  great  thrill  as 
we  went  from  Caracas  over  to  Bar- 
quisimeto  to  have  the  opportunity  of 
holding  a  service  in  a  hotel  room  with 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


49 


representatives  of  three  or  four  Mormon 
families  in  that  area  and  to  find  that 
they  were  eager  to  get  a  Sunday  School 
started. 

In  Panama,  in  Costa  Rica,  in  Nicara- 
gua, of  course,  we  found  groups  of  the 
Saints  and  missionaries.  It  was  always 
a  great  pleasure  to  see  them  at  the  air- 
ports or  to  hold  a  brief  meeting  with 
them  or  to  join  them  for  breakfast  or 
lunch.  I  wish  our  busy  schedule  might 
have  permitted  us  to  spend  more  time 
with  those  fine  groups.  Quite  by  ac- 
cident, because  of  plane  trouble,  we 
stopped  in  Guatemala.  We  had  the 
opportunity  during  seven  hours  there, 
to  view  the  lovely  new  mission  home 
and  chapel  and  to  have  a  long  visit 
with  the  ambassador,  and  to  hear  him 
speak  in  praise  about  our  people.  In 
fact,  I  was  pleased  everywhere  that  we 
went  to  find  the  Church  well  spoken  of. 

We  completed  our  little  two  and  a 
half  weeks  swing  by  spending  a  Sabbath 
day  in  Mexico  City  with  President  and 
Sister  Bowman  and  the  missionaries 
and  the  Saints  in  a  large  gathering 
there.  Later  the  next  day,  as  I  visited 
with  the  President  of  that  republic,  he 
expressed  surprise  and  apparently 
seemed  somewhat  pleased  to  find  the 
number  of  people  we  have  right  in  Mex- 
ico City  of  our  faith.  He  had  known 
of  our  people  in  the  Colonies,  and  he 
spoke  highly  of  the  Church  and  its 
people. 

So,  I  might  go  on,  my  brothers  and 
sisters.  I  found,  too,  a  very  friendly 
press,  as  President  McKay  has  reported. 
I  think  there  was  not  one  loaded  ques- 
tion put  to  us  in  all  of  the  press  con- 
ferences that  we  had.  It  was  not  un- 
common at  the  end  of  an  hour-long 
press  conference  to  have  representatives 
of  the  press  gather  around  after  we  had 
discussed  agriculture,  and  say,  "Now, 
Mr.  Secretary,  we  would  like  to  turn  to 
another  subject.  We  would  like  you  to 
tell  us  something  about  the  Church." 
It  was  always  a  great  pleasure,  of  course, 
to  tell  them  something  about  the  history, 
the  organization,  and  the  doctrine  of  the 
Church. 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters — and  I've 
not  even  mentioned  Colombia — it  seems 
to  me  that  we  have  a  great  opportunity 
now,  as  the  Church  moves  out  into  the 
•world.    The  Church  has  a  wonderful 


reputation.  It  is  well  thought  of.  It  is 
well-known.  It  is  so  important  today 
that  all  of  our  people,  whoever  they  are 
and  whatever  they  are,  live  the  gospel, 
that  they  keep  the  commandments  of 
God.  And  if  they  are  isolated,  it  is 
important  that  they  arrange  to  hold 
services  in  their  own  homes,  that  they 
invite  in  their  neighbors  to  their  Sun- 
day Schools,  that  they  might  help  to 
spread  the  gospel.  In  my  humble 
judgment,  the  world  is  hungry  for  true 
religion,  and  we  have  it. 

I  am  sure,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  in  the  days  ahead,  many  will  ac- 
cept of  the  truth,  particularly  in  the 
countries  that  I  have  just  had  the  oppor- 
tunity to  visit. 

I  remember,  as  you  do  also,  occasions 
where  we  have  met  with  just  a  hand- 
ful of  people  in  an  isolated  area,  and 
how  the  Lord  was  there  with  his  Spirit. 
I  remember  meeting  the  Saints,  way  up 
in  Selbongen,  East  Prussia,  right  after 
the  war  and  in  isolated  places  in  Hol- 
land. I  remember  meeting  the  Saints 
in  Czechoslovakia,  just  small  groups. 
How  well  I  remember  that  meeting  re- 
ferred to  by  President  Matis  last  night 
far  up  in  Larsmo,  Finland.  It  was  a 
small,  isolated  group,  but  the  Spirit  of 
God  was  present  and  touched  the  hearts 
of  the  people.  So  it  will  be  everywhere 
our  people  meet  if  we  just  remain  true 
and  faithful.   God  grant  we  may  do  so. 

May  we  be  able  to  make  our  influence 
felt  for  good  in  the  world  because  we 
must  help  to  serve  as  the  leaven  which 
is  going  to  leaven  the  world  with  right- 
eousness. In  large  measure,  that  is  our 
mission. 

So,  my  brethren,  may  we  prepare,  as 
elders  in  Israel,  to  help  enlarge  and  to 
strengthen  the  boundaries  of  Zion,  en- 
large her  stakes,  and  build  up  the  king- 
dom. God  expects  us  to  arise  and 
shine  because  we  are  the  salt  of  the 
earth,  the  light  of  the  world,  and  I 
believe  the  hope  of  the  world  because 
we  are  the  stewards  of  the  revealed 
truth  of  God. 

The  Lord  has  made  it  very  clear  in 
the  revelations.  "Verily  I  say  unto  you 
all,"  he  said,  back  in  1838,  "Arise  and 
shine  forth,  that  thy  light  may  be 
standard  for  the  nations."  (D.  &  C. 
115:5.) 

And  six  years  earlier,  he  said  to  a 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  3 

then  struggling  Church,  small  in  num- 
bers, inflicted  with  persecutions; 

For  Zion  must  increase  in  beauty,  and 
in  holiness;  her  borders  must  be  enlarged; 
her  stakes  must  be  strengthened;  yea,  verily 
I  say  unto  you,  Zion  must  arise  and  put 
on  her  beautiful  garments.  (Ibid.,  82:14.) 

What  are  those  garments?  Those  gar- 
ments are  the  garments  of  righteousness, 
the  garments  of  devotion  to  the  truth — 
the  gospel  in  action. 

Our  message  is  a  world  message,  my 
brethren  and  sisters  and  friends.  In 
that  glorious  first  section  in  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  given  as  a  preface  to  the 
Book  of  Commandments,  the  Lord  had 
these  words  to  say,  which  I  quote  to  you 
in  closing: 

Hearken,  O  ye  people  of  my  church,  saith 
the  voice  of  him  who  dwells  on  high,  and 
whose  eyes  are  upon  all  men;  yea,  verily  I 
say:  Hearken  ye  people  from  afar;  and  ye 
that  are  upon  the  islands  of  the  sea,  listen 
together. 

For  verily  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is  unto 
all  men,  and  there  is  none  to  escape;  and 
there  is  no  eye  that  shall  not  see,  neither 
ear  that  shall  not  hear,  neither  heart  that 
shall  not  be  penetrated.  (Ibid.,  1:1-2.) 

These  are  sobering  words,  words  from 
the  Master,  Jesus  the  Christ,  through 


Second  Day 

his  Prophet,  Joseph  Smith,  to  all  God's 
children. 

May  we  not  be  at  ease  in  Zion.  We 
have  a  tremendous  responsibility.  This 
is  God's  work,  my  brethren  and  sisters 
and  friends,  and  I  give  you  my  testi- 
mony today  that  I  know  that  God  lives, 
that  he  is  a  Personal  God,  that  he  hears 
and  answers  prayers.  I  know  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world, 
our  Elder  Brother,  the  Savior  of  man- 
kind. I  know,  too,  that  Joseph  Smith 
is  and  was  a  Prophet  of  God,  an  instru- 
ment in  the  hands  of  the  Almighty  in 
ushering  in  this  the  last  and  the  great- 
est of  all  gospel  dispensations.  The 
priesthood  has  been  restored;  the  truth 
is  here  in  its  fulness.  I  know  it  as  I 
know  that  I  live,  and  I  thank  God  for 
that  testimony,  and  pray  his  blessings 
upon  all  of  us,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson,  member  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  also  Secretary 
of  Agriculture  in  the  Cabinet  of  the 
President  of  the  United  States.  We  shall 
now  hear  from  President  Joseph  Fielding 
Smith,  President  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Oscar  A.  Kirkham. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  good  brethren  and  sisters  and 
friends,  I  realize  that  this  is  a  very 
important  and  responsible  position; 
that  our  words  go  out,  the  extent  of 
which  we  do  not  know.  It  is  needful, 
therefore,  that  we  have  the  guidance  of 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  that  we  may 
speak  his  truth.  I  trust  that  the  few 
words  that  I  say  may  find  an  echo  in 
your  hearts  and  be  dictated  by  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord. 

Near  the  close  of  a  discourse  by  our 
Lord  and  Savior,  many  believed  on  him. 
It  is  written:  "Then  said  Jesus  to  those 
Jews  which  believed  on  him,  If  ye  con- 
tinue in  my  word,  then  are  ye  my 
disciples  indeed; 
"And  ye  shall  know  the  truth,  and  the 


truth  shall  make  you  free."  (John  8:31- 
32.) 

The  only  truth  that  makes  us  free  is 
the  truth  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
In  fact,  all  truth  belongs  to  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  When  our  Savior  was 
brought  before  Pilate,  Pilate  questioned 
him  and  asked  him  if  he  were  a  king. 
Jesus  answered,  "Thou  sayest  that  I  am 
a  king.  To  this  end  was  I  born,  and  for 
this  cause  came  I  into  the  world,  that 
I  should  bear  witness  unto  the  truth. 
Every  one  that  is  of  the  truth  heareth 
my  voice."  (Ibid.,  18:37.) 

Then  Pilate  asked  him,  "What  is 
truth?"  Perhaps  the  Savior  had  no 
time  given  him  to  answer.  Perhaps  he 
was  silent,  and  from  that  time  until  now 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 


51 


volumes  have  been  written  asking  that 
question.  The  only  true  answer  that 
has  been  given  was  given  by  the  Lord 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

"And  truth  is  knowledge  of  things  as 
they  are,  and  as  they  were,  and  as  they 
are  to  come."  (D.  &  C.  93:24.)  In  other 
words,  truth  is  that  which  endures.  All 
else  must  perish.  This  being  true,  it 
behooves  us  to  search  for  truth — this 
truth  the  Savior  spoke  of  that  makes  us 
free. 

Not  all  truth  is  of  the  same  value  or 
importance.  Some  truths  are  greater 
than  others.  The  greatest  truth,  or  the 
greatest  truths,  we  find  in  the  funda- 
mentals of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
First  of  all,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son 
of  God,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  who 
came  into  this  world  to  die  that  men 
might  live.  That  truth  we  should  know. 
It  is  far  more  important  to  know  that 
Jesus  Christ  is  our  Redeemer,  that  he 
has  given  unto  us  the  principles  of 
eternal  life,  than  it  is  to  know  all  that 
can  be  obtained  in  secular  education. 

It  is  far  more  important  to  know  that 
baptism  is  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and 
when  properly  performed  by  one  who 
has  the  authority,  remission  of  sins  will 
come,  and  through  the  baptism  follow- 
ing, of  the  Holy  Ghost,  we  come  back 
into  the  presence  of  God  our  Father,  at 
last,  through  the  guidance  of  the  Holy 
Ghost. 

To  know  the  way  to  eternal  life  is 
far  more  important  than  all  the  learning 
that  the  world  can  give.  We  find  that 
in  the  sacred  principles  which  have  been 
revealed  for  the  last  time,  and  in  these 
ordinances  which  are  being  performed 


for  the  last  time — that  is,  in  the  Dis- 
pensation of  the  Fulness  of  Times — for 
the  gospel  will  never  be  restored  again. 
It  has  been  restored  to  remain.  The 
Lord  has  ordained  his  servants,  and  has 
given  them  authority  to  execute  his  laws, 
to  preach  his  gospel,  to  cry  repentance, 
to  call  upon  men  to  humble  themselves 
and  receive  these  fundamental  princi- 
ples of  eternal  life. 

The  way  of  eternal  life  is  here.  The 
covenants  that  were  promised  that  lead 
to  that  great  gift  are  here.  All  men  on 
the  face  of  the  earth  have  now  the 
privilege  not  only  of  repentance,  but  also 
of  remission  of  sins  through  the  waters 
of  baptism,  and  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  hands,  and 
to  receive  the  covenants  and  obligations 
which  were  promised  anciently  that  will 
bring  them  back  into  the  presence  of 
God,  our  Father. 

These  blessings  are  free.  They  are 
the  most  important  truths  in  all  the 
world.  Brethren  and  sisters,  we  have 
received  them.  Let  us  be  true  and  faith- 
ful, turning  neither  to  the  right  nor  to 
the  left  in  the  keeping  of  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord,  and  by  example  as 
well  as  by  precept,  serve  him,  I  humbly 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith, 
President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 
has  just  spoken  to  us,  and  we  shall  now 
hear  from  Elder  Oscar  A.  Kirkham  of 
the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  who  will 
be  our  concluding  speaker. 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


1 trust  the  Lord  will  be  with  me  and 
bless  me  as  I  address  you. 
In  the  Third  Epistle  of  John,  the 
fourth  verse,  are  these  words: 

I  have  no  greater  joy  than  to  hear  that 
my  children  walk  in  truth. 

The  greatest  gift  that  can  come  to  a 
boy,  as  I  review  the  humble  experiences 
of  my  own  life,  is  that  he  may  have 


good  guidance,  that  he  may  sense  a  faith 
in  God,  and  enjoy  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  that  he  may  receive  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost  and  hold  worthily  the 
Holy  Priesthood. 

The  other  evening  a  lad  came  to  our 
home.  He  was  accompanying  a  high 
priest.  They  were  our  ward  teachers. 
The  high  priest  said  as  he  addressed 
us,  "Brother  Kirkham,  we  have  a  little 


52 

Sunday,  April  3 

message  for  you  from  our  bishop  con- 
cerning our  religion."  The  message  was 
given.  We  felt  the  spirit  of  it.  It  was 
simple  and  sincere.  I  thanked  them, 
then  the  high  priest  turned  to  the  boy 
of  fourteen,  a  teacher  in  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood,  and  said,  "John,  you  say  a 
prayer  for  Brother  Kirkham  and  his 
family."  We  were  appreciative  and 
listened,  for  we  know  that  we  have  no 
greater  joy  than  to  know  that  we  walk 
in  truth. 

Coming  down  on  the  elevator  in  our 
office  building  the  other  day,  a  young 
man  recognized  me  and  he  said,  "This 
is  my  mother,  Brother  Kirkham.  I'm 
just  back  from  my  mission.  She  has 
worked  continuously  for  me  while  I've 
been  away.  She  has  kept  me.  She  saw 
that  my  check  came  every  month  to  pay 
my  expenses.  Now,  the  Lord  being 
willing,  Mother  is  going  on  a  mission. 
I  will  pay  her  way."  The  greatest  gift 
that  comes  to  us  in  early  life  is  to  be 
guided  in  simple  truths,  and  to  do  the 
will  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  As  Presi- 
dent McKay  said  to  us  this  morning, 
"We  are  concerned  with  those  simple, 
vital  things  that  help  us."  That  boy 
you  meet  tonight  or  tomorrow  morning 
or  the  next  day  and  what  you  say  to 
him  and  do  for  him  is  all-important. 

I  know  a  boy  in  Iowa  who  one  day 
was  plowing  in  an  open  field.  He  did 
not  know  at  the  time  that  a  very  dis- 
tinguished gentleman  was  passing  by, 
but  the  man  said,  "The  furrow  in  that 
open  field  was  plowed  so  straight  that 
I  had  to  stop.  Did  you  plow  the  first 
furrow  in  this  field?"  "Yes,"  said  he. 
"They  did  not  peg  it  off  for  you?"  "No, 
sir."  Then  my  friend  said  to  the  boy, 
"You'll  plow  many  straight  things  in 
life.  Good-bye." 

Several  years  went  by.  My  friend 
came  again  to  Iowa.  He  was  met  by  a 
gentleman,  this  time  in  a  fine  automo- 
bile. "Do  you  remember  being  in  these 
parts  about  twelve  years  ago?"  "Yes,  I 
have  a  note  here  in  my  book  of  a  straight 
furrow  plowed  in  an  open  field  by  a 
boy."  "Well,"  said  the  man,  "I  don't 
want  you  to  say  anything  to  these  peo- 
ple about  this  incident,  but  I  am  the 
mayor  of  this  city.  I  want  to  say  to 
you,  I  was  behind  that  plow.  I  was 
that  boy.    You  journeyed  on  over  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

hill  that  day  on  your  way.  What  you 
said  as  we  chatted  about  'The  straight 
furrow'  has  lingered  with  me  through 
these  years.  I  wanted  you  to  know  that 
those  few  words  have  given  me  encour- 
agement ever  since  that  day." 

We  philosophize;  we  delve  into  great 
truths — these  things  enrich  our  lives,  but 
it  is  still  the  simple  things  that  are  ef- 
fective. We  "have  no  greater  joy  than 
to  hear  that  our  children  walk  in  truth." 

May  God  bless  us  that  this  joy  may 
ever  be  ours  and  that  we  may  ever  ap- 
preciate the  sacred  words  of  the  Lord 
as  given  in  the  Holy  Scriptures  and  with 
courage  and  simplicity  live  the  truth, 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Oscar 
A.  Kirkham  of  the  First  Council  of  Sev- 
enty. 

Tonight  the  Deseret  Sunday  School 
Conference  will  convene  in  the  Salt  Lake 
Tabernacle  at  7:00  p.m.  All  Sunday 
School  workers  should  be  in  attendance; 
others  are  cordially  invited.  We  are  in- 
formed by  the  Superintendent  that  pro- 
vision will  be  made  for  overflow  audi- 
ences in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in  Bar- 
ratt  Hall. 

We  express  our  appreciation  to  you 
ushers  who  have  rendered  such  excellent 
service  this  day.  We  commend  you  for 
the  orderly  manner  in  which  you  have 
performed  your  duties. 

We  also  express  appreciation  to  the 
public  press,  to  the  reporters  for  their 
fair  and  accurate  reports.  Thank  you. 
To  the  various  radio  and  television  sta- 
tions, we  wish  to  say  that  your  assist- 
ance rendered  here  in  our  own  city  and 
state  and  in  other  states  named  through- 
out the  sessions,  has  been  the  means  of 
permitting  tens  of  thousands  to  hear 
the  proceedings  of  this  Conference. 

We  have  had  a  most  unusual  storm, 
you  might  find  the  roads  still  slippery. 
We  caution  drivers  to  be  careful  after 
the  dismissal  of  this  meeting.  Practice 
courtesy.  That  is  a  great  safety  means  on 
the  highway,  just  simple  courtesy. 

The  singing  for  this  afternoon  has 
been  furnished  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir, 
with  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  con- 
ducting and  Elder  Alexander  Schreiner 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


53 


at  the  organ.  I  have  already  expressed 
appreciation  tor  you,  I  do  so  again  for 
others  who  have  been  listening  in  this 
afternoon  to  the  inspirational  singing 
of  this  great  organization. 

The  Choir  will  now  sing,  "The  Hal- 
lelujah Chorus,"  with  Elder  Cornwall 
conducting.  Elder  Claudious  Bowman, 
president  of  the  Mexican  Mission,  will 
offer  the  benediction,  following  which 


this  Conference  will  be  adjourned  until 
tomorrow  morning  at  ten  o'clock. 


The  "Hallelujah  Chorus"  was  sung 
by  the  Choir. 

Elder  Claudious  Bowman,  President 
of  the  Mexican  Mission  offered  the  clos- 


ing prayer. 

Conference  adjourned 
a.m.,  Monday,  April  4th. 


until  10:00 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


Conference  reconvened  Monday  mor- 
ning, April  4,  at  10:00  a.m.  The  Brig- 
ham  Young  University  Combined 
Choruses,  with  John  R.  Halliday  con- 
ducting, furnished  the  music  for  this 
session.  President  David  O.  McKay 
opened  the  meeting  with  the  following 
remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Last  Saturday  night  I  announced  the 
acceptance  of  the  invitation  extended 
to  the  presidents  of  stakes  and  bishops 
of  wards  and  their  wives, — an  invi- 
tation of  Mr.  Hendry,  Vice-President  of 
the  Intermountain  Theatres, — to  a  pre- 
view showing  of  the  excellent  picture, 
"A  Man  Called  Peter,"  to  be  shown  in 
the  Capitol  Theatre  and  the  Utah 
Theatre.  I  overlooked  the  fact  that  the 
presidents  of  stakes  and  the  bishops  of 
wards  had  already  been  invited  and  the 
invitation  accepted  to  attend  the  Brig- 
ham  Young  University  devotional  pro- 
gram in  the  George  Albert  Smith  Field- 
house,  Brigham  Young  University  cam- 
pus, at  that  same  hour.  It  was  my  fault 
that  permitted  that  conflict  to  occur.  The 
invitation  to  Brigham  Young  University 
preceded  the  one  extended  by  the 
Theatre,  and  questions  have  been  asked 
by  the  presidents  of  stakes,  "Which  shall 
we  attend?"  So  we  are  pleased  to  an- 
nounce this  morning,  "Attend  both  of 
them."  Mr.  Hendry  this  morning  very 
kindly  postponed  the  Tuesday  morning 
invitation  or  extended  it  until  Thursday 
morning  at  the  same  hour  in  the  same 
places,  so  that  you  will  be  able  to  attend 
the  George  Albert  Smith  Fieldhouse  ap- 
pointment as  arranged.   The  buses  will 


leave  the  Hotel  Utah  at  8  o'clock  Tues- 
day morning,  and  "A  Man  Called 
Peter"  will  be  presented  to  you,  presi- 
dents of  stakes  and  bishops  of  wards, 
and  your  wives,  Thursday  morning  at 
9:30.  We  thank  President  Wilkinson  of 
the  University  and  Mr.  Hendry  of  the 
Theatres  for  these  invitations. 

The  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in 
Salt  Lake  City  is  overflowing  this  mor- 
ning with  members  of  the  Church  who 
have  gathered  for  the  One  Hundred 
Twenty-Fifth  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  To  those  who  are  standing,  and 
others,  we  are  pleased  to  announce  that 
overflow  meetings  will  be  held  this  mor- 
ning in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt 
Hall  as  heretofore,  and  these  services 
also,  for  the  benefit  of  those  who  are 
listening  in,  are  being  televised  over 
KSL  television,  Channel  5,  of  Salt  Lake 
City,  and  KID,  Idaho  Falls,  Idaho,  and 
will  be  heard  over  radio  station  KSL, 
and  by  arrangement  through  this  station 
over  12  radio  stations  in  Utah,  Idaho, 
Nevada,  and  Colorado.  The  names  of 
these  stations  as  heretofore  have  already 
been  announced  to  the  radio  audience. 
Again  we  express  appreciation  to  these 
stations  for  the  excellent  service  they  are 
rendering  to  the  Church  and  to  all  their 
patrons. 

You  will  notice  this  morning  a  group 
of  choice  young  people  gathered  here  to 
furnish  singing.  They  are  from  the 
Brigham  Young  University, — the  Com- 
bined Choruses  from  that  great  school, — 
and  Elder  John  R.  Halliday  is  conduct- 
ing. Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  is  at  the 
organ.    We  welcome  them,  and  I  am 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  4 

sure  you  will  be  thrilled  with  their 
singing,  as  always. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Combined 
Choruses  singing,  "For  the  Strength  of 
the  Hills,"  under  the  direction  of  Pro- 
fessor Halliday.  The  opening  prayer 
will  be  offered  by  Elder  J.  Melvin  Toone, 
president  of  the  Canadian  Mission. 


The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  sang  the  hymn,  "For 
the  Strength  of  the  Hills." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
President  J.  Melvin  Toone  of  the  Cana- 
dian Mission. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  will  now  favor  us  with 


Third  Day 

"Thou  Life  of  Life,"  conducted  by  Elder 
John  R.  Halliday,  following  which 
Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  will  address  us. 


Singing  by  the  Combined  Choruses, 
"Thou  Life  of  Life." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  hope,  students,  that  the  loud- 
speakers are  arranged  properly  so  that 
you  may  now  hear  clearly  the  messages 
from  the  Brethren.  That  was  inspira- 
tional. (Referring  to  the  singing.) 

Our  first  speaker  this  morning  is 
Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve.  He  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  John  Longden. 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Isn't  it  thrilling,  brothers  and  sisters, 
to  hear  these  glorious  young  people 
sing  praises  to  God  and  express  their 
trust  in  him?  It  gives  you  a  wonderful 
feeling  of  confidence,  doesn't  it,  to  know 
that  the  rising  generation  is  made  up  of 
such  marvelous  young  people. 

Two  weeks  ago  my  wife  and  I  had 
the  opportunity  of  attending  a  meeting 
of  some  hundreds  of  M  Men  and  Gleaner 
Girls,  and  there  again  we  were  impressed 
with  the  fact  that  our  young  people  are 
great.  Those  hundreds  of  young  people 
stood  up  in  that  meeting  and  gave  the 
MIA  theme  for  this  year.  I  wish  you 
could  have  heard  them  because  they 
spoke  with  such  clarity.  They  were  in 
almost  perfect  unison,  and  as  they  said 
these  words,  it  gave  me  a  great  thrill: 

Seek  not  for  riches  but  for  wisdom,  and 
behold,  the  mysteries  of  God  shall  be  un- 
folded unto  you,  and  then  shall  you  be 
made  rich.  Behold,  he  that  hath  eternal 
life  is  rich.  (D.  &  C.  6:7.) 

As  I  say,  hearing  those  voices  in 
unison  say  those  inspired  words,  moved 
me  deeply  inside.  I  was  so  thrilled  that 
young  people  could  stand  and  say  and 
believe  that  "he  that  hath  eternal  life 
is  rich." 


When  my  wife  and  I  were  in  South 
America  recently,  we  had  the  same  kind 
of  thrill  because  there  we  saw  your  sons 
and  daughters,  sometimes  under  diffi- 
cult and  even  adverse  circumstances 
standing  in  the  glory  of  their  young 
manhood  and  womanhood,  in  the  glory 
of  their  membership  in  this  Church,  in 
the  glory  of  being  missionaries  for  the 
Son  of  God,  speak  in  languages  pre- 
viously unknown  to  them,  bearing  testi- 
mony of  the  restoration  of  the  gospel  of 
Christ.  Oh,  how  happy  we  werel  How 
humble  we  felt  in  their  presence,  and 
again  came  to  us  this  great  conviction 
that  the  youth  of  Zion  are  a  great  peo- 
ple. 

As  I  reflect  upon  the  youth  of  Zion, 
I  reflect  also  upon  the  homes  from  which 
they  come.  I  know  that  great  homes 
produce  great  people.  Those  homes 
need  not  be  rich  in  this  world's  goods, 
but  if  they  are  rich  in  the  wisdom  of 
God,  they  are  rich  indeed,  and  young 
people  who  grow  up  in  homes  such  as 
those  are  great  young  people. 

You  recall  that  the  Savior  at  one  time 
said:  ".  .  .  every  good  tree  bringeth  forth 
good  fruit."  (Matt.  7:17.)  I  know  that 
even  from  a  good  tree  occasionally  a 
piece  of  fruit  may  fall,  and  as  the 


ELDER  MARK 

prodigal  go  the  way  of  all  the  earth, 
but  that  does  not  change  the  great  un- 
derlying fact  that  "every  good  tree 
bringeth  forth  good  fruit." 

As  I  have  studied  your  young  people 
and  mine,  I  have  come  to  the  conclu- 
sion that  they  are  great  because  by  and 
large  they  come  from  great  homes.  It 
has  been  my  observation  that  where 
young  people  are  active  in  the  Church, 
as  a  general  rule  they  come  from  homes 
where  parents  also  are  active  in  the 
Church. 

Now,  there  are  some  exceptions,  I 
know,  but  I  say  as  a  general  rule  great 
homes  produce  great  young  people. 
Parents  who  are  active  in  the  Church 
usually  produce  children  who  are  active 
in  the  Church,  again  proving  the  truth 
of  the  Savior's  words  that  "every  good 
tree  bringeth  forth  good  fruit." 

But  I  would  like  to  read  to  you  the 
rest  of  the  Savior's  words  in  that  quota- 
tion. He  said:  "Every  good  tree  bring- 
eth forth  good  fruit;  but  a  corrupt  tree 
bringeth  forth  evil  fruit."  (Ibid.,  7:17.) 

Now  what  about  the  meaning  of  those 
words?  Do  homes  which  are  not  classed 
as  good  homes  produce  evil  young  peo- 
ple? And  if  they  do,  who  must  bear 
the  blame? 

There  have  been  many  public  opin- 
ion polls  taken  in  the  United  States,  as 
you  know,  and  I  suppose  they  have 
touched  almost  every  subject  under  the 
sun.  There  is  not  very  much  left  un- 
covered by  the  time  they  get  through. 

I  have  been  shocked  and  astonished 
at  one  of  these  public  opinion  polls 
which  indicates  that  there  is  a  higher 
percentage  of  drinkers  of  alcoholic 
beverages  in  the  age  group  of  fifteen  to 
thirty  years  than  in  any  other  age  group. 
This  particular  poll  indicated  that  sixty- 
seven  percent  of  American  young  people 
from  fifteen  to  thirty  years  of  age  use 
alcoholic  beverages  occasionally  or  more 
or  less  regularly. 

Now  these  studies,  and  others,  tell 
us  where  these  young  people  learn  to 
drink.  Again  I  was  astonished  to  learn 
that  the  majority  of  the  American  young 
people  who  drink  liquor  learn  to  drink 
from  their  own  parents! 

A  number  of  studies,  as  I  say,  have 
been  made  on  this  subject,  some  of  them 
among  college  students,  some  among 


E.  PETERSEN  55 

high  school  students,  and  even  some 
elementary  students  have  been  brought 
into  the  study.  One  of  the  studies 
having  to  do  with  college  students  indi- 
cated that  eighty-five  percent  of  the 
drinking  students  have  drinking  parents. 
This  same  study,  which  included  in- 
formation on  students  who  abstain  from 
the  use  of  liquor,  said  that  seventy-seven 
percent  of  the  students  who  abstain  from 
the  use  of  liquor  have  both  parents  who 
abstain  from  the  use  of  liquor.  Isn't 
that  a  great  lesson?  The  majority  of 
the  drinking  students  drink  because  their 
parents  drink.  The  majority  of  the  ab- 
staining students  have  parents  who 
abstain. 

One  of  these  studies  was  conducted 
in  the  state  of  Idaho  by  the  department 
of  social  studies  of  the  University  of 
Idaho,  and  the  figures  sustain  the  gen- 
eral results  as  obtained  in  other  studies 
in  eastern  United  States.  They  found 
that  the  drinking  habits  of  students  fol- 
low almost  exactly  the  drinking  habits 
of  parents.  I  quote  just  one  line  from 
their  report: 

"The  proportions  of  students  who 
drank  are  approximately  equal  to  the 
proportions  of  parents  who  drank  with 
the  knowledge  of  the  students." 

In  eastern  United  States  a  study  was 
made  along  the  same  lines.  After  the 
completion  of  the  survey  those  who  con- 
ducted it  reported:  "It  certainly  is  not 
surprising  to  find  a  tendency  for  students 
to  follow  the  example  of  their  parents 
in  deciding  whether  or  not  to  drink." 

Dr.  Andrew  C.  Ivy,  head  of  the  de- 
partment of  clinical  science  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Illinois,  recently  wrote  an  arti- 
cle in  the  magazine,  Life  and  Health, 
entitled,  "Why  I  Don't  Drink."  He 
commented  on  the  fact  that  there  are 
over  sixty  million  drinkers  in  the  United 
States,  and  after  discussing  that  horrible 
fact,  asked  this  question:  "Who  can 
save  future  citizens  from  drink?"  He 
answered,  "The  fathers  and  mothers  of 
today's  children." 

And  then  he  said  this:  "Children, 
teen-agers,  and  college  students  drink 
and  do  other  things  that  harm  their 
bodies,  characters,  and  lives  largely  be- 
cause their  parents  do.  If  we  are  going 
to  reverse  the  trend  to  moral  decline 
and  degeneration  in  our  country,  moth- 


56  GENERAL  C 

Monday,  April  4 

ers  as  well  as  fathers  are  going  to  have 
to  correct  their  own  irresponsible  be- 
havior." 

He  goes  on  to  say,  "The  question  for 
parents  to  answer  is:  'Has  drinking  alco- 
holic beverages  contributed  so  much  to 
my  happiness  that  I  want  my  child  and 
all  children  to  take  the  one  in  twenty 
chance  of  becoming  an  alcoholic?'  " 

Then  he  said,  "Seventy  percent  of  the 
chronic  alcoholics  in  the  United  States 
started  drinking  as  teen-agers." 

In  studies  that  have  been  made  with 
regard  to  smoking  habits,  the  same  type 
of  thing  has  been  developed.  It  is  dis- 
covered that  by  and  large  smoking 
parents  have  smoking  children,  and  ab- 
staining parents,  by  and  large,  have 
abstaining  children.  The  same  thing 
is  true  with  Church  activity,  as  I  have 
already  indicated.  If  parents  reject 
religious  activity,  their  children  generally 
reject  religious  activity.  If,  on  the  other 
hand,  as  we  have  pointed  out,  parents 
are  active  and  enthusiastic  and  faithful 
about  their  Church  responsibilities,  as 
a  rule  the  children  likewise  are  active. 

And  so  we  may  reach  some  definite 
conclusions  and  say  that  where  parents 
smoke  they  can  expect  their  children 
to  smoke.  Where  parents  drink,  they 
may  expect  their  children  to  drink. 
Where  parents  deny  religious  activity 
and  interest,  they  can  expect  their  chil- 
dren to  deny  religious  interest. 

Now  these  same  studies  have  gone 
into  the  questions:  Why  do  people 
drink?  Why  do  people  smoke?  I  do 
not  know  anybody,  with  his  eyes  open, 
who  would  suppose  that  drinking  would 
do  him  any  good,  or  that  smoking  would 
do  him  any  good.  Even  the  merchants 
of  these  commodities  are  now  changing 
the  claims  in  some  advertising  that  they 
are  good  for  a  person.  I  remember  there 
was  a  time  when  they  used  to  adver- 
tise that  smoking  was  good  for  diges- 
tion, but  they  do  not  any  more  since 
the  doctors  have  discovered  that  tobacco 
is  one  of  the  very  worst  things  for  your 
stomach,  and  that  whether  you  smoke 
or  chew  the  tobacco,  you  can  get 
stomach  ulcers  from  it,  and  you  can 
develop  cancer  of  the  stomach  from  the 
ulcers.  So  tobacco  companies  have 
stopped  advertising  about  how  good  for 
your  digestion  it  is  if  you  smoke  cigarets. 


Third  Day 

Why  do  people  smoke,  and  why  do 
they  drink?  According  to  these  sur- 
veys, it  is  because  they  think  it  is  smart. 
They  think  it  is  popular.  They  think 
it  is  the  thing  to  do  because  the  Joneses 
and  others  they  happen  to  know  and 
regard  as  smart  also  smoke  or  drink. 
For  that  reason  they  think  they  should 
take  up  the  habit,  and  because  parents 
who  are  blinded  by  this  false  notion  of 
popularity  lead  their  children,  who  are 
blinded  by  the  bad  example  of  their 
parents,  they  both  fall  into  the  ditch. 

So  we  can  begin  to  see  the  truth  in 
the  Savior's  words,  can't  we,  that  a  cor- 
rupt tree  will  bring  forth  evil  fruit.  I 
ask  you  parents  if  you  have  the  right  to 
gamble  with  the  future  lives  and  happi- 
ness of  your  children.  If  we  set  our 
children  an  example  which  is  almost 
sure  to  lead  to  failure,  what  is  our  re- 
sponsibility? If  we  should  lead  our  own 
children  into  disaster,  would  we  ever 
forgive  ourselves? 

Two  weeks  ago  Brother  [Delbert  L.] 
Stapley  and  I  happened  to  have  the 
privilege  of  being  in  the  same  confer- 
ence together.  Brother  Stapley  there  de- 
livered one  of  his  wonderful  talks,  and 
in  his  discussion  gave  me  a  new  point 
of  view  on  an  old  subject,  and  with  his 
permission  I  would  like  to  mention  it 
here. 

Brother  Stapley  was  talking  about  the 
fact  that  children  cannot  be  tempted  by 
the  devil  before  they  are  eight  years  of 
age  because  the  Lord  has  not  given 
Satan  that  right.  Just  suppose  that  there 
was  a  basketball  game,  and  for  eight 
minutes  one  of  the  teams  was  ruled  off 
the  floor  while  the  remaining  team 
stayed  in  there  and  pitched  as  many 
baskets  as  it  could  for  eight  minutes, 
and  every  basket  would  count.  Just 
think  about  that. 

And  suppose  there  was  a  football  game 
in  which  one  of  the  teams  was  ruled 
off  the  field  while  the  other  made  touch- 
downs for  eight  minutes,  and  every 
touchdown  would  count,  and  it  could 
make  these  touchdowns  without  any  op- 
position from  the  other  team.  Just 
think  what  kind  of  score  it  could 
develop! 

You  do  not  get  that  in  athletics,  but 
you  do  get  it  in  the  rearing  of  your 
children  because  during  the  first  eight 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 


57 


years  of  their  lives,  Satan  has  no  right 
and  no  power  to  tempt  those  children. 
If  they  are  tempted,  if  they  sin,  you 
have  to  blame  somebody  else  besides 
Satan.  During  those  first  eight  years 
you  are  left  in  the  field  without  the 
opposition  of  Satan  in  the  training  of 
your  children.  For  eight  years  you  can 
train  them,  mold  their  characters,  de- 
velop their  faith,  and  teach  them  to 
pray,  and  to  love  God,  and  to  keep  his 
commandments,  without  any  interfer- 
ence or  any  opposition  from  Satan. 

Have  you  ever  thought  of  it  that  way? 
I  hadn't  until  Brother  Stapley  men- 
tioned it,  but  I  was  glad  he  did  because, 
as  I  say,  it  gave  me  a  new  point  of  view. 
The  first  eight  years  of  a  child's  life  in 
a  Latter-day  Saint  home  form  the  golden 
age  for  parents  in  the  rearing  of  their 
children — a  golden  age  when  Mother 
and  Father  may  set  them  the  proper 
example,  and  play  with  them,  and  pray 
with  them,  and  enjoy  them,  and  de- 
velop Christlike  traits  of  character  in 
their  children  without  the  opposition 
of  Satan. 

Have  you  that  kind  of  home?  In 
your  home  are  you  setting  up  the  cir- 
cumstances and  the  surroundings  where- 


by those  children  can  get  the  most  out 
of  this  golden  age?  Are  you  doing  all 
you  can  while  you  do  not  have  the 
interference  of  Satan  to  train  those 
children?  Or,  on  the  other  hand,  are 
you  careless  enough  so  that  you  tempt 
your  own  children,  so  that  you  will 
lead  them  into  paths  of  sin,  so  that  you 
teach  them  by  your  own  bad  example 
how  to  do  the  things  of  the  world? 

Well,  I  come  back  again  to  the 
Savior's  words:  ".  .  .  every  good  tree 
bringeth  forth  good  fruit;  but  a  corrupt 
tree  bringeth  forth  evil  fruit."  (Matt. 
7:17.) 

May  our  homes  be  good  homes,  from 
which  we  may  send  good  young  people, 
trained  and  reared  in  the  gospel  of 
Christ,  is  my  humble  prayer,  in  his 
holy  name.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve.  Elder  John  Longden, 
Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  will  now  speak 
to  us.  Elder  Longden  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Levi  Edgar  Young. 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  I  am 
humbly  grateful  as  I  accept  this 
great  responsibility  and  assign- 
ment this  morning,  and  testify  to  you 
that  without  the  assistance  of  my  Heav- 
enly Father  I  would  not  even  be  able 
to  stand  here.  I  am  grateful  this 
morning  for  faith  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  I  am  grateful  this  morning  for 
faith  in  a  divine,  Living  God;  in  the 
divine  mission  of  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ. 
I  am  grateful  for  faith  that  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  has  been  restored  in  its 
fulness,  and  I  reflect  at  this  moment  on 
the  words  of  David,  ofttimes  referred  to 
as  the  Psalmist  David,  as  recorded  in 
the  twenty-seventh  Psalm: 

The  Lord  is  my  light  and  my  salvation; 
whom  shall  I  fear?  the  Lord  is  the  strength 
of  my  life;  of  whom  shall  I  be  afraid? 
(Psalms  27:1.) 


There  was  no  fear  in  the  heart  and 
mind  of  David  because  I  believe  he  was 
a  prayerful  man.  He  had  implicit  faith 
in  God,  his  Father,  and  thus  he  was 
able  to  go  forth  in  one  experience  as  he 
faced  the  Philistine,  the  giant,  Goliath. 
You  will  recall  the  great  lesson  there 
where  Goliath  indicated  he  would  cut 
David  up  and  feed  him  to  the  fowls 
and  the  beasts.  David,  even  though 
he  was  small  of  stature  by  comparison, 
had  the  assistance  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  and  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  and  he 
said  to  Goliath: 

Thou  comest  to  me  with  a  sword,  and 
with  a  spear,  and  with  a  shield:  but  I  come 
to  thee  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  of  hosts, 
the  God  of  the  armies  of  Israel,  whom  thou 
hast  defied.  (I  Sam.  17:45.) 

And  therein  was  the  strength  of  David 
because  he  had  not  defied  God.  He  was 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  4 

willing  to  live  in  submission  to  the 
teachings  of  righteousness.  I  am  sure 
there  was  no  spirit  of  arrogance  in  the 
mind  of  David  at  that  time,  but  he  was 
a  humble,  prayerful  man. 

We  have  a  lesson  in  the  attitude  of 
prayer  as  given  by  the  Master  in  the 
parable  of  the  Pharisee  and  the  pub- 
lican. We  are  told  that  the  Pharisee 
was  grateful  that  he  was  not  an  extor- 
tioner. He  was  not  an  adulterer.  He 
paid  his  tithes  and  his  offerings.  He 
fasted  and  he  prayed,  and  he  was  not 
like  unto  this  lowly  publican. 

And  the  publican,  standing  afar  off,  would 
not  lift  up  so  much  as  his  eyes  unto  heaven, 
but  smote  upon  his  breast,  saying,  God  be 
merciful  to  me  a  sinner. 

I  tell  you,  this  man  went  down  to  his 
house  justified  rather  than  the  other:  for 
he  that  exalteth  himself  shall  be  abased; 
and  he  that  humbleth  himself  shall  be  ex- 
alted. (Luke  18:13-14.) 

We  must  have  the  spirit  of  humility 
as  we  seek  God  through  this  channel  of 
prayer  to  give  thanks  unto  him  for  all 
the  blessings  which  are  ours,  particu- 
larly we,  as  members  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  that 
we  have  membership  in  his  great  Church 
— not  the  church  of  man,  but  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  it  bears  his 
name. 

Regarding  the  principle  of  prayer,  the 
Savior,  the  Master  himself,  was  asked  by 
his  disciples  and  others,  "Teach  us  how 
to  pray,  and  how  shall  we  pray?"  He 
replied: 

After  this  manner  therefore  pray  ye:  Our 
Father  which  art  in  heaven,  Hallowed  be 
thy  name. 

Thy  kingdom  come.  Thy  will  be  done 
in  earth,  as  it  is  in  heaven. 

Give  us  this  day  our  daily  bread. 

And  forgive  us  our  debts,  as  we  forgive 
our  debtors. 

And  lead  us  not  into  temptation,  but  de- 
liver us  from  evil:  For  thine  is  the  king- 
dom, and  the  power,  and  the  glory,  for 
ever.  Amen.  (Matthew  6:9-13.) 

We  have  there  a  simple  prayer,  a 
prayer  that  points  the  way  to  the  throne 
of  God,  our  Eternal  Father,  the  Father 
of  our  spirits.  The  Savior  further 
taught: 


Third  Day 

Ask,  and  it  shall  be  given  you;  seek,  and 
ye  shall  find;  knock,  and  it  shall  be  opened 
unto  you: 

For  every  one  that  asketh  receiveth;  and 
he  that  seeketh  findeth;  and  to  him  that 
knocketh  it  shall  be  opened.  (Ibid.,  7:7-9.) 

I  like  the  words  of  Robert  Burns,  the 
great  Scotch  poet: 

They  never  sought  in  vain  who  sought  the 
Lord  aright. 

I  testify  to  you  these  words  are  true. 
As  we  seek  the  Lord  aright,  we  shall  not 
seek  in  vain.  Jesus  so  taught.  He  said: 

If  a  son  shall  ask  bread  of  any  of  you 
that  is  a  father,  will  he  give  him  a  stone? 
or  if  he  ask  a  fish,  will  he  for  a  fish  give 
him  a  serpent? 

Or  if  he  shall  ask  an  egg,  will  he  offer 
him  a  scorpion? 

If  ye  then,  being  evil,  know  how  to  give 
good  gifts  unto  your  children:  how  much 
more  shall  your  heavenly  Father  give  the 
Holy  Spirit  to  them  that  ask  him?  (Luke 
11:11-13.) 

The  Lord  has  revealed  again  in  this 
day,  as  recorded  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  in  several  sections  (and 
I  would  commend  your  reading  the 
twentieth,  the  thirty-first,  the  sixty-first, 
the  sixty-eighth,  and  the  ninety-third, 
which  deal  with  this  great  power  of 
prayer)  that  we  should  pray  constantly, 
earnestly,  and  sincerely  that  we  be  not 
led  into  temptation,  as  has  so  beauti- 
fully been  given  to  us  this  morning  by 
Elder  Petersen.  We  are  told  we  should 
teach  our  children  how  to  pray  and  to 
walk  uprightly  before  the  Lord. 

I  want  to  tell  the  young  people  within 
the  sound  of  my  voice  that  it  is  nothing 
to  be  ashamed  of  that  you  humble  your- 
self before  the  Lord  in  prayer.  It  is 
not  a  sign  of  weakness.  I  testify  to  you 
that  it  is  a  sign  of  great  strength,  for 
the  Lord  will  be  your  light  and  your 
salvation.  He  is  ever  ready  to  assist 
us  to  continue  in  the  path  of  righteous- 
ness.  He  does  not  fail  us. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  power  of  prayer. 
I  was  thrilled  last  August  as  I  attended 
the  MIA  conference  in  Los  Angeles  to 
witness  prayer  in  action.  They  were 
preparing  a  huge  chorus  of  fifteen  hun- 
dred voices  to  appear  in  the  Hollywood 
Bowl.  The  young  singers  had  had  their 
prayer,  and  the  concert  was  just  about 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 


59 


ready  to  begin.  It  was  my  privilege  to 
go  back  stage  with  the  wonderful, 
humble,  prayerful  directors  and  accom- 
panists. The  purpose  of  this  little 
gathering  was  to  seek  the  Lord  for  his 
sustaining  strength  and  power.  Here 
were  musicians  with  their  degrees  and 
their  letters  in  music,  who  still  relied  on 
Almighty  God,  who  is  ever  present  to 
bless,  to  encourage,  and  to  build.  So  they 
went  forth  upon  their  assignment  with 
the  humble  assurance  that  they  were 
not  performing  their  duties  alone. 
Seventeen  thousand  five  hundred  persons 
were  witnesses  of  an  outstanding  per- 
formance, and  I  bear  witness  to  you  that 
our  Father  did  hear  and  answer  their 
prayer. 

I  should  like  to  give  you  in  conclusion 
an  experience  that  came  to  my  attention 
two  days  after  the  passing  of  that  great 
prophet  of  God,  Elder  Matthew  Cowley. 
It  was  given  to  me  by  a  man  who  some 
thirty-five  or  forty  years  before  had  been 
district  president  of  Brother  Cowley 
down  in  New  Zealand  as  he  labored 
with  those  Maori  people.  He  had  only 
been  out  for  two  and  one  half  months, 
and  a  district  missionary  conference  was 
called.  In  one  of  those  sessions,  the 
morning  session,  Brother  Cowley  had 
an  opportunity  to  speak.  As  the  story 
has  been  related  to  me,  he  spoke  for 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  in  a  fluent 
Maori  tongue,  so  much  so  that  it  amazed 
the  older  Maori  people  in  the  congrega- 
tion. 

After  the  meeting,  the  district  presi- 
dent and  Brother  Cowley  were  walking 
to  a  Maori  home  to  partake  of  food  be- 
tween the  sessions,  and  the  district 
president  said,  "How  did  you  do  it?" 
Brother  Cowley  asked,  "Do  what?" 
"How  did  you  master  this  Maori  lan- 
guage in  such  a  short  time?"  A  young 
missionary,  seventeen  years  of  age! 

Brother  Cowley  said,  "When  I  came 
here  I  did  not  know  one  word  of  Maori, 
but  I  decided  I  was  going  to  learn 
twenty  new  words  each  day,  and  I  did. 
But  when  I  came  to  put  them  together, 
I  was  not  successful."  By  this  time  they 
were  passing  a  cornfield,  and  Brother 


Cowley  said,  "You  see  that  cornfield?  I 
went  out  there,  and  I  talked  to  the  Lord, 
but  before  that,  I  fasted,  and  that  night 
I  tried  again,  but  the  words  just  didn't 
seem  to  jell.  So  the  next  day  I  fasted 
again,  and  I  went  out  into  that  corn- 
field, and  I  talked  to  the  Lord.  Again,  I 
tried  that  night  with  a  little  more  suc- 
cess. On  the  third  day  I  fasted  again, 
and  I  went  out  into  the  cornfield,  and 
I  talked  to  the  Lord.  I  told  the  Lord 
that  I  believed  his  Church  and  king- 
dom had  been  established  upon  the 
earth;  that  men  had  the  authority  to 
proclaim  the  fulness  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  which  pertained  to  the  sal- 
vation and  exaltation  of  our  Heavenly 
Father's  children.  I  told  him  that  I 
had  been  called  by  this  same  authority 
to  fill  a  mission,  but  if  this  was  not 
the  mission  in  which  I  was  to  serve  to 
please  make  it  known  because  I  wanted 
to  serve  where  I  could  accomplish  the 
greatest  amount  of  good." 

That  was  the  spirit  of  Brother  Cowley. 
He  said,  "The  next  morning,  as  we 
knelt  in  family  prayer  in  that  Maori 
home,  I  was  called  upon  by  the  head 
of  the  household  to  be  mouth.  I  tried 
to  speak  in  English,  and  I  could  not. 
When  I  tried  in  Maori,  the  words  just 
flowed  forth,  and  I  knew  that  God  had 
answered  my  prayer  and  this  was  where 
I  should  serve."  A  young  lad  seventeen 
years  of  age! 

Brothers  and  sisters,  friends  of  the 
radio  and  television  audience,  I  bear 
witness  to  you  in  all  humility  and  sin- 
cerity that  God  does  today  hear  and 
answer  prayer  if  we  will  put  our  hearts 
and  our  lives  in  tune  with  his  Spirit 
and  with  his  commandments. 

I  humbly  pray  that  we  may  continue 
to  exercise  and  take  advantage  of  this 
great  invitation  which  the  Lord  has  ex- 
tended, that  we  may  humble  ourselves 
in  prayer,  teach  our  children  to  pray, 
that  they  may  have  the  strength  and  the 
light  of  Jesus  Christ  in  their  lives.  I 
bear  witness  to  you  that  these  things 
are  true,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
our  Savior.  Amen. 


60 

Monday,  April  4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


Third  Day 


While  I  speak  these  few  minutes, 
may  I  have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
to  direct  me. 
I  rejoice  with  you  in  the  great  mes- 
sages we  have  heard  from  our  First 
Presidency  on  the  important  question 
of  teaching  and  the  proper  training  of 
our  children.  The  first  thing  we  should 
teach  our  children  is  respect  for  all 
human  beings.  All  are  children  of  God. 
Man  is  made  in  the  image  of  God.  Re- 
spect for  all  men  leads  to  a  love  for  law 
and  order.  In  the  home  is  taught 
obedience  to  the  loving  directions  of  our 
Father  in  heaven.  Then  comes  self- 
discipline,  self-direction.  Whether  we 
are  teachers  of  the  gospel  or  professional 
men,  we  can  and  should  dedicate  our- 
selves to  help  our  children  to  develop 
their  potentialities  for  good,  for  truth, 
for  love,  for  beauty,  and  above  all, 
reverence  for  God. 

Our  young  people  must  be  educated 
to  think  clearly  and  deeply,  and  students 
of  schools  and  universities  should  be 
taught  that  the  famous  authors  and 
philosophers  of  the  world  have  produced 
writings  which  glorify  God  and  the  di- 
vinity of  man.  We  are  reminded  of  the 
words  of  Carl  Schurz,  when  he  said: 
"Ideals  are  like  stars;  you  will  not  suc- 
ceed in  touching  them  with  your  hands. 
But  like  a  seafaring  man  on  the  desert 
of  waters,  you  choose  them  as  your 
guides,  and  following  them,  you  will 
reach  your  destiny." 

We  teach  the  gospel  of  good  works.  It 
is  excellent;  it  is  ennobling;  but  that 
is  not  all.  Man  owes  to  God  and  to  his 
fellow  men,  not  only  his  conduct,  but 
also  his  thoughts,  not  only  to  do  much, 
but  also  to  think  aright  as  to  honor, 
integrity,  and  honesty. 

To  understand  the  true  value  of  the 
ideals  of  the  American  people  when  they 
think  of  their  government  of  the  United 
States,  one  must  recall  the  character  of 
the  people  who  settled  these  shores  in 
the  seventeenth  century.  "They  brought 
hither  in  their  little  ships,  not  money, 
not  merchandise,  no  array  of  armed 
force,  but  they  came  freighted  with  re- 
ligion, learning,  law,  and  the  Spirit  of 
God.    They  stepped  forth  upon  the 


shore,  and  a  wild  and  frowning  wilder- 
ness received  them."  Strong  in  their 
faith  in  God,  they  began  their  combat 
with  danger  and  hardship.  Disease 
smote  them,  but  they  fainted  not.  At 
times  they  had  nothing  to  eat  but  the 
roots  of  the  plants  they  gathered.  They 
first  built  houses  for  God  and  then  for 
themselves.  They  established  schools 
and  developed  a  strong  morality  which 
was  always  their  principal  characteristic. 
They  educated  their  children  to  a  high 
faith  in  God.  Villages  began  to  smile; 
churches  arose;  industries  multiplied; 
colleges  were  established;  and  every 
town  had  a  democratic  government  for 
all  to  take  part.  The  states  that  were 
formed  grew  into  a  nation  with  noble, 
fundamental  ideas  of  government.  And 
so  came  our  own  United  States,  the  most 
democratic  government  in  the  history  of 
the  world.  What  a  glorious  history  our 
early  country  had,  for  religious  people 
went  not  only  to  New  England,  but  we 
have  also  the  Quakers  and  the  Method- 
ists and  other  religious  groups  settling 
along  the  Atlantic  Coast. 

For  this  reason  and  others,  we  believe 
that  honest  inquiry  into  any  field  of 
knowledge  should  be  encouraged.  But 
one  should  always  have  for  a  guiding 
thought  his  need  for  beauty,  for  good- 
ness, for  love,  and  the  communion  with 
the  divine.  "To  me,"  says  Dr.  Green  of 
Yale  University,  "truth,  beauty,  good- 
ness, and  Deity  are  ultimate  objects  of 
our  search,  as  is  nature  for  the  scientist. 
I  am  profoundly  impressed  by  the  wit- 
ness of  sincerely  and  intelligently  re- 
ligious folk,  the  saints  and  prophets  of 
the  great  religions,  that  man  can  en- 
counter Deity,  and  find  in  that  Deity  a 
source  of  understanding  and  comfort." 

In  a  General  Epistle  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  is- 
sued December  23,  1847,  at  Winter 
Quarters  and  signed  by  President  Brig- 
ham  Young,  we  have  these  words: 

The  Kingdom  of  God  consists  in  correct 
principles;  and  it  mattereth  not  what  a 
man's  religious  faith  is;  whether  he  be  a 
Presbyterian,  or  a  Methodist,  or  a  Baptist, 
or  a  Latter-day  Saint  or  "Mormon,"  or  a 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 


61 


Campbellite,  or  a  Catholic,  or  an  Episco- 
palian, or  Mohometan,  or  even  pagan,  or 
anything  else,  if  he  will  bow  the  knee,  and 
with  his  tongue  confess  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  and  will  support  good  and  whole- 
some laws  for  the  regulation  of  society, 
we  hail  him  as  a  brother,  and  will  stand  by 
him  while  he  stands  by  us  in  these  things; 
for  every  man's  religious  faith  is  a  matter 
between  his  own  soul  and  his  God  alone.  .  .  . 

We  ask  no  pre-eminence;  we  want  no 
pre-eminence;  but  where  God  has  placed  us, 
there  we  will  stand;  and  that  is,  to  be  one 
with  our  brethren,  and  our  brethren  are 
those  that  keep  the  commandments  of  God, 
and  do  the  will  of  our  Father  who  is  in 
heaven;  and  by  them  we  will  stand,  and 
with  them  we  will  dwell  in  time  and  in 
eternity.  (Journal  History,  Dec.  23,  1847.) 

How  nobly  did  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  declare  this  ideal  when  he  said: 

We  claim  the  privilege  of  worshiping 
Almighty  God  according  to  the  dictates  of 
our  own  conscience,  and  allow  all  men  the 
same  privilege,  let  them  worship  how, 
where,  or  what  they  may.  (Eleventh  Article 
of  Faith.) 

It  is  to  be  remembered  that  there  are 
men  walking  the  earth  and  beckoning 
us  to  follow  them  to  the  future — not 
abreast  of  us,  but  ahead  of  us.  Religion 
explains  them  as  men  blessed  of  heaven; 
men  so  spiritually  endowed  as  to  be 
able  to  respond  to  the  inspiration  of  the 
infinite,  which  they  know  comes  from 
God.  They  are  good  men,  and  wonder- 
ful is  the  vitality  of  goodness.  Men 
are  keeping  faith  and  virtue  and  are 
working  for  the  freedom  and  happiness 
of  the  human  race.  Their  discipline  is 
the  loyalty  of  each  man's  heart  to  the 
voice  of  God.  These  men  look  for  au- 
thority, for  principles,  for  divine  gov- 
ernment. They  have  noble  thoughts, 
beautiful  sentiments,  worthy  aspirations, 
courageous  living  for  a  true  and  happier 
life.  They  know  that  God  has  not 
separated  himself  from  the  world  nor 
does  he  lightly  regard  anyone's  need. 
There  is  a  true  light  which  "lighteth 


every  man  that  cometh  into  the  world" 
(John  1:9),  a  saying  rich  in  promise. 
God  reveals  his  principles  of  eternal 
life  to  good  men  who  have  discerning 
vision  and  deep  faith.  The  world  has 
always  had  such  men;  it  has  such  men 
today. 

In  all  of  our  history  there  has  been 
nothing  in  the  way  of  persecution  by 
the  Latter-day  Saints  of  other  people, 
but  we  have  been  taught  by  the  Proph- 
et Joseph  Smith  from  the  beginning, 
when  God  spoke  to  him,  that  all  are 
children  of  God  and  that  we  should 
approach  them  with  love  and  the  testi- 
mony that  God  lives  and  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world. 

Someday,  he  will  be  found  again 
among  the  thirsting  people  for  whom 
he  lived  and  died.  As  he  came  back 
after  his  death  to  confirm  the  faith  of 
his  disciples,  and  to  comfort  their  deso- 
late hearts,  so  will  he  come  again  to 
establish  his  kingdom  in  the  earth  and 
usher  in  the  reign  of  peace.  May  we 
be  blessed  with  a  love  for  mankind,  I 
ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Senior  Presi- 
dent of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  has 
just  spoken  to  us. 

The  congregation  will  now  sing, 
"Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints,"  under  the  di- 
rection of  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall. 

After  the  singing,  Bishop  Carl  W. 
Buehner  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  will 
speak  to  us. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn,  "Come,  Come  Ye  Saints." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  will  now  speak  to  us. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Marion  D. 
Hanks. 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  at  this 
moment  I  am  so  nervous  and  ex- 
cited I  don't  know  whether  my 
sermon  has  been  delivered  yet  or  not. 


I  have  been  deeply  moved  by  the  power- 
ful discourses  given  during  the  course 
of  this  conference.  I  am  grateful  to  be 
one  of  you.   I  have  all  but  been  lifted 


62  GENERAL  C 

Monday,  April  4 

out  of  this  world  and  made  to  feel  very 
close  to  the  other  side,  not  only  because 
of  the  experience  I  am  having  at  this 
moment,  but  also  because  of  the  won- 
derful things  that  have  been  said  and 
the  Spirit  by  which  they  have  been 
spoken. 

Then  I  begin  to  feel  that  maybe  we 
are  not  very  far  from  the  other  side  at 
any  time,  after  all.  Reference  has  been 
made  to  the  spirits  that  come  here  every 
day  to  inhabit  these  little  new  bodies, 
these  spirits,  pure,  sweet,  innocent.  They 
cannot  speak  to  us.  They  cannot  tell 
us  of  the  great  experience  that  they  had 
in  the  sphere  from  which  they  just 
came,  but  every  day  they  are  coming 
here — messengers  from  the  spirit  world. 
Then  they  live  here  in  this  mortal  life 
a  few  years,  some  a  very  short  time, 
maybe  a  few  hours,  a  few  days,  a  few 
years,  and  for  the  best  of  us  not  too 
many  years. 

Then  we  leave  this  life.  People  every 
day  leave  this  life,  returning  again  to 
the  presence  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 
They  can  speak.  They  can  report.  They 
can  tell  of  our  faithfulness  and  of  how 
the  work  is  progressing  here  in  this 
life. 

In  the  past  few  days  I  learned  of  a 
person  whose  remaining  days  in  mor- 
tality have  been  measured  out  to  him. 
They  said  he  could  only  live  one 
more  week.  Then  I  thought  about 
others — those  I  have  read  about  in  the 
newspapers,  some  who,  it  has  been 
said,  could  only  live  another  month,  or 
a  few  months,  or  some,  perhaps  a  year. 
I  began  to  wonder  what  I  would  do  if 
someone  said  to  me,  "Your  days  are 
measured.  You  will  only  live  here  one 
more  week,  or  one  more  month,"  realiz- 
ing the  great  work  there  is  to  do  and 
all  that  I  might  have  done,  all  that 
I  should  have  done,  and  now  time  is 
running  out.    What  would  I  do? 

I  think,  brethren  and  sisters,  possibly 
the  first  thing  I  would  do  is  try  to 
make  peace  with  everyone  that  I  have 
learned  to  know,  and  I  would  do  some 
fast  repenting,  even  though  it  might  not 
be  very  effective.  It  would  be  better 
to  be  in  a  repentant  mood  all  the  time. 

I  am  sure  time  is  measured  for  you, 
for  me,  and  for  all  of  us.  Maybe  not 
in  so  many  days — perhaps  we  have  not 
been  told  how  many  days  we  will  yet 


Third  Day 

live  upon  this  earth,  but  we  certainly 
know  of  the  great  work  that  we  must 
do  while  we  are  still  here.  Someone 
wrote  these  few  lines  that  I  thought 
were  rather  interesting: 

Suppose  you  live  to  be  seventy.  How 
long  is  it?  How  many  years  of  that  span 
will  really  count?  Allow  for  eight  hours 
out  of  twenty-four  in  which  you  lie  un- 
conscious, asleep  in  bed.  Subtract  your 
kid  days  and  your  old  age.  Deduct  the 
days  when  sickness  puts  you  out  of  the 
game,  and  seventy  years  is  not  very  long 
after  all,  is  it?  But  it  is  all  the  time  you've 
got.  What  are  you  going  to  do  with  it? 
Life  is  time.  Kill  time  and  you  commit 
suicide.  Footprints  in  the  sands  of  time 
are  not  made  by  sitting  down.  When  the 
Great  Referee  calls  time,  have  something 
worth  while  to  show. 

I  think  our  short  life  here  in  mortality 
is  something  like  taking  a  journey. 
Many  of  you  have  taken  a  long  journey 
to  get  here  to  conference,  and  you  are 
going  to  take  one  to  return  to  your 
homes.  Many  of  us  travel  every  week. 
We  get  road  maps,  we  get  books  on 
travel,  and  we  discover  where  we  are 
going,  but  often  as  we  travel  down  a 
highway,  we  come  to  an  intersection 
that  is  not  very  well  marked,  and  we 
do  not  know  which  way  to  turn.  Often 
we  get  on  a  detour,  and  we  travel  an 
hour  or  two  hours  or  three  hours  or  a 
hundred  miles  or  two  hundred  miles 
before  we  discover  we  are  lost. 

Then  we  have  to  turn  around  and 
come  back.  Have  you  ever  discovered 
when  you  return  to  the  point  where 
you  begin  your  detour  that  that  time 
is  lost?  You  cannot  turn  your  watch 
back.  You  cannot  turn  time  back.  We 
have  just  lost  two  hours  or  four  hours 
or  two  hundred  miles  of  that  journey, 
and  it  is  gone  forever. 

I  think  sometimes  some  of  us  travel- 
ing this  mortal  life  of  ours  are  doing 
some  detouring.  We  are  not  coming  to 
our  meetings  as  faithfully  as  we  should. 
We  are  not  keeping  the  commandments 
of  our  Heavenly  Father  all  the  way.  We 
are  not  doing  all  the  things  that  the 
Lord  has  asked  us  to  do — we  are  de- 
touring,  we  are  losing  time,  and  that 
time  can  never  be  made  up  again.  That 
time  is  lost. 

I  have  learned,  too,  that  while  there 
are  many  roads  that  come  to  Salt  Lake 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 


63 


City  to  bring  you  to  general  conference, 
according  to  the  scriptures  there  are  only 
two  roads  that  we  can  travel  as  it  per- 
tains to  our  spiritual  life.  One  is  the 
broad  road  that  leads  to  destruction  and 
damnation — the  other,  the  straight  and 
narrow  road  that  leads  to  life  eternal. 

Often  I  feel  when  we  detour  we  get 
off  the  straight  and  narrow  path,  and 
we  lose  time.  We  actually  waste  time. 
We  do  not  do  the  thing  that  the  Lord 
expects  us  to  do  to  inherit  the  great 
blessings  that  he  has  in  store  for  us. 
Therefore,  I  would  suggest  to  every 
member  of  the  Church,  that  while  we 
cannot  change  the  length  of  time  we 
live  in  mortality,  we  can  change  what 
we  do  with  the  time  we  have  at  our 
disposal.  Keep  the  commandments.  Be 
loyal  to  the  leadership  of  the  Church. 
Help  build  up  the  kingdom  of  our 
Heavenly  Father.  Pay  your  tithes.  Pay 
your  offerings. 

Security  comes  from  the  paying  of 
tithes!  Everything  we  have  belongs  to 
the  Lord.  He  said,  "Return  a  tenth  of 
your  increase."  For  giving  a  tenth  of 
it  back  he  promises  us  great  blessings — 
great  blessings  to  return  a  tenth  of  what 
he  has  given  us,  and  many  have  a  diffi- 
cult time  understanding  its  importance. 

Living  in  a  world  filled  with  evil  and 
temptations,  it  is  not  always  easy  to  do 
the  things  we  know  we  should  do.  I 
wish  to  refer  again  to  the  spirits  coming 
from  the  spirit  world,  inhabiting  little 
mortal  bodies  to  live  a  life  under  these 
conditions.  I  am  particularly  interested 
in  one  of  these  at  this  very  moment,  for 
I  am  expecting  my  thirteenth  grand- 
child. It  might  be  being  born  right  at 
this  moment.  It  might  be  this  after- 
noon, and  it  might  be  in  the  days  to 
follow.  As  I  think  of  the  journey  this 
little  spirit  will  travel  in  mortality,  I 
think  of  the  anxiety  existing  in  the  spirit 
world  as  they  bid  farewell  to  a  spirit 
to  come  to  this  life.  The  mourning  and 
sorrow  and  grief  must  be  much  greater 
than  it  is  when  one  leaves  this  life  re- 
turning to  the  other  side. 

I  hope,  brethren  and  sisters,  we  will 
all  have  a  desire  to  make  our  trip  a 


round  trip — from  the  presence  of  our 
Heavenly  Father  back  again  to  the  pres- 
ence of  our  Heavenly  Father.  I  must 
not  take  longer.  In  closing,  I  would 
like  to  relate  a  story  that  I  have  told 
a  number  of  times,  which  some  of  you 
have  heard  before,  but  it  has  a  point 
to  it  worth  consideration. 

It  is  about  the  golfer  who  went  out 
on  the  golf  course  and  placed  his  ball 
on  a  tee.  He  raised  his  club  and  drove 
the  ball  way  down  the  fairway,  and 
when  he  finally  found  it,  it  was  in  the 
center  of  a  large  anthill.  He  stepped 
up  close  to  it,  took  another  club  out  of 
his  bag,  and  swung  at  the  ball.  He 
missed  it  and  tore  out  about  a  third 
of  the  anthill.  He  stepped  up  a  little 
closer.  He  raised  his  club  and  swung 
a  second  time.  He  missed  the  ball  again 
and  mutilated  the  anthill  on  the  other 
side.  By  that  time  the  remaining  ants 
in  the  anthill  became  very  much 
alarmed  at  what  was  happening  to 
their  homes,  their  relatives,  their  friends, 
and  they  called  together  their  leaders 
very  hurriedly  for  a  solution.  A  mo- 
ment later  the  leaders  made  this  report: 
"If  you  want  to  be  saved,  you  had  bet- 
ter get  on  the  ball." 

Think  it  over,  brethren  and  sisters. 
I  think  that  would  fit  our  lives  in  many 
ways.  Think  it  over,  and  then  conform 
your  lives  with  the  time  that  has  been 
allotted  to  you.  Stay  on  the  straight 
and  narrow  pathway  that  leads  us  back 
again  into  the  presence  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  to  enjoy  with  him  the  great 
blessings  of  the  righteous  and  the  faith- 
ful. 

That  this  may  come  to  each  and  every 
one  of  us  I  pray  sincerely  and  humbly 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened  is 
Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner  of  the  Presid- 
ing Bishopric.  We  shall  now  hear  from 
Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy,  who  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley. 


64 

Monday,  April  4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


Third  Day 


1 should  like  to  join  briefly  with 
Brother  Petersen  in  commending  and 
bearing  my  witness  of  faith  in  the 
young  people  of  the  Church  in  this  day. 
Ten  days  ago  I  met  with  a  great  con- 
ference of  servicemen  at  the  Lackland 
Air  Force  Base  near  San  Antonio.  It 
was  a  marvelous  experience  and  one 
which  I  appreciated  and  was  grateful 
for.  Yesterday  I  met  two  of  those  fine 
young  men  in  this  conference;  they  had 
flown  in  from  Lackland  with  some 
twenty-five  others.  Unfortunately  the 
storm  that  prevented  the  delivery  of 
our  flowers  for  this  conference  also 
stopped  their  landing  here.  They  had 
to  go  back  to  Denver  and  then  on  back 
to  their  base  (except  these  two),  since 
they  had  to  be  there  this  morning.  They 
missed,  the  twenty-five,  the  blessing  of 
being  here,  yet  their  faith  in  coming 
evidenced  their  courage,  their  devotion, 
and  the  great  loyalty  they  and  their 
generation  have  for  the  Church. 

I  am  grateful  I  am  connected  closely 
to  them  and  with  them  in  bonds  of 
love  and  faith  in  God  and  the  message 
of  the  great  restoration. 

Notwithstanding  the  pressures  of  this 
experience,  I  sat  yesterday  afternoon  al- 
most wishing  I  might  be  called  in  order 
that  I  might  then  bear  timely  testimony 
of  appreciation  to  the  two  men  who 
offered  the  prayers  at  that  session.  Since 
we  last  met  in  conference,  I  have  had 
the  wonderful  blessing  of  touring  two  of 
the  great  missions  of  this  Church  which 
are  presided  over  by  those  two  men, 
President  Peter  J.  Ricks  and  President 
Claudious  Bowman.  I  should  like  to  say 
of  them  and  the  many  like  them  and 
the  thousands  who  serve  with  them 
through  the  call  of  the  Lord,  that  they 
are  common  and  humble  men  in  the 
very  finest  sense  of  those  terms,  but 
that  they  have  uncommon  faith  and 
uncommon  courage  and  uncommon  dig- 
nity in  the  great  work  they  do.  As  I 
thought  of  them  I  thought  of  some 
words  of  Thomas  Carlyle.  I  went  home 
and  copied  them  last  night: 

Two  men  I  honor  and  no  third.  First, 
the  toil-worn  craftsman  that  with  earth- 


made  implement  laboriously  conquers  the 
earth  and  makes  her  man's.  A  second  man 
I  honor  and  still  more  highly:  him  who  is 
seen  toiling  for  the  spiritually  indispensable, 
not  daily  bread,  but  the  bread  of  life. 

These  men  and  the  thousands  like 
them  who  preside  over  the  wards  and 
stakes,  the  branches,  the  districts,  the 
missions  of  the  Church,  are  men  who 
know  the  task  of  "toilworn  implement" 
using,  but  who  know  that  more  im- 
portant even  than  this  significant  op- 
portunity in  God's  world,  the  right  to 
work  for  one's  bread,  is  the  great  bless- 
ing and  responsibility  of  seeking  that 
which  is  spiritually  indispensable,  and 
which  is  the  most  important  thing  a 
man  can  seek. 

I  honor  these  men,  and  I  feel  very 
humble  as  I  travel  in  their  presence  and 
bear  witness  with  them  of  the  truths 
God  has  given  us  to  know. 

I  read  recently  out  of  a  newspaper  a 
few  words  I  should  like  to  call  to  your 
attention  as  an  example  of  another  great 
idea  these  men  call  my  attention  to. 
Dateline,  New  York  City,  last  August  7, 
from  a  press  service,  these  words,  writ- 
ten by  three  ministers  of  Christian 
denominations: 

The  true  ministry  of  the  layman  is  being 
rediscovered.  He  is  now  coming  back  to  the 
function  he  exercised  in  the  early  church. 
There  is  today  in  the  church  a  great  re- 
surgence of  Christian  interest  on  the  part 
of  the  laity.  In  ancient  times,  in  the 
days  of  Christ,  there  was  not  the  marked 
distinction  between  the  laity  and  clergy. 
Laity  as  used  in  the  New  Testament  simply 
meant  the  people  of  God,  but  through  the 
centuries  more  and  more  of  the  work  of 
the  church  fell  on  the  shoulders  of  those 
who  made  it  their  full  time  profession. 
The  liturgical  movement  in  both  Catholi- 
cism and  Protestantism  is  winning  back  for 
the  laity  their  ancient  rights  in  the  Church's 
worship  life.  The  layman  in  his  secular 
work  is  increasingly  seeing  his  vocation  as 
that  of  the  Church's  chief  evangelist.  He 
is  the  church  in  the  world. 

This  is  a  truth  spoken  by  men  of  good 
will  and  courage  and  devotion,  but 
which  has  been  available  to  the  knowl- 
edge of  these  and  other  men  since  the 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


65 


days  of  the  Prophet  of  God  who  died 
in  the  year  1844  at  the  hands  of  intol- 
erent  neighbors.  The  teaching,  preach- 
ing, leadership  of  the  Church  should 
be  done  in  Christ's  Church  today  as  it 
was  done  in  his  day — by  the  humble 
members  of  the  Church,  laymen  hold- 
ing the  priesthood  and  authority  of  God. 
These  and  other  truths  are  here  avail- 
able to  men,  and  the  world  is  begin- 
ning to  learn  some  of  them. 

Last  week-end,  a  counselor  in  one  oi 
the  great  stakes  I  had  the  privilege  of 
visiting  called  attention  to  certain  recent 
articles  dealing  with  the  way  a  chapel 
ought  to  be  built,  saying  that  in  our 
day  churches  are  coming  to  the  conclu- 
sion that  chapels  ought  to  be  built  with 
classrooms  attached  and  with  recrea- 
tional facilities. 

I  say  to  these  good  and  honest  people 
that  from  the  beginning  of  the  restora- 
tion of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord,  it  has 
been  known  that  the  gospel  was  meant 
to  take  care  of  the  full  life  of  man; 
and  whenever  they  find  a  Latter-day 
Saint  chapel  fully  completed  and  dedi- 
cated, they  will  invariably  find  that 
there  are  in  it  classrooms  and  recrea- 
tional facilities  designed  to  provide  for 
development  in  all  the  aspects  of  the 
lives  of  its  members — physical,  social, 
intellectual,  cultural,  as  well  as  spirit- 
ual. 

There  is  time  for  but  one  other 
thought.  I  read  recently  in  one  of  our 
great  national  magazines  a  few  words 
I  thought  to  be  highly  significant  about 
our  relationship  with  our  Father  in 
heaven.  This  came  from  one  of  the 
great  religious  leaders  of  our  day,  a 
man  whom  I  have  revered  and  whose 


works  I  have  read  since  I  was  a  boy. 
Says  he: 

Vital  religion  cannot  be  maintained  and 
preserved  on  the  theory  that  God  dealt  with 
our  human  race  only  in  the  far  past  ages, 
and  that  the  Bible  is  the  only  evidence  we 
have  that  our  God  is  a  living,  revealing, 
communicating  God.  If  God  ever  spoke,  he 
is  still  speaking.  He  is  the  great  I  Am, 
not  the  great  He  Was. 

This  truth,  so  majestic  and  magnifi- 
cent and  basically  important,  is  a  truth 
which  has  been  available  anew  to  man- 
kind since  1820,  when  a  humble,  simple 
boy  had  enough  humility  and  enough 
real  love  of  truth  to  seek  from  his 
Father  in  heaven  a  manifestation  of 
those  things  he  needed  to  know,  to 
find  his  place,  his  purpose,  and  his  con- 
structive work  in  life. 

The  answer  is  that  God  does  live, 
that  the  Savior  is  the  great  I  Am; 
he  has  always  been,  he  shall  always  be. 
God's  truths  are  revealed  to  men  when 
they  will  pay  the  price  of  seeking  ear- 
nestly, and  finding,  being  willing  to  ac- 
cept, and  accepting,  then  dedicating 
themselves  consistently  and  loyally  to 
him  and  to  his  cause. 

I  am  grateful  that  I  have  been,  by  the 
providence  of  God,  brought  into  an  age 
and  into  a  Church  where  the  truths  are 
known  of  which  I  am  able  to  bear 
witness  today:  That  God  does  live,  that 
he  does  reveal  his  truths,  that  this  is 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  on  the 
earth,  that  we  may  through  obedience 
to  his  word  find  peace,  here  and  now, 
enjoy  eternal  opportunity  commensu- 
rate with  our  preparation  for  it,  and 
arrive  at  a  reunion  with  him  who  made 
us  and  who  is  our  Father  which  art 
in  heaven.  Of  this  I  testify  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Bishop  Buehner,  commenting  upon 
the  limited  time  allotted  us  in  life, 
and  the  fact  that  many  detour  and 
get  lost  and  thus  fail  to  find  the  narrow 
way  that  leads  to  life  eternal,  brings  me 
to  the  theme  that  I  should  like  to  discuss 
with  you  this  morning. 
Among  the  many  choice  teachings 


given  by  the  Savior  in  that  inspiring 
Sermon  on  the  Mount,  is  this  important 
instruction: 

Enter  ye  in  at  the  strait  gate  .  .  . 

Because  strait  is  the  gate,  and  narrow  is 
the  way,  which  leadeth  unto  life,  and  few 
there  be  that  find  it.    (Matthew  7:13-14.) 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  4 

You  will  observe  that  I  have  quoted 
only  the  positive  elements  of  this  scrip- 
ture. To  enter  the  straight  gate  implies 
obedience  to  gospel  requirements,  and 
the  narrow  way  that  leads  to  life  con- 
notes additional  requirements,  rites,  and 
ordinances  for  all  who  desire  salvation 
and  exaltation.  Like  so  many  teachings 
of  our  Lord,  the  interpretation,  explana- 
tion, and  procedures  were  left  for  his 
chosen  prophets  by  inspiration  and 
revelation,  when  the  time  was  ready,  to 
unfold  to  man's  knowledge.  It  is  true  of 
this  scripture. 

I  should  like  to  ask,  "What  is  the 
straight  gate  spoken  of  by  the  Savior  by 
which  we  should  enter?"  Nephi,  in  the 
closing  days  of  his  ministry,  gave  a  great 
discourse  to  his  people  embodying  much 
in  the  way  of  prophesying,  and  in  it 
furnishes  the  most  direct  and  compre- 
hensive answer  to  this  question  by  say- 
ing: 

For  the  gate  by  which  ye  should  enter  is 
repentance  and  baptism  by  water;  and  then 
cometh  a  remission  of  your  sins  by  fire  and 
by  the  Holy  Ghost.  (2  Nephi  31:17.) 

Nephi  also  said  to  his  people: 
"Wherefore,  do  the  things  which  I  have 
told  you  I  have  seen  that  your  Lord 
and  your  Redeemer  should  do;  for,  for 
this  cause  have  they  been  shown  unto 
me,  that  ye  might  know  the  gate  by 
which  ye  should  enter."  (Idem.) 

Nephi,  in  vision,  almost  six  centuries 
before  the  coming  of  our  Lord  and 
Savior,  Jesus  Christ,  in  the  flesh,  wit- 
nessed his  baptism  at  the  hands  of  John 
the  Baptist,  even  as  we  have  it  recorded 
in  the  third  chapter  of  Matthew,  when 
our  worthy  Lord  came  to  John  and  asked 
to  be  baptized  of  him.  But  John,  hum- 
ble as  he  was,  realizing  that  this  was 
his  Lord,  objected  by  saying, 

I  have  need  to  be  baptized  of  thee,  and 
comest  thou  to  me? 

And  Jesus  answering  said  unto  him,  Suffer 
it  to  be  so  now:  for  thus  it  becometh  us  to 
fulfil  all  righteousness.  Then  he  suffered 
him. 

And  Jesus,  when  he  was  baptized,  went  up 
straightway  out  of  the  water:  and,  lo,  the 
heavens  were  opened  unto  him,  and  he 
saw  the  Spirit  of  God  descending  like  a 
dove,  and  lighting  upon  him: 

And  lo  a  voice  from  heaven,  saying,  This 
is  my  beloved  Son,  in  whom  I  am  well 
pleased.  (Matthew  3:14-17.) 


Third  Day 

In  this  scripture  we  see  the  plan  and 
the  way  to  enter  this  straight  gate,  even 
baptism  by  water  and  receiving  the  gift 
of  the  Holy  Ghost;  the  Savior  saying  to 
John  by  way  of  emphasis,  "for  thus  it 
becometh  us  to  fulfil  all  righteousness." 

Now  what  did  the  Savior  mean  by 
making  this  statement?  Again  we  turn 
to  the  writings  of  Nephi  and  read: 

And  now,  if  the  Lamb  of  God,  he  being 
holy,  should  have  need  to  be  baptized  by 
water,  to  fulfil  all  righteousness,  O  then, 
how  much  more  need  have  we,  being  un- 
holy, to  be  baptized,  yea,  even  by  waterl 

And  now,  I  would  ask  of  you,  my  beloved 
brethren,  wherein  the  Lamb  of  God  did  ful- 
fil all  righteousness  in  being  baptized  by 
water? 

Know  ye  not  that  he  was  holy?  But  not- 
withstanding he  being  holy,  he  showeth  un- 
to the  children  of  men  that,  according  to 
the  flesh  he  humbleth  himself  before  the 
Father,  and  witnesseth  unto  the  Father  that 
he  would  be  obedient  unto  him  in  keeping 
his  commandments. 

Wherefore,  after  he  was  baptized  with 
water  the  Holy  Ghost  descended  upon  him 
in  the  form  of  a  dove. 

And  again,  it  showeth  unto  the  children 
of  men  the  straightness  of  the  path,  and  the 
narrowness  of  the  gate,  by  which  they  should 
enter,  he  having  set  the  example  before 
them. 

And  he  said  unto  the  children  of  men: 
Follow  thou  me.   (2  Nephi  31:5-10.) 

Here  we  see  the  straightness  of  the 
gate  by  which  the  Son  of  God  entered 
our  Heavenly  Father's  kingdom  and  the 
reason  for  his  doing  so,  which  sets  the 
example  and  pattern  for  all  mankind 
to  follow,  for  said  he,  "Follow  thou  me 
and  do  the  things  which  ye  have  seen 
me  do." 

Now,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  let  us 
consider  what  the  narrowness  of  the 
way  signifies.  After  explaining  what  is 
required  to  enter  the  straight  gate,  Nephi 
continues  by  saying: 

And  then  are  ye  in  this  straight  and 
narrow  path  which  leads  to  eternal  life; 
yea,  ye  have  entered  in  by  the  gate;  ye 
have  done  according  to  the  commandments 
of  the  Father  and  the  Son;  and  ye  have 
received  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  witnesses 
of  the  Father  and  the  Son,  unto  the  fulfilling 
of  the  promise  which  he  hath  made,  that 
if  ye  entered  in  by  the  way  ye  should 
receive. 

And  now,  my  beloved  brethren,  after  ye 
have  gotten  into  this  straight  and  narrow 


ELDER  DELBE 

path,  I  would  ask  if  all  is  done?  Behold, 
I  say  unto  you,  Nay;  for  ye  have  not  come 
thus  far  save  it  were  by  the  word  of  Christ 
with  unshaken  faith  in  him,  relying  wholly 
upon  the  merits  of  him  who  is  mighty  to 
save. 

Wherefore,  ye  must  press  forward  with  a 
steadfastness  in  Christ,  having  a  perfect 
brightness  of  hope,  and  a  love  of  God  and 
of  all  men.  Wherefore,  if  ye  shall  press 
forward,  feasting  upon  the  word  of  Christ, 
and  endure  to  the  end,  behold,  thus  saith 
the  Father:  Ye  shall  have  eternal  life. 

And  now,  behold,  my  beloved  brethren, 
this  is  the  way;  and  there  is  none  other 
way  nor  name  given  under  heaven  where- 
by man  can  be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of 
God.  And  now,  behold,  this  is  the  doc- 
trine of  Christ,  and  the  only  true  doctrine  of 
the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  which  is  one  God,  without  end. 
(Ibid.,  31:18-21.) 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  we  see  from 
this  that  the  function  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
to  those  who  have  received  its  bestowal 
is  to  guide  in  the  narrow  way  to  an 
understanding  of  what  is  required  for 
eternal  life  and  glory.  Men,  through 
faithfulness,  must  become  worthy  for 
ordination  to  the  Holy  Melchizedek 
Priesthood,  that  priesthood  after  the 
order  of  the  Son  of  God,  which  ordina- 
tion and  priesthood  makes  possible  re- 
ceiving the  spiritual  blessings  of  God's 
kingdom,  for  it  is  in  the  gospel  ordi- 
nances officiated  in  by  the  authority  of 
the  Holy  Priesthood  that  the  powers  of 
godliness  are  manifest  unto  men  in  the 
flesh.  In  this  dispensation  God  has 
restored  the  keys,  powers,  and  authorities 
to  officiate  in  all  the  sacred  ordinances 
with  the  right  to  seal  and  bind  for  time 
and  all  eternity  both  the  living  and  the 
dead. 

For  the  sacred  purpose  of  obtaining 
the  higher  gospel  ordinances  and  bless- 
ings, God  has  commanded  that  temples 
should  be  built  wherein  his  people  can 
receive  their  endowments  and  sealings, 
to  prepare  them  for  celestial  glory. 
Worthy  women,  as  worthy  men,  enjoy 
the  privileges  of  temple  ordinances  and 
blessings,  receiving  them  by  the  au- 
thority of  the  Holy  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood. Both  make  covenants  with  God, 
and  both  accept  obligations  and  re- 
sponsibility; also  pledge  faithfulness  and 
obedience  to  God. 

When  the  cornerstone  of  the  great 


T  L.  STAPLEY  67 

Salt  Lake  Temple  was  laid,  Brigham 
Young,  in  a  discourse  to  the  people  as- 
sembled for  that  important  occasion, 
said  that  very  few  of  the  elders  in 
Israel  understood  the  endowment,  and 
for  them  to  understand  they  must  ex- 
perience, and  for  them  to  experience,  a 
temple  must  be  built.  Then  he  sum- 
marized the  endowment  in  these  words: 

Your  endowment  is  to  receive  all  those 
ordinances  in  the  House  of  the  Lord  which 
are  necessary  for  you  after  you  depart  this 
life,  to  enable  you  to  walk  back  to  the 
presence  of  the  Father,  passing  the  angels 
who  stand  as  sentinels,  being  enabled  to 
give  them  the  key  word,  the  signs  and  the 
tokens  pertaining  to  the  Holy  Priesthood, 
and  gain  you  eternal  exaltation  in  spite  of 
earth  or  hell. 

How  sublime,  comprehensive,  signifi- 
cant, and  important  the  endowment  be- 
comes when  we  understand  it.  When 
one  has  been  endowed  according  to  the 
order  of  temple  rights  and  ordinances, 
then  he  or  she  is  prepared  for  eternal 
sealing  of  husband  to  wife,  wife  to  hus- 
band, and  children  to  both,  by  men  au- 
thorized and  possessing  the  keys  of  this 
sealing  power.  Families  thus  united 
may  go  on  to  perfection,  exaltation,  and 
eternal  happiness  together. 

We  learn  this  from  the  writings  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  found  in 
both  the  131st  and  132nd  sections  of 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  The  Lord, 
speaking  to  the  Prophet,  said, 

In  the  celestial  glory  there  are  three 
heavens,  or  degrees; 

And  in  order  to  obtain  the  highest  a  man 
must  enter  into  this  order  of  the  priesthood, 
[meaning  the  new  and  the  everlasting  cove- 
nant of  marriage]; 

And  if  he  does  not  he  cannot  obtain  it. 

He  may  enter  into  the  others,  but  that 
is  the  end  of  his  kingdom;  he  cannot  have 
an  increase.  (D.  &  C.  131:1-4.) 

Those  who  do  not  enter  this  order  of 
the  priesthood,  that  is,  the  eternal  cove- 
nant of  marriage,  become  angels  of  God 
in  a  separate  and  single  state  forever 
and  ever,  and  thus  are  without  increase 
of  posterity  in  the  eternal  world;  there- 
fore without  posterity  they  have  no  need 
of  a  kingdom.  That  is  verified  in  the 
writings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  in  the 
132nd  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants which  I  quote: 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


68 

Monday,  April  4 

Therefore,  if  a  man  marry  him  a  wife 
in  the  world,  and  he  marry  her  not  by  me 
nor  by  my  word,  and  he  covenant  with  her 
so  long  as  he  is  in  the  world  and  she  with 
him,  their  covenant  and  marriage  are  not 
of  force  when  they  are  dead,  and  when  they 
are  out  of  the  world;  therefore,  they  are 
not  bound  by  any  law  when  they  are  out 
of  the  world. 

Therefore,  when  they  are  out  of  the 
world  they  neither  marry  nor  are  given 
in  marriage;  but  are  appointed  angels  in 
heaven;  which  angels  are  ministering  serv- 
ants, to  minister  for  those  who  are  worthy 
of  a  far  more,  and  an  exceeding,  and  an 
eternal  weight  of  glory. 

For  these  angels  did  not  abide  my  law; 
therefore,  they  cannot  be  enlarged,  but  re- 
main separately  and  singly,  without  ex- 
altation, in  their  saved  condition,  to  all 
eternity;  and  from  henceforth  are  not  gods, 
but  are  angels  of  God  forever  and  ever. 
(Ibid.,  132:15-17.) 

Now,  important  as  it  might  be  to  be 
appointed  a  ministering  angel  of  God, 
certainly  far  more  happiness  would  come 
to  an  individual  to  have  at  his  side  a 
loving  companion,  children,  posterity — 
throughout  the  eternity,  and  unless  we 
enter  into  this  holy  covenant  of  mar- 
riage and  have  it  sealed  by  the  Holy 
Spirit  of  promise,  these  blessings  cannot 
be  obtained  by  us. 

Referring  again  to  this  same  section, 
the  Lord  said  to  the  Prophet  Joseph: 

And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  if  a 
man  marry  a  wife  by  my  word,  which  is 
my  law,  and  by  the  new  and  everlasting 
covenant,  and  it  is  sealed  unto  them  by  the 
Holy  Spirit  of  promise,  by  him  who  is 
anointed,  unto  whom  I  have  appointed  this 
power  and  the  keys  of  this  priesthood;  [and 
then  certain  conditions  are  enumerated]; 
...  it  shall  be  done  unto  them  in  all  things 
whatsoever  my  servant  hath  put  upon  them, 
in  time,  and  through  all  eternity;  and  shall 
be  of  full  force  when  they  are  out  of  the 
world;  and  they  shall  pass  by  the  angels, 
and  the  gods,  which  are  set  there,  to  their 
exaltation  and  glory  in  all  things,  as  hath 
been  sealed  upon  their  heads,  which  glory 
shall  be  a  fulness  and  a  continuation  of 
the  seeds  forever  and  ever. 

Then  shall  they  be  gods,  because  they 
have  no  end;  therefore  shall  they  be  from 
everlasting  to  everlasting,  because  they  con- 
tinue; then  shall  they  be  above  all,  because 
all  things  are  subject  unto  them.  Then  shall 
they  be  gods,  because  they  have  all  power, 
and  the  angels  are  subject  unto  them. 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  except  ye 


Third  Day 

abide  my  law  ye  cannot  attain  to  this 
glory. 

And  now  mark  you, 

For  strait  is  the  gate,  and  narrow  the 
way  that  leadeth  unto  the  exaltation  and 
continuation  of  the  lives,  and  few  there  be 
that  find  it,  because  ye  receive  me  not  in 
the  world  neither  do  ye  know  me. 

But  if  ye  receive  me  in  the  world,  then 
shall  ye  know  me,  and  shall  receive  your 
exaltation;  that  where  I  am  ye  shall  be  also. 

This  is  eternal  lives — to  know  the  only 
wise  and  true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ,  whom 
he  hath  sent.  (Ibid.,  132:19-24.) 

Therefore,  my  brothers  and  sisters, 
these  conditions  then  meet  the  require- 
ments for  the  narrowness  of  the  way. 
It  involves  receiving  the  temple  ordi- 
nances and  sealings,  keeping  all  the 
commandments  of  God,  remaining  faith- 
ful and  devoted  to  the  end  of  mortal 
life,  which  then  earns  the  great  gift  of 
eternal  life. 

Nephi,  Joseph  Smith,  Brigham  Young, 
true  servants  and  prophets  of  God,  by 
inspiration  and  revelation  have  inter- 
preted and  explained  the  significance 
of  this  important  statement  of  the 
Savior.  All  who  have  repented  and 
then  been  baptized  and  received  the 
Holy  Ghost  by  authorized  servants  of 
God  have  entered  in  by  the  straight 
gate.  The  narrow  way  can  only  be 
followed  by  obedience  and  faithfulness 
to  all  the  sacred  ordinances  and  re- 
quirements of  the  higher  gospel  plan, 
obtained  in  the  holy  temples  of  God. 

This  is  the  true  doctrine  of  Christ. 
This  is  the  order  and  law  of  the  Holy 
Priesthood.  There  is  no  other  plan  nor 
way  to  obtain  eternal  lives,  and  a  con- 
tinuation of  posterity.  God  again  said 
to  the  Prophet: 

For  all  who  will  have  a  blessing  at  my 
hands  shall  abide  the  law  which  was  ap- 
pointed for  that  blessing,  and  the  conditions 
thereof,  as  were  instituted  from  before  the 
foundation  of  the  world.  (Ibid.,  132:5.) 

Let  us  understand  these  things,  my 
brothers  and  sisters,  and  if  we  have  not 
taken  care  of  the  conditions  that  lead 
into  the  narrow  way  and  that  take  us 
to  eternal  life,  let  us  submit  to  the  re- 
quirements of  these  great  principles  and 
ordinances  and  teach  all  others  to  do 
likewise,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


69 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  heard  Elder  Delbert  L. 
Stapley  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 
President  Ernest  Wilkinson  of  the  Brig- 
ham  Young  University,  will  you  please 
come  to  the  rostrum  immediately  after 
the  benediction. 

The  singing  for  this  session  has  been 
furnished  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Combined  Choruses,  with  Pro- 
fessor John  R.  Halliday  conducting, 
Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 
The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  will  now  favor  us  with, 
"Hallelujah"    from    "The    Mount  of 


Olives,"  under  the  direction  of  Profes- 
sor Halliday. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Golden  R.  Buchanan,  President  of 
the  Southwest-Indian  Mission,  after 
which  this  Conference  will  be  adjourned 
until  two  o'clock  this  afternoon. 


The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  sang  "Hallelujah," 
(from  Mount  of  Olives). 

President  Golden  R.  Buchanan,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Southwest  Indian  Mission 
offered  the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


Conference  reconvened  at  2:00  p.m., 
Monday,  April  14th. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  furnished  the  choral 
music  for  this  meeting,  Norman  Gul- 
brandsen  conducting. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  the  fifth  session  of  the  125th 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The 
Tabernacle,  as  usual,  is  well  filled.  Some 
are  standing,  all  seats  are  occupied.  As 
heretofore  announced,  the  services  are 
also  broadcast  to  the  Assembly  Hall  and 
Barratt  Hall  and  over  radio  stations  an- 
nounced in  other  sessions. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  will  furnish  the  music 
for  this  session,  with  Elder  Norman  Gul- 
brandsen  conducting,  and  Elder  Roy  M. 
Darley  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 


Brigham  Young  University  Combined 
Choruses  singing,  "How  Lovely  is  Thy 
Dwelling  Place." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Thomas  W.  Gardner,  president  of 
the  Northern  California  Mission. 


Singing  by  the  Combined  Choruses, 
"How  Lovely  is  Thy  Dwelling  Place." 

President  Thomas  W.  Gardner  of  the 
Northern  California  Mission  offered  the 
invocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Combined  Choruses  of  the  Brig- 
ham Young  University  will  now  sing, 
"Behold,  Tis  Eventide,"  conducted  by 
Elder  Norman  Gulbrandsen.  Follow- 
ing the  singing,  Elder  Henry  D.  Moyle 
will  address  us. 


Singing  by  the  Combined  Choruses, 
"Behold  'Tis  Eventide." 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Two  years  ago  Elder  LeGrand  Rich- 
ards was  addressing  a  convention  in 
this  city  of  men  of  various  faiths 
and  denominations,  and  he  began  his 
remarks  by  calling  them  all  to  repent- 
ance. I  had  the  opportunity  recently 
of  meeting  that  same  group  and  to 


realize  the  tremendous  impact  that  that 
statement  made  upon  them  by  one  who 
spoke  with  authority. 

And  we  have  seen  and  do  testify  that  the 
Father  sent  the  Son  to  be  the  Saviour  of 
the  world. 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  4 

Whosoever  shall  confess  that  Jesus  is  the 
Son  of  God,  God  dwelleth  in  him,  and  he 
in  God.  (I  John  4:14-15.) 

Our  mission  in  this  Church  is  twofold. 
We  must  call  all  people  to  repentance, 
and  to  those  who  hearken  unto  our 
words  teach  the  principles  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ. 

Repent  ye  for  the  kingdom  of  heaven  is 
at  hand. 
Repent  and  believe  the  gospel. 

Christ  said  he  came  to  call  sinners 
to  repentance  and  to  save  them. 

Repentance  grows  out  of  faith  in  God. 
No  matter  how  good  we  are,  we  have 
all  sinned  and  have  fallen  short  of  the 
glory  of  God.   As  Alma  of  old  said: 

We  must  come  forth  and  stand  before 
him  in  his  glory,  and  in  his  power,  and  in 
his  might,  majesty,  and  dominion,  and  ac- 
knowledge to  our  everlasting  shame  that  all 
his  judgments  are  just;  that  he  is  just  in 
all  his  works,  and  that  he  is  merciful  unto 
the  children  of  men,  and  that  he  has  all 
power  to  save  every  man  that  believeth  on 
his  name  and  bringeth  forth  fruit  meet  for 
repentance.   (Alma  12:15.) 

I  am  sure  we  all  need  to  pray,  "O 
God,  have  mercy  on  me  a  sinner." 

Nothing  is  so  much  calculated  to  lead 
people  to  forsake  sin  as  to  take  them  by 
the  hand  and  watch  over  them  with  tender- 


So  long  as  there  is  sin  among  men, 
repentance  is  as  essential  in  one  age  of 
the  world  as  in  another.  Joseph  Smith 
said:  "God  does  not  look  upon  sin  with 
allowance,  but  when  men  sin  there  must 
be  allowance  made  for  them."  (See  D.  & 
C.  1:32-33.)    We  read: 

For  God  so  loved  the  world,  that  he  gave 
his  only  begotten  Son,  that  whosoever  be- 
lieveth in  him  should  not  perish,  but  have 
everlasting  life. 

For  God  sent  not  his  Son  into  the  world 
to  condemn  the  world;  but  that  the  world 
through  him  might  be  saved.  (John  3:16-17.) 

We  have  a  great  example  of  the  fruits 
of  repentance  when  we  go  back  to  the 
Day  of  Pentecost,  when  the  Apostles  of 
old  bore  this  testimony  to  the  multitude, 
and  they  each  heard  it  in  their  own 
tongue: 

Therefore  let  all  the  house  of  Israel  know 
assuredly,  that  God  hath  made  that  same 


Third  Day 

Jesus,  whom  ye  have  crucified,  both  Lord 
and  Christ.  (Acts  2:36.) 

This  testimony  of  the  Apostles  pro- 
voked the  inquiry,  "Men  and  brethren, 
what  shall  we  do?"  (Ibid.,  2:37.) 

And  then  Peter  gave  the  most  won- 
derfully inspired  reply: 

Repent,  and  be  baptized  every  one  of  you 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  for  the  remis- 
sion of  sins,  and  ye  shall  receive  the  gift 
of  the  Holy  Ghost.  (Ibid.,  2:38.) 

that  greatest  of  all  promises  which 
God  has  made  to  man. 

It  was  the  same  with  Paul,  on  the 
road  to  Damascus,  when  he  questioned 
the  Lord,  "Who  art  thou,  Lord?  And  the 
Lord  said,  I  am  Jesus  whom  thou  perse- 
cutest."  (Ibid.,  9:5.)  And  then  Paul 
asked  the  Savior,  "Lord  what  wilt  thou 
have  me  to  do?"  (Ibid.,  9:6.) 

Submit  yourselves  therefore  to  God.  Re- 
sist the  devil,  and  he  will  flee  from  you. 

Draw  nigh  to  God,  and  he  will  draw 
nigh  to  you.  Cleanse  your  hands,  ye  sin- 
ners; and  purify  your  hearts,  ye  double 
minded. 

Be  afflicted,  and  mourn,  and  weep:  let 
your  laughter  be  turned  to  mourning,  and 
your  joy  to  heaviness. 

Humble  yourselves  in  the  sight  of  the 
Lord,  and  he  shall  lift  you  up.  (James 
4:7-10.) 

What  business  has  any  citizen  of  the 
kingdom  to  talk  of  a  certain  standard 
which  is  meant  for  him  and  not  for  all 
the  subjects  of  the  kingdom?  What  is 
it  but  adopting  the  maxim  which  the 
Roman  poet  unfairly  ascribed  to  a  Greek 
hero,  "that  laws  were  not  born  for  him?" 
I  tell  you  that  his  laws  were  bom  for 
all  the  children  of  our  Heavenly  Father 
upon  the  face  of  the  earth.  "And  why 
call  ye  me,  Lord,  Lord,  and  do  not  the 
things  which  I  say?"  (Luke  6:46.) 

Repentance  is  a  thing  that  cannot  be 
trifled  with  every  day  of  our  lives.  Daily 
transgressions,  daily  repentance  are  not 
pleasing  in  the  sight  of  the  Lord.  We 
know  as  Latter-day  Saints  that  in  our 
lives,  just  as  we  have  heard  this  beauti- 
ful chorus-choir  sing,  it  is  even  now  the 
eventide  of  the  day  in  which  we  might 
properly  repent. 

Do  not  procrastinate  repentance. 
Deathbed  repentance  does  not  fulfil  the 
law — man  should  repent  and  serve  the 
Lord  in  health  and  in  strength,  in  vigor 


ELDER  HEN: 

of  body  and  mind,  and  give  of  his  life, 
such  as  may  remain,  when  that  faith  in 
God,  which  creates  the  spirit  of  repent- 
ance within  us,  is  received  by  him. 

If  we  submit  to  his  Spirit,  we  may 
bring  forth  now  the  fruits  of  good  works 
which  are  to  his  glory.  We  may  look 
for  the  day  when  every  law  of  the  king- 
dom shall  be  fulfilled  and  when  all 
shall  know  him  from  the  least  to  the 
greatest. 

And  churches,  in  the  sense  of  their 
own  nothingness,  may  seek  after  the 
foundation  which  God  has  laid  and 
which  will  endure  the  shock  of  all  winds 
and  waves.  And  churches  which  rest 
upon  their  own  decrees  and  traditions 
and  holiness  will  be  like  the  man  who 

.  .  .  without  a  foundation  built  an  house 
upon  the  earth;  against  which  the  streams 
did  beat  vehemently,  and  immediately  it 
fell;  and  the  ruin  of  that  house  was  great. 
(Ibid.,  6:49.) 

The  Church  accepts  the  sinners  into 
its  society,  not  to  foster  them  in  their 
wickedness,  but  if  they  repent,  to  sancti- 
fy and  cleanse  them,  by  our  kindness, 
from  all  unrighteousness. 

Of  what  do  we  repent?  Does  re- 
pentance follow  the  violation  of  an  arbi- 
trary law  imposed  upon  us  by  a  power 
from  on  high?  Why  did  the  Lord  ask 
Job,  "Where  wast  thou  when  I  laid  the 
foundations  of  the  earth?  declare,  if  thou 
hast  understanding."  How  significant 
the  following  questions: 

Who  hath  laid  the  measures  thereof,  if 
thou  knowest?  or  who  hath  stretched  the 
line  upon  it? 

Whereupon  are  the  foundations  thereof 
fastened?  or  who  laid  the  cornerstone  there- 
of. (Job  38:4-6.) 

Would  the  Lord  have  asked  these 
questions  of  Job  had  Job  not  had  a  pre- 
existence,  had  there  not  been  a  plan  of 
life  and  of  salvation  developed  before 
the  foundations  of  the  earth  were  laid? 
And  then  we  read  that  at  that  very  time 
of  which  these  questions  relate,  that 
"the  morning  stars  sang  together  and  all 
of  the  sons  of  God  shouted  for  joy." 
(Job  38:7.)  Job  participated  in  that 
singing  and  so  did  we. 

Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet,  leaves  us 
no  doubt  on  that  subject.   He  says: 


t  D.  MOYLE  71 

At  the  first  organization  in  heaven  we  were 
all  present  and  saw  the  Savior  chosen  and 
appointed  and  the  plan  of  salvation  made, 
and  we  sanctioned  it.  (Teachings  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  page  181.) 

Repentance,  therefore,  follows  the 
violation  of  a  law  to  which  we  ascribed 
of  our  own  free  will  and  choice;  a  law 
we  covenanted  in  the  heavens  to  obey; 
a  law  which  through  our  acceptance 
gave  us  the  privilege  of  coming  here 
into  mortality  and  working  out  our 
mortal  existence  that  we  might  thereby 
progress  to  the  higher  spheres  which 
await  us.  There  was  no  reluctance  in 
our  acquiescence  of  this  plan.  We  sang 
together  as  the  sons  of  God;  all  of  them 
shouted  for  joy. 

No  other  proof  should  be  needed,  but 
if  other  proof  were  needed,  we  find  it 
within  ourselves.  The  power  we  possess 
to  differentiate  between  right  and  wrong, 
good  and  evil,  the  Spirit  of  God  within 
us  with  which  we  were  born,  our  own 
free  agency,  all  establish  within  our- 
selves, without  any  external  evidence  of 
any  kind,  the  fact  that  we  are  under 
covenant  to  do  that  which  is  right;  that 
which  does  not  violate  our  own  sensi- 
tive conscience. 

It  has  been  said  by  the  Apostle  Paul: 

...  we  have  had  fathers  of  our  flesh 
which  corrected  us,  and  we  gave  them 
reverence:  shall  we  not  much  rather  be  in 
subjection  unto  the  Father  of  spirits,  and 
live?  (Heb.  12:9.) 

Whatever  we  choose  to  do  is  volun- 
tary, just  as  was  the  redeeming  sacrifice 
of  the  Savior  of  mankind. 

It  is  told  of  Lord  Byron  that  when  he 
was  a  lad  attending  a  school,  a  com- 
panion of  his  fell  under  the  displeasure 
of  an  overbearing  bully,  who  unmerci- 
fully beat  him.  Byron  happened  to  be 
present,  and  he  went  up  to  this  bully, 
knowing  that  there  was  no  use  for  him 
to  attempt  to  fight  him,  and  asked  how 
long  he  intended  to  beat  his  friend.  The 
bully  immediately  answered  and  said, 
"Well,  what  business  is  that  of  yours?" 
Byron  replied  very  mildly,  with  tears 
standing  in  his  eyes,  "I  will  take  the  rest 
of  the  beating,  if  you  will  let  him  go." 

Ours  is  a  stronger  case  than  that  of 
Lord  Byron's.  He  was  under  no  prior 
commitment  to  do  as  he  did.  We  are 
charged  with  the  responsibility  of  doing 
as  we  have  heretofore  agreed.  Re- 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  4 

pentance  becomes  our  second  chance  to 
accomplish  the  purpose  of  our  creation. 
As  we  repent,  we  are  forgiven.  Maybe 
Paul  had  this  same  thought  in  mind 
when  he  said: 

What?  know  ye  not  that  your  body  is  the 
temple  of  the  Holy  Ghost  which  is  in  you, 
which  ye  have  of  God,  and  ye  are  not  your 
own? 

For  ye  are  bought  with  a  price:  therefore 
glorify  God  in  your  body,  and  in  your  spirit, 
which  are  God's.  (I  Cor.  6:19-20.) 

The  Savior  fulfilled  all  of  his  commit- 
ments. 

If  in  this  life  only  we  have  hope  in  Christ, 
we  are  of  all  men  most  miserable. 

But  now  is  Christ  risen  from  the  dead, 
and  become  the  firstfruits  of  them  that 
slept. 

For  since  by  man  came  death,  by  man 
came  also  the  resurrection  of  the  dead. 

For  as  in  Adam  all  die,  even  so  in  Christ 
shall  all  be  made  alive.  (I  Cor.  15:19-22.) 

Christ  fulfilled  the  great  mission  for 
which  he  came  to  this  earth:  to  atone  for 
the  sins  of  mankind  and  to  make  the 
principle  of  repentance  efficacious  in  our 
eternal  progress. 

The  Nephi  version  is  as  follows: 

But  behold,  all  things  have  been  done  in 
the  wisdom  of  him  who  knoweth  all  things. 

Adam  fell  that  men  might  be;  and  men 
are,  that  they  might  have  joy. 

And  the  Messiah  cometh  in  the  fulness  of 
time,  that  he  may  redeem  the  children  of 
men  from  the  fall.  And  because  that  they 
are  redeemed  from  the  fall  they  have  be- 
come free  forever,  knowing  good  from  evil; 
to  act  for  themselves  and  not  to  be  acted 
upon,  save  it  be  by  the  punishment  of  the 
law  at  the  great  and  last  day,  according  to 
the  commandments  which  God  hath  given. 
(2  Nephi  2:24-26.) 

Therefore  we  believe  in  preaching  the 
doctrine  of  repentance  in  all  the  world,  both 
to  old  and  young,  rich  and  poor,  bond  and 
free.  .  .  .    But  we  discover,  in  order  to  be 


Third  Dan 

benefited  by  the  doctrine  of  repentance,  we 
must  believe  in  obtaining  the  remission  of 
sins  and  in  order  to  obtain  the  remission 
of  our  sins,  we  must  believe  in  the  doctrine 
of  baptism  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  And  if  we  believe  in  baptism  for 
the  remission  of  sins,  we  may  expect  a  ful- 
fillment of  the  promise  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
for  the  promise  extends  to  all  whom  the 
Lord  our  God  shall  call,  says  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  (Teachings  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  page  82.) 

The  Savior  finally  said: 

Come  unto  me,  all  ye  that  labour  and 
are  heavy  laden,  and  I  will  give  you  rest. 

Take  my  yoke  upon  you,  and  learn  of 
me;  for  I  am  meek  and  lowly  in  heart:  and 
ye  shall  find  rest  unto  your  souls. 

For  my  yoke  is  easy,  and  my  burden  is 
light.  (Matt.  11:28-30.) 

Look  unto  me,  and  be  ye  saved,  all  the 
ends  of  the  earth:  for  I  am  God,  and  there 
is  none  else.  (Isaiah  45:22.) 

And  finally,  Isaiah  writes: 

I  have  sworn  by  myself,  the  word  is  gone 
out  of  my  mouth  in  righteousness,  and  shall 
not  return,  That  unto  me  every  knee  shall 
bow,  every  tongue  shall  swear. 

Surely,  shall  one  say,  in  the  Lord  have  I 
righteousness  and  strength,  even  to  him 
shall  men  come;  and  all  that  are  incensed 
against  him  shall  be  ashamed.  (Ibid., 
45:23-24.) 

Let  us  not  put  off  the  day  of  our  re- 
pentance. May  the  Lord  help  us  to  be 
pure  and  humble  in  his  sight,  I  pray 
humbly,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Henry  D.  Moyle  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  has  just  concluded  speak- 
ing. We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder 
Clifford  E.  Young,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  who  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Antoine  R.  Ivins. 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


During  the  last  three  months  it  has 
been  my  privilege  to  visit  two  of 
the  missions  of  the  Church,  and  I 
have  been  impressed  with  an  important 
phase  of  the  work  in  which  we  are  en- 
gaged, the  missionary  work  of  the 
Church. 


You  will  recall  that  the  Savior  on 
calling  his  Apostles  said  to  them: 

Ye  have  not  chosen  me,  but  I  have  chosen 
you,  and  ordained  you,  that  ye  should  go 
and  bring  forth  fruit,  and  that  your  fruit 
should  remain.  (John  15:16.) 


ELDER  CLIFFi 

There  has  been  no  change  in  that, 
my  brethren  and  sisters.  "Ye  have  not 
chosen  me,  but  I  have  chosen  you,  and 
ordained  you,  that  ye  should  go  .  .  . 
forth."  There  is  no  change  in  this 
truth. 

I  read  these  lines  the  other  night  by 
a  poet: 

.  .  .  why  abandon  a  belief 
Merely  because  it  ceases  to  be  true? 
Cling  to  it  long  enough,  and  not  a  doubt 
It  will  turn  true  again,  for  so  it  goes. 
Most  of  the  change  we  think  we  see  in  life 
Is  due  to  truths  being  in  and  out  of  favor. 

And  so  I  say,  fundamentally  there 
has  been  no  change  in  the  teaching  of 
the  Savior  to  his  disciples.  As  he  met 
with  them  in  Galilee  after  his  resur- 
rection, he  said: 

All  power  is  given  unto  me  in  heaven 
and  in  earth. 

Go  ye  therefore,  and  teach  all  nations, 
baptizing  them  in  the  name  of  the  Father, 
and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost: 

Teaching  them  to  observe  all  things  what- 
soever I  have  commanded  you:  and,  lo,  I 
am  with  you  alway,  even  unto  the  end  of 
the  world.  (Matt.  28:18-20.) 

There  has  been  no  change  in  that. 
It  may  have  been  in  and  out  of  favor, 
but  fundamentally  there  has  been  no 
change.  All  power  was  given  him,  and 
he  conferred  it  on  his  disciples;  the  same 
power  is  with  us  today. 

Brother  Moyle  referred  to  the  teach- 
ings of  Peter  on  the  Day  of  Pentecost, 
and  I  quote  only  part  of  it: 

Repent,  and  be  baptized  every  one  of  you 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  for  the  remis- 
sion of  sins.  .  .  .  (Acts  2:38.) 

These  people  were  pricked  in  their 
hearts,  and  they  wondered  what  they 
should  do,  and  they  cried  with  one  ac- 
cord, "Men  and  brethren,  what  shall 
we  do?"  (Ibid.,  v.  37.)  They  had  been 
taught  the  divine  mission  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Jesus  and  him  crucified;  and  the  Holy 
Ghost  rested  upon  them;  the  gift  of 
tongues  was  with  them;  they  under- 
stood each  other  and  they  understood 
the  Apostle  Peter,  although  there  were 
assembled  peoples  of  many  nations,  and 
Peter  said  to  them, 

Repent,  and  be  baptized  every  one  of  you 
.  .  .  for  the  remission  of  [your]  sins.  .  .  . 


RD  E.  YOUNG  73 

Then  he  went  on  to  say,  "For  the 
promise  is  unto  you."  The  promise  of 
what?  That  the  Holy  Ghost  would 
come  to  them  if  they  rendered  obedience! 

For  the  promise  is  unto  you,  and  to  your 
children,  and  to  all  that  are  afar  off,  even 
as  many  as  the  Lord  our  God  shall  call. 
(Ibid.,  v.  39.) 

There  has  been  no  change  in  that, 
my  brethren  and  sisters.  And  in  this 
day  the  instructions  are  the  same. 

Send  forth  the  elders  of  my  church  unto 
the  nations  which  are  afar  off;  unto  the 
islands  of  the  sea;  send  forth  unto  foreign 
lands;  call  upon  all  nations,  first  upon  the 
Gentiles,  and  then  upon  the  Jews.  (D.  &  C. 
133:8.) 

The  same  teachings,  a  truth  that  may 
have  been  in  and  out  of  favor,  but  an 
eternal  truth,  just  the  same.  So  today  we 
have  in  the  Church  the  responsibility, 
and  that  responsibility  is  made  more  ap- 
parent as  we  think  of  the  great  mis- 
sionary system  of  the  Church — we  have 
the  responsibility  of  preaching  the  gos- 
pel, and  an  added  obligation  to  that 
which  was  given  the  disciples  of  the 
Savior,  that  of  preaching  the  restored 
gospel,  the  same  gospel  but  reaffirmed 
in  this  day,  because  in  the  minds  of 
men  it  was  for  a  time  in  and  out  of 
favor,  but  the  truth  has  not  changed; 
it  is  eternal. 

Now,  in  harmony  with  that,  in  the 
very  beginning  of  this  work,  the  Prophet 
Joseph  called  missionaries  who  were 
sent  to  various  parts  of  the  United 
States  and  then  later  to  Great  Britain 
and  other  countries.  The  record  of  their 
work  and  conversions  is  impressive  and 
ever  will  be  an  inspiration  to  those  who 
read  of  it  and  who  are  engaged  in 
preaching  the  gospel. 

Then  there  was  a  lull  for  a  time;  the 
Saints  came  west;  and  missionary  work 
was  seemingly  at  a  standstill,  but  not 
for  long.  Within  two  years  or  less  after 
the  Saints  had  settled  in  these  valleys, 
Elder  John  Taylor  was  sent  to  England 
as  a  missionary  and  then  to  France.  In 
addition  to  the  commission  to  preach 
the  gospel,  he  was  given  the  mission  of 
seeking  out  some  industry  that  could 
be  brought  to  this  country  and  estab- 
lished among  our  people  in  the  west 
that  would  help  them  economically.  It 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


74 

Monday,  April  4 

was  through  the  efforts  of  Brother  Tay- 
lor that  the  sugar  industry  was  finally 
brought  here  to  the  West.  That  is  a 
story  of  itself. 

But  incident  to  this  work  that  Brother 
Taylor  performed,  he  baptized  some  very 
important  people.  You  know,  we  are 
a  little  inclined  to  think  that  our  efforts 
are  seemingly  of  no  avail.  Perhaps 
some  of  our  missionaries  feel  that  way. 
I  know  I  came  home  from  my  mission 
feeling  that  I  had  not  accomplished 
much,  that  perhaps  I  had  only  baptized 
one  or  two.  We  never  know  the  extent 
of  the  good  we  have  done. 

In  the  labors  of  Brother  Taylor  he 
found  men  like  Elias  Morris,  the  father 
of  Elder  George  Q.  Morris  who  sits 
here  on  the  stand,  and  President  John 
R.  Winder.  He  probably  little  realized 
what  it  would  mean  to  the  work  of  the 
Lord  to  bring  men  into  the  Church  of 
the  stature  of  Elias  Morris,  John  R. 
Winder,  and  others. 

I  was  visiting  a  stake  in  California 
not  long  ago,  and  the  wife  of  one  of 
the  presidents  of  the  stakes  told  me  this 
story.  She  labored  under  President 
Callis  in  the  Southern  States  Mission, 
and  she  said  Brother  Callis  related  this 
incident  to  them  as  he  visited  the  stake 
after  he  had  been  called  to  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve.  Brother  Callis  was 
converted  over  in  Wales  and  was  bap- 
tized as  a  small  boy  into  the  Church. 
As  he  was  visiting  a  stake  of  Zion,  he 
learned  that  an  old  man  whom  he  had 
known  in  the  mission  field  was  ill. 
Brother  Callis  called  on  him.  He  found 
him  cynical.  Brother  Callis  tried  to 
encourage  him.  The  man  seemed  to  be 
beyond  encouragement.  Then  Brother 
Callis  said,  "John,  do  you  not  remem- 
ber your  missionary  labors  in  Wales? 
Do  you  not  remember  the  good  you  did 
in  the  mission  field?"  "Oh,  I  didn't  do 
any  good,"  he  said.  "Didn't  you  ever 
baptize  anyone?"  "No,  not  that  I  re- 
member." Brother  Callis  said,  "Are  you 
sure?"  "Oh,"  he  said,  "I  baptized  a  lit- 
tle urchin  that  used  to  bother  us  in  our 
meetings."  Then  Brother  Callis  said, 
"Brother  John,  do  you  know  that  I  was 
that  little  urchin?" 

Think  of  the  importance  of  that  one 
baptism!  Think  of  the  great  work  of 
Brother  Callis  during  his  thirty  years 
of  service  in  the  Southern  States  Mis- 


Third  Day 

sion  and  then  his  great  work  as  one  of 
the  Apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

I  repeat  again,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, we  never  know  the  results  of  our 
work.  We  never  know  what  we  ac- 
complish. Some  of  us  never  will  live 
to  see  it,  to  sense  it.  But  after  all  is  said 
and  done,  we  may  sow,  and  we  may 
water,  but  God  gives  the  increase  and 
that  increase  mounts  little  by  little  like 
a  little  stone  cut  out  of  the  mountain 
without  hands,  and  it  rolls  forth  and 
ultimately  will  fill  the  earth. 

Now,  the  other  thought,  and  then  my 
time  is  up.  It  was  my  privilege  to  be 
down  in  Honolulu  at  the  time  President 
McKay  and  Sister  McKay  and  Brother 
Murdock  were  there,  one  of  the  out- 
standing experiences  of  my  life.  As  we 
met  in  meetings  in  Honolulu,  in  the 
Oahu  Stake  conference,  Sunday,  we  had 
three  assemblies.  At  one  of  them  we 
had  nearly  four  thousand  people  present. 
All  nations,  all  people  of  the  Polynesian 
Islands  were  represented:  Hawaiians, 
Samoans,  Maoris,  Tahitians.  We  had  a 
Samoan  choir  of  a  hundred  people  sing, 
beautifully,  on  Sunday  morning  and 
then  Sunday  afternoon  an  Hawaiian 
choir.  I  have  never  heard  more  im- 
pressive music. 

In  that  assembly  were  Chinese,  Japa- 
nese, Filipinos,  and  I  repeat  again,  peo- 
ple from  all  nations. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  as  I  looked  over 
that  assembly  I  thought,  here  is  an  ex- 
ample of  the  gospel  being  preached  to 
all  nations.  The  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  is  ultimately  to  leaven  the 
lump.  The  Lord  promised  that  an  angel 
should  fly  through  the  midst  of  heaven, 
preaching  the  everlasting  gospel  to  every 
nation  that  dwells  upon  the  earth,  and 
then  he  said  the  end  should  come.  He 
did  not  mean  the  end  of  peoples,  he 
meant  the  end  of  wickedness,  the  end 
of  unrighteousness.  And  I  thought  I 
saw  reflected  in  that  assembly  the  pur- 
poses of  the  Almighty  being  accom- 
plished— no  hatred,  no  animosities,  no 
class  prejudices,  no  racial  hatreds,  but 
all  assembled  under  one  great  banner, 
of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
and  dedicated  to  one  holy  purpose  1 

As  you  think  of  that  with  me,  can 
you  not  see  how  ultimately  peace  will 
come  to  the  world?  And  it  will  only 
come  through  the  gospel  of  the  Son  of 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  WINS 


75 


God,  his  great  message  of  eternal  truth, 
and  it  is  our  responsibility,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  to  proclaim  it. 

As  one  visits  the  missions  of  the 
Church,  he  becomes  impressed  more 
than  ever  with  the  need  of  our  fulfilling 
the  purposes  for  which  the  Lord  has 
placed  us  here,  bearing  witness  of  the 
gospel  as  it  has  been  restored  in  this 
day,  not  preaching  anything  new,  not 
changes,  merely  changes  because  men 
perchance  have  changed  in  their  own 


minds,  but  the  eternal  truths  being  the 
same. 

May  God  help  us  to  fulfil  our  obliga- 
tion in  this  great  work,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Clifford  E.  Young,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us.  We 
shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Antoine  R. 
Ivins,  member  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy. 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


MY  BRETHREN  AND  SISTERS,  I  hope  VOU 
will  unite  your  prayers  with  mine 
that  what  I  say  may  perchance 
carry  a  helpful  and  useful  message. 

Before  I  start  to  bear  my  testimony, 
however,  the  remarks  of  the  morning 
have  prompted  me  to  recount  an  expe- 
rience that  my  father  and  I  had  about 
sixty  years  ago,  in  the  hope  that  the 
point  may  be  understood. 

We  were  driving  off  Kaibab  Moun- 
tain one  beautiful  day  behind  a  fine 
team  in  an  Arizona  buckboard.  Father 
said,  "Antoine,  down  at  the  foot  of  the 
mountain  there  is  a  trail  that  cuts  right 
straight  across  the  Pipe  Springs  and 
crosses  the  Kanab  wash,  in  a  con- 
venient location.  We'll  take  that  trail, 
and  we  won't  have  to  go  up  to  Kanab 
and  ride  over  from  there." 

Then  he  proceeded  to  read  a  book  as 
he  always  did  when  he  was  traveling 
and  turned  the  lines  over  to  me.  It 
was  not  very  long  until  his  head  was 
nodding,  and  he  was  asleep,  and  I  have 
to  confess  that  by  the  time  we  got  to 
that  turn-off  I  was  asleep,  too.  When 
we  waked  up,  we  were  five  miles  beyond 
the  place  where  we  wanted  to  turn  off 
and  believe  me  the  detour  turned  out 
to  be  a  rough  one.  We  did  not  go  to 
Kanab.   We  took  the  turn-off. 

When  they  were  talking  about  de- 
tours this  morning,  I  wondered  if  many 
of  us  might  not  be  sleepwalkers;  if  we 
do  not  walk  around  in  our  sleep,  and 
all  at  once  wake  up  to  find  out  that  the 
team  has  taken  us  off  on  the  wrong 
road.   Then  we  have  to  turn  around.  I 


believe,  in  the  straight  and  narrow  road 
there  are  no  chuckholes.  If  they  are 
there,  they  are  the  chuckholes  that  we 
ourselves  have  built  for  ourselves. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  sixty  years 
ago  since  father  and  I  had  that  expe- 
rience. It  is  about  fifty-nine  years  ago 
since  we  went  to  Mexico.  During  that 
time  I  have  had  opportunity  to  watch 
the  Church  and  its  directing  Authori- 
ties and  to  note  its  progress.  It  is 
twenty-four  years  since  I  read  in  the 
newspaper  one  day  that  I  had  a  new 
assignment.  During  those  twenty-four 
years  Sister  Ivins  and  I  have  been  mov- 
ing about  among  the  stakes  of  the 
Church  and  in  the  missions,  trying  to 
kindle  or  rekindle  the  Spirit  of  God  in 
the  hearts  of  the  members  of  the  Church. 

We  don't  make  pretense  to  tremen- 
dous success  in  it,  perhaps,  because  we 
have  no  way  of  measuring  our  success, 
but  we  have  been  devoted  to  your  serv- 
ice and  devoted  to  the  Church.  It  has 
given  us  the  great  opportunity  to  watch 
its  progress,  and  as  I  sat  in  the  priest- 
hood meeting  Saturday  night,  where  we 
had  reports  that  25,000  brethren  heard 
the  proceedings  of  that  meeting,  I  was 
reminded  that  in  the  year  the  LDS 
gymnasium  was  put  in  operation,  if  my 
memory  is  correct,  the  Assembly  Hall 
held  the  priesthood  congregation. 

So  there  has  been  growth.  There  has 
been  growth  in  membership  as  well  as 
in  faith  and  service,  I  believe,  in  the 
Church.  The  purpose  in  coming  here 
today — one  of  the  major  purposes — is  to 
see  if  we  cannot  stimulate  the  feeling 


76  GENERAL  C 

Monday,  April  4 

of  spirituality  among  the  people,  for, 
we  who  are  here,  perhaps  most  of  us, 
have  the  responsibility  of  carrying  back 
the  spirit  of  this  conference  to  the  peo- 
ple who  could  not  come,  to  increase 
spirituality  among  the  people. 

I  have  seen  attendance  at  our  con- 
ference meetings  grow  and  grow  and 
grow,  until  today  nearly  every  place  we 
go,  the  attendance  is  limited  by  the 
capacity  of  the  accommodations  we  pro- 
vide. I  take  it  to  indicate,  and  I  be- 
lieve I  am  right  in  this,  that  it  does  de- 
note a  definite  increase  in  spirituality 
among  the  people. 

Now  we  have  heard  that  term  used 
many,  many  times.  It  is  not  an  easy 
thing  to  define  this  idea  of  spirituality. 
I  get  no  satisfaction  from  the  diction- 
ary. The  interpretation  there  is  one 
given  by  people  who  perhaps  do  not 
understand  their  true  relationship  to  God 
and  his  work. 

Since  we  are  the  spirit  children  of 
God,  I  take  it  that  the  primary  mani- 
festation of  spirituality  is  an  acknowl- 
edgment that  we  are  the  sons  and 
daughters  of  God,  and  that  Jesus  Christ 
is  our  Elder  Brother,  and  it  is  not  sur- 
prising to  me,  knowing  that  that  testi- 
mony exists  in  the  hearts  of  our  people, 
that  people  not  of  our  faith  coming 
into  the  community,  as  reported  by 
President  McKay  the  other  night,  sense 
an  unusual  feeling  and  spirit  among 
the  people.  The  recognition  that  we 
are  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God, 
spiritually  born  of  him,  it  seems  to  me, 
is  a  starting  place  if  you  are  going  to 
try  to  define  spirituality.  Then  it 
seems  to  me  to  be  a  feeling  of  nearness 
to  God,  our  Heavenly  Father,  a  devo- 
tion to  his  cause,  and  a  determination 
to  acquit  ourselves  to  the  utmost  of  our 
ability,  of  the  responsibility  he  has  given 
us  in  life. 

I  wonder  if  that  is  a  fair  definition 
of  spirituality?  It  seems  to  me  that  it 
could  be.  And  then  it's  our  problem  to 
do  what  we  can  first  with  ourselves,  and 
then  with  people  who  may  be  inclined 
to  listen  to  us,  to  instil  in  their  hearts 
the  same  consciousness  that  they  are  the 
sons  and  daughters  of  God,  and  that 
God  had  a  definite  purpose  in  bringing 
us  here  into  this  life  of  mortality. 

When  you  teach  men  that,  then  there 


Third  Day 

is  a  greater  purpose  in  life,  of  course. 
There  is  a  greater  incentive,  there  is  a 
greater  motive  for  righteousness,  and 
perhaps  spirituality  could  be  measured 
by  the  degree  of  righteousness  of  the 
lives  of  people.  It  is  a  difficult  thing 
because  we  do  not  know  or  read  the 
hearts  of  people.  Frequently  we  mis- 
judge them.  If  we  could  know  their 
hearts,  perhaps  we  could  form  a  correct 
estimate  of  their  spirituality,  of  their 
feeling  toward  God.  That  is  difficult, 
and  from  what  has  been  said  today  I 
gather  that  there  are  many  people  who 
have  not  the  same  understanding  of  it, 
who  feel  that  spirituality  and  the 
ordinary  pursuits  of  life  are  separated 
by  a  rather  wide  space,  and  sometimes 
we  feel  that  a  man  who  devotes  him- 
self assiduously  to  the  practical  pur- 
poses of  life,  rendering  his  share,  of 
course,  in  Church  service,  may  not  be 
as  spiritual  as  a  man  who  does  not  do 
that,  but  who  spends  his  whole  time 
dreaming  about  the  uncertain  things  for 
which  there  has  been  no  answer. 

I  believe  we  are  wrong,  brothers  and 
sisters,  if  we  try  to  make  that  separation, 
for  I  believe  it  is  the  purpose  of  God 
that  every  honest  member  of  the 
Church,  every  honest  man  for  that  mat- 
ter, should  have  a  vigorous,  active,  potent 
testimony  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that 
God  is  our  Father,  and  then  should 
come,  through  his  prayer  and  faith,  to 
an  understanding  of  the  plan  of  salva- 
tion, and  you  know,  when  I  look  before 
me  and  see  the  men  who  plow  the 
fields,  who  ride  the  ranges,  and  manage 
the  stakes,  I  feel  justified  in  suggesting, 
brothers  and  sisters,  that  to  put  one 
group  on  one  side  and  the  other  group 
on  the  other  side,  as  to  spirituality,  is  a 
dangerous  thing,  for  I  have  worked  with 
and  slept  with  men  who  handle  the 
practical  things  of  life,  and  at  the  same 
time  apply  a  spiritual  interpretation  to 
everything  that  is  done. 

I  believe,  as  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants says,  that  God  has  given  us  no 
law  which  is  not  a  spiritual  law,  and 
the  law  of  life  is  a  law  of  action.  I 
believe  it  would  be  possible,  with  the 
exercise  of  due  faith  for  a  man  to  apply 
the  spiritual  interpretation  to  every 
legitimate  act  of  life,  and  it  is  our  pur- 
pose— it  should  be  our  purpose,  brothers 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


77 


and  sisters — in  our  relationships  with 
each  other  to  strive  for  that  spiritual 
aspect. 

If  you  will  pardon  the  reference  to 
my  father,  I  would  like  to  tell  you  that 
one  time  I  walked  into  the  biggest  bank 
in  this  city.  Its  president,  who  was  not 
a  member  of  the  Church,  called  me  over, 
and  he  said:  "Mr.  Ivins,  I  pay  tribute 
to  your  father.  He  came  the  nearest 
to  combining  religion  and  business  of 
any  man  I  ever  knew,"  and  then  he 
said:  "Do  you  know,  I  cannot  do  it. 
I  have  to  be  a  hard-boiled  business- 
man." But  he  some  way  or  another 
came  to  realize  that  under  the  influence 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  such  a 
combination  is  possible,  not  only  pos- 
sible, but  to  be  highly  recommended. 

Now  brethren  and  sisters,  it  should  be 
our  purpose  so  to  combine  the  Spirit  of 
God  with  our  daily  undertakings  that 
we  can  ask  upon  everything  we  under- 
take to  do,  the  blessing  of  God,  our 
Heavenly  Father;  that  we  may  never 
take  advantage  of  another;  that  we  may 
always  yield  full  service  for  the  com- 
pensation that  we  receive;  that  our 
brethren  and  our  sisters  will  never  have 
cause  to  say  that  we  may  have  taken 
undue  advantage  of  them.  When  we 
come  to  apply  that  in  our  lives,  this 
idea  of  spirituality  will  then  be  more  or 
less  a  tangible  thing. 

Spirituality  is  not  a  thing  that  you 


can  go  to  the  market  and  buy  with  dol- 
lars and  cents  and  carry  home  in  a  bas- 
ket, but  it  is  a  thing  which  you  can 
absorb  in  a  gathering  like  this.  It  has 
to  be  absorbed.  It  cannot  be  bought. 
It  cannot  be  done  up  in  packages  and 
handed  to  a  neighbor.  It  must  be  ab- 
sorbed by  him  through  the  emanations 
of  our  own  spirits. 

Let  us  strive  for  it,  brothers  and  sis- 
ters. Let  us  seek  the  blessings  of  God 
in  all  we  do,  then  Zion  will  shine  as 
a  light  on  a  hill  which  all  the  world  can 
see. 

God  bless  us,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins,  one  of  the 
seven  presidents  of  the  First  Council  of 
the  Seventy,  has  just  concluded  speaking. 
The  congregation  will  now  sing  "Praise 
to  the  Man  who  Communed  with 
Jehovah,"  conducted  by  Elder  Richard 
P.  Condie,  assistant  director  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir.  Following  the  sing- 
ing, we  will  hear  from  Elder  Alma 
Sonne. 


The  congregation  and  the  Brigham 
Young  University  Combined  Choruses 
joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Praise  to 
the  Man  Who  Communed  with  Je- 
hovah." 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


MY  BRETHREN  AND  SISTERS,  I  assure  yOU 
at  the  outset  that  I  will  keep  my 
eyes  on  the  clock.  I  know  my 
brethren  will  also  keep  their  eyes  on  the 
clock.  I  ask  you  for  an  interest  in  your 
faith  and  prayers.  There  is  so  much  to 
say  on  an  occasion  like  this,  and  there 
are  so  many  to  say  it  that  time  becomes 
very  precious. 

A  week  ago  I  stood  before  a  group  of 
high  school  students  in  one  of  the  stakes 
not  far  from  here.  I  urged  them  on  that 
occasion  to  accept  as  a  project  the  read- 
ing of  the  Gospel  according  to  Matthew 
in  order  to  familiarize  themselves  with 
the  life  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  recall  years 
ago  reading  about  Lew  Wallace  who 


wrote  the  great  story,  Ben  Hur.  It  ap- 
pears that  while  he  was  writing  this 
book,  he  was  visited  by  a  certain  well- 
known  and  gifted  agnostic.  The  agnostic 
encouraged  him  to  write  the  book. 
"But,"  said  he,  "do  not  emphasize 
the  divinity  of  Jesus  Christ.  Treat 
this  character  as  you  would  any  other 
character  in  history."  But  Lew  Wallace 
had  studiously  read  the  Gospels  and 
formed  his  opinions  of  the  Master  on 
the  record  left  by  Matthew,  Mark,  Luke, 
and  John. 

We  have  heard  many  things  during 
this  conference,  and  during  this  Easter 
time,  about  Jesus,  the  Christ.  His  per- 
fect life  has  been  extolled.   His  teach- 


78 

Monday,  April  4 

ings  have  been  expounded.  His  resur- 
rection has  been  explained  in  the  light 
of  modern  and  ancient  scriptures,  and 
his  divine  mission  has  been  emphasized 
by  everyone  who  has  spoken  from  this 
stand  during  the  conference. 

Someone  has  said,  "Jesus  is  still  loved, 
but  he  is  also  hated,  among  men."  There 
are  those  who  would  crucify  him  the 
second  time,  this  time  in  the  hearts  of 
men.  Yet  there  is  no  explanation  offered 
for  his  marvelous  life  and  his  perfect 
record  except  the  one  he  himself  gave. 
"I  came  forth  from  the  father,"  and,  "If 
ye  have  seen  me  ye  have  seen  the 
rather."  In  his  prayer  of  intercession 
for  his  Twelve  Apostles,  he  said:  "This 
is  life  eternal — that  they  might  know 
thee,  the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus  Chirst, 
whom  thou  has  sent." 

In  the  same  prayer  he  said,  "Glorify 
thou  me  with  the  glory  which  I  had 
with  thee  before  the  world  was."  He 
left  no  room  for  equivocation  and  argu- 
ment on  the  question  of  his  divinity  and 
his  Sonship,  and  I  am  happy  today  as  I 
stand  here,  that  I  belong  to  a  Church 
which  accepts  that  teaching  as  very 
fundamental. 

It  was  William  Jennings  Bryan  who 
stated  in  his  famous  lecture  called,  The 
Prince  of  Peace,  "It  is  easier  to  believe 
him  divine  than  to  explain  in  any  other 
way  what  he  said  and  did  and  was." 
There  are  marks  of  distinction  which 
set  him  apart  from  all  others  who  have 
lived  upon  the  earth.  He  was  the  mas- 
ter of  every  situation  which  confronted 
him.  He  answered  all  questions  put  to 
him  where  an  answer  would  enlighten 
the  questioner. 

Albert  J.  Beveridge,  a  Senator  from 
Indiana,  stated  many  years  ago:  "The 
Son  of  Mary  is  the  prince  of  public 
speakers."  He  was  right,  for  the  Sermon 
on  the  Mount  is  the  greatest  sermon 
ever  preached.  It  has  endured  nine- 
teen centuries  of  criticism.  It  has  sur- 
vived the  apostasy,  the  Dark  Ages,  the 
Renaissance,  and  the  Reformation,  and 
its  powerful  message  is  still  reverberat- 
ing through  the  world.  It  will  never 
die. 

Yesterday  I  know  you  were  touched,  as 
I  was,  when  our  great  choir  sang  "The 
Lord's  Prayer."  "The  Lord's  Prayer," 
says  someone,  "is  perfect  in  its  diction. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

It  is  comprehensive  in  its  scope."  It 
covers  the  essential  phases  of  human 
existence.  His  stories  and  parables  will 
live  forever.  "The  story  of  the  Prodigal 
Son,"  said  Charles  Dickens,  "is  the  most 
beautiful  story  ever  told." 

There  is  another  one  like  unto  it.  It 
is  the  story  of  the  Good  Samaritan,  and 
I  think  of  one  more  with  which  you 
are  very  familiar.  It  begins,  "A  sower 
went  out  to  sow."  (Luke  8:5.)  What  a 
lovely  statement  that  is!  All  of  these 
stories  called  parables  charm  and  capti- 
vate the  reader.  They  are  timely  today, 
as  fresh  as  they  were  nineteen  hundred 
years  ago  when  they  were  given.  They 
stir  the  heart  to  better  and  nobler  liv- 
ing. They  are  a  force  for  righteousness 
in  the  world. 

And  there  is  another  thing  which 
I  called  to  the  attention  of  the  young 
students  a  week  ago,  when  I  said,  "Jesus 
is  the  most  compelling  personality  in 
human  history."  He  spoke  two  words 
to  his  followers:  "Follow  me,"  (Matthew 
8:22)  and  strong  men  gave  up  their 
fishing  nets  and  followed  him  even  to 
death." 

Pilate  was  uneasy  and  disturbed  be- 
fore him.  When  you  enter  the  great 
Salt  Lake  Temple,  and  as  you  go  into  the 
Assembly  Room,  I  wish  you  would  do 
as  I  have  frequently  done — examine 
that  magnificent  painting  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  standing  before  Pontius  Pilate — 
Jesus  so  calm  and  unruffled;  Pilate  so 
deeply  disturbed.  The  contrast  is  im- 
pressive. 

I  recall  another  incident.  It  happened 
in  the  Garden  of  Gethsemane  when  the 
Roman  soldiers  came  to  arrest  the 
Master.  As  they  entered,  Jesus  said  to 
these  hard-faced  men,  "Whom  seek  ye?" 
They  answered,  "Jesus  of  Nazareth." 
"I  am  he,"  replied  Jesus,  and  those  men, 
in  silent  tribute,  "went  backward  and 
fell  to  the  ground."  He  asked  again 
"Whom  seek  ye?"  They  answered, 
"Jesus  of  Nazareth."  "I  am  he,"  re- 
sponded the  Lord,  and  then,  character- 
istic of  his  great  soul,  he  said,  "If  there- 
fore ye  seek  me,  let  these  go  their  way," 
referring,  of  course,  to  his  disciples.  (See 
John  18:4-8.) 

The  writer  of  that  circumstance  gives 
one  more  sentence,  which  reads,  "And 
Judas  stood  with  them."   (See  Ibid-, 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


79 


18:5.)  I  wonder  what  the  thoughts  of 
Judas  were  as  he  stood  there  witnessing 
the  courage  and  love  of  Jesus,  whom  he 
had  already  betrayed.  The  moral  side 
of  Christ's  character  has  no  parallel. 
In  it  we  find  absolute  perfection.  No 
flaw,  no  blemish,  no  weakness  is  dis- 
covered. He  is  without  sin.  He  was  as 
great  as  the  gospel  he  preached.  He  met 
every  situation  perfectly.  He  said  and 
did  the  right  thing  at  the  right  mo- 
ment. 

I  am  reminded  of  the  spies  who  were 
sent  out  by  the  chief  priests  to  trip  and 
trap  him  if  they  could.  "Is  it  lawful 
to  pay  tribute  to  Caesar?"  they  asked. 
Jesus  asked  for  a  coin.  They  produced 
what  happened  to  be  a  tax  coin  with 
which  the  Jews  paid  taxes  to  the  Roman 
government.  "Whose  image  is  on  the 
coin?"  asked  Jesus.  "It  is  the  image  of 
Caesar."  Then  said  the  Lord,  "Render 
unto  Caesar  the  things  which  are  Cae- 
sar's, and  unto  God  the  things  which 
are  God's."  (See  Matthew  22:17-21.)  I 


submit  that  it  was  the  best  answer  that 
could  possibly  be  given  under  the  cir- 
cumstances. Not  only  that,  it  was  a 
great  sermon,  although  very  brief,  on  the 
matter  of  honesty. 

May  we  worship  the  Lord  and  Master 
in  spirit  and  in  truth.  May  each  of  us 
have  the  conviction  that  he  is  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world  and  the  promised 
Messiah,  and  may  we  join  hands  in  car- 
rying forward  his  work  and  in  explain- 
ing the  restored  gospel  which  has  come 
to  earth  in  these,  the  last  days,  through 
the  instrumentality  of  Joseph  Smith,  the 
Prophet,  I  pray  most  humbly  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  has  just  concluded  speaking. 
We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Hugh 
B.  Brown,  Assistant  to  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve. 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  President 
McKay  has  been  kind  enough  to 
advise  the  General  Authorities  in 
advance  that  they  might  be  expected 
to  speak  at  certain  sessions  of  the  con- 
ference. My  turn  was  to  come  next 
Wednesday.  During  a  half  century  of 
active  service  in  the  Church,  I  have 
never  felt  so  wholly  inadequate,  so 
totally  dependent  on  divine  guidance  as 
I  feel  right  now.  For  that  guidance  I 
humbly  pray. 

We  sang  yesterday,  "We  thank  Thee, 
O  God,  for  a  Prophet."  This  hymn,  re- 
ferred originally  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  In  a  meeting  not  long  ago  when 
President  McKay  announced  that  the 
congregation  would  sing,  "We  Thank 
Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet,"  he  said, 
characteristically,  "I  wish  you  would 
have  in  mind  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
when  you  sing  today." 

I  should  like  to  offer  a  prayer  that 
has  been  in  my  heart  for  years,  a  prayer 
which  I  believe  is  in  the  heart  of  every 
Latter-day  Saint  throughout  the  world. 


"We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  the  Prophet, 
David  O.  McKay,  to  guide  us  in  these 
later-latter  days.  We  thank  thee  that 
through  thy  blessings  he  has  had  the 
vitality,  the  vigor,  and  the  health  to 
carry  the  message  of  the  gospel  to  the 
four  corners  of  the  earth.  We  thank 
thee  that  his  influence  and  his  presence 
have  revitalized  the  Saints  wherever  he 
has  gone  and  have  given  them  courage 
and  hope.  We  thank  thee  that  he  more 
than  any  man  among  us,  more  than 
any  of  his  predecessors,  has  carried  the 
inspiration  and  the  message  of  the  gos- 
pel to  the  greatest  and  to  an  ever-in- 
creasing international  audience.  We 
pray  that  thou  wilt  bless  him  con- 
tinually and  spare  him  to  us,  that  we 
may  enjoy  his  great  leadership  for  many 
years  to  come." 

From  the  bottom  of  my  heart  I  sus- 
tain and  support  these  men,  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church  and  his  Counselors, 
the  President  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  and  each  individual  member  of 
that  Council,   and  the  Patriarch  as 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  4 

prophets,  seers,  and  revelators  to  the 
Church.  I  am  grateful  for  the  privilege 
of  meeting  with  them  occasionally. 

Some  of  our  friends  have  said  we  are 
inclined  to  worship  the  General  Au- 
thorities. We  love  them;  we  listen  to 
their  counsel;  we  thank  God  for  them; 
but  they  would  not  permit  us  to  wor- 
ship them.  If  we  should  be  so  in- 
clined, they  would  be  the  first  to  rebuke 
us.  They  would  doubtless  say  to  us 
what  the  angel  said  to  John  on  the  Isle 
of  Patmos,  when  he  was  about  to  kneel 
before  him, 

See  thou  do  it  not:  I  am  thy  fellow- 
servant  .  .  .  worship  God.  (Rev.  19:10.) 

But  it  is  our  privilege  to  be  guided 
by  their  inspired  counsel.  I  pray  that 
God  will  help  us  never  to  lose  sight  of 
and  ever  be  grateful  for  the  outstand- 
ing leadership  in  the  Church  today. 

Elder  Alma  Sonne  mentioned  Easter- 
tide. This  is  the  season  of  the  year 
when  we  know  spring  is  coming,  al- 
though here  in  Salt  Lake  City  today  it 
takes  a  lot  of  faith  to  believe  it.  But  it 
is  the  season  of  the  year  when  things 
are  revitalized  and  renewed,  and  it  is 
the  time  of  year  when  Christians  every- 
where celebrate  Easter  in  commemora- 
tion of  the  resurrection  of  the  Lord. 

As  I  speak  of  these  men  and  of  their 
leadership,  I  am  reminded  of  some  ad- 
ditional reasons  why  we  should  be 
grateful  for  the  Easter  season.  Through 
the  restoration  of  the  gospel  we  have 
knowledge  and  assurance  regarding  the 
actual  resurrection  of  the  body  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Not  only  that  he  was 
resurrected  from  the  dead,  but  also  that 
he  ascended  into  heaven  with  his  glori- 
fied body,  and  he  will  come  again  in 
material  form  and  substance.  We  are 
grateful  for  the  comfort  and  the  hope 
which  comes  with  this  assurance. 

The  revelations  concerning  the  na- 
ture and  attributes  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  and  of  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  are 
of  transcendent  importance  to  all  men 
everywhere.  Modern  confirmation  and 
elucidation  of  biblical  evidence  on  this 
all-important  subject  began  with  the 
first  vision  in  the  Sacred  Grove  in  1820, 
and  it  was  renewed  and  continued  in 
that  glorious  vision  in  1832  at  Hiram, 
Ohio,  when  the  Lord  declared, 


Third  Day 

Hear,  O  ye  heavens,  and  give  ear,  O 
earth,  and  rejoice  ye  inhabitants  thereof, 
for  the  Lord  is  God,  and  beside  him  there 
is  no  Savior. 

Great  is  his  wisdom,  marvelous  are  his 
ways,  and  the  extent  of  his  doings  none 
find  out. 

His  purposes  fail  not,  neither  are  there 
any  who  can  stay  his  hand. 

From  eternity  to  eternity  he  is  the  same, 
and  his  years  never  fail.  (D.  &  C.  76:1-4.) 

The  restoration  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  came  pursuant  to  prophetic  prom- 
ise and  was  a  necessary  sequel  to  the 
great  apostasy.  It  was  during  the  apos- 
tasy that  an  attempt  was  made  to 
harmonize  pagan  philosophy  with  Chris- 
tian truth.  This  task  was  undertaken 
at  the  behest  of  non-Christian  emperors 
and  resulted  in  uninspired  declarations 
in  which  God  was  defined — or  rather 
denied — by  declaring  him  to  be  immate- 
rial, incomprehensible,  and  without 
body  or  parts,  occupying  no  part  of 
finite  or  infinite  space,  in  other  words, 
non-existent. 

We  thank  God  for  the  restoration  of 
the  gospel  which  refutes  such  doctrine. 
In  their  attempt  to  incorporate  Jesus 
the  Christ  into  their  pagan  concept  of 
the  Godhead,  the  Roman  emperors, 
through  their  appointed  delegates  to 
various  councils,  undertook  to  have  him 
divest  himself  of  his  body,  that  body 
which  came  from  the  tomb  when  the 
angel  rolled  the  stone  away,  that  glori- 
fied body  with  which  he  ascended  into 
heaven  before  the  wondering  gaze  of  his 
disciples.  Obviously  this  resurrected 
body,  being  material,  could  not  become 
a  part  of  their  immaterial  God  which 
had  no  parts.  They  would  have  him 
shed  that  body  and  thereby  deny  every- 
thing that  Easter  stands  for;  for  if  he 
is  incomprehensible  and  immaterial, 
then  he  is  not  a  resurrected  being;  and 
if  he  is  not  a  resurrected  being,  Easter 
is  meaningless. 

Again  I  say  let  us  thank  God  for  the 
clarification  that  has  come  through 
modern  revelation  concerning  the  per- 
sonal attributes  of  the  three  members  of 
the  Godhead. 

Jesus  Christ  revealed  the  Father  to  us 
and  said,  ".  .  .  he  that  hath  seen  me 
hath  seen  the  Father."  (John  14:9.) 
The  Son  was  in  his  express  image.  He 
revealed  a  compassionate  Father,  a  di- 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


81 


vine  Parent,  one  in  whom  were  incorpo- 
rated the  attributes  of  justice,  judgment, 
mercy,  and  truth.  He  revealed  a  God 
of  love,  of  forgiveness,  and  understand- 
ing. The  restored  gospel  supplants  the 
motives  of  fear  and  awe  with  faith  and 
trust.  The  beloved  disciple  tells  us, 
".  .  .  perfect  love  casteth  out  fear." 
(I  John  4:18.)  Love  as  a  dominant 
attribute  of  God  and  a  saving  quality 
in  man  is  reasserted  and  emphasized. 

The  new  commandment  which  Jesus 
gave  was,  "That  ye  love  one  another 
even  as  I  have  loved  you."  His  love 
for  us  is  eternal.  Nothing  can  separate 
us  from  it.  Sin  may  separate  us  from 
him,  but  his  love  endures  forever.  Listen 
to  Paul's  testimony: 

For  I  am  persuaded,  that  neither  death, 
nor  life,  nor  angels,  nor  principalities,  nor 
powers,  nor  things  present,  nor  things  to 
come, 

Nor  height,  nor  depth,  nor  any  other 
creature,  shall  be  able  to  separate  us  from 
the  love  of  God,  which  is  in  Christ  Jesus 
our  Lord.  (Romans  8:38-39.) 

I  should  like  to  speak  to  these  young 
people  who  have  been  singing  for  us, 
and  to  other  young  people  of  the 
Church,  for  like  others  who  have  spoken, 
my  heart  is  with  the  youth  of  Zion.  I 
should  like  to  say  to  these  young  people 
that  God  is  their  Father,  that  the  Savior 
is  pleading  for  and  with  them  to  keep 
clean,  clean  in  their  thinking,  in  their 
speaking,  in  their  conduct,  that  he  ex- 
pects them  to  be  worthy  of  him  and  of 
the  sacrifice  he  made  for  them  and  for 
all  of  us.  He  is  the  Good  Shepherd  who 
gave  his  life  for  the  sheep.  He  evinced 
the  solicitude  of  the  Good  Shepherd  in 
his  last  injunction  to  Peter,  "Feed  my 
sheep."  (John  21:16.) 

I  should  like  to  add  another  word  to 
the  young  people.  One  of  the  most 
lethal  weapons  which  the  Adversary  has 
devised  to  destroy  the  young  people  of 
the  Church  and  of  the  world  is  to  per- 
suade them  that  if  they  have  made  a 
mistake  they  are  lost,  there  is  no  hope. 
According  to  that  doctrine,  if  a  young 
person,  in  a  weak  moment,  becomes 
guilty  of  some  misdemeanor,  he  might 
as  well  go  on  to  juvenile  delinquency 
and  crime  and  felony  because  he  is  lost 
anyway.  So  the  devil  would  have  them 
believe  and  thus  lead  them  down  to 
hell. 


Young  people,  your  Father  in  heaven 
loves  you;  he  loves  you  with  a  love 
beyond  what  your  earthly  parents  can 
know.  If  you  make  mistakes — and  you 
will  and  all  of  us  have — our  Heavenly 
Father  stands  ready  to  forgive  and  to 
welcome  you  when  you  come  to  your- 
selves and  turn  your  backs  on  the  husks 
and  your  faces  toward  home.  He  will 
embrace  you  and  say,  "For  this  my  son 
was  dead,  and  is  alive  again;  he  was 
lost  and  is  found."  (Luke  15:24.)  But 
let  no  one  think  he  will  not  have  to 
pay  for  his  folly.  The  Father  could  not 
in  justice  say  to  the  prodigal  what  he 
said  to  his  older  son,  "All  that  I  have 
is  thine."  (Ibid.,  v.  31.) 

Our  Father  is  kind  and  loving  and 
forgiving,  but  there  is  an  inexorable 
law  which  has  not  been  repealed.  It 
is  the  law  of  the  harvest.  "As  ye  sow, 
so  shall  ye  reap."  (See  Galatians  6:7.) 
We  cannot  sow  thistles  and  reap  figs, 
nor  plant  thorns  and  harvest  grapes. 
But  when  we  have  had  enough  of  this- 
tles and  thorns,  we  may  have  the  grapes 
and  the  figs  if  we  are  willing  to  pay  the 
price — and  they  cost  less.  While  ours 
is  a  world  governed  by  rigid  and  un- 
wavering law,  man  has  free  agency,  he 
may  choose  to  obey  or  disobey  the  law, 
but  he  must  of  course  abide  the  conse- 
quences of  his  choice. 

One  other  thing  to  the  young  folk — 
sometimes  you  come  to  us  with  prob- 
lems when  you  are  perplexed  and  con- 
fused and  feel  that  you  are  inhibited, 
not  free  to  think  or  express  opinions. 
When  we  talk  to  you  of  free  agency 
and  explain  that  it  refers  not  only  to 
actions  but  to  thoughts  and  opinions, 
you  wonder  if  that  is  always  the  case. 
Some  of  you  have  said  to  us,  "But  our 
right  to  express  our  own  opinions  is 
trammeled  or  abridged  by  the  authori- 
tative statements  of  parents,  teachers, 
and  others. 

Young  people,  we  will  protect  your 
freedom  to  think,  to  express  your 
thoughts,  and  to  search  for  truth.  We 
want  you  to  continue  that  search  fear- 
lessly. We  promise  you  will  be  unin- 
hibited in  that  search.  You  should 
remember,  however,  that  God  has  given 
us  sources  through  which  we  may  have 
some  authoritative  answers.  Not  all  the 
answers,  no!  If  we  had  all  the  answers, 
there  would  be  an  end  to  the  search. 


82  GENERAL  C 

Monday,  April  4 

We  must  not  expect  to  have  all  the  an- 
swers immediately,  for  God  himself  in 
his  wisdom  has  withheld  some  of  them. 
We  believe  in  continued  and  continuing 
revelation,  and  that  means  that  we  be- 
lieve there  are  things  to  be  made  known 
which  we  do  not  now  know.  We  be- 
lieve it  is  a  good  thing  to  reserve  judg- 
ment on  problems  that  are  difficult  of 
solution  until  more  light  comes.  This 
principle  of  withholding  judgment  and 
waiting  for  new  revelation  should  apply 
in  all  fields  of  learning.  Scientists 
make  rather  definite  statements  at  times, 
but  some  of  us  have  lived  to  see  them 
either  amend  or  abandon  their  findings 
in  the  light  of  newly  discovered  truth. 
As  long  as  scientists  are  still  searching 
and  discovering  and  as  long  as  new 
revelation  is  promised,  why  insist  upon 
final  answers  now?  It  is  my  conviction 
that  new  revelation  will  come  when  we 
have  learned  to  live  up  to  the  truth  we 
now  have.    Wisdom  counsels  patience. 

And  so,  with  respect  to  some  things 
that  now  seem  difficult  to  understand, 
we  can  well  afford  to  wait  until  we  have 
all  the  facts,  until  all  the  evidence  is 
in.  Now  do  not  misunderstand  me. 
There  will  never  come  a  time  when 
any  revelation  of  truth  from  God  will 
be  in  conflict  with  any  other  truth  re- 
vealed from  him,  whether  it  comes  as 
direct  revelation  or  as  reward  for  dili- 
gent search.  If  there  seems  to  be  con- 
flict, it  is  because  men,  fallible  men, 
are  unable  properly  to  interpret  God's 
revelations  or  man's  discoveries. 

May  he  help  us  that  we  may  go  for- 
ward fearlessly  but  reverently  in  our 
search  for  truth  and  have  due  respect 
not  only  for  our  parents  and  our  teach- 
ers, but  also  for  those  through  whom 
God  has  promised  his  revelations. 

By  the  same  token,  we  should  not 
undertake  to  state  the  time  nor  the 
order  in  which  the  gospel  shall  be  given 
to  any  of  the  races  or  nations  of  the 
earth.  We  should  not  attempt  to  regu- 
late God's  program  by  our  little  wrist 
watches  nor  insist  that  he  be  governed 
by  our  schedule  of  events.  He  has 
promised  the  gospel  to  every  nation, 
kindred,  tongue,  and  people,  and  he 
and  only  he  knows  when  they  are  ready 
for  its  message  and  its  blessings.  When 
that  time  comes,  I  bear  you  my  witness, 
prophetic  witness,  if  you  will,  that  he 


Third  Day 

will  reveal  his  will  to  the  leaders  of 
the  Church  concerning  all  of  his  people. 
He  has  said, 

Remember  the  worth  of  souls  [all  souls] 
is  great  in  the  sight  of  God; 

For,  behold  the  Lord  your  Redeemer 
suffered  death  in  the  flesh;  wherefore  he 
suffered  the  pain  of  all  men,  that  all  men 
might  repent  and  come  unto  him. 

And  he  hath  risen  again  from  the  dead, 
that  he  might  bring  all  men  unto  him,  on 
conditions  of  repentance. 

And  how  great  is  his  joy  in  the  soul  that 
repenteth!  (D.  &  C.  18:10-13.  Italics  added.) 

Brothers  and  sisters,  I  humbly  bear 
my  testimony  to  you  that  I  do  know 
that  God  is  my  Father,  that  Jesus  of 
Nazareth  is  my  Redeemer  and  my 
friend.  I  thank  him  for  the  blessed 
privilege  of  engaging  in  the  ministry, 
and  I  praise  his  holy  name  that  through 
his  servants  he  has  shown  his  willing- 
ness to  use  the  weakest  of  us  to  do  some 
little  good  in  that  ministry. 

God  bless  us  to  recognize  him  as  the 
Good  Shepherd  and  to  go  forward  with 
faith,  unafraid  of  the  future,  and  with 
complete  confidence  to  say  with  the 
Psalmist: 

The  Lord  is  my  shepherd;  I  shall  not 
want. 

He  maketh  me  to  lie  down  in  green  pas- 
tures: he  leadeth  me  beside  the  still  waters. 

He  restoreth  my  soul:  he  leadeth  me  in 
the  paths  of  righteousness  for  his  name's 
sake. 

Yea,  though  I  walk  through  the  valley 
of  the  shadow  of  death,  I  will  fear  no  evil: 
for  thou  art  with  me;  thy  rod  and  thy  staff 
they  comfort  me. 

Thou  preparest  a  table  before  me  in  the 
presence  of  mine  enemies:  thou  anointest 
my  head  with  oil;  my  cup  runneth  over. 

Surely  goodness  and  mercy  shall  follow 
me  all  the  days  of  my  life:  and  I  will  dwell 
in  the  house  of  the  Lord  forever.  (Psalm 
23.) 

We  pray  this  may  be  true  for  all  of 
us  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown,  Assistant  to  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken 
to  us. 

We  have  just  received  the  following 
notice:  "Roads  in  Wyoming  very  bad. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


83 


Highways  are  blocked.  Many  cars 
stranded.  Wyoming  people  asked  not 
to  try  travelling  these  roads."  That 
comes  from  the  president  of  the  Big 
Horn  Stake.  Brethren  and  sisters,  you 
will  have  to  stay  with  us  another  night, 
and  be  assured  you  are  most  welcome. 

The  singing  for  this  session  has  been 
furnished,  as  heretofore  announced,  by 
the  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses,  under  the  direction  of 
Elder  Norman  Gulbrandsen,  with  Roy 
M.  Darley  at  the  organ.  We  wish  to 
say  to  these  choice  young  people  that  we 
sincerely  hope  that  these  two  sessions 
have  given  them  the  inspiration  com- 
mensurate to  the  inspiration  they  have 
given  us  by  their  lovely  service.  We  ap- 
preciate the  large  attendance,  every 
choir  seat  filled  and  some  out  in  the 
gallery,  and  your  singing  has  been 
beautiful  and  inspiring.  May  you  carry 
home  with  you  messages  of  this  day 
which  will  be  a  light  to  your  path,  com- 
fort to  your  souls,  always.  These 
thoughts  we  express  as  we  say,  "thank 
you,  and  thank  you  as  representatives  of 
a  great  school  we  all  love." 

A  special  meeting  under  the  direction 
of  the  First  Presidency,  devoted  to  the 
work  of  the  stake  and  foreign  missions 
of  the  Church,  will  be  held  in  the  Tab- 
ernacle this  evening  at  seven  o'clock. 
Mission  presidents,  stake  mission  presi- 
dents, presidencies  of  stakes,  stake  mis- 
sionaries, are  invited  to  be  in  attendance 
at  this  meeting.  An  invitation  is  also 
extended  to  the  members  of  high  coun- 


cils, bishoprics,  presidents  of  Seventies' 
Quorums  and  General  Boards  of  Auxil- 
iary organizations. 

Next  Tuesday,  tomorrow,  April  5th, 
in  the  Tabernacle,  at  7:00  p.m.  a  spe- 
cial Presiding  Bishoprics'  Meeting  will 
be  held.  Those  who  are  expected  to 
attend  are  bishops  and  their  counselors, 
stake  and  ward  committees  for  senior 
members  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  and 
for  Aaronic  Priesthood  under  21,  stake 
and  ward  committees  on  ward  teaching, 
and  all  ward  teachers;  stake  presiden- 
cies and  high  councilmen  are  invited 
also. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  will  now  sing,  "Glori- 
ous Is  Thy  Name,"  conducted  by  Elder 
Gulbrandsen. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  J.  Howard  Maughan,  president 
of  the  New  England  Mission,  after 
which  this  Conference  will  be  ad- 
journed until  ten  o'clock  Wednesday 
morning. 


Selection  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity, "Glorious  Is  Thy  Name." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  J.  Howard  Maughan  of  the 
New  England  Mission  will  now  pro- 
nounce the  benediction,  and  as  an- 
nounced this  Conference  will  be  ad- 
journed until  Wednesday. 


Elder  J.  Howard  Maughan  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 


FOURTH  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


Conference  reconvened  Wednesday 
morning,  April  6,  at  10:00  o'clock  a.m. 

The  choral  music  for  this  session  was 
furnished  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers  from  the  Jordan  Valley  and 
Mount  Timpanogos  regions,  and  Kolob 
Nebo,  Palmyra  and  contiguous  stakes, 
with  Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen 
conducting  and  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the 
organ. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

One  hundred  twenty-five  years  ago 
today,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  was  organized  with 
six  members.  Before  that  date  the  Lord 
had  revealed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  that 
a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder  was 
about  to  come  forth  among  the  children 
of  men.  I  believe  we  can  say  today  that 


84  GENERAL  C 

Wednesday,  April  6 

that  prophecy  has  been  literally  ful- 
filled. 

The  First  Presidency  and  General  Au- 
thorities extend  hearty  greetings  and  a 
welcome  to  all  who  are  assembled  here 
this  morning  and  who  are  listening  in  to 
this,  the  125th  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church.  The  sixth  session  is  being  held 
here  in  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City.  The 
services  are  also  being  broadcast  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall  over 
a  public  address  system  and  by  televi- 
sion The  Tabernacle  is  filled,  but  all 
comfortably  seated,  and  those  who  fail 
to  get  a  seat,  those  standing  in  the  door- 
ways may  participate  in  the  services  by 
attending  one  of  the  two  buildings 
named,  and  for  those  who  are  listening 
in,  we  announce  again  that  these  serv- 
ices, as  those  which  preceded  these,  are 
being  televised  over  KSL-TV,  channel 
five,  and  over  KID-TV  of  Idaho  Falls, 
Idaho.  They  are  also  being  heard  over 
radio  station  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City,  and 
by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over 
eleven  radio  stations  in  Utah,  Idaho, 
Nevada,  Arizona,  and  Colorado,  the 
names  of  which  stations  have  already 
been  announced,  so  we  need  not  repeat 
them. 

We  are  pleased  to  note  the  attendance 
of  our  Senators,  State  officials,  leaders 
in  educational  circles,  and  other  promi- 
nent officials  in  City  and  State.  We 
welcome  you  all. 

The  singing  for  this  session  will  be 
furnished  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers  from  the  Jordan  Valley  and 
Mt.  Timpanogos  Regions,  and  Kolob, 
Nebo,  Palmyra,  and  Santaquin-Tintic 
Stakes,  with  Sister  Florence  Jepperson 
Madsen  conducting,  and  Elder  Frank 
W.  Asper  at  the  organ.  We  welcome 
our  Singing  Mothers  with  love  and  ap- 
preciation. 

We  shall  begin  this  session  by  the  Re- 
lief Society  Singing  Mothers  singing, 
"The  Morning  Breaks,"  under  the  di- 
rection of  Sister  Madsen. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered 
by  Elder  Isaac  A.  Smoot,  president  of 
the  Northern  States  Mission. 


Singing  by  the  Singing  Mothers,  "The 
Morning  Breaks." 
The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 


Fourth  Day 

Elder  Isaac  A.  Smoot,  President  of  the 
Northern  States  Mission. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
will  now  favor  us  with  the  song,  "Out 
of  the  Depths,"  with  Sister  Florence 
Jepperson  Madsen  conducting. 

Following  the  singing,  Elder  Joseph 
Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference,  will 
read  the  vital  statistical  data,  changes 
in  the  ward  and  stake  organizations, 
and  financial  expenditures. 


Selection  by  the  Singing  Mothers, 
"Out  of  the  Depths." 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the 
Conference,  read  the  following  reports: 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 

STAKE,  WARD  AND  BRANCH 
ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE  OCTOBER 
CONFERENCE,  1954 

MISSION  CHANGES  AND  NEW 
PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

M.  Ross  Richards  appointed  president 
of  the  East  Central  States  Mission,  to 
succeed  Cornelius  Zappey. 

Theodore  C.  Jacobsen  appointed  presi- 
dent of  the  Eastern  States  Mission,  to 
succeed  Delbert  G.  Taylor. 

Phileon  Benjamin  Robinson,  Jr.  ap- 
pointed president  of  the  Finnish  Mission, 
to  succeed  Henry  A.  Matis. 

Junius  M.  Jackson  appointed  presi- 
dent of  the  New  England  Mission,  to 
succeed  J.  Howard  Maughan. 

Ariel  Smith  Ballif  appointed  presi- 
dent of  the  New  Zealand  Mission,  to 
succeed  Sidney  J.  Ottley. 

Ellis  Vard  Christensen  appointed 
president  of  the  Tahitian  Mission,  to 
succeed  John  Kenneth  Orton. 

NEW  STAKES  ORGANIZED 

Las  Vegas  Stake  organized  October  8, 
1954  by  division  of  Moapa  Stake. 

North  Sacramento  Stake  organized 
December  12,  1954  by  division  of  Sacra- 
mento Stake. 

Taylorsville  Stake  organized  October 


NEW  WARD, 

10,  1954  by  division  of  North  Jordan 
Stake. 

West  Boise  Stake  organized  November 
7,  1954  by  division  of  Boise  Stake. 

STAKE  PRESIDENTS  CHOSEN 

Wallace  D.  Yardley,  president  of 
Beaver  Stake,  to  succeed  A.  Carlos  Mur- 
dock. 

Sherman  Taft  Hill,  president  of  East 
Provo  Stake,  to  succeed  Ariel  S.  Ballif. 

Lionel  Marcus  West,  president  of  El 
Paso  Stake  to  succeed  Edward  V.  Turley. 

Thomas  Gay  Myers,  president  of  Las 
Vegas  Stake. 

Edwin  Ernest  James,  president  of 
Lyman  Stake,  to  succeed  John  Whitaker 
Taylor. 

Grant  Martin  Bowler,  president  of 
Moapa  Stake,  to  succeed  Thomas  Gay 
Myers. 

Austin  George  Hunt,  president  of 
North  Sacramento  Stake. 

Albert  B.  Crandall,  president  of  Sac- 
ramento Stake,  to  succeed  Perry  E. 
Tingey. 

J.  Golden  Snow,  president  of  Taylor 
Stake  to  succeed  James  H.  Walker,  de- 
ceased. 

Wayne  Charles  Player,  president  of 
Taylorsville  Stake. 

Ernest  Clifford  Anderson,  president  of 
Union  Stake  to  succeed  Milan  D.  Smith. 

Dale  T.  Browning,  president  of  Weber 
Stake,  to  succeed  N.  Russell  Tanner. 

David  Keith  Ricks,  president  of  West 
Boise  Stake. 

Howard  William  Barben,  president  of 
West  Jordan  Stake  to  succeed  Lawrence 
T.  Dahl. 

NEW  WARDS  ORGANIZED 

Lovell  Second  Ward,  Big  Horn  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Lovell  and  Lovell 
West  Wards. 

Lovell  Third  Ward,  Big  Horn  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Lovell  and  Lovell 
West  Wards. 

Holladay  Sixth  Ward,  Cottonwood 
Stake  formed  by  division  of  Holladay 
Fifth  Ward. 

Butler  Second  Ward,  East  Jordan 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Butler 
Ward. 

Union  Third  Ward,  East  Jordan  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Union  Second 
Ward. 


ORGANIZED  85 

Sunland  Ward,  Glendale  Stake,  form- 
erly Sunland  Branch. 

Grant  Seventh  Ward,  Grant  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Grant  Sixth  Ward. 

Crystal  Heights  Second  Ward,  High- 
land Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Crys- 
tal Heights  Ward. 

Hawthorne  Ward,  Inglewood  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Lawndale  Ward. 

Manhattan  Beach  Ward,  Inglewood 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Redondo 
Second  Ward. 

Westchester  Second  Ward,  Inglewood 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  West- 
chester Ward. 

Mapleton  Second  Ward,  Kolob  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Mapleton  and 
Springville  First  Wards. 

Henderson  Third  Ward,  Las  Vegas 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Henderson 
First  and  Second  Wards. 

Las  Vegas  Eighth  Ward,  Las  Vegas 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Las  Vegas 
Second  and  Fifth  Wards. 

Lethbridge  Fourth  Ward,  Lethbridge 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Lethbridge 
First  and  Third  Wards. 

Malad  Fourth  Ward,  Malad  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Malad  Second  and 
Third  Wards. 

Mill  Creek  Fifth  Ward,  Mill  Creek 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Winder 
Ward. 

Las  Vegas  Seventh  Ward,  Moapa 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Las  Vegas 
Fourth  Ward. 

Granger  Fifth  Ward,  North  Jordan 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Granger 
Second  Ward. 

Ogden  Forty-Sixth  Ward,  North 
Weber  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
Ogden  Tenth  Ward. 

Kalihi-Kai  Ward,  Oahu  Stake,  formed 
by  division  of  Kalihi  Ward. 

Kaneohe  Ward,  Oahu  Stake,  formerly 
Kaneohe  Branch. 

Laie  Second  Ward,  Oahu  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Laie  Ward. 

Centerville  Ward,  Oakland  Stake, 
formerly  Centerville  Branch. 

San  Carlos  Ward,  Palo  Alto  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Redwood  City 
Ward. 

San  Mateo  Second  Ward,  Palo  Alto 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  San  Mateo 
Ward. 

Sunnyvale  Ward,  Palo  Alto  Stake 
formed  by  division  of  Los  Altos  Ward. 


86  GENERAL  C 

Wednesday,  April  6 

Glendora  Ward,  Pasadena  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Covina  Ward. 

Phoenix  Twelfth  Ward,  Phoenix 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Phoenix 
Sixth  Ward. 

Pasco  Ward,  Richland  Stake,  formed 
by  division  of  Pasco-Kennewick  Ward. 

Richland  Third  Ward,  Richland 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Richland 
Second  Ward. 

Arden  Ward,  Sacramento  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Del  Paso  and 
Carmichael  Wards. 

Pima  Second  Ward,  St.  Joseph  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Pima  Ward. 

Thatcher  Second  Ward,  St.  Joseph 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Thatcher 
Ward. 

Modesto  Second  Ward,  San  Joaquin 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Modesto 
Ward. 

Los  Gatos  Ward,  San  Jose  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  San  Jose  Second 
Ward. 

Crest  View  Second  Ward,  Sharon 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Crest  View 
Ward. 

Thatcher-Penrose  Ward,  South  Bear 
River  Stake,  formed  by  merger  of 
Thatcher  and  Penrose  Wards. 

Thomas  Second  Ward,  South  Black- 
foot  Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Thomas 
Ward. 

Bountiful  Eleventh  Ward,  South 
Davis  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
Bountiful  Fourth  and  Seventh  Wards. 

Bremerton  Second  Ward,  Tacoma 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Bremerton 
Ward. 

Kearns  Fourth  Ward,  Taylorsville 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Kearns 
Third  Ward. 

Filer  Ward,  Twin  Falls  Stake,  form- 
erly Filer  Branch. 

Enterprise  Second  Ward,  Uvada  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Enterprise  Ward. 

College  Park  Ward,  Washington 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Capitol 
and  Washington  Wards. 

Durango  Ward,  Young  Stake,  formerly 
Durango  Branch. 

WARDS  AND  BRANCHES 
TRANSFERRED 

Boulder  City,  Henderson,  Henderson 
Second,  Kingman,  Las  Vegas  First,  Las 
Vegas  Second,  Las  Vegas  Third,  Las 


Fourth  Day 

Vegas  Fourth,  Las  Vegas  Fifth,  Las 
Vegas  Sixth,  and  Las  Vegas  Seventh 
Wards,  Las  Vegas  Stake,  formerly  of 
Moapa  Stake. 

Alamo  Ward,  Moapa  Stake,  formerly 
of  Uvada  Stake. 

Arcade,  Arden,  Carmichael,  Del  Paso, 
Fair  Oaks,  Roseville  Wards  and  Auburn 
Branch,  North  Sacramento  Stake,  form- 
erly of  Sacramento  Stake. 

Bennion,  Kearns,  Kearns  Second, 
Kearns  Third,  Taylorsville,  and  Taylors- 
ville Second  Wards,  Taylorsville  Stake, 
formerly  of  North  Jordan  Stake. 

New  Castle  Ward,  Uvada  Stake,  form- 
erly of  Cedar  Stake. 

Boise  Third,  Boise  Fifth,  Boise  Sev- 
enth, Boise  Eighth,  Meridian,  Meridian 
Second  Wards  and  Eagle  Branch,  West 
Boise  Stake,  formerly  of  Boise  Stake. 

WARD  AND  BRANCH  NAMES 
CHANGED 

Lovell  Fourth  Ward,  Big  Horn  Stake, 
formerly  Lovell  West  Ward. 

Grant  First  Ward,  Grant  Stake, 
formerly  Wandamere  Park  Ward. 

Grant  Second  Ward,  Grant  Sake, 
formerly  Wandamere  Ward. 

Grant  Third  Ward,  Grant  Stake, 
formerly  Smith  West  Ward. 

Grant  Fourth  Ward,  Grant  Stake, 
formerly  Smith  Ward. 

Grant  Fifth  Ward,  Grant  Stake,  form- 
erly Hillcrest  Ward. 

Grant  Sixth  Ward,  Grant  Stake,  form- 
erly Ridgedale  Ward. 

Grant  Eighth  Ward,  Grant  Stake, 
formerly  Lorraine  Ward. 

Grant  Ninth  Ward,  Grant  Stake, 
formerly  Springview  Ward. 

Grant  Tenth  Ward,  Grant  Stake, 
formerly  Spring  Glen  Ward. 

Ogden  Forty-Seventh  Ward,  Lorin 
Farr  Stake,  formerly  Bonneville  Park 
Ward. 

Murray  Tenth  Ward,  Murray  Stake, 
formerly  Grant  Ward. 

INDEPENDENT  BRANCHES 
ORGANIZED 

Ten  Sleep  Branch,  Big  Horn  Stake, 
formerly  dependent  on  Worland  Ward. 

Sanger  Branch,  Fresno  Stake,  formed 
by  division  of  Fresno  First  Ward. 


STATISTICAL  AND  FINANCIAL  REPORT  87 

Warden  Branch,  Grand  Coulee  Stake,  WARDS  AND  INDEPENDENT 

formed  by  division  of  Moses  Lake  Sec-  BRANCHES  DISCONTINUED 

ond  Ward.  _       ,    _    TT      _  , 

Maricopa   Indian   Branch    Phoenix  Iona  Branch>  Bl§  Horn  Stake>  mem- 

Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Phoenix  ^ship  transferred  to  Lovell  Second 

Sixth  Ward  Ward. 

Marion  Ward,  Cassia  Stake,  member- 

Prosser  Branch,  Richland  Stake,  form-  snip  transferred  to  Oakley  First  and 

erly  dependent  on  Sunnyside  Ward.  Oakley  Second  Wards. 

Randlett  Branch,  Roosevelt  Stake  (In-  Oakley  Third  Ward,  Cassia  Stake, 

dian  Branch — membership  taken  from  membership  transferred  to  Oakley  and 

several  wards.)  Oakley  Second  Wards. 

Promontory  Branch,  South  Bear  River  ,  Bryce  Wcard>     ^Ph  Stake,  member- 
Stake,  formerly  dependent  on  Penrose  ship  transferred  to  Pima  Ward. 
Ward.  Eden  Ward,  St.  Joseph  Stake,  mem- 

T  ,'n  ,  „      ,   „,     ,  „  .     P  bership  transferred  to  Pima  Ward. 

Tod  Park  Branch,  Tooele  Stake  form-  Thatcher  and  Penrose  Wards,  South 

ed  by  consolidation  of  East  Tod  Park  Bear   River   Stake>   merged   t0  make 

and  West  Tod  Park  Branches.  Thatcher-Penrose  Ward. 

Spanish-American    Branch,    Weber  East  Tod  Park  Branch  and  West  Tod 

Stake,  membership  taken  from  several  Park  Branch  merged  to,  make  Tod  Park 

Wards.  Branch. 

STATISTICAL  AND  FINANCIAL  REPORT 

For  the  Information  of  the  Members  of  the  Church 

The  First  Presidency  issues  the  following  statement  of  items  concerning  the  condition 
and  operation  of  the  Church  for  the  year  1954.  The  statement  will  include  three  sections: 
First,  Statistical  Information;  Second,  Financial  Data;  and  Third,  Miscellaneous  Items. 

I.  STATISTICAL  INFORMATION 

Number  of  Stakes  of  Zion,  at  end  of  1954    219 

Number  of  Wards    1,757 

Number  of  Independent  Branches    236 

Total  Wards  and  Independent  Branches,  at  end  of  year    1,993 

Number  of  Missions    42 

Church  Membership,  December  31,  1954: 

In  the  Stakes    1,079,583 

In  the  Missions    222,657 

Total  Membership     1,302,240 

Church  Growth  during  1954: 

Children  blessed  in  Stakes  and  Missions   48,057 

Children  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions    27,223 

Converts  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions    18,573 

Social  Statistics: 

(of  membership  in  the  Stakes,  1954) 

Birth  rate  per  thousand   39.46 

Marriage  rate  per  thousand    8.20 

Death  rate  per  thousand    5.46 

Missionaries: 

Number  of  missionaries  who  at  the  close  of  1954  were  laboring  or  were 

enroute  to  or  from  their  fields  of  labor   3,868 

Number  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  the  stakes    6,946 

Total  missionaries    10,814 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  in  the  Missionary  Home  during 

1954    2,022 


&8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Fourth  Day 

II.  EXPENDITURES  OF  THE  CHURCH  IN  1954 

This  section  will  show  for  each  of  the  major  fields  of  activity,  expenditures  of 
CHURCH  GENERAL  FUNDS,  these  funds  having  been  received  at  Church  Headquarters 
principally  from  the  tithes  of  the  Church,  and  second,  expenditures  of  miscellaneous  con- 
tributions of  the  people  to  the  stakes,  wards,  missions,  schools,  and  other  agencies  of  the 
Church. 


Missions  and  Missionary  Work 

For  erection,  purchase,  remodeling,  equipping,  and  repair  of  meeting 
houses  and  other  mission  buildings  and  for  purchase  of  building  sites: 

From  Church  General  Funds    3,477,987 

From  Other  Contributions    1,209,776 

For  general  operating  expenses  of  the  missions,  including  expenses  of 
mission  branches;  for  publicity  work  and  for  expenses  of  bureaus  of  infor- 
mation; for  operation  of  certain  schools  in  foreign  missions;  for  mainte- 
nance of  the  Missionary  Home  in  Salt  Lake  City;  and  for  return  fares 
of  missionaries: 

From  Church  General  Funds    1,684,031 

From  Other  Contributions    748,605 

Total  Expenditures  for  Missions  and  Missionary  Work    7,120,399 

Stakes  and  Wards 

For  erection,  purchase,  remodeling,  equipping,  and  repair  of  buildings,  and 

for  purchase  of  building  sites: 

From  Church  General  Funds    8,264,790 

From  Other  Contributions    7,176,912 

For  general  operating  expenses  of  the  stakes  and  wards,  including  heat, 

light,  water,  janitor  expense,  supplies,  and  so  forth: 

From  Church  General  Funds    3,216,097 

From  Other  Contributions    4,976,595 

Total  Expenditures  for  Wards  and  Stakes    23,634,394 

Temples 

For  erection  and  equipping  of  new  temples  and  for  improvements  and 

repairs  to  existing  temples: 

From  Church  General  Funds    2,808,448 

From  Other  Contributions   265,582 

For  general  operating  expenses  of  the  eight  temples  now  in  operation: 

From  Church  General  Funds    409,114 

From  Other  Contributions    16,157 

Total  Expenditures  for  Temples    3,499,301 

Church  School  System 

For  erection,  purchase,  remodeling,  equipping,  and  repair  of  buildings, 
and  for  purchase  of  land: 

From  Church  General  Funds    1,462,548 

From  Other  Contributions    246,975 

For  general  operating  expenses  of  Brigham  Young  University,  Ricks  Col- 
lege, Juarez  Stake  Schools,  and  the  institutes  of  religion  and  seminaries: 

From  Church  General  Funds    3,898,608 

From  Other  Contributions    0 

Total  Expenditures  for  the  Church  School  System    5,608,131 

Welfare 

For  erection,  purchase,  remodeling  and  repair  of  bishops'  storehouses  and 

other  general  welfare  properties,  and  for  equipment: 

From  Church  General  Funds    696,521 

From  Other  Contributions    557,114 

For  the  care  of  the  needy  (rents,  light,  fuel,  hospitalization,  burials,  etc.) ; 

for  operating  expenses  of  bishops'  storehouses;  for  purchase  of  commodities 

and  containers  and  for  transportation;  and  for  General  Church  Welfare 

Committee  Administrative  expenses: 

From  Church  General  Funds    942,573 

From  Other  Contributions    2,449,476 

Total  Expenditures  for  Welfare    4,645,684 


STATISTICAL  AND  FINANCIAL  REPORT  89 

Buildings  and  Grounds 

For  improvements  and  repairs  to  buildings  and  grounds  not  included 
under  other  headings  (Salt  Lake  Tabernacle,  Assembly  Hall,  Church 
Administration  Building,  and  nearby  buildings  and  grounds,  as  well  as 
Church  hospitals): 

From  Church  General  Funds    331,679 

From  Other  Contributions   177,248 

For  operating  expenses  of  these  general  buildings  and  grounds: 

From  Church  General  Funds    352,619 

From  Other  Contributions    0 

Total  Expenditures  for  Buildings  and  Grounds  not  Included  Else- 
where   861,546 


Genealogical  Society 

For  the  operation  of  the  genealogical  library,  archives,  temple  index 
bureau,  and  allied  departments;  for  recording,  indexing,  photographing 
and  filing  genealogical  and  temple  ordinance  data,  including  the  names 
of  661,653  persons  forwarded  to  the  temples  for  ordinances;  and  for  micro- 
film copies  of  genealogical  records  from  5  states  and  6  foreign  countries 
equivalent  to  75,691  printed  volumes  of  approximately  300  pages  per 


volume: 

From  Church  General  Funds    911,903 

From  Other  Contributions    0 

Auxiliary  Activities 

For  expenses  of  the  Auxiliary  General  Boards  and  of  the  Primary  Chil- 
dren's Hospital: 

From  Church  General  Funds    0 

From  Other  Contributions    400,755 

Administrative  Expenses 

For  personnel  and  other  costs  of  operating  the  general  administrative 
offices  of  the  Church;  for  the  living  allowances  and  traveling  expenses  of 
the  General  Authorities;  and  for  current  expenses  of  special  committees: 

From  Church  General  Funds    1,765,119 

From  Other  Contributions    0 


All  Other  Activities  and  Expenses 

For  taxes,  and  insurance,  and  for  replenishment  of  the  Church  Fire 
Insurance  Fund;  for  contributions  to  civic  and  miscellaneous  organizations 


and  causes;  and  for  other  purposes: 

From  Church  General  Funds    440,591 

From  Other  Contributions    0 

Grand  Total  From  Church  General  Funds    $30,662,628 

Grand  Total  From  Other  Contributions    $18,225,195 

Grand  Total,  Expenditures  From  Church  General  Funds  And 

From  Other  Contributions    $48,887,823 


///.  MISCELLANEOUS  ITEMS 

Building  Projects 

Of  the  above  Grand  Totals,  the  following  amounts  were  spent  for  purchase,  erection, 


equipping  and  repair  of  buildings,  and  for  building  sites: 

From  Church  General  Funds    $17,041,972 

From  Other  Funds  Contributed  by  the  People    $  9,633,609 

Plus:  Advances  by  the  Church  to  Hospitals  and  Schools  for  building  projects, 

not  included  in  the  foregoing  table    $  1,096,124 

Total  Building  Project  Expenditures    $27,771,705 


Welfare  Activities 

During  the  year,  the  distrbution  of  commodities  from  Bishops'  Storehouses  amounted 
to  8,098,678  pounds  of  food,  10,089  tons  of  fuel,  and  351,771  items  of  household  supplies, 
clothing  and  miscellaneous.  This  provided  assistance  to  56,566  persons. 


90  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Fourth  Day 

The  Welfare  Plan  also  provided  occupational  counseling  to  6,706  persons  and  placed 
6,946  persons  in  remunerative  employment  during  the  year.  To  operate  the  program  and 
to  improve  and  develop  properties,  127,707  man-days  of  work  and  the  use  of  equipment 
amounting  to  13,711  unit-days  were  donated. 

At  the  end  of  the  year,  the  Deseret  Industries  had  369  persons  working  in  their 
plants,  301  of  whom  were  handicapped  persons;  and  the  Deseret  Clothing  Factory  pro- 
vided continuous  employment  for  58,  many  of  whom  were  widows  and  elderly  persons. 

Missionary  Work 

In  addition  to  the  $7,120,000  of  expenditures  for  "Missions  and  Missionary  Work" 
reported  in  the  foregoing  table,  it  is  estimated  that  missionaries,  their  parents  and  friends 
paid  out  $2,900,000  for  the  support  of  full-time  missionaries  during  the  year,  bringing 
total  expenditures  by  the  Church  and  its  people  for  all  mission  purposes  to  more  than 
$10,000,000  in  1954.  This  total  does  not  include  any  value  for  the  time  and  effort  given 
so  freely  by  the  missionaries  themselves. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Upon  the  honorable  release  of  Presi- 
dent Orton  from  Tahiti,  Elder  Larson 
H.  Caldwell  has  been  serving  success- 
fully and  faithfully  as  Acting  Mission 
President,  who  is  now  succeeded  by,  as 
stated,  Ellis  V.  Christensen. 

Elder  Orval  Adams  will  now  read  the 
report  of  the  Church  Auditing  Commit- 
tee. 


Elder  Orval  W.  Adams  of  the  Church 
Auditing  Committee  read  the  following 
report: 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
April  2,  1955 

President  David  O.  McKay 

and  Counselors, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

Dear  Brethren: 

The  balance  sheet,  with  supporting 
schedules  and  statement  of  revenue  and 
expenditures,  disclosing  the  financial 
condition  of  the  Corporation  of  the 
President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  for  the  year  ending 
December  31,  1954  has  been  reviewed. 
The  records  appear  to  be  adequate  and 
the  accounting  sytem  carefully  kept.  We 
commend  those  who  keep  the  financial 
records  of  the  Church,  including  the 
ward  clerks  and  their  assistants,  the 
stake  clerks  and  their  assistants,  the  mis- 
sion and  branch  secretaries  for  their 
devoted  and  efficient  service.  Disburse- 
ment of  Church  funds  is  controlled 
through  a  comprehensive  budget  system. 
The  receipts  for  the  year  were  in  excess 
of  the  expenditures.  The  Church  is  in 


strong  financial  condition  and  free  from 
debt. 

Respectfully  submitted, 

Orval  W.  Adams 
George  S.  Spencer 
Harold  H.  Bennett 
Church  Auditing 
Committee 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the 
First  Presidency  will  now  present  the 
General  Authorities,  General  Officers, 
and  General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the 
Church  for  the  sustaining  vote  of  this 
General  Conference. 

We  thank  the  Auditing  Committee, 
the  report  of  which  you  have  just  heard 
from  Elder  Orval  Adams. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  the  ceremony 
in  which  we  are  about  to  engage  is 
neither  casual  nor  pro  forma.  As  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  you  are  about  to 
exercise  one  of  the  highest  privileges 
which  as  mere  members  you  have,  that 
of  sustaining  those  who  are  to  preside 
over  you.  It  is  a  ceremony  which  should 
be  approached  with  the  spirit  of  rever- 
ence, devotion  and  prayer. 


President  Clark  then  presented  for 
the  vote  of  the  people  the  General  Au- 
thorities, General  Officers,  and  General 
Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church,  and 
they  were  unanimously  sustained  by 
those  present.  The  list  as  presented  and 
sustained  is  as  follows: 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED  91 
GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  First  Presidency 

David  O.  McKay,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Stephen  L  Richards,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Delbert  L.  Stapley 

Harold  B.  Lee  Marion  G.  Romney 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  LeGrand  Richards 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Mark  E.  Petersen  Richard  L.  Evans 

Henry  D.  Moyle  George  Q.  Morris 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  The  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  Patri- 
arch to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revel  ators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Thomas  E.  McKay  John  Longden 

Clifford  E.  Young  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Alma  Sonne  Sterling  W.  Sill 

El  Ray  L.  Christiansen 

Trustee-in-Trust 
David  O.  McKay 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  Milton  R.  Hunter 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Bruce  R.  McConkie 

Oscar  A.  Kirkham  Marion  D.  Hanks 

Seymour  Dilworth  Young 

Presiding  Bishopric 

Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Presiding  Bishop 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  First  Counselor 
Carl  W.  Buehner,  Second  Counselor 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  as  Assistant. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Church  Board  of  Education 


David  O.  McKay 
Stephen  L  Richards 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
Harold  B.  Lee 
Spencer  W.  Kimball 
Ezra  Taft  Benson 
Mark  E.  Petersen 


Henry  D.  Moyle 
Delbert  L.  Stapley 


Marion  G.  Romney 


LeGrand  Richards 
Adam  S.  Bennion 
Richard  L.  Evans 
George  Q.  Morris 


Ernest  L.  Wilkinson 
Administrator,  Board  of  Education 

Church  Auditing  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams 
George  S.  Spencer 
Harold  H.  Bennett 

Tabernacle  Choir 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor 

Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant 


CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 
Advisers 


and  the  General  Presidency  of  the  Relief  Society. 

General  Church  Welfare  Committee 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 

Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 

Marion  G.  Romney,  Assistant  Managing  Director. 


Henry  D.  Moyle 
Delbert  L.  Stapley 
Marion  G.  Romney 
LeGrand  Richards 
Thomas  E.  McKay 
Clifford  E.  Young 
Alma  Sonne 


Harold  B.  Lee 


El  Ray  L.  Christiansen 
John  Longden 
Antoine  R.  Ivins 
Oscar  A.  Kirkham 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 
Carl  W.  Buehner 


Paul  C.  Child 
T.  C.  Stayner 
Mark  B.  Garff 


W.  T.  Lawrence 
Lorenzo  H.  Hatch 
Walter  Dansie 
LeRoy  A.  Wirthlin 
Walter  Stover 


Leonard  E.  Adams 
J.  Leonard  Love 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED  93 
GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Relief  Society 

Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Velma  Nebeker  Simonsen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 

George  R.  Hill,  General  Superintendent 
David  Lawrence  McKay,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Lynn  S.  Richards,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Elbert  R.  Curtis,  General  Superintendent 
A.  Walter  Stevenson,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
David  S.  King,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Bertha  S.  Reeder,  President 
Emily  H.  Bennett,  First  Counselor 
LaRue  C.  Longden,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Primary  Association 

LaVern  W.  Parmley,  President 
Arta  M.  Hale,  First  Counselor 
Leone  W.  Doxey,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


President  Clark: 

President  McKay,  as  far  as  I  am  able 
to  judge,  the  unanimous  vote  for  the 
sustaining  of  these  officers  was  cast  in 
the  affirmative  without  any  dissenting 
vote. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the 
First  Presidency  has  just  presented  the 
Authorities  and  Officers  of  the  Church 
for  the  sustaining  vote  of  this  General 
Conference.  You  have  just  heard  his 
announcement. 


You  will  note  this  morning,  you  who 
are  in  the  Tabernacle,  that  we  have  our 
daffodils,  and  they  seem  to  have  been 
well  taken  care  of  on  their  trip  to  Denver 
and  return.  They  are  beautiful.  They 
are  the  gifts  and  have  been  presented 
for  the  beautification  of  the  Tabernacle 
during  these  services  by  the  Puyallup 
Festival  Committee  of  Tacoma,  Wash- 
ington. Again  we  extend  thanks  to 
these  generous  donors,  and  report  to 
them  that  the  daffodils  do  look  beautiful. 

Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  first 
speaker  this  morning.  He  will  be  fol- 
lowed by  Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young. 


94 

Wednesday.  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Fourth  Day 


A young  Indian  lad  in  my  presence 
recently  bore  his  testimony,  and  he 
said:  "I  am  proud  that  I  am  a 
Navajo.  I  am  proud,  more  proud,  that 
I  am  a  Mormon,  and  I  am  still  more 
proud  that  I  hold  the  priesthood,"  and 
that  is  the  way  I  feel  today  in  this  great 
assembly  on  this  anniversary.  One  hun- 
dred and  twenty-five  years  ago  six  people 
gathered  together  in  the  first  conference; 
and  at  this  conference  some  ten  sessions 
have  filled  the  building  to  its  capacity.  I 
bear  witness  that  the  work  that  we  are 
engaged  in  is  the  work  of  the  Lord  in 
all  its  comprehensiveness,  and  I  am 
grateful  that  I  am  a  member  of  the 
Lord's  Church.  I  have  prayed  much 
that  what  I  say  this  morning  might  be 
beneficial  to  someone. 

And  the  Lord  said,  I  am  Jesus  whom  thou 
persecutest:  it  is  hard  for  thee  to  kick 
against  the  pricks.  (Acts  9:5.) 

The  Lord  was  speaking  to  the  power- 
ful figure,  Saul  of  Tarsus,  Paul  of  Chris- 
tianity. I  often  wondered  just  what 
this  meant.  I  found  one  authority  who 
offered  this: 

.  .  .  Those  who  kick  at  the  goad,  that 
stifle  and  smother  the  convictions  of  con- 
science, that  rebel  against  God's  truths  and 
laws,  that  quarrel  with  His  providences, 
that  persecute  and  oppose  His  ministers, 
because  they  reprove  them  .  .  .  and  fly  in 
the  face  of  their  reprovers,  they  kick  against 
the  pricks,  and  will  have  a  great  deal  to 
answer  for.  (Commentaries  by  Henry  M. 
Scott.) 

A  goad  is  defined  as  a  spear  or  a  sharp 
pointed  stick  used  to  sting  or  prick. 
The  burro  who  kicks  the  sharp  instru- 
ment with  which  he  is  being  prodded  is 
kicking  at  the  pricks.  His  retaliation  does 
iittle  damage  to  the  sharp  stick  or  to 
him  who  wields  it  but  brings  distress 
to  the  foot  that  kicks  it. 

I  well  remember  in  my  youth  a  neigh- 
bor who  moved  about  for  some  days 
on  crutches.  He  was  evasive  when 
asked  the  cause  of  his  misfortune,  but 
an  ear  witness  told  me,  as  he  chuckled: 
"John  stubbed  his  toe  on  a  chair  in  the 
night  and  in  his  quick,  fierce  anger,  he 


kicked  the  chair  and  broke  his  toe."  The 
rocking  chair  rocked  on  and  on,  and  per- 
haps smiled  at  the  stupidity  of  man. 

The  first  king  of  Israel  quarreled  with 
Providence.  His  stubbornness  cost  him 
his  kingdom  and  brought  forth  the  caus- 
tic denunciation  from  his  prophet: 

For  rebellion  is  as  the  sin  of  witchcraft, 
and  stubbornness  is  as  iniquity  and  idolatry. 
Because  thou  hast  rejected  the  word  of  the 
Lord,  he  hath  also  rejected  thee  from  being 
king.  (I  Samuel  15:23.) 

O  foolish  monarch!  Given  power, 
wealth,  opportunity,  why  throw  them 
all  away?  The  Prophet  Samuel  de- 
nounced the  independent,  arrogant  Saul; 
the  superior,  unhumble  Saul;  the  proud, 
conceited  Saul: 

When  thou  wast  little  in  thine  own  sight, 
wast  thou  not  made  the  head  of  the  tribes 
of  Israel,  and  the  Lord  anointed  thee  king 
over  Israel?  (Ibid.,  15:17.) 

There  is  the  man  who  rebelled 
against  the  call  of  Brigham  Young  to 
go  to  southern  valleys,  saying:  "No- 
body is  going  to  tell  me  where  to  go 
and  what  to  do."  Through  his  personal 
rebellion,  he  took  his  entire  family  out 
of  the  Church.  How  little  he  retarded 
the  colonization  program!  The  valleys 
were  settled  in  spite  of  him.  How  little 
his  disaffection  injured  the  Church! 
It  has  grown  steadily  without  him.  But 
how  he  has  suffered  in  his  eternal  pro- 
gression. In  contrast,  there  were  many 
who  pulled  up  stakes,  moved  to  new 
worlds,  and  reared  families  of  faith 
and  devotion. 

There  are  many  who,  because  trou- 
bles come,  cease  praying  to  the  Lord, 
letting  loose  of  the  very  rod  of  protec- 
tion at  the  precise  moment  when  that 
hand-hold  is  so  vital. 

There  is  the  man  who,  to  satisfy  his 
own  egotism,  took  a  stand  against  the 
Authorities  of  the  Church.  He  followed 
the  usual  pattern,  not  apostasy  at  first, 
only  superiority  of  knowledge  and  mild 
criticism.  He  loved  the  brethren,  he 
said,  but  they  failed  to  see  and  interpret 
as  he  would  like.  He  would  still  love 


ELDER  SPENC 

the  Church,  he  maintained,  but  his 
criticism  grew  and  developed  into  ever- 
widening  circles.  He  was  right,  he 
assured  himself;  he  could  not  yield  in 
good  conscience;  he  had  his  pride.  His 
children  did  not  accept  his  philosophy 
wholly,  but  their  confidence  was  shaken. 
In  their  frustration,  they  married  out 
of  the  Church,  and  he  lost  them.  He 
later  realized  his  folly  and  returned  to 
humbleness,  but  so  very  late.  He  had 
lost  his  children.  "It  is  hard  for  thee 
to  kick  against  the  pricks." 
The  Prophet  Ezekiel  said: 

The  fathers  have  eaten  sour  grapes,  and 
the  children's  teeth  are  set  on  edge.  (Ezekiel 
18:2.) 

There  is  the  man  who  resisted  release 
from  positions  in  the  Church.  He  knew 
positions  were  temporary  trusts,  but  he 
criticized  the  presiding  leader  who  had 
released  him,  complaining  that  proper 
recognition  had  not  been  given;  the  time 
had  not  been  propitious;  it  had  been  a 
reflection  upon  his  effectiveness.  He 
bitterly  built  up  a  case  for  himself,  ab- 
sented himself  from  his  meetings,  and 
justified  himself  in  his  resultant  es- 
trangement. His  children  partook  of 
his  frustrations,  and  his  children's  chil- 
dren. In  later  life  he  "came  to  himself," 
and  on  the  brink  of  the  grave  made  an 
about-face.  His  family  would  not  ef- 
fect the  transformation  which  now  he 
would  give  his  life  to  have  them  make. 
How  selfish!  Haughty  pride  induces 
eating  sour  grapes,  and  innocent  ones 
have  their  teeth  set  on  edge.  "It  is 
hard  for  thee  to  kick  against  the  pricks." 

When  I  was  a  child,  we  used  the 
expression,  "He  cut  off  his  nose  to 
spite  his  face."  To  us,  that  meant  that 
one  was  fighting  against  fate,  rebell- 
ing against  the  inevitable,  damaging 
himself  to  spite  others,  breaking  his  toe 
to  give  vent  to  his  senseless  anger. 

Eight  lovely  children  had  blessed  the 
temple  marriage  of  a  man  and  woman 
who  in  later  years  were  denied  a  temple 
recommend.  They  would  not  be  so 
dealt  with  by  this  young  bishop.  Why 
should  they  be  deprived  and  humiliat- 
ed? Were  they  less  worthy  than  others? 
They  argued  that  this  boy-bishop  was 
too  strict,  too  orthodox.  Never  would 
they  be  active,  nor  enter  the  door  of 


R  W.  KIMBALL  95 

that  Church  as  long  as  that  bishop 
presided.  They  would  show  him.  The 
history  of  this  family  is  tragic.  The 
four  younger  ones  were  never  baptized; 
the  four  older  ones  never  were  ordained, 
endowed,  nor  sealed.  No  missions  were 
filled  by  this  family.  Today  the  parents 
are  ill  at  ease,  still  defiant.  They  had 
covered  themselves  with  a  cloud,  and 
righteous  prayers  could  not  pass  through. 
(See  Lam.  3:44.) 
Sour  grapes  1  Such  unhappy  food  I 

The  works,  and  the  designs,  and  the  pur- 
poses of  God  cannot  be  frustrated,  neither 
can  they  come  to  naught.  (D.  &  C.  3:1.) 

But  the  individual  who  fights  them 
finds  disillusionment,  disappointment, 
and  misery.  The  Lord  said:  ".  .  .  the 
rebellious  shall  be  pierced  with  much 
sorrow."  (Ibid.,  1:3.)  He  outlines  fur- 
ther the  fate  of  the  fighters. 

As  well  might  man  stretch  forth  his  puny 
arm  to  stop  the  Missouri  river  in  its  decreed 
course,  or  to  turn  it  up  stream.  .  .  . 

Why  are  so  few  chosen? 

Because  their  hearts  are  set  so  much  upon 
the  things  of  this  world,  and  aspire  to  the 
honors  of  men,  that  they  do  not  learn  this 
one  lesson — 

That  the  rights  of  the  priesthood  .  .  . 

.  .  .  may  be  conferred  upon  us  it  is  true; 
but  when  we  undertake  to  cover  our  sins, 
or  to  gratify  our  pride,  our  vain  ambition 
...  in  any  degree  of  unrighteousness,  be- 
hold, the  heavens  withdraw  themselves; 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  grieved;  and  when 
it  is  withdrawn,  Amen  to  the  priesthood  or 
the  authority  of  that  man. 

Behold,  ere  he  is  aware,  he  is  left  unto 
himself,  to  kick  against  the  pricks,  to  perse- 
cute the  saints,  and  to  fight  against  God. 
(Ibid.,  121:33-38.) 

Of  such  who  defy  the  Lord,  trample 
upon  his  sacred  ordinances,  fight  his 
leaders,  the  Lord  has  this  to  say: 

Cursed  are  all  those  that  shall  lift  up 
the  heel  against  mine  anointed,  saith  the 
Lord,  and  cry  they  have  sinned  when  they 
have  not  sinned  before  me,  saith  the  Lord, 
but  have  done  that  which  was  meet  in  mine 
eyes,  and  which  I  commanded  them. 

But  those  who  cry  transgression  do  it 
because  they  are  the  servants  of  sin,  and 
are  the  children  of  disobedience  them- 
selves. .  .  . 

Wo  unto  them;  .  .  .  they  shall  be  severed 
from  the  ordinances  of  mine  house. 


96 

Wednesday,  April  6 

.  .  .  they  themselves  shall  be  despised  by 
those  that  flattered  them. 

They  shall  not  have  right  to  the  priest- 
hood, nor  their  posterity  after  them  from 
generation  to  generation.  (Ibid.,  121:16-17, 
19,  21.) 

In  the  last  century  the  Lord  con- 
demned a  Brother  Almon  Babbitt: 

.  .  .  behold,  he  aspireth  to  establish  his 
counsel  which  I  have  ordained,  even  that 
of  the  Presidency  of  my  Church;  and  he 
setteth  up  a  golden  calf  for  the  worship  of 
my  people.  (Ibid.,  124:84.) 

He  was  like  those  Romans  of  whom 
Paul  spoke: 

For  the  wrath  of  God  is  revealed  from 
heaven  against  all  ungodliness  and  un- 
righteousness of  men.  .  .  . 

Because  that,  when  they  knew  God,  they 
glorified  him  not  as  God,  .  .  .  but  became 
vain  in  their  imaginations,  and  their  foolish 
heart  was  darkened. 

Professing  themselves  to  be  wise,  they 
became  fools.  (Romans  1:18,  21,  22.) 

For  although  a  man  may  have  many 
revelations,  and  have  power  to  do  many 
mighty  works,  [the  Lord  said]  yet  if  he 
boasts  in  his  own  strength,  and  sets  at 
naught  the  counsels  of  God,  and  follows 
after  the  dictates  of  his  own  will  and  carnal 
desires,  he  must  fall  and  incur  the  vengeance 
of  a  just  God  upon  him.  (D.  &  C.  3:4.) 

Martin  Harris  was  chastised  by  the 
Redeemer  as 

...  a  wicked  man,  who  has  set  at  naught 
the  counsels  of  God,  and  has  broken  the 
most  sacred  promises  which  were  made  be- 
fore God,  and  has  depended  upon  his  own 
wisdom.  (Ibid.,  3:12-13.) 

Only  the  transgression  of  His  people 
can  nullify  the  work  of  the  Lord,  He 
says.   And  Jacob  laments: 

.  .  .  O  the  vainness,  and  the  frailties,  and 
the  foolishness  of  men!  When  they  are 
learned  they  think  they  are  wise,  and  they 
hearken  not  unto  the  counsel  of  God,  for 
they  set  it  aside,  supposing  they  know  of 
themselves,  wherefore,  their  wisdom  is  fool- 
ishness and  it  profiteth  them  not.  And 
they  shall  perish.  (2  Nephi  9:28.) 

Men  continue  to  try  to  create  God, 
to  control  God,  and  to  thwart  his  pur- 
poses but: 

His  purposes  fail  not,  neither  are  there 
any  who  can  stay  his  hand. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Fourth  Day 

From  eternity  to  eternity  he  is  the  same, 
and  his  years  never  fail.  (D.  8c  C.  76:3-4.) 

But  men  in  their  egotism  continue 
to  try.  Against  men  like  these,  Paul 
warned  his  colleague: 

O  Timothy,  keep  that  which  is  committed 
to  thy  trust,  avoiding  profane  and  vain 
babblings,  and  oppositions  of  science  falsely 
so  called.  (I  Tim.  6:20.) 

The  Caesars  burned  the  early  Saints 
as  torches,  subjected  them  to  the  claws 
of  wild  beasts  in  the  coliseums,  drove 
them  underground  into  the  catacombs, 
confiscated  their  property,  and  snuffed 
out  their  lives,  but  all  to  no  avail,  for 
the  fires  of  devotion  and  sacrifice  were 
only  intensified  thereby. 

The  persecutors  decapitated  John  the 
Baptist,  ran  a  lance  through  the  Apostle 
James,  and  according  to  tradition  mar- 
tyred the  missionary,  Paul,  and  cruci- 
fied the  mighty  Simon  Barjona.  They 
failed  of  purpose.  Where  a  relatively 
few  contemporaries  ever  heard  them, 
hundreds  of  millions  have  since  been 
enlightened  by  their  doctrines  and  in- 
spired by  their  testimonies. 

"Mormonism  will  fail  if  we  kill  their 
prophet,"  they  said  a  century  ago  as 
they  murdered  Joseph  Smith  in  cold 
blood.  Undoubtedly  their  fiendish  grins 
of  satisfaction  at  such  a  foul  deed 
changed  to  perturbed  grimaces  when 
they  came  to  realize  that  they  had  been 
but  kicking  against  sharp  points,  in- 
juring only  themselves.  Mormonism 
was  not  destroyed  by  the  cruel  martyr- 
dom, but  here  was  its  vitality.  The 
bullet-torn  flesh  fertilized  the  soil;  the 
blood  they  shed  moistened  the  seed; 
and  the  spirits  they  sent  heavenward 
will  testify  against  them  throughout 
eternities.  The  cause  persists  and  grows. 

Gamaliel,  the  noted  Pharisee  doctor 
of  the  law,  teacher  of  Saul  of  Tarsus, 
had  deeper  perception  than  did  his  as- 
sociates, the  chief  priests  who  would 
have  slain  the  Apostles.  He  warned: 

.  .  .  take  heed  to  yourselves  what  ye  in- 
tend to  do  as  touching  these  men.  .  .  . 

Refrain  from  these  men,  and  let  them 
alone:  for  if  this  counsel  or  this  work  be 
of  men,  it  will  come  to  nought: 

But  if  it  be  of  God,  ye  cannot  overthrow 
it;  lest  haply  ye  be  found  even  to  fight 
against  God.  (Acts  5:35,  38-39.) 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


97 


What  sagacity!  How  wise  this  learn- 
ed man!  "Take  heed  to  yourselves," 
he  warned.  It  was  a  boomerang.  He 
reminded  them  of  the  fate  of  the  in- 
fluential Theudas  with  his  great  swell- 
ing words,  his  vaunted  knowledge,  his 
brilliant  mind,  his  superior  logic,  who 
with  his  following  of  hundreds  kicked 
"against  the  pricks,"  resisted  truth, 
fought  against  God,  and  "came  to 
nought." 

He  spoke  of  Judas  of  Galilee  and  his 
vain  philosophies  and  his  flattering 
words  which  brought  him  and  his  fol- 
lowing oblivion.  Early  leaders  whose 
names  are  linked  with  those  of  Joseph 
and  Hyrum  have  come  and  gone. 
Heavens  opened,  revelations  flowed,  and 
holy  angels  ministered  to  them.  Posi- 
tions of  trust  were  given  them,  but  with 
it  all  there  came  arrogance,  jealousies, 
and  disaffections. 

For  their  vine  is  of  the  vine  of  Sodom, 
and  of  the  fields  of  Gomorrah:  their  grapes 
are  grapes  of  gall,  their  clusters  are  hitter: 

Their  wine  is  the  poison  of  dragons,  and 
the  cruel  venom  of  asps.  (Deut.  32:32-33.) 

Are  not  these  the  self-planted,  self- 
nourished,  and  self-harvested  grapes  of 
wrath?  0  stupid  man,  O  egotistical 
man!  Thinking  only  of  self  he  profanes 
the  way  of  the  Lord  and  brings  sorrow 
to  his  posterity  whose  roses  turn  to 
ashes,  whose  fruit  becomes  only  skin- 
covered  stones.  The  grapes  are  so  sour. 
How  terrifying  such  a  responsibility! 
"It  is  hard  for  thee  to  kick  against  the 
pricks." 

But  wo  unto  him  that  has  the  law  given, 
yea,  and  that  has  all  the  commandments 
of  God,  like  unto  us,  and  that  transgresseth 
them,  and  that  wasteth  the  days  of  his 
probation,  for  awful  is  his  state!  (2  Nephi 
9:27.) 

In  a  page  from  the  journal  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  we  find  this:  "At  3:30 
p.m.  I  met  with  Brigham  Young  [and 
others  whom  he  named]  in  my  office." 
And  then  this:  "Write  to  Oliver  Cow- 
dery  and  ask  him  if  he  has  not  eaten 
husks  long  enough?  If  he  is  not  almost 
ready  to  return,  be  clothed  with  robes 
of  righteousness,  and  go  up  to  Jerusa- 
lem? Orson  Hyde  hath  need  of  him." 
(History  of  the  Church,  Vol.  5,  pp.  366, 
368.) 


This  is  likely  reminiscent  of  the  prodi- 
gal son  whose  sad  fate  brought  him  to 
the  eating  of  husks  with  the  swine  after 
he  had  turned  from  the  luxurious  board 
of  plenty  at  his  father's  table.  And  like 
him,  the  modern  man  of  rare  oppor- 
tunity fought  against  his  conscience, 
stifled  his  best  impulses;  and  finally 
when  the  earthly  powers  were  near  an 
end,  his  influence  in  the  world  largely 
terminated,  he  "came  to  himself"  back 
to  the  program  he  had  resisted.  Many 
teeth  had  been  set  on  edge  in  the  years 
of  his  unproductive,  sterile  years.  His 
brother-in-law,  David  Whitmer,  said 
of  him  as  he  was  restored  to  the  Church 
late  in  life: 

"Oliver  died  the  happiest  man  I  ever 
saw.  After  shaking  hands  with  his  fam- 
ily and  kissing  his  wife  and  daughter,  he 
said:  'Now  I  lay  me  down  for  the  last 
time.  .  .  .'  And  he  died  with  a  smile 
on  his  face." 

Peace,  sweet  peace,  finally  comes  to 
all  men  when  they  humbly  yield  to  the 
gentle  pressures  of  the  Spirit. 

The  story  of  the  transformation  of 
Alma  is  not  unlike  that  of  Paul.  With 
his  companions  he  set  about  to  "steady 
the  ark,"  to  set  straight  the  leaders  of 
the  Church,  and  to  take  over  the  minds 
of  the  people.  These  young  men  were 
brilliant,  eloquent,  impressive.  The 
angel  of  the  Lord  in  a  cloud  spoke  "as 
it  were  with  a  voice  of  thunder  which 
caused  the  earth  to  shake,"  and  the 
astonished  men  fell  to  the  earth,  Alma 
becoming  dumb  and  lifeless.  Carried 
helpless  to  his  father  he  was  recovered 
after  long  fasting  and  prayer  by  those 
who  loved  him.  In  his  remorse  he  cried 
out: 

I  was  in  the  darkest  abyss  but  now  I  be- 
hold the  marvelous  light  of  God.  My  soul 
was  wracked  with  eternal  torment,  but  I 
am  snatched  and  my  soul  is  pained  no  more. 

It  took  courage  for  Alma  and  the 
princes  to  admit  they  were  wrong,  but 
they  went  about  "zealously  striving  to 
repair  all  the  injuries  which  they  had 
done  to  the  church."  (See  Mos.  27:35.) 

We  quote  Paul  again: 

Beware  lest  any  man  spoil  you  through 
philosophy  and  vain  deceit,  after  the  tradi- 
tion of  men,  after  the  rudiments  of  the 
world,  and  not  after  Christ.  (Col.  2:8.) 


98  GENERAL  C 

Wednesday,  April  6 

The  antediluvians  were  a  law  unto 
themselves  and  locked  doors  against 
themselves.  Jonah,  in  his  egotism,  took 
offense  when  the  repentance  of  Nineveh 
rendered  unnecessary  the  fulfilment  of 
his  prophecy.  Judas  fought  against  God 
and  suffered  the  buffetings  of  Satan. 
Sherem  with  his  learning,  his  eloquence 
and  his  flattery,  sought  to  turn  away 
people  from  the  simple  faith,  and  he  died 
in  remorse  and  humiliation.  Nehor  tried 
to  advance  his  own  cause,  increase  his 
popularity,  and  lead  a  following  with  his 
criticisms  and  flatteries,  and  came  to 
ignominious  death.  Korihor,  with  his 
teachings  of  intellectual  liberty  and  his 
rationalizations,  followed  his  temporary 
popularity  with  begging  in  the  streets. 
The  Jonahs  and  Almas  and  Korihors 
live  on  and  undertake  to  cover  their 
sins,  gratify  their  pride,  and  vain  ambi- 
tions. They  grieve  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord,  withdraw  from  holy  places  and 
righteous  influences,  and  in  the  words  of 
the  Savior: 

Behold,  ere  he  is  aware,  he  is  left  unto 
himself,  to  kick  against  the  pricks,  to  perse- 
cute the  saints  and  to  fight  against  God. 
(D.  &  C.  121:38.) 

But  be  it  said  to  the  everlasting  glory 
of  men,  numerous  good  people  who  have 
tasted  of  and  recovered  from  offense, 
having  come  to  realize  that  so  long  as 
mortality  exists  we  live  and  work  with 
imperfect  people;  and  there  will  be  mis- 
understandings, offenses,  and  injuries  to 
sensitive  feelings.  The  best  of  motives 
are  often  misunderstood.  It  is  gratify- 
ing to  find  many  who,  in  their  bigness 
of  soul  have  straightened  out  their 
thinking,  swallowed  their  pride,  forgiven 
what  they  had  felt  were  personal  slights. 
Numerous  others  who  have  walked  criti- 
cal, lonely,  thorny  paths  in  abject 
misery,  have  finally  accepted  correction, 
acknowledged    errors,    cleansed  their 


Fourth  Day 

hearts  of  bitterness,  and  have  come  again 
to  peace,  that  coveted  peace  which  is 
so  conspicuous  in  its  absence.  And  the 
frustrations  of  criticism,  bitterness,  and 
the  resultant  estrangements  have  given 
place  to  warmth  and  light  and  peace. 
And  all  those  who  have  come  into  the 
warmth  of  the  love  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  and  his  program,  could  shout 
with  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith: 

.  .  .  Let  your  hearts  rejoice,  and  be  ex- 
ceedingly glad.  .  .  . 

And  let  the  sun,  moon,  and  the  morning 
stars  sing  together,  and  let  all  the  sons  of 
God  shout  for  joy.  And  let  the  eternal  cre- 
ations declare  his  name  forever  and  ever! 
And  again  I  say,  how  glorious  is  the  voice 
we  hear  from  heaven,  proclaiming  in  our 
ears,  glory,  and  salvation,  and  honor,  and 
immortality,  and  eternal  life;  kingdoms, 
principalities,  and  powers!  (Ibid.,  128:22-23.) 

May  God  bless  us  all  that  we  may  live 
near  him  always,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  has  just  con- 
cluded speaking.  Before  we  hear  from 
Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young,  the  Choir  and 
Congregation  will  join  in  singing,  "O 
Ye  Mountains  High,"  conducted  by 
Brother  J.  Spencer  Cornwall. 


Singing  by  the  congregation  and  Sing- 
ing Mothers,  "O  Ye  Mountains  High." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young,  one  of  the 
presidents  of  the  First  Council  of  Sev- 
enty, will  now  speak  to  us.  He  will  be 
followed  by  Elder  George  Q.  Morris  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I assure  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  kindness  to  those  with  whom  he  con- 
that  it  is  an  easy  thing  to  be  a  fol-  ducts  affairs  is  known  by  all  of  you  and 
lower  of  Brother  Spencer  Kimball,  shared  by  me.  Likewise,  it  is  easy  to 
both  in  making  addresses  and  in  the  follow  the  lead  of  the  Presidency.  There 
work  of  the  Church.  His  gentleness  and  have  been  times  in  my  life  when  I  have 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 


99 


had  to  be  rebuked.  Never  yet,  however, 
was  it  done  in  any  way  other  than  in 
the  utmost  gentleness,  and  I  have  found 
myself  more  anxious  than  ever  to  do 
better  work.  "Kicking  against  the 
pricks" — that  particular  kind  of  pricks — 
is  easy. 

Saturday  I  sat  for  a  good  part  of  the 
meeting  in  the  last  session  of  the 
Primary  conference  as  those  lovely 
women  portrayed  to  the  audience  the 
things  they  do  for  children  in  Primary. 
I  recalled  how  in  like  manner  the  Sun- 
day School  officers  and  teachers  at- 
tempt gently  to  lead  children  into 
righteousness,  and,  as  the  children  grow 
older,  how  the  Mutual  Improvement 
Associations  gather  them  into  groups  and 
attempt  to  interpret  to  them  the  nature 
of  their  acts  in  relation  to  the  gospel — 
a  worthy  effort.  It  occurred  to  me  that 
we  parents  leave  too  much  to  them. 

It  was  said  in  my  hearing  some  time 
ago  that  if  a  child  goes  to  all  of  these 
auxiliary  organizations  faithfully,  he  is 
bound,  all  things  being  equal,  to  be- 
come a  good  Latter-day  Saint  when  he 
grows  up.  Let  me  assure  you  that  that 
is  true  in  part,  but  only  if  another  factor 
is  brought  into  the  picture. 

That  Primary  child  will  leave  about 
five  o'clock  for  home,  will  walk  down 
the  street,  or  along  the  village  road, 
and  will  arrive  eventually  at  his  own 
domicile.  There  is  where  the  next  test 
comes. 

In  the  few  moments  allotted  to  me, 
I  should  like  to  talk  about  two  items, 
and  I  do  not  wish  to  be  misunderstood, 
but  I  want  to  be  as  clear  as  I  know  how 
to  be.  These  have  to  do  with  the  use  of 
things  in  the  home  which  touch  that 
child's  character.  You  heard  it  said  the 
other  day  that  Satan  has  no  power  over 
a  child  until  eight  years  of  age.  I  be- 
lieve that  to  be  true,  but  I  wish  to  re- 
mind you  all,  and  myself,  too,  that 
Satan  may  have  no  power  to  tempt  a 
child  before  eight  years  of  age,  but  some 
of  his  emissaries  go  all  out  to  condition 
a  child  so  that  when  he  becomes  eight 
he  will  not  be  conscious  that  sinning 
is  very  bad.  Exposing  children,  small 
children  particularly,  to  the  constant 
barrage  of  situations  which  can  affect 
their  outlook  on  the  matters  on  which 
they  must  make  decisions  is  a  subtle  way 
to  bring  them  into  evil  later.   I  suspect 


it  is  no  different  with  large  children. 
Nowadays  the  home  is  one  place  where 
the  child  meets  this  test. 

The  first  item  is  comic  books,  and  the 
things  we  call  "funnies."  Harmless- 
appearing  things  they  are.  A  frustrated 
mother  likes  to  get  the  supper  on,  and 
the  child  nagging  at  her  can  easily  be 
pacified,  if  he  is  old  enough,  by  a  hand- 
ful of  these  books.  It  is  easy  entertain- 
ment, and  she  may  feel  that  the  child 
will  look  at  them  and  gain  something 
from  the  pictures. 

If  I  were  a  parent  again  and  had  a 
small  child,  I  never  would  allow  him  to 
look  at  a  comic  book  until  I  had  looked 
through  it  myself,  and  if  it  contained 
one  thing  suggestive  of  anything  but  the 
highest  principles,  that  child,  if  I  had 
the  power,  would  not  see  that  book. 

Comic  books  in  the  home  are  a  poor 
substitute  for  activity  on  the  part  of 
parents  in  relation  to  their  children. 
They  can  do,  and  often  do,  untold  evil. 
At  best,  they  are  poor  entertainment. 
They  stop  a  child  from  learning  how  to 
read  well.  They  stultify  his  desire  to 
learn  good  literature,  and  he  ends  up 
by  being  a  picture  gazer,  able  to  absorb 
ideas  through  that  means  only. 

I  am  ever  grateful  to  my  uncle,  and  to 
my  own  parents  for  getting  me  in  the 
line  of  reading  good  things.  I  well  re- 
call two  incidents.  One  day  there  came 
to  my  door  the  postman,  and  he  brought 
a  magazine  known  then  as  the  Cosmo- 
politan. In  that  day  it  was  not  what  it 
is  today.  It  was  considered  to  be  a  high- 
class  magazine,  about  as  high  as  they 
come  in  America.  My  name  was  on  it, 
and  there  was  a  note  accompanying  it, 
and  it  said:  "You  are  to  have  this  sub- 
scription for  a  whole  year,  with  love — 
Uncle  Lee."  I  was  then  six  years  old, 
and  I  could  no  more  understand  the 
words  in  that  magazine  than  I  could 
have  understood  an  angel,  had  I  seen 
one.  But  it  was  my  magazine,  and 
every  month  I  watched  for  it,  and  every 
month  I  tried  to  justify  my  uncle's  con- 
fidence in  me  that  he  thought  I  could 
understand  such  a  thing.  The  gift, 
even  though  not  understood,  built  in  me 
a  pride  that  I  wanted  to  measure  up. 

Another  time  he  stood  in  the  library 
of  the  old  house  on  Fourth  East — I  sup- 
pose he  knew  I  was  in  the  house — and 
I  burst  into  the  library,  and  there  he 


100 

Wednesday,  April  6 

was  in  front  of  a  bookcase  with  a  book 
open  in  his  hand.  He  said,  "Come 
here."  I  went  there.  He  read  to  me  a 
most  exciting  adventure  between  some 
white  men  and  some  Indians.  He  said, 
"This  is  a  great  book,  and  I  know  you 
will  like  it."  Then  he  put  it  in  my 
hands,  and  said,  "Read  it,  and  when 
you  finish  reading  it,  I  have  another 
one  equally  good  for  you."  Thus  I  be- 
came acquainted  with  The  Last  of  the 
Mohicans,  and  I  thus  was  led  until  I 
could  appreciate  good  literature,  and  had 
learned  to  read  well  and  rapidly — one 
of  the  greatest  gifts  I  have  ever  had. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  do  not  allow 
your  children  to  have  in  their  hands 
things  which  will  keep  them  from  learn- 
ing the  art  of  reading,  and  which  in 
addition  will  also  give  them  evil  from 
pictures  which  you  have  not  censored 
yourselves. 

The  second  item  is  a  thing  which  I 
am  sure  many  of  you  will  not  agree 
about — television — the  very  thing  that 
is  bringing  this  conference  to  thousands 
of  people.  Used  correctly  it  is  a  great 
blessing.  Abused,  it  can  be  a  source  of 
evil.  How  would  you  like  to  have  a 
man  walk  into  your  home  and  say  to 
your  daughter,  aged  ten,  "Look,  honey, 
I  have  some  pictures  to  show  you," 
and  then  he  shows  her  some  pictures  of 
half-dressed  people  performing  antics, 
doing  lewd  things  or  questionable  things 
or  uncultured  things.  You  would  do 
anything  in  your  power  to  keep  him 
from  entering  your  house,  and  yet  at  the 
touch  of  a  button  that  is  what  you  have 
if  you  do  not  take  care. 

No  one  knows  how  far  it  will  go,  and 
no  one  knows  where  it  will  stop.  You 
keep  on  feeding  to  a  child — a  small 
child — the  sight  of  his  parents  laughing 
over  a  humorous  situation,  happily  en- 
gaged in  enjoying  something,  and  then 
having  that  thing  linked  to  some  item 
which  the  producers  are  trying  to  sell 
which  is  evil,  and  the  child  will  con- 
nect the  laughter  with  the  evil,  and  will 
not  see  any  evil  in  it.  If  you  keep  that 
up  for  several  years,  over  and  over  again, 
what  do  you  think  will  happen? 

I  saw  an  example  of  it  just  the  other 
day.  Sister  Young  and  I  happened  to  be 
in  a  small  town  overnight  on  our  way 
to  a  conference,  and  having  an  hour  or 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Fourth  Day 

two  to  spend,  we  happened  to  pass  a 
theater  which  advertised  a  moving  pic- 
ture which  was  very  famous  a  year  or 
two  ago.   We  went  in. 

The  theme  of  the  picture  had  to  do 
with  three  men  coming  home  from  war, 
two  of  whom  spend  their  first  night 
home  with  their  families  getting  drunk. 
The  antics  of  these  drunken  men 
brought  hysterical  laughter  from  a  cer- 
tain group.  It  was  not  the  adults.  It 
was  the  high-pitched,  shrill,  laughter 
of  small  children.  Where  do  you  sup- 
pose they  learned  to  laugh  at  that  sort 
of  thing?  Do  you  think  that  one  show 
would  cause  it?  No.  They  have  been 
exposed  for  a  long  time  to  such  things. 
Movies  are  not  the  entire  cause.  Tele- 
vision has  its  share  of  the  blame  to 
take. 

I  think  it  would  be  a  good  thing 
sometimes  if  we  had  on  our  instru- 
ments at  home  a  little  slot  in  which  we 
had  to  drop  fifty  cents  before  we  could 
enjoy  the  program.  That  might  be  a 
deterrent  to  some  programs  which  we 
view  because  we  do  not  have  the  dis- 
crimination to  turn  them  off. 

Nowadays,  gone  is  the  dining  room, 
that  sacred  place  where  Father  gathered 
his  family  around  him  at  suppertime, 
and  where  he  could  give  instruction  and 
they  could  get  acquainted.  Now  it  has 
disappeared  into  the  laps  of  those  who 
sit  by  small  stools  gulping  food  while 
they  watch  their  favorite  program  on 
television. 

There  will  be  other  evils  come,  too,  if 
we  do  not  control  this,  and  the  other 
things  which  come  into  our  homes  un- 
censored,  simply  because  they  are  there, 
and  we  permit  them.  Handled  correctly 
television  can  be  an  influence  for  good. 
Handled  incorrectly,  it  will  become  a 
force  for  endless  evil. 

I  wanted  to  raise  my  voice  to  that 
extent  this  morning.  My  testimony  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  sure  at  this 
moment.  I  hope  it  will  always  be  so. 
If  I  act  right,  it  will  be.  I  know  that 
the  President  of  this  Church,  President 
McKay,  is  the  Prophet  of  the  Living 
God,  and  that  those  who  help  him  are, 
also,  and  I  pledge  myself  and  all  that 
I  have  to  the  service  to  which  they  have 
called  me.  In  the  narne  of  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER  GEORGE  Q.  MORRIS 

ELDER  GEORGE  Q.  MORRIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


101 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am 
thankful  for  the  privilege  of  being 
with  you  in  this  great  conference, 
and  have  been  thrilled  with  the  mes- 
sages we  have  received,  beginning  with 
the  impressive  and  inspired  message 
from  President  McKay,  up  until  this 
moment.  I  sincerely  pray  that  the  Lord 
may  direct  me  to  say  that  which  is  true 
and  that  he  would  have  said. 

I  have  been  impressed  with  the  num- 
ber of  references  to  and  testimonies  re- 
garding our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus 
Christ.  It  is  our  obligation  and  our 
privilege  to  proclaim  him  to  the  world. 
He  has  come  to  us  in  our  day.  He 
has  established  for  us  his  Church.  He 
has  placed  in  it  his  authority  and  his 
power,  and  he  is  directing  it  through 
his  servant  on  the  earth  who  stands  as 
his  representative  in  the  world  today. 

It  is  our  privilege  and  our  pleasure 
and  our  joy  to  proclaim  his  divinity, 
and  that  fact,  the  divinity  of  Jesus 
Christ,  is  the  center  fact  of  human  exist- 
ence, and  the  basic  truth  in  human 
life.  If  we  do  not  know  that  and  are 
not  governed  by  it,  our  lives  will  be 
failures.  Unless  we  have  his  message 
and  his  instructions,  we  shall  not  know 
what  life  is,  we  shall  not  know  who  we 
are  or  what  we  are;  we  shall  not  know 
how  to  live;  we  shall  not  know  what 
aim  to  place  before  us  in  life,  because 
it  is  only  through  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  that  we  know  the  truth  that 
should  guide  us  day  by  day  and  sustain 
us  through  our  lives  and  make  us  truly 
intelligent  beings. 

Jesus  Christ  is  the  spirit  of  truth,  the 
spirit  of  light;  and  truth  and  light  the 
Lord  has  defined  as  being  intelligence. 
If  we  would  be  truly  intelligent,  we 
should  learn  the  truth  concerning  his 
character  and  mission. 

The  obligations  are  such  and  our  re- 
lations to  him  are  such  that  it  is  our 
most  serious  duty  in  life  to  know  him 
and  love  him  and  keep  his  command- 
ments and  thereby  know  and  love  our 
Father  in  heaven  and  keep  his  com- 
mandments, because  he  is  the  messenger 
from  the  Father;  he  is  the  one  chosen  of 


the  Father  to  represent  him  in  the  earth, 
chosen  of  the  Father  to  be  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world,  chosen  of  the  Father  to 
be  the  Creator  of  the  world.  Into  his 
hands  the  Father  has  placed  all  things, 
and  we  are  in  his  hands.  One  day  we 
will  stand  before  him  to  be  judged,  and 
we  will  be  judged  as  to  our  relations  to 
him  and  our  attitude  towards  him  and 
whether  or  not  we  have  listened  to  his 
word  and  kept  his  commandments.  We 
will  all  come  to  that  day  and  to  that 
accounting,  and  so  will  every  man  and 
woman  in  the  world. 

It  seems  easy  for  some  people  to  ap- 
praise Jesus  Christ  and  put  him  in  his 
place  as  no  doubt  a  very  great  Teacher 
and  a  great  Prophet,  a  man  who  lived 
a  wonderful  life.  The  "wise  and  the 
prudent"  have  a  way  of  doing  this.  I 
rather  think  the  humble  and  the  meek 
accept  him  as  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world.   He  said: 

I  thank  thee,  O  Father,  Lord  of  heaven 
and  earth,  because  thou  hast  hid  these 
things  from  the  wise  and  prudent,  and  hast 
revealed  them  unto  babes.  (Matt.  11:25.) 

The  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  not  on  trial 
before  the  world.  Men  should  under- 
stand that.  The  world  is  on  trial  be- 
fore the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  we  will 
have  to  account  for  the  attitude  taken 
toward  him  and  his  message,  and  we 
cannot  accept  him  without  accepting  his 
principles  and  his  doctrines.  If  we  re- 
ject his  principles  and  his  doctrines,  we 
reject  him.  If  we  reject  his  divinity,  we 
reject  him: 

Who  is  a  liar  but  he  that  denieth  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ?  He  is  antichrist,  that 
denieth  the  Father  and  the  Son. 

Whosoever  denieth  the  Son,  the  same 
hath  not  the  Father:  [but]  he  that  ac- 
knowledged! the  Son  hath  the  Father  also. 
(I  John  2:22-23.) 

Whosoever  transgresseth,  and  abideth  not 
in  the  doctrine  of  Christ,  hath  not  God. 
He  that  abideth  in  the  doctrine  of  Christ, 
he  hath  both  the  Father  and  the  Son. 
(II  John  9.) 

Another  thing  that  the  world  must 
understand  if  they  will  know  the  truth, 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Wednesday,  April  6 

and  if  they  will  only  be  humble  and 
true  before  the  Lord  they  will  be  glad 
to  understand  it,  is  that  those  who  re- 
ceive or  reject  the  teachings  and  testi- 
monies and  admonitions  of  the  servants 
of  God  receive  or  reject  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  He  said  to  the  seventy  when  he 
sent  them  out  to  preach  the  gospel: 

He  that  heareth  you  heareth  me;  and  he 
that  despiseth  you  despiseth  me;  and  he 
that  despiseth  me  despiseth  him  that  sent 
me.  (Luke  10:16.) 

How  important  to  the  world,  that  they 
understand  these  simple  principles!  If 
it  were  not  for  the  traditions,  the  errors, 
the  sins,  and  the  shortcomings  of  men, 
all  of  the  world  would  accept  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  There  is  nothing  but  what 
a  true  heart  and  a  right  mind  would  re- 
joice in.  He  is  perfect.  He  is  love.  He 
is  righteousness.  He  is  truth,  the  perfec- 
tion of  all  things,  and  is  devoting  his 
great  power  and  his  whole  being  to  the 
loving  and  saving  of  the  children  of 
men. 

Why  should  we  not  accept  him  with 
all  our  hearts?  Only  because  of  our 
shortcomings!  It  is  not  because  of  our 
superior  knowledge  and  intelligence  that 
we  reject  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  because  we 
lack  in  superior  knowledge  and  intelli- 
gence and  humility  and  meekness  that 
he  is  rejected.  If  we  will  be  faithful 
and  humble,  as  the  brethren  have  said 
in  this  conference,  and  keep  his  com- 
mandments, we  will  know  of  his  divin- 
ity, and  it  will  be  our  salvation  and  our 
exaltation. 

Read  the  ninety-third  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  on  the  matter 
of  obedience.  It  is  by  keeping  the  com- 
mandments of  God  that  we  will  gain 
in  light  and  truth  until  we  are  filled 
with  light  and  truth  and  know  all  things 
and  become  like  unto  our  Father  in 


,  Fourth  Day 

heaven.  The  thing  that  prevents  that 
is,  as  the  revelation  says,  that  Satan 
takes  from  us  light  and  truth  through 
disobedience. 

And  that  wicked  one  cometh  and  taketh 
away  light  and  truth,  through  disobedience, 
from  the  children  of  men,  and  because  of 
the  traditions  of  their  fathers.  (D.  &  C.  93: 
39.) 

If  you  keep  not  my  commandments,  the 
love  of  the  Father  shall  not  continue  with 
you,  therefore  you  shall  walk  in  darkness. 
(Ibid.,  95:12.) 

Anything  that  we  wish  to  attain  or 
should  attain  to  that  is  desirable,  note- 
worthy, lovely,  of  good  repute,  that  will 
be  to  our  salvation  and  exaltation  in 
the  kingdom  of  God  will  be  attained 
by  the  principle  of  obedience  to  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

I  bear  my  humble  witness  that  he  is 
Christ,  the  Son  of  the  Living  God,  that 
this  is  his  Church  and  kingdom  and 
that  it  is  spreading  throughout  the  earth 
and  will  continue  to  spread.  In  this 
conference  there  has  been  the  announce- 
ment of  a  new  era  when  on  a  world- 
wide basis  the  Church  is  to  be  visited 
regularly  and  supervised  regularly,  and 
we  have  seen  plans  put  into  effect  that 
when  finished  will  give  us  a  line  of 
temples  that  will  encircle  the  globe — 
outposts  of  the  kingdom  of  God. 

I  bear  witness  that  this  spreading  will 
continue  until  it  covers  the  earth  and  the 
will  of  God  will  be  done.  Give  us 
power,  I  pray,  O  Father,  that  we  may  be 
true  and  faithful  to  these  ends,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  concluding  speaker  will  be  Milton 
R.  Hunter  of  the  First  Council  of  Sev- 
enty. We  have  just  heard  Elder  George 
Q.  Morris  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  hum- 
bly ask  an  interest  in  your  faith 
and  prayers  and  that  the  Spirit  of 
God  may  direct  what  I  may  say  today. 
I  would  like  to  speak  briefly  on  the 


subject  of  "Indian  Traditions  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon." 

Since  the  publishing  of  that  sacred 
scripture  on  March  26,  1830,  a  number 
of  missionaries  have  been  informed  by 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


103 


various  Indians  that  according  to  their 
traditions  their  progenitors  in  the  dis- 
tant past  had  possessed  a  sacred,  re- 
ligious book,  which  volume  had  disap- 
peared; and  a  prominent  factor  in  those 
traditions  is  the  claim  that  that  sacred 
record  would  be  possessed  again  by  the 
American  Indians.  On  a  number  of  oc- 
casions these  people  have  identified  the 
Book  of  Mormon  as  the  record  of  their 
ancestors  for  which,  in  accordance  with 
their  traditions,  they  had  been  waiting 
and  seeking. 

Elder  Glen  G.  Fisher,  former  presi- 
dent of  the  Western  Canadian  Mission, 
wrote  an  article  which  was  published  in 
The  Improvement  Era  in  March  1952, 
in  which  he  graphically  described  the 
experiences  had  in  1908  by  Chief  Yel- 
low Face  and  his  Cree  Indians  in  their 
search  for  the  sacred  book  of  their  an- 
cestors.1 They  came  from  northern 
Canada  to  southern  Alberta,  camped  on 
the  Mormon  ranch,  and  during  several 
months'  time  patiently  waited  for  an 
opportunity  to  get  a  copy  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon  and  be  taught  its  contents, 
because  they  knew  that  this  book  was 
the  record  of  their  ancestors.  After  they 
had  learned  of  the  purpose  of  the  so- 
journ of  Chief  Yellow  Face  and  mem- 
bers of  his  tribe,  some  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  who  worked  on  the  Mormon 
ranch  spent  evening  after  evening  teach- 
ing the  Indians  the  contents  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon.  The  Indian  chief  and  his 
followers  expressed  much  joy  and  deep 
satisfaction  regarding  what  they  were 
taught,  declaring  that  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon was  truly  the  sacred  record  of  their 
ancestors  which  had  been  preserved  for 
their  enlightenment. 

In  the  April  issue  of  The  Improve- 
ment Era,  Elder  Golden  R.  Buchanan, 
president  of  the  Southwest  Indian  Mis- 
sion, described  some  of  the  traditions 
of  the  Indians  with  whom  he  has  been 
working.  He  wrote:  "The  people  lost 
their  records  and  their  'books.' "  But  as 
the  Hopis  say, 

We  were  not  left  without  hope;  we  were 
told  some  day  young  white  men  with  blue 
eyes  would  come  knocking  at  Hopi  doors 
and  would  bring  back  to  us  our  records  and 
our  true  story.  They  would  come  from  the 

^len  G.  Fisher,  "Chief  Yellow  Face,"  The  Im- 
provement Era,  (Salt  Lake  City,  March  1952),  pp. 
148-150,  180-184. 


east  and  that  we  would  know  them  by  their 
outstretched  hands,  and  they  would  call  us 
"my  brother"  and  "my  sister."" 

There  may  be  people  who  would 
question  the  validity  of  the  evidences 
in  the  examples  I  have  given  of  Indian 
traditions  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  main- 
taining that  these  evidences  have  all 
come  forth  since  the  publishing  of  that 
book  and  may  have  been  instigated  by 
it  or  by  the  Mormon  missionaries.  Be 
that  as  it  mayl 

The  important  question  for  our  con- 
sideration, however,  is:  Are  there  any 
important  documents  available  which 
were  written  by  the  Indians  prior  to  the 
publishing  of  the  Book  of  Mormon 
which  furnish  evidence  that  these  peo- 
ple had  traditions  which  came  down 
from  their  ancestors  to  the  effect  that 
their  progenitors  at  a  certain  time  in  the 
distant  past  had  possessed  an  important, 
sacred,  religious  book,  which  book  could 
be  identified  as  the  Book  of  Mormon? 

I  shall  answer  that  question  in  the 
affirmative.  Yes,  we  do  have  some  very 
important  documents  which  were  writ- 
ten between  two  and  three  hundred 
years  prior  to  the  publishing  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon  which  make  the  claim 
that  many  years  ago  the  ancestors  of 
the  American  Indians  possessed  an  im- 
portant, sacred  book.  These  writings 
are  so  explicit  that  one  could  easily  be- 
lieve that  the  ancient  records  spoken  of 
by  the  Indian  writers  are  the  same  rec- 
ords as  the  ones  from  which  the  Book 
of  Mormon  was  translated  by  the 
Prophet. 

The  first  of  these  Indian  writings  of 
great  significance  which  shall  be  re- 
ferred to  is  the  Works  of  Ixtlilxochitl, 
written  by  an  Indian  of  the  royal  family 
in  Mexico  approximately  1600  A.D.  In 
these  writings  he  accounts  the  history, 
traditions,  and  religious  beliefs  of  his 
people  from  the  time  of  the  migration  of 
the  first  group  from  the  Tower  of  Babel 
— continuing  with  the  emigrations  from 
over  the  sea  of  two  other  groups — and 
on  down  to  the  Spanish  conquest. 

The  most  pertinent  portion  of  his 
book  in  relationship  to  our  subject  today 
deals  with  a  very  important  character 
called  Hueman.  He  and  his  work  are 
described  at  great  length  in  several  dif- 

^Golden  R.  Buchanan,  "Indian  Traditions,"  ibid., 
(Salt  Lake  City,  April  1955),  p.  285. 


104 

Wednesday,  April  6 

ferent  places  in  the  Works  of  Ixtlilxo- 
chitl,  his  unusual  accomplishments 
being  highly  extolled.  If  one  was  to 
study  thoughtfully  Ixtlilxochitl's  account 
of  Hueman  and  compare  it  with  the 
portrayal  of  the  character,  personality, 
activities,  and  various  accomplishments 
of  Mormon  as  described  in  the  Nephite 
record,  one  could  easily  identify  the  two 
men  as  being  the  same  individual.3  For 
example,  their  names  are  quite  similar — 
the  one  in  the  Indian  manuscript  being 
called  Hueman  and  the  other  in  the 
Nephite  account  being  called  Mormon. 
Each  is  claimed  to  have  been  a  great 
prophet  of  God.  Each  is  claimed  to 
have  been  the  head  general  of  the 
army.4  Each  is  claimed  to  have  been 
instrumental  in  bringing  about  a  treaty 
of  peace  in  350  A.D.,  which  treaty  is 
claimed  to  have  lasted  for  ten  years.5 
And  the  last  comparison  which  I  shall 
make,  and  probably  the  most  pertinent 
one  to  our  subject  today  is:  Each  is 
claimed  to  have  been  the  compiler  of 
a  very  important  religious  record  which 
delineated  the  religious  beliefs  and  his- 
tory of  the  inhabitants  of  ancient 
America.8 

Since  each  of  us  is  more  or  less  ac- 
quainted with  the  account  given  in 
the  Nephite  record  of  Mormon's  activi- 
ties, under  the  direction  of  the  Lord,  in 
taking  a  thousand  years  accumulation 
of  records  and  from  them  compiling  and 
abridging  in  one  book  the  story  of  his 
people,  which  momentous  task  was  com- 
pleted by  his  son  Moroni  and  brought 
forth  in  the  latter  days  under  the  title 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  I  shall  not 
spend  time  to  discuss  that  point  further. 
I  would  like,  however,  to  quote  directly 
from  the  Works  of  Ixtlilxochitl  wherein 
he  described  Hueman  as  a  collector  and 
compiler  of  the  sacred  records  of  his 
people.  While  meditating  on  this  par- 
ticular quotation,  the  thought  came  to 
me  that  upon  reading  this  quotation 
one  could  easily  imagine  that  he  was 
reading  the  Nephite  account  of  Mor- 
mon's activities  as  a  writer  and  keeper 
of  records.  To  quote  from  the  sixteenth 
century  Indian  document: 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


'Works  of  Ixtlilxochitl,  cited  in,  Milton  R.  Hunter 
and  Thomas  Stuart  Ferguson,  Ancient  America  and 
the  Book  of  Mormon  (Oakland,  California,  1950),  pp. 
337-346 

'Ibid'.,  pp.  342-354. 

'Ibid.,  pp.  349-370. 

'Ibid.,  pp.  337-338,  341-342. 


Fourth  Day 

And  before  going  on  I  want  to  make  an 
account  of  Hueman,  the  astrologer.  .  .  .  Be- 
fore dying  he  gathered  together  all  the  his- 
tories the  Tultecas  had,  from  the  creation 
of  the  world  up  to  that  [his]  time,  and 
had  them  pictured  in  a  very  large  book, 
where  were  pictured  all  their  persecutions 
and  hardships,  prosperities  and  good  hap- 
penings, kings  and  lords,  laws  and  good 
government  of  their  ancestors,  old  sayings 
and  good  examples,  temples,  idols,  sacri- 
fices, rites  and  ceremonies  that  they  had, 
astrology,  philosophy,  architecture,  and  the 
other  arts,  good  as  well  as  bad,  and  a  resu- 
me of  all  the  things  of  science,  knowledge, 
prosperous  and  adverse  battles,  and  many 
other  things;  and  he  entitled  his  book  call- 
ing it  Teoamaxtli,  which,  well  interpreted 
means  Various  Things  of  God  and  Divine 
Booh  The  natives  now  call  the  Holy  Scrip- 
tures [meaning  the  Bible]  Teoamoxtli,  be- 
cause it  is  almost  the  same,  .  .  .* 

This  marvelous  quotation  describing 
the  activities  of  Hueman  in  writing  or 
compiling  a  very  important  book  is  so 
similar  to  the  Nepnites'  account  of 
Mormon's  activities  that  such  a  quota- 
tion constitutes  a  noteworthy  Book  of 
Mormon  evidence. 

The  second  example  which  I  shall 
give  of  an  early  Indian  document  which 
contains  numerous,  marvelous  evidences 
sustaining  the  claims  made  by  the  Book 
of  Mormon  is  known  today  as  the  Popol 
Vuh.8  The  original  manuscript  was 
written  in  the  Quiche  language  by  a 
Quiche-Maya  Indian  in  faraway  Guate- 
mala, Central  America,  nearly  three 
hundred  years  before  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  published  the  account  translated 
from  the  Nephites'  records.  Between 
the  years  1554  and  1558  A.D.,  an  In- 
dian at  Chichicastenango,  Guatemala, 
wrote  what  has  become  accepted  by 
scholars  as  a  very  important  and  un- 
usual document  in  which  he  delineated 
the  mythology,  beliefs,  and  traditions  of 
his  people.9  The  Quiche-Maya  Indian 
author  claimed  that  there  was  a  preva- 
lent tradition  among  his  people  that  his 
ancestors  in  the  distant  past  had  at  one 
time  possessed  an  important,  religious, 
sacred  book  which  had  disappeared, 
being  had  no  more  by  his  people,  and 

mid.,  pp.  337-338. 

8Popol  Vuh,  The  Sacred  Book  of  the  Ancient 
Quiche-Maya,  (Eng.  tr.  by  Delia  Goetz  and  Sylvanus 
G.  Morley,  Norman,  Oklahoma,  1950),  pp.  1-767. 

°To  quote  the  late  Dr.  Morley:  "This  manuscript 
is,  without  doubt,  the  most  vigorous,  literary,  and 
significant  effort  achieved  by  the  American  Indian  in 
the  field  of  mythology  and  history."  Ibid.,  p.  75. 


ELDER  MILTC 

so  he  wrote  his  manuscript  to  replace 
that  lost  book. 

Father  Francisco  Ximenez,  a  Catholic 
priest  who  officiated  in  the  St.  Tomas 
church  at  Chichicastenango,  obtained 
the  manuscript  from  the  Quiche-Maya 
Indians  approximately  1600  A.D.  No 
doubt  he  had  won  their  good  will  and 
thereby  was  able  to  borrow  this  manu- 
script for  the  purpose  of  translating  it 
from  Quiche  into  the  Spanish  language. 
After  his  work  was  completed,  Father 
Ximenez's  translation  of  the  Indian 
document  remained  in  manuscript  form 
for  approximately  two  hundred  fifty 
years  before  it  was  discovered  and  pub- 
lished in  the  Spanish  language.  Since 
that  time  it  has  appeared  in  several 
Spanish  editions,  as  well  as  in  French 
and  German.  It  was  not  until  five 
years  ago  (1950),  however,  that  it  was 
translated  and  published  for  the  first 
time  in  English,  the  translation  being 
made  by  Delia  Goetz  and  the  famous 
Mayan  scholar,  Sylvanus  G.  Morley. 

When  the  Quiche-Maya  manuscript 
was  first  written,  it  had  no  title.  The 
Indian  writer  claimed  that  the  lost 
Quiche  book  was  called  the  Popol  Vuh, 
and  so  it  was  natural  for  the  publisher 
of  this  sixteenth  century  document  to 
call  it  the  Popol  Vuh  after  the  name  of 
the  lost  Quiche-Maya  book.  The  mean- 
ing of  Popol  Vuh,  according  to  the  six- 
teenth century  document,  is  The  Book 
of  the  People,  or  The  Book  of  the 
Princes,  or  The  Book  of  the  Community. 
It  seems  that  those  titles,  according  to 
the  content  of  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
would  also  be  very  fitting  for  the  Ne- 
phite  records. 

I  shall  now  quote  directly  from  the 
Popol  Vuh  and  let  each  one  evaluate  in 
his  mind  the  possibility  of  this  record 
referring  to  the  Book  of  Mormon  records 
as  they  were  when  possessed  by  the  peo- 
ple of  ancient  America: 

This  we  shall  write  now  under  the  Law 
of  God  and  Christianity;  we  shall  bring  it 
to  life  because  now  the  Popol  Vuh,  as  it 
was  called,  cannot  be  seen  any  more,  in 
which  was  clearly  seen  the  coming  from 
the  other  side  of  the  sea  and  the  narration 
of  our  obscurity,  and  our  life  was  clearly 
seen.  The  original  book  written  long  ago, 
existed,  but  its  sight  is  hidden  to  the  search- 
er and  to  the  thinker.  Great  were  the  de- 


V  R.  HUNTER  105 

scriptions  and  the  account  of  how  all  the 
sky  and  the  earth  were  formed,  .  .  .10 

In  speaking  of  the  original  Popol  Vuh 
which  the  ancestors  of  the  Quiche-Maya 
Indians  had  possessed  in  the  distant  past, 
the  late  Dr.  Sylvanus  G.  Morley,  pos- 
sibly the  greatest  of  the  Mayan  scholars, 
wrote  as  follows: 

The  Popol  Vuh  was  also  the  book  of 
prophecy  and  the  oracle  of  the  kings  and 
lords,  [Certainly  that  is  exactly  what  the 
Book  of  Mormon  was.  Then  he  continues:] 
according  to  a  reference  which  the  author 
of  the  Manuscript  makes  in  another  pass- 
age, where  he  states  that  [Morley  quoting 
directly  from  the  sixteenth  century  docu- 
ment] "Great  lords  and  wonderful  men 
were  the  marvelous  kings.  .  .  .  They  knew 
if  there  would  be  war,  and  everything  was 
clear  before  their  eyes;  they  saw  if  there 
would  be  death  and  hunger,  if  there  would 
be  strife.  They  well  knew  that  there  was  a 
place  where  it  could  be  seen,  that  there  was 
a  book  which  they  called  the  Popol  Vuh.'"1 

This  quotation  reminds  one  of  King 
Mosiah  and  King  Benjamin,  great 
Nephite  prophets,  seers,  and  revelators. 

The  late  Dr.  Morley  adds  the  follow- 
ing interesting  comment: 

And  in  the  final  paragraph,  the  Quiche 
chronicler  adds  with  a  melancholic  accent 
that  what  he  has  said  in  his  works  is  all 
that  has  been  preserved  of  the  ancient 
Quiche,  "because  no  longer  can  be  seen  (the 
book  of  the  Popol  Vuh)  which  the  kings 
had  in  olden  times,  for  it  had  disappeared."18 

Since  the  time  that  Father  Francisco 
Ximenez  translated  the  sixteenth  cen- 
tury Popol  Vuh  from  Quiche  into  Span- 
ish, scholars  have  done  much  speculat- 
ing regarding  this  lost  Indian  book. 
They  have  made  guesses  regarding  its 
authorship,  the  language  in  which  it 
was  written,  the  writing  materials  used, 
its  probable  contents,  and  numerous 
other  things.  For  example,  as  early  as 
1600  A.D.  Father  Ximenez  wrote: 

The  truth  is  that  such  a  book  never  ap- 
peared nor  has  been  seen,  and  thus  it  is 
not  known  if  this  way  of  writing  was  by 
painting,  as  those  of  Mexico,  or  by  knot- 
ting string  as  the  Peruvians;  you  may  be- 
lieve that  it  was  by  painting  on  woven 
white  cloth." 

mbid.,  pp.  79-80. 

"Jfcid.,  pp.  19,  225. 

"Ibid.,  pp.  19,  234-235, 

«»«.,  p.  18. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


106 

Wednesday,  April  6 

Probably  one  of  the  most  intriguing 
subjects  regarding  the  lost  book  of  the 
Quiche-Maya  on  which  scholars  have 
speculated  is:  "What  has  become  of  the 
original  Popol  Vuh?"  Of  course  none 
of  them  has  known  the  answer  to  that 
question  any  more  than  they  have 
known  the  answers  to  the  other  ques- 
tions on  this  subject  on  which  they 
have  speculated.  It  is  my  firm  opinion 
that  we  as  members  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  have  a 
far  better  chance  to  know  the  answers 
to  such  questions  than  do  the  scholars, 
because  of  the  restoration  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  the  numerous  appear- 
ances of  the  Angel  Moroni,  and  the 
coming  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

Since  I  firmly  believe  that  the 
Quiche-Maya  Indians  of  Guatemala  are 
descendants  of  the  Book  of  Mormon 
peoples  of  ancient  America,  as  I  be- 
lieve also  that  other  Indians  trace  back 
to  the  same  ancestry,  it  is  but  natural 
for  me  to  regard  the  lost  Quiche-Maya 
Popol  Vuh,  which  disappeared  from 
among  the  ancestors  of  the  Quiches 
many,  many  years  ago,  to  be  the  Book 
of  Mormon  records.  It  is  evident  that 
they  were  lost  or  disappeared  when 
Moroni,  the  last  historian  of  the  Nephite 
race,  hid  them  in  the  Hill  Cumorah  in 
421  A.D.  A  knowledge  of  the  activities 
of  the  compilers  of  the  ancient  records, 
their  contents,  and  finally  their  sudden 
disappearance  was  carried  down  from 
age  to  age  by  the  Indians  through  tra- 
dition to  the  sixteenth  century,  when  at 
that  time  a  Quiche-Mayan  recorded  the 
traditions  of  his  people,  according  to  the 
late  Dr.  Morley, 

...  as  a  substitute  for  the  Libra  Natio- 
nal [original  Popol  Vuh  or  lost  book  from 
which  "the  kings  used  to  read""],  as  a  re- 
vision and  a  new  version  of  the  accounts 
which  had  been  preserved  in  the  venerable 
book  which  had  already  disappeared." 

In  our  present  discussion,  I  have  pur- 
posely presented  Indian  traditions  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon  from  four  widely 
separated  sections  of  the  country:  the 
first  from  Canada;  the  second  from  Ari- 
zona; the  third  from  Mexico;  and  the 
fourth  from  Guatemala.  My  purpose 
was  to  show  that  traditions  prevailed 
somewhat  universally  among  the  various 

"Ibid.,  p.  61. 
»/*«.,  p.  20. 


Fourth  Day 

American  Indian  tribes  to  the  effect  that 
their  ancestors  in  the  distant  past  had 
possessed  an  important,  sacred,  religious 
book,  which  volume  had  disappeared, 
but,  according  to  many  of  the  tradi- 
tions, would  be  mysteriously  preserved 
and  eventually  brought  again  to  the 
descendants  of  the  inhabitants  of  an- 
cient America.  It  is  obvious  that  these 
traditions  fit  well  with  what  has  actually 
happened  in  regard  to  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon. 

Why  should  not  the  Indians  have  re- 
ceived through  tradition  the  knowledge 
of  the  fact  that  their  progenitors  in  an- 
cient America  had  had  a  sacred  book 
written  for  them,  since  evidence  is 
abundant  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  which 
shows  clearly  that  the  Lamanites  were 
well  aware  of  the  fact  that  their  rivals 
were  record  keepers  and  that  the  proph- 
ets had  predicted  the  eventual  destruc- 
tion of  the  Nephite  nation  and  the 
preservation  of  the  records  for  the 
Lamanites'  descendants?  For  example, 
Enos,  the  son  of  Jacob  and  a  record 
keeper,  knowing  that  the  Lamanites  had 

.  .  .  swore  in  their  wrath  that,  if  it  were 
possible,  they  would  destroy  our  [the  Ne- 
phites']  records  and  us,  and  also  all  the 
traditions  of  our  fathers,  [praying  dili- 
gently, asking]  .  .  .  that  the  Lord  God 
would  preserve  a  record  of  my  people,  the 
Nephites  .  .  .  that  it  might  be  brought  forth 
at  some  future  day  unto  the  Lamanites  . . . 

.  .  .  and  he  covenanted  with  me  that  he 
would  bring  them  [the  records]  forth  unto 
the  Lamanites  in  his  own  due  time  .  .  . 

And  the  Lord  said  unto  me:  Thy  fathers 
have  also  required  of  me  this  thing;  and 
it  shall  be  done  unto  them  according  to 
their  faith;  .  .  . 

...  I  Enos  went  about  among  the  peo- 
ple of  Nephi,  .  .  .  testifying  of  the  things 
I  had  heard  and  seen." 

The  latter  two  historians  of  the  Ne- 
phite nation,  like  the  prophets  during  the 
early  period,  had  firm  convictions  that 
the  records  would  be  preserved  and 
brought  forth  in  the  latter  days  to  the 
descendants  of  the  Lamanites.  Shortly 
before  his  death,  Mormon  recorded  in 
the  records  a  sermon  to  the  descendants 
of  the  Lamanites  in  which  he  said: 

...  I  would  speak  somewhat  unto  the 
remnant  of  this  people  who  are  spared, . . . 
For  behold,  this  is  written  for  the  intent 

"Enos  13-19. 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


107 


that  ye  ...  will  know  concerning  your 
fathers,  and  also  the  marvelous  works  which 
were  wrought  by  the  power  of  God  among 
them.17 

Following  Mormon's  death  and  after 
Moroni  had  completed  the  abridgment 
of  the  Jaredite  records,  he  wrote: 

Wherefore,  I  write  a  few  more  things 
contrary  to  that  which  I  had  supposed; . . . 
that  perhaps  they  may  be  of  worth  to  my 
brethren,  the  Lamanites,  in  some  future 
day,  according  to  the  will  of  the  Lord.18 

I  bear  witness  that  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon contains  the  word  of  God  and  that 
it  was  written  originally  by  holy  proph- 
ets with  the  knowledge  that  it  would  be 
preserved  to  be  brought  forth  in  the  latter 
days  for  the  benefit  of  the  descendants 
of  the  Lamanites — the  American  In- 
dians. In  fact,  one  of  the  declared  pur- 
poses of  writing  and  preserving  that 
sacred  book  is  proclaimed  in  its  preface, 
which  declares  that  it  was  ".  .  .  written 
to  the  Lamanites." 

Since  the  knowledge  of  all  the  things 
of  which  I  have  spoken  was  so  widely 
had  by  the  Nephites,  it  is  my  firm  con- 
viction that  the  Lamanites  were  also 
fully  aware  of  the  records  and  the  prom- 
ises contained  therein  to  their  posterity. 
Following  the  close  of  Nephite  history, 
certainly  the  Lamanites  and  their  In- 
dian descendants  would  hand  such 
knowledge  down  from  age  to  age  by  tra- 
dition to  the  present  time,  which  has 

"Mormon  7:1,  9. 
"Moroni  1:4. 


actually  happened;  and  so  it  is  easily 
understandable  why  the  Indians  who 
live  in  various  parts  of  the  Americas 
have  similar  traditions  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  These  Indian  traditions,  to 
my  way  of  thinking,  provide  important 
evidences  sustaining  the  claims  made  by 
the  Nephite  writers — thereby  constitut- 
ing additional  important  Book  of  Mor- 
mon evidences. 

I  bear  witness  to  these  things,  and  I 
do  so  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  spoken  to 
us.  The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
will  now  sing,  "My  Soul  is  Athirst  for 
God,"  conducted  by  Sister  Florence  Jep- 
person  Madsen. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  James  A.  McMurrin,  president  of 
the  Northwestern  States  Mission,  after 
which  this  Conference  will  stand  ad- 
journed until  two  o'clock  this  afternoon. 

The  Singing  Mothers  will  be  with  us 
again  this  afternoon. 


Singing  by  the  Singing  Mothers,  "My 
Soul  Is  Athirst  for  God." 

Elder  James  A.  McMurrin,  President 
of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission,  of- 
fered the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock 
p.m. 


FOURTH  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  concluding  session  of  the  Confer- 
ence commenced  promptly  at  2:00  p.m., 
Wednesday,  April  6,  1955. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
were  present  at  this  session  and  fur- 
nished the  choral  music. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  are  assembled  in  the  Tabernacle 
in  Salt  Lake  City  in  the  concluding  and 
seventh  session  of  the  125th  Annual 


Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  music  for  this  session  will  be 
rendered  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers  from  the  Jordan  Valley  and 
Mount  Timpanogos  Regions  and  Kolob, 
Nebo,  Palmyra,  and  Santaquin-Tintic 
Stakes,  conducted  by  Sister  Florence 
Jepperson  Madsen,  with  Elder  Frank  W. 
Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  commence  this  service  by 
the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  sing- 


108  GENERAL  ( 

Wednesday,  April  6 

ing,  "The  Lord  is  My  Shepherd."  The 
opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
G.  Eugene  England,  President  of  the 
North  Central  States  Mission.  "The 
Lord  is  My  Shepherd." 


Singing  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers,  "The  Lord  Is  My  Shepherd." 

Elder  G.  Eugene  England,  President 
of  the  North  Central  States  Mission, 
offered  the  invocation. 


Fourth  Day 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
sang  a  number,  "Could  Ye  Not  Watch?" 

President  David  O.  McKay: 
That  is  glorious. 

Our  first  speaker  this  afternoon  will 
be  Elder  Adam  S.  Bennion  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve.  He  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Richard  L.  Evans. 


ELDER  ADAM  S.  BENNION 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


For  myself  and  for  all  of  you,  I  ex- 
press gratitude  to  these  Singing  Moth- 
ers. I  am  grateful  that  the  loveliness 
of  their  lullabies  has  been  sublimated 
into  the  holiness  of  their  hymns  under 
the  inspirational  leadership  of  Sister 
[Florence  Jepperson]  Madsen. 

Those  of  us  who  sit  here  this  after- 
noon, still  subject  to  our  turn,  know 
that  this  is  the  hour.  It  reminds  me  of 
the  time  when  we  used  to  play  musical 
chairs.  You  remember  when  we  gath- 
ered in  a  circle  around  the  chairs  and 
the  host  took  a  chair  out  each  time 
around,  so  that  there  was  one  chair 
fewer  than  people.  We  knew  when  we 
got  down  to  the  last  three  or  four  chairs 
that  that  was  it.  Well,  the  chairs  have 
all  been  taken  out  but  three! 

Brother  Richard  Evans  and  I  have 
been  sitting  here  together  for  three  days, 
observing  to  each  other  that  there  is 
strength  in  this  audience — strong  men 
and  remarkable  women. 

It  is  intriguing  to  me  to  know  that  in 
a  hundred  and  a  quarter  years  six  mem- 
bers have  grown  into  a  million  and  a 
quarter  people.  That  is  a  wonderful 
achievement  in  the  Lord's  work. 

I  am  doubly  grateful  to  be  here  today 
because  last  October  I  missed  this  con- 
ference. Recently  out  of  the  hospital, 
I  was  convalescing  at  home.  But  that 
experience  has  brought  me  something 
that  perhaps  I  could  have  had  in  no 
other  way.  I  stand  here  today  grateful 
for  the  blessings  of  our  Father  in  heaven 
and  his  goodness.  I  bring  you  my  wit- 
ness to  the  power  of  the  priesthood,  be- 
cause under  the  hands  of  these  my  good 
brethren,,  I  have  been  blessed  back  to 


health  and  strength.  I  know  the  power 
of  healing  is  in  this  priesthood,  and  I 
give  you  my  witness  that  it  is. 

This  has  been  a  wonderful  conference. 
I  have  sat  here  much  of  the  time  with 
a  lump  in  my  throat.  I  am  honored  to 
be  here.  I  rejoice  in  the  power  of  the 
leadership  of  this  First  Presidency.  They 
are  among  the  strongest  men  ever  to 
guide  the  destinies  of  this  Church.  I 
pay  my  tribute  to  my  brethren.  It  is  a 
sustaining  force  to  have  every  one  of 
them  give  us  his  blessing  for  this  expe- 
rience. These  are  strong  men,  as  you 
know  from  the  evidence  of  this  confer- 
ence. They  are  devoted  men,  and  in 
their  hands  you  can  feel  good  about  the 
future  of  this  great  Church. 

I  pray  that  the  few  minutes  I  occupy 
I  may  be  in  tune  with  the  Spirit,  the 
uplifting  Spirit,  that  we  have  felt  all 
the  way  through  this  conference. 

I  am  always  concerned  about  the 
carry-over  effect  of  our  teachings.  The 
gospel,  in  the  language  of  Paul,  is  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation,  and  these 
conferences  and  all  of  our  meetings  and 
the  very  genius  of  the  gospel  itself  are 
meant  to  help  us  the  better  to  live. 

Each  week  we  go  out  to  some  stake 
or  to  some  mission.  Each  Monday 
morning  I  come  back  lifted  up  and  built 
up  not  only  in  my  faith  but  also  in  the 
assurance  of  the  goodness  of  the  people 
among  whom  we  labor.  I  bear  you 
witness  that  the  evidence  we  get  week 
after  week  is  that  the  gospel  makes  better 
men  and  women;  it  transforms  their 
lives;  and  I  want  to  hint  from  two  of 
our  conferences  some  of  the  things  that 
shall  never  leave  me  the  same  again. 


ELDER  ADAT\ 

When  I  was  introduced  to  the  home 
at  which  I  was  to  stay  in  Klamath 
[Oregon-California]  Stake,  I  felt  a  lit- 
tle embarrassed  because  the  hostess,  the 
wife  of  a  member  of  the  stake  presi- 
dency, was  in  a  wheel  chair,  crippled 
from  the  effects  of  polio  for  twenty 
years.  But  the  look  in  her  face  con- 
vinced me  that  I  need  have  no  mis- 
givings. She  wheels  around  in  that 
wheel  chair,  thanks  to  the  kindliness  of 
a  good  husband,  as  if  the  house  had 
been  built  just  for  her.  She  wheels  out 
into  the  kitchen  between  the  range  and 
serving  table  where  she  prepares  the 
food,  makes  a  turn,  and  has  it  ready  for 
distribution.  She  teaches  a  Sunday 
School  class,  is  a  leader  in  Relief  So- 
ciety, and  if  you  ever  shook  hands  with 
that  little  woman  and  caught  the  look 
in  her  face,  you  would  know  that, 
while  an  affliction  can  cripple  the  body, 
it  never  can  handicap  such  a  spirit. 

A  few  weeks  later  I  went  down  to 
Zion  Park  [Utah]  Stake.  I  shall  be 
grateful  all  the  rest  of  my  days  for  the 
inspiration  of  that  visit.  In  one  family 
there  I  think  I  saw  as  much  affliction  as 
I  have  ever  seen  in  any  other  one  fam- 
ily. But  those  good  people  have  risen 
above  it  so  wonderfully.  The  president 
of  the  stake  down  there  served  in  the 
war,  and  it  is  almost  a  miracle  that  he 
came  back  alive.  He  wears  a  steel  plate 
now,  a  cranial  plate,  with  the  index 
across  the  forehead  that  it  is  there.  His 
wife,  stricken  arthritically,  with  feet  she 
could  hardly  walk  upon  until  they  were 
all  broken  anew  and  made  over,  and 
her  hands  so  gnarled  and  twisted  that 
as  you  reach  to  shake  her  hand,  you 
wish  you  could  give  her  a  blessing.  Two 
fine  boys  born  into  the  family  and  then 
the  third  child,  a  little  girl,  under  the 
complications  of  Rh-negative,  invalided 
through  eight  years.  I  want  to  tell  you 
that  when  you  walk  into  that  home  and 
catch  the  spirit  of  the  father  and  the 
mother  and  you  watch  the  boys  rush 
over  to  help  the  little  child  who,  when 
she  falls,  cannot  get  up,  when  you  kneel 
in  the  home  and  you  listen  to  the  prayers 
of  that  family,  with  their  gratitude  to 
Almighty  God  for  the  kindness  he  has 
shown  to  them,  you  know  that  the  gos- 
pel is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation. 

Well,  in  the  light  of  those  two  expe- 
riences I  should  like  to  join  with  you 


S.  BENNION  109 

for  just  a  little  while  this  afternoon  in 
consideration  of  one  of  the  richest 
declarations  ever  made.  I  love  the  Book 
of  Mormon  and  have  done  so  ever  since 
I  was  a  youngster.  For  this  afternoon  I 
have  chosen  from  the  second  book  of 
Nephi  the  passage. that  I  want  to  de- 
velop just  a  little  with  you: 

And  now,  behold,  if  Adam  had  not  trans- 
gressed he  would  not  have  fallen,  but  he 
would  have  remained  in  the  garden  of 
Eden.  And  all  things  which  were  created 
must  have  remained  in  the  same  state  in 
which  they  were  after  they  were  created; 
and  they  must  have  remained  forever,  and 
had  no  end. 

And  they  would  have  had  no  children; 
wherefore  they  would  have  remained  in  a 
state  of  innocence,  having  no  joy,  for  they 
knew  no  misery;  doing  no  good,  for  they 
knew  no  sin. 

But  behold,  all  things  have  been  done 
in  the  wisdom  of  him  who  knoweth  all 
things. 

And  now  for  my  theme: 

Adam  fell  that  men  might  be;  and  men 
are,  that  they  might  have  joy.  (2  Nephi  2: 
22-25.) 

That  same  sentiment  is  echoed  in  one 
of  the  greatest  documents  ever  given  to 
mankind,  the  Beatitudes  in  the  Sermon 
on  the  Mount.  You  remember  that 
every  paragraph  in  that  great  document 
begins  with  a  blessing.  "Blessed  are  the 
poor  in  spirit,"  and  so  on  through  all  of 
them.  In  the  concluding  paragraph  of 
that  great  document,  "Blessed  are  ye, 
when  men  shall  revile  you,  and  perse- 
cute you,  and  shall  say  all  manner  .  .  ." 
— you  remember  it. 

Rejoice,  and  be  exceedingly  glad:  for  great 
is  your  reward  in  heaven:  for  so  persecuted 
they  the  prophets  which  were  before  you. 
(Matt.  5:11-12.) 

I  think  sometimes  we  let  the  nega- 
tive aspects,  the  disciplinary  aspects,  the 
prohibitive  aspects  crowd  out  the  teach- 
ing of  the  joys  of  the  gospel.  I  wish  we 
might  center  our  thinking  a  little  while 
today  in  the  joys  of  living  the  gospel, 
not  as  an  obligation  but  as  a  privilege — 
one  of  the  richest  privileges  in  life. 

Did  we  have  time  this  afternoon  I 
should  like  to  expand  on  the  meaning 
of  joy.  In  ordinary  language  we  talk 
as  if  joy,  pleasure,  gladness,  and  happi- 
ness were  all  synonymous.   But  in  this 


110  GENERAL  C 

Wednesday,  April  6 

passage  from  the  Book  of  Mormon  joy 
has  a  far  richer  meaning.  Pleasure,  in 
my  mind,  is  essentially  a  gratification 
of  one  of  the  senses.  Happiness  seems 
to  center  in  a  kind  of  contentment  born 
of  good  fortune  or  of  some  fortuitous 
circumstance.  But  joy  reveals  a  certain 
spiritual  exaltation.  * 

As  someone  has  said:  "Joy  is  more  in- 
tense than  happiness,  deeper  than  glad- 
ness, to  which  it  is  akin,  nobler  and 
more  enduring  than  pleasure."  As  I 
have  been  thinking  about  it,  joy  seems 
to  me  to  be  essentially  spiritual  and  has 
an  abiding  quality  with  a  hint  of  eternal 
bliss. 

How  may  we  aspire  to  this  thing 
called  the  joy  of  living?  We  cannot  buy 
it;  it  is  not  for  sale  in  the  market  place, 
nor  can  you  go  out  to  cultivate  it  di- 
rectly. At  best  it  seems  to  be  a  sort  of, 
by-product.  It  is  an  end  result  achieved 
from  worthy  performance. 

I  come  to  you  today  with  three  sugges- 
tions that  I  think  make  for  joy: 

I.  In  the  first  place,  we  can  find  it  in 
the  work  of  the  world.  There  has  been 
a  tendency,  perhaps  all  too  strong,  re- 
cently, to  coddle  the  children  we  love. 
In  our  own  state  legislature  in  an  at- 
tempt to  protect  children,  we  could 
easily  do  them  a  great  disservice.  I  no- 
tice this  morning  that  our  governor  in- 
dicates that  he  would  be  willing  to  call 
the  legislature  back  into  session  to  cor- 
rect the  mistake  because  there  is  no 
great  wisdom  in  putting  a  premium  up- 
on idleness,  either  for  children  or  for 
men. 

You  remember  what  the  Lord  has 
said:  "In  the  sweat  of  thy  face  shalt 
thou  eat  bread."  (Gen.  3:19.)  And 
there  is  this  wonderful  passage  in  John. 
When  the  Savior  was  criticized  for  some- 
thing he  did  on  the  Sabbath,  he  an- 
swered his  accusers  by  saying,  "My 
Father  worketh  hitherto,  and  I  work." 
(John  5:17.) 

And  then  that  memorable  passage 
from  Ecclesiastes: 

"The  sleep  of  a  labouring  man  is 
sweet,  whether  he  eat  little  or  much:  (I 
am  glad  I  have  not  been  rich — because 
this  next  line  says)  .  .  .  but  the  abun- 
dance of  the  rich  will  not  suffer  him  to 
sleep."  (Ecclesiastes  5:12.) 

All  my  life  I  have  enjoyed  the  blessed 
privilege  of  living  with  people  who  love 


Fourth  Day 

to  work.  I  rejoice  in  a  helpmate  who 
delights  in  keeping  up  our  home.  Born 
in  a  country  town  out  in  this  valley,  I 
still  thrill  as  I  think  of  the  work  of  two 
men,  Robert  and  Willard  Pixton,  who 
were  pioneers  in  my  town.  They 
prided  themselves  that  there  was  never 
a  weed  in  the  potato  patch.  They  se- 
lected their  grain,  and  when  it  rolled 
into  the  fall  harvest,  it  was  beautiful. 
Those  men  worked  as  if  they  loved  to 
work,  and  when  fall  came,  after  they 
had  plowed  and  planted  and  cultivated 
and  irrigated  and  harvested — with  the 
barns  full  of  hay  and  the  granaries  rich 
in  grain — and  the  cellars  bulging  with 
fruits  and  vegetables — I  am  just  sure 
that  Robert  and  Willard  Pixton  gath- 
ered the  family  together  in  a  thanks- 
giving that  was  full  of  joy — joy  for  the 
blessings  of  heaven. 

I  have  always  been  glad  that  I  lived 
in  a  humble  home — a  home  in  which 
people  loved  to  work.  I  can  recall  the 
thrill  of  the  days  when  we  brought  in 
the  new  straw  and  put  it  under  the  rag 
carpet  that  had  been  woven  from  the 
rags  which  mother  used  to  cut  and  wind 
into  balls  to  be  taken  over  to  be  made 
into  a  carpet.  How  we  used  to  love  to 
"tromp"  the  straw  to  get  it  down  so 
that  the  carpet  could  be  stretched  over 
it;  and  then  we  would  attach  the 
stretcher  and  "stomp"  some  more  and 
pull  and  push  and  then  tack  the  carpet 
down.  Those  were  great  days.  No  man 
ever  relaxed  more  luxuriously  on  a 
Persian  rug. 

I  remember  when  the  pig  was  killed 
in  the  fall,  and  the  hams  were  put 
down  in  brine,  and  the  sausage  was 
made,  not  of  the  discarded  parts  but  of 
the  selected  parts.  I  have  always 
thought  that  eating  was  in  the  realm  of 
pleasure — but  I  want  to  tell  you  that 
some  meals  get  pretty  close  to  joy. 

For  years  I  kept  in  touch  with  one  of 
the  finest  writers  in  America,  who  wrote 
this  little  paragraph  awhile  back  in  a 
Chicago  paper: 

When  a  young  man  finds  no  joy  in  his 
daily  work,  goes  to  it  in  the  morning  with 
regret,  has  no  feeling  of  thankfulness  that 
he  has  work  to  do,  and  dislikes  the  hours 
in  which  he  does  it,  there  is  something 
wrong.  It  is  a  cheering  thing  to  have  the 
habit  of  industry,  the  desire  to  do  each 
day's  work  better  than  that  of  the  day 
before,  and  to  leave  it  conscious  of  having 


ELDER  ADM 

done  it  well.  There  is  a  sad  future  for  the 
young  man  who  hates  work,  who  dislikes 
his  employer  and  gives  as  little  of  effort  as 
he  can  get  by  with.  He  will  suffer  more 
from  the  shirking  than  his  employer,  be- 
cause he  is  destroying  his  own  chance  for 
joy  in  his  life. 

Someone  has  said,  "Happy  is  the  man 
who  has  work  he  loves  to  do,"  but  some- 
.  body  else  has  added  the  basic  funda- 
mental thought,  "Happy  is  the  man  who 
loves  the  work  he  has  to  do." 

II.  Well,  we  can  find  joy  in  a  second 
place.  It  is  in  the  life  of  the  home, 
which  has  been  spoken  of  here  so  beau- 
tifully throughout  this  conference,  be- 
ginning with  that  inspirational  mes- 
sage from  our  President. 

I  am  mindful  of  the  struggle  we  have 
to  go  through  to  get  a  home,  and  then 
the  pride  we  feel  as  we  come  into  it, 
and  then  the  joy  of  children  as  they 
come  to  bless  it.  I  still  think  that  the 
birth  of  a  baby  surpasses  the  greatest 
miracle  ever  wrought.  The  joy  in  the 
coming  of  the  children,  their  develop- 
ment, their  questions,  their  affection, 
their  frank  disclosures,  the  privilege  we 
have  of  living  life  over  again,  and  then 
when  we  get  to  the  stage  of  grand- 
children, where  we  have  all  the  joys 
and  not  quite  the  full  responsibilities, 
when,  after  they  have  worn  us  or  our 
nerves  a  little  threadbare,  we  can  suggest, 
that  for  the  children's  sake,  maybe  they 
ought  to  be  in  bed.  These  are  great 
blessings  and  great  sources  of  joy. 

Let  me  give  you  a  homely  illustra- 
tion of  the  difference  between  a  joyous 
family  and  an  agitated  one.  Some  peo- 
ple make  their  lives  center  in  "don'ts" 
and  "mustn'ts"  and  "can'ts."  I  often 
think  of  the  mother  who  used  to  say, 
"Go  and  see  what  Billy  is  doing  and 
tell  him  to  quit."  That  kind  of  parent 
gets  into  the  car  and  proceeds  to  tell 
her  children  what  they  cannot  do  and 
orders  them  to  be  quiet.  The  wise  par- 
ent, who  has  found  the  joy  in  the  asso- 
ciation of  the  children,  says,  "Let's  see 
how  many  white  horses  we  can  see  in 
the  next  hundred  miles."  Perhaps  we 
shall  have  to  change  the  white  horses 
to  red  tractors.  It  is  an  interesting  game 
to  trace  the  alphabet  on  the  billboards 
along  the  way — good  fun  to  try  to  work 
out  a  complete  alphabet.  It  is  fun  to 
find  the  best  signboard  along  the  way 


S.  BENNION  111 

or,  if  you  want  to,  and  lean  a  little  to 
the  intellectual  side,  you  can  get  one 
of  the  children's  best  current  books — not 
the  cheap  ones  that  Brother  Dilworth 
[Young]  talked  about  this  morning — 
but  one  of  those  beautifully  illustrated 
books  now  available,  and  you  can  sit 
in  the  back  seat  (if  you  have  the  right 
kind  of  driver)  and  fill  in  the  time  that 
otherwise  might  drag.  That  is  joy  in 
the  making. 

In  the  home,  too,  there  is  the  joy  of 
a  few  good  friends — not  too  many — be- 
cause you  cannot  cultivate  them — but 
a  few  of  the  friends  who  will  stand  by 
you  in  all  that  comes  in  life.  We  have 
such  friends — God  be  praised  for  them. 

In  the  language  of  Shakespeare, 
"Those  friends  thou  hast,  and  their 
adoption  tried,  grapple  them  to  thy  soul 
with  hoops  of  steel." 

III.  I  hurry  into  the  third  suggestion 
that  I  want  to  give  you.  We  find  joy 
in  the  work  we  do.  We  find  joy  in  the 
privileges  of  the  home  with  its  children 
and  its  friends,  but  in  the  third  place, 
and  finally,  we  find  joy  in  the  service  of 
the  Lord. 

I  read  the  other  night  again  from 
Habakkuk,  a  book  which  we  do  not  turn 
to  often  enough: 

Although  the  fig  tree  shall  not  blossom, 
neither  shall  fruit  be  in  the  vines;  the 
labour  of  the  olive  shall  fail,  and  the  fields 
shall  yield  no  meat;  the  flock  shall  be  cut 
off  from  the  fold,  and  there  shall  be  no 
herd  in  the  stalls: 

And  then  this  ringing  line: 

Yet  I  will  rejoice  in  the  Lord,  I  will  joy 
in  the  God  of  my  salvation.  (Hab.  3:17-18. 
Italics  added.) 

Yesterday,  all  day  long,  we  had  the 
privilege  of  sitting  in  an  inspirational 
meeting  with  these  good  mission  presi- 
dents. I  could  wish  in  some  magical 
way  their  messages  might  be  brought  to 
all  of  you  because  it  was  a  day  of  dedi- 
cation and  consecration.  I  bless  them 
for  the  work  they  are  doing. 

In  the  spirit  of  that  wonderful  meet- 
ing of  yesterday,  I  bid  you  to  find  the 
joy  of  life  in  service  of  the  Lord 
whether  it  is  a  call  to  be  a  ward  teacher, 
a  call  to  be  a  Sunday  School  teacher, 
an  MIA  leader,  a  quorum  officer,  or  a 
call  to  visit  those  who  are  a  little  dis- 
inclined or  indifferent  or  bound  down 


112 

Wednesday,  April  6 

by  some  unfortunate  habit.  The  prom- 
ise of  the  Lord  is  so  rich  in  its  blessing: 

And  if  it  so  be  that  you  should  labor  all 
your  days  in  crying  repentance  unto  this 
people,  and  bring,  save  it  be  one  soul  unto 
me,  how  great  shall  be  your  joy  with  him 
in  the  kingdom  of  my  Fatherl 

And  now,  if  your  joy  will  be  great  with 
one  soul  that  you  have  brought  unto  me 
into  the  kingdom  of  my  Father,  how  great 
will  be  your  joy  if  you  should  bring  many 
souls  unto  me.  (D.  &  C.  18:15-16.) 

Your  joy  is  akin  to  the  joy  of  heaven, 
for  as  the  Master  declared: 

Likewise,  I  say  unto  you,  there  is  joy  in 
the  presence  of  the  angels  of  God  over  one 
sinner  that  repenteth.   (Luke  15:10.) 

When  you  have  felt  the  power  of  his 
Holy  Spirit,  when  you  have  been  in- 
spired to  meet  your  perplexing  prob- 
lems, when  you  have  had  the  privilege 
of  comforting  the  brokenhearted,  when 
you  have  led  an  erring  one  into  the  sun- 
light of  a  new  day,  when  you  have 
achieved  the  goal  of  your  dreams,  when 
you  have  done  these  things,  you  enjoy 
this  promise  that  was  given  to  the 
laborers  in  the  vineyard  years  ago: 

And  whoso  receiveth  you,  there  will  I  be 
also,  for  I  will  go  before  your  face.  I  will 
be  on  your  right  hand  and  on  your  left, 
and  my  Spirit  shall  be  in  your  hearts,  and 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Fourth  Day 

mine  angels  round  about  you,  to  bear  you  up. 
(D.  &  C.  84:88.  Italics  added.) 

Add  to  that  promise  the  glorious  one 
already  quoted  in  this  conference  by 
President  Richards: 

Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  charity  to- 
wards all  men,  and  to  the  household  of  faith, 
and  let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts  unceas- 
ingly; then  shall  thy  confidence  wax  strong 
in  the  presence  of  God;  and  the  doctrine  of 
the  priesthood  shall  distil  upon  thy  soul  as 
the  dews  from  heaven. 

The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  constant  com- 
panion, and  thy  scepter  an  unchanging  scep- 
ter of  righteousness  and  truth;  and  thy  do- 
minion shall  be  an  everlasting  dominion,  and 
without  compulsory  means  it  shall  flow  unto 
thee  forever  and  ever.  (Ibid.,  121:45-46.) 

I  give  you  my  witness,  my  good  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  that  in  the  service  of 
the  Lord  comes  the  supreme  joy  of  life. 
And  when  you  have  coupled  it  with  the 
nobility  of  work  and  the  satisfaction  of 
having  friends  and  children  about  you, 
God  can  bless  you,  and  he  will.  May 
he  do  so  abundantly,  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Adam  S.  Bennion  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  concluded 
speaking.  Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will  now 
speak  to  us. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


1 cherish  the  privilege  of  sitting  by 
Brother  Adam  S.  Bennion,  but  not 
that  of  following  him  as  a  speaker. 
He  makes  this  task  doubly  difficult. 

What  I  should  least  like  to  do  today 
would  be  to  detract  in  any  way  from  the 
glorious  quality  and  content  and  spirit 
of  the  messages  which  we  have  heard 
here  these  past  four  or  five  days — begin- 
ning with  President  McKay's  message 
of  Sunday  morning  on  peace  in  the 
world  and  the  influence  of  the  home; 
going  back  before  that  to  President 
Richards'  remarks  in  the  priesthood 
meeting  on  Saturday  evening,  as  con- 
cerning the  counsel  that  we  should  not 
overextend  ourselves  in  debt  (which  re- 


minded me  of  the  counsel  given  to 
Joseph  Smith  not  to  run  faster  nor 
labor  more  than  we  have  strength  and 
means) ;  then  the  glorious  talks — two  of 
them — by  President  J.  Reuben  Clark  on 
fundamentals,  including  the  counsel  to 
keep  all  of  the  commandments;  and 
President  Smith's  remarks  at  the  mis- 
sionary meeting,  reminding  us  of  our 
inescapable  obligations  to  bear  witness 
to  the  world. 

And  so  we  have  been  edified  and  en- 
couraged and  strengthened  by  the  mes- 
sages of  all  the  brethren,  on  the  home, 
on  the  teaching  of  children,  on  the 
example  we  must  set  before  them,  on 
the  divinity  of  our  Savior,  Jesus  the 


ELDER  RICH. 

Christ,  on  the  glorious  reality  and  divine 
calling  of  Joseph  the  Prophet,  of  the 
reality  of  the  appearance  to  him  of  the 
Father  and  the  Son.  Right  down  to  the 
present,  to  the  immediately  previous 
talk,  it  has  been  a  glorious,  inspiring, 
and  solid  and  satisfying  general  con- 
ference. 

I  think  at  this  point  we  could  well 
ask  the  question,  or  questions:  What  is 
the  ultimate  meaning  and  purpose  of 
these  conferences;  what  is  the  real 
meaning  of  this  miscellany  of  messages 
(or  seeming  miscellany  to  those  who 
are  not  quite  aware  of  the  wholeness 
of  the  gospel)?  Why  do  all  this?  Why 
come  together?  Why  so  exert  ourselves 
and  so  concern  ourselves?  Why  not  just 
relax  and  be  comfortable  and  com- 
placent? Why  is  it  all  important?  I 
suppose  we  are  busier,  per  capita,  than 
any  other  people  that  I  know  of,  and  if 
there  were  not  some  great  far-reaching, 
basic  importance  to  all  this  effort  we 
go  to,  and  all  this  gathering  we  do,  all 
this  activity,  and  all  this  instructing  and 
edifying  of  one  another,  it  would  save 
us  a  lot  of  time  and  trouble  if  we  knew 
that  it  were  not  important. 

These  things  would  not  be  so  im- 
portant except  for  the  reality  of  ever- 
lasting life,  but  the  most  meaningful 
things  in  life  are  everlasting,  and  what 
we  do  is  important  because  we  are 
everlasting — 

For  whosoever  will  save  his  life  shall  lose 
it,  and  whosoever  will  lose  his  life  for  my 
sake  shall  find  it.  (Matt.  16:25.) 

Now  Brother  Bennion  has  already 
pursued  a  theme  that  I  might  have  pur- 
sued; and  some  comments  that  I  might 
have  made  on  happiness  he  has  tran- 
scended with  his  on  joy.  But  the  mean- 
ing of  all  this  that  we  do,  and  the  rea- 
son for  all  of  it,  is  because  men  are 
immortal;  because  the  object  of  life  is 
happiness,  peace,  eternal  life,  and  ever- 
lasting progress;  and  these  are  sufficient 
indeed  to  justify  all  we  do,  and  much 
more. 

I  should  like  to  read  into  the  record, 
in  witness  of  the  truth  of  this  statement, 
a  sentence  from  Joseph  Smith  concern- 
ing the  aim  and  object  of  life: 

Happiness  is  the  object  and  design  of  our 
existence;  and  will  be  the  end  thereof,  if 
we  pursue  the  path  that  leads  to  it;  and 


W  L.  EVANS  113 

this  path  is  virtue,  uprightness,  faithfulness, 
holiness,  and  keeping  all  the  commandments 
of  God.  (Teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  pp.  255-256.) 

Brother  Bennion  has  ably  brought  be- 
fore us  some  of  the  things  that  have 
in  them  the  makings  of  joy  and  of  hap- 
piness. There  is  a  long  list  of  other 
things.  We  could  extend  ourselves  into 
the  recital  of  them  for  a  long  time  to 
come;  among  them:  obedience;  freedom, 
freedom  to  think,  a  kind  of  freedom  in 
which  we  keep  ourselves  from  the  en- 
slavement of  habits  that  are  detrimental 
to  happiness;  an  open  mind  to  truth; 
love;  a  sense  of  belonging;  a  conviction 
of  purpose,  purpose  in  time  and  in  eter- 
nity; cleanliness;  the  peace  that  comes 
with  a  quiet  conscience;  patience;  re- 
pentance— these  are  all  indispensable 
elements  of  happiness. 

Another  I  have  not  named  is  family 
unity.  Not  many  days  ago  my  lovely 
wife,  the  mother  of  our  four  sons,  and 
I,  with  our  sons,  were  all  together — the 
six  of  us — in  a  car  going  to  the  same 
place  with  a  common  purpose  and  a 
common  destination  in  mind;  and 
sharply  the  thought  came  to  me,  how 
much  less  it  would  mean  if  we  were 
not  together,  and  if  we  were  divided  in 
our  objectives;  if  their  mother  were  try- 
ing to  tell  them  to  go  one  place  or  to 
believe  one  thing,  and  I  were  trying  to 
tell  them  to  go  another  place  or  to  be- 
lieve another  thing;  if  she  were  setting 
before  them  a  certain  set  of  ideals  or 
objectives,  and  I  were  setting  before 
them  a  different  set  of  ideals  and  objec- 
tives. This  would  not  be  fair  to  a  home. 
It  would  not  be  fair  to  children.  It 
would  not  be  fair  to  the  future. 

One  of  the  greatest  elements  of  joy 
and  peace  and  effectiveness  in  life  is 
the  unity  of  parents  in  a  home;  and 
with  my  young  friends  who  are  con- 
templating entering  into  this  most  im- 
portant of  all  relationships,  that  of  mar- 
riage, I  would  plead  this  day  to  think 
of  this:  No  marriage  has  a  right  to 
be  made,  which,  at  its  making,  has 
less  than  the  prospect  of  lasting  ever- 
lastingly. No  marriage  at  its  making, 
has  the  right  to  impose  the  penalty  upon 
a  home  of  pulling  children  two  ways  at 
once.  It  is  not  fair  to  the  children.  It 
is  not  fair  to  the  community.  It  is  not 
fair  to  the  future.  It  is  difficult  enough 


114  GENERAL  ( 

Wednesday,  April  6 

to  teach  children  when  both  parents 
are  pulling  in  the  same  direction,  but 
when  the  two  people  that  children  have 
the  most  right  to  look  to  for  guidance 
are  each  telling  them  something  basical- 
ly different,  and  are  each  persuading 
them  on  a  different  course  in  a  different 
way,  it  has  in  it  the  seeds  of  trouble 
and  discontent  and  frustration  and  un- 
happiness  and  ineffectiveness  in  life. 

I  would  leave  this  with  you  as  one  of 
the  greatest  elments,  one  of  the  indis- 
pensable elements  of  happiness:  unity 
in  the  home. 

We  could  mention  many  more.  There 
is  humility,  always  an  indispensable. 
I  like  to  recall  a  sentence  from  Owen 
Meredith  which  rings  in  my  heart:  "O 
be  sure  that  no  man  learn  anything  at 
all  unless  he  first  learn  humility." 

Of  course,  there  is  faith,  the  first  of 
the  first  principles  of  the  gospel.  What 
a  glorious  thing  faith  is!  Faith!  All 
of  us  would  like  to  know  a  lot  of  an- 
swers we  do  not  know.  All  of  us  shall 
some  day.  But  it  was  meant  that  men 
should  live  in  part  by  faith.  It  is  a 
glorious  thing  to  have  it,  to  meet  the 
unanswered  questions,  to  meet  the  fears 
of  life,  to  carry  us  over  all  difficulties — 
the  glorious  principle  of  faith,  the  first 
of  the  first  principles  of  the  gospel. 

From  the  fourth  section  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants  I  would  recall 
these  elements  of  joy  and  happiness, 
of  peace,  and  of  purpose  in  life: 

Remember  faith,  virtue,  knowledge,  tem- 
perance, patience,  brotherly  kindness,  godli- 
ness, charity,  humility,  diligence. 

Ask,  and  ye  shall  receive;  knock,  and  it 
shall  be  opened  unto  you.  (D.  &  C.  4:6-7.) 

I  haven't  the  language  to  express  to 
you  the  love  I  feel  for  these,  my  breth- 
ren, for  their  fatherly  and  brotherly  af- 
fection, confidence,  and  encouragement. 
I  haven't  the  words  to  express  to  you  the 
gratitude  I  feel  for  my  fellowship  with 
you  and  my  membership  in  this  Church, 
in  this  choice  and  cherished  fellowship; 
and  I  am  grateful  for  the  love  and 
affection  I  feel  in  my  heart  for  all  men, 
all  of  my  Father's  children,  and  for  the 
things  we  have  in  common. 

I  think  I  know  something  of  the 
weight  of  responsibility  that  comes  with 
influencing  the  lives  of  others.  I  be- 
lieve I  sense  something  of  the  responsi- 


Fourth  Day 

bility  of  bearing  witness;  and  yet  to  you 
who  are  here,  and  to  all  who  may  listen 
within  and  outside  membership  in  this 
Church,  I  would  leave  with  you  the 
witness  of  my  soul  as  to  the  divinity  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  as  to  the  Father- 
hood of  God,  who  made  us  in  his  image; 
as  to  the  divine  reality  of  the  mission 
and  message  of  Joseph  Smith,  and  the 
appearance  of  the  Father  and  the  Son 
unto  him,  not  just  in  a  manner  of  speak- 
ing, but  in  very  fact;  as  to  the  inspired 
and  authorized  leadership  of  this  Church 
in  this  day;  the  prophetic  calling  of 
President  McKay;  as  to  the  glorious 
destiny  of  all  men,  if  they  will  follow 
the  promises,  the  purposes,  the  com- 
mandments, and  go  all  the  way  in  keep- 
ing them — not  just  part  way. 

God  lives.  His  purposes  are  eternal. 
Truth  will  triumph.  Injustice  will  be 
righted.  Men  are  immortal.  There  are 
happiness,  peace,  everlasting  life,  eternal 
progress  for  all  of  us  on  the  terms  on 
which  our  Father  offers  them  to  us. 

To  my  beloved  young  friends  of  this 
glorious  young  generation  that  we  have 
in  the  Church  today:  May  I  plead  with 
you  to  be  patient,  to  search  the  scrip- 
tures, to  keep  your  lives  balanced,  and 
to  reserve  judgment,  to  keep  faith,  to 
keep  clean,  to  go  forth  and  rise  to  the 
high  destiny  that  is  yours,  and  to  live 
your  lives  and  make  your  homes  with 
unity  of  purpose  with  your  companions 
so  that  you  may  realize  that  joy  and 
effectiveness  and  peace  and  undivided 
purpose  in  life  which  will  lead  to  limit- 
less possibilities  here  and  hereafter. 

God  bless  you  and  give  you  every 
needed  thing  in  life,  I  pray  in  Jesus' 
name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve.  The  Congregation 
will  now  sing,  "The  Spirit  of  God  Like 
a  Fire  is  Burning,"  conducted  by  Elder 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall.  After  the  sing- 
ing, Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  will  speak 
to  us. 


The  congregation  and  the  Singing 
Mothers  joined  in  singing  the  hymn, 
"The  Spirit  of  God  Like  a  Fire  is  Burn- 
mg. 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 


115 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


If  we  are  to  inherit  eternal  life  in  the 
kingdom  of  our  Father,  we  must 
overcome  the  world.  The  world  is  a 
state  of  wickedness,  evil,  and  carnality, 
a  corrupt  state  in  which  men  dwell  and 
in  which  wickedness  holds  sway.  To 
overcome  the  world,  we  must  triumph 
over  these  things. 

All  men  who  live  in  this  world,  in 
this  state  of  carnality,  and  who  have 
not  overcome  the  world,  are  themselves 
carnal  and  sensual  and  devilish  by  na- 
ture. That  is  the  kind  of  inheritance 
that  we  have  received  as  part  of  this 
mortality,  and  our  object  and  end  is  to 
overcome  the  world  and  develop  the 
kind  of  bodies,  and  the  attributes  and 
perfections,  that  will  enable  us  to  dwell 
with  holy,  pure,  and  exalted  beings  in 
the  eternal  world. 

These  truths  have  been  revealed  to 
us  in  many  revelations;  for  instance, 
John  wrote  these  words: 

Love  not  the  world,  neither  the  things 
that  are  in  the  world.  If  any  man  love  the 
world,  the  love  of  the  Father  is  not  in  him. 

For  all  that  is  in  the  world,  the  lust  of 
the  flesh,  and  the  lust  of  the  eyes,  and  the 
pride  of  life,  is  not  of  the  Father,  but  is 
of  the  world. 

And  the  world  passeth  away,  and  the  lust 
thereof:  but  he  that  doeth  the  will  of  God 
abideth  for  ever.   (I  John  2:15-17.) 

And  the  great  Nephite  prophet,  Alma, 
in  discoursing  upon  the  probationary 
nature  of  our  mortal  existence  said  that 
all  men  are  "carnal,  sensual,  and  devil- 
ish, by  nature."  (Alma  42:10.) 

From  James  we  have  these  words: 

.  .  .  know  ye  not  that  the  friendship  of 
the  world  is  enmity  with  God?  whosoever 
therefore  will  be  a  friend  of  the  world  is 
the  enemy  of  God.   (James  4:4.) 

Then  finally,  we  have  these  expres- 
sions, as  spoken  by  the  angel  who 
appeared  to  that  righteous  King  Benja- 
min on  this  continent: 

For  the  natural  man  is  an  enemy  to  God, 
and  has  been  from  the  fall  of  Adam,  and 
will  be,  forever  and  ever,  unless  he  yields  to 
the  enticings  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  putteth 
off  the  natural  man  and  becometh  a  saint 


through  the  atonement  of  Christ  the  Lord, 
and  becometh  as  a  child,  submissive,  meek, 
humble,  patient,  full  of  love,  willing  to 
submit  to  all  things  which  the  Lord  seeth 
fit  to  inflict  upon  him,  even  as  a  child  doth 
submit  to  his  father.  (Mosiah  3:19.) 

As  we  understand  the  plan  of  salva- 
tion, we  came  into  this  sphere  of  exist- 
ence for  two  purposes.  First:  We  came 
to  gain  this  natural  body,  this  tangible 
body,  this  body  which  here  in  this  life 
is  a  temporary  house  for  the  eternal 
spirit,  but  which  body  we  will  receive 
back  again  in  immortality  through  the 
atoning  sacrifice  of  Christ.  Second:  We 
came  here  to  see  if  we  would  have  the 
spiritual  integrity,  the  devotion  to  right- 
eousness, to  overcome  the  world,  to  put 
off  the  natural  man,  to  bridle  our  pas- 
sions, to  curb  and  control  the  appetites 
that  are  natural  in  this  type  of  existence. 

We  have  been  put  in  this  environ- 
ment advisedly.  We  were  on  probation 
of  a  sort  when  we  lived  in  the  presence 
of  God,  our  Heavenly  Father.  But  in 
that  sphere  we  walked  by  sight;  in  that 
sphere  we  had  spirit  bodies.  We  have 
been  sent  down  here  to  walk  by  faith, 
and  we  have  been  given  natural  bodies, 
which  are  subject  to  the  ills  and  vicissi- 
tudes, the  temptations  and  lusts  of  the 
flesh.  And  now,  if  by  obedience  to  the 
laws  and  ordinances  of  the  gospel,  by 
keeping  the  standards  of  personal  right- 
eousness that  are  found  in  the  gospel,  if 
by  doing  this,  we  can  overcome  the 
world,  we  will  be  taking  the  bodies 
which  we  possess  and  transforming  them 
into  the  kind  of  bodies  that  can  dwell 
with  exalted  beings. 

The  Prophet  said  that  if  we  would 
go  where  God  is,  we/  must  be  like  him; 
that  is,  we  must  develop  the  character- 
istics and  the  attributes  and  the  perfec- 
tions which  God  has.  The  struggle 
which  we  face  is  whether  we  will  over- 
come the  world  or  whether  we  will  be 
overcome  by  the  world.  All  men  for- 
sake the  world  when  they  come  into  the 
Church;  they  then  overcome  the  world, 
if  they  continue  in  righteousness  and 
in  diligence  in  keeping  the  command- 
ments of  God. 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Wednesday,  April  6 

No  one  has  overcome  the  world,  the 
world  of  carnality  and  corruption,  until 
he  has  given  his  heart  to  Christ,  until 
he  uses  all  his  talents,  abilities,  and 
strength  in  keeping  the  commandments 
of  God,  and  in  causing  this  great  work 
to  roll  forth. 

The  Lord  has  given  us  the  agency,  the 
talent,  and  the  ability  to  achieve  in  this 
field.  He  sent  his  Son  into  the  world 
to  be  the  great  Exemplar,  to  be  a  Pat- 
tern, to  mark  the  way  whereby  we,  like 
him,  might  attain  glory  and  eternal 
reward. 

It  was  Christ  who  said:  "I  have  over- 


Fourth  Day 

come  the  world,"  (John  16:33)  and  it 
was  also  Christ  who  promised, 

To  him  that  overcometh  will  I  grant  to 
sit  with  me  in  my  throne,  even  as  I  also 
overcame,  and  am  set  down  with  my  Father 
in  his  throne.  (Revelation  3:21.) 

In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  concluded 
speaking.  We  shall  now  hear  from 
Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
LeGrand  Richards. 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


In  the  early  part  of  the  year  1842, 
John  Wentworth,  editor  of  the  Chi- 
cago Democrat,  went  to  Nauvoo  and 
obtained  an  interview  with  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  He  requested,  among 
other  things,  that  the  Prophet  write  out 
a  statement  of  the  things  in  which  the 
Church  believed,  and  the  Prophet  wrote 
the  Thirteen  Articles  of  Faith.  Later 
these  were  accepted  by  the  vote  of  the 
people  and  became  a  part  of  the  doc- 
trine of  the  Church.  They  are  now  in- 
cluded in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price  and 
form  a  part  of  that  great  volume  of 
latter-day  scripture. 

This  afternoon,  and  on  this  anni- 
versary of  the  birth  of  the  Savior  of 
the  world,  I  would  like  to  offer  for  your 
consideration  the  first  four  words  of  the 
Prophet's  statement,  from  the  point  of 
view  of  its  being  the  greatest  success 
formula  in  the  world.  Victor  Hugo 
said,  "There  is  nothing  in  the  world  as 
powerful  as  an  idea  whose  time  has 
come,"  and  if  we  can  learn  anything 
from  the  signs  of  the  times,  we  know 
that  the  time  has  fully  come  when  great 
faith  in  God  should  take  a  firmer  hold 
upon  our  minds. 

It  has  been  a  hundred  thirty-five  years 
since  God  the  Father  and  his  Son,  Jesus 
Christ,  reappeared  upon  the  earth  to 
re-establish  among  men  a  belief  in  the 
God  of  Genesis  and  to  usher  in  the 
greatest  and  final  dispensation.  And 


so  as  the  very  foundation  of  our  faith, 
the  Prophet  said,  "We  believe  in  God." 

If  the  meaning  of  this  phrase  were 
limited  to  the  idea  that  we  believe  that 
God  exists,  it  would  still  be  one  of  the 
great  statements  of  the  world.  That  is, 
there  is  great  strength  in  the  knowledge 
that  we  were  not  created  by,  nor  are  we 
at  the  mercy  of,  the  forces  of  a  blind  and 
capricious  chance.  But  when  we  say 
"we  believe  in  God,"  we  mean  much 
more  than  merely  that  God  exists.  We 
mean  that  we  understand  something 
about  the  kind  of  being  he  is,  that  he  is 
literally  the  Father  of  our  spirits,  and, 
according  to  the  great  law  of  the  uni- 
verse, the  offspring  may  sometime  be- 
come like  the  parent. 

But  the  most  thrilling  and  motivating 
part  of  this  idea  is  what  the  words 
themselves  indicate,  that  "we  believe  in 
God."  We  trust  him.  We  believe  that 
he  knows  his  business,  that  regardless 
of  chance  or  the  errors  of  men,  his  pur- 
poses will  prevail.  We  believe  that  our 
interests  are  his  interests,  that  he  meant 
what  he  said  in  that  wonderful  declara- 
tion that  'This  is  my  work  and  my  glory 
to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and 
eternal  life  of  man."  We  believe  that 
God  does  not  desire  that  his  children 
be  dull,  or  unattractive,  or  unhappy,  or 
unsuccessful. 

There  are  many  things  that  we  do  not 
understand.   We  don't  understand  our 


ELDER  STER 

own  birth  or  life  or  growth  or  death.  We 
don't  understand  light  or  darkness.  No 
one  in  mortality  has  ever  seen  his  own 
spirit.  We  didn't  discover  the  circula- 
tion of  our  own  blood  until  just  a  little 
over  three  hundred  years  ago.  It  must 
be  obvious,  therefore,  why  a  wise  Heav- 
enly Father  would  give  us  detailed  in- 
structions, setting  forth  objectives  and 
the  best  methods  for  attaining  them.  It 
must  be  equally  obvious  that  there  are 
tremendous  advantages  in  a  complete 
acceptance  of,  and  an  unwavering  faith 
in,  the  gospel;  for  as  an  earthly  father 
is  powerless  to  confer  the  maximum 
benefit  upon  a  son  who  has  no  confi- 
dence in  the  motives  or  abilities  of  the 
father,  so  God  is  powerless  to  confer  the 
greatest  blessings  upon  men  who  do  not 
believe  in  him.  A  great  power  attaches 
to  a  definite  objective  held  by  a  strong 
faith.  Jesus  said,  "If  thou  canst  believe, 
all  things  are  possible  to  him  that  be- 
lieve." (Mark  9:23.) 

Sometime  ago  I  read  about  the  great 
woman  swimming  champion,  Florence 
Chadwick.  In  1950  she  swam  the  Eng- 
lish Channel,  and  then  on  July  4,  1952, 
she  attempted  to  swim  the  twenty-one 
miles  of  water  lying  between  Catalina 
Island  and  the  southern  California 
coast.  The  temperature  of  the  water 
was  forty-eight  degrees,  and  a  heavy  fog 
lay  over  the  sea.  When  she  was  only 
half  mile  or  so  from  her  objective,  she 
became  discouraged  and  decided  to  quit. 
Her  father  who  was  in  the  boat  nearby 
tried  to  encourage  her  by  pointing 
through  the  fog  and  telling  her  that 
land  and  success  were  near  at  hand. 
But  she  was  discouraged,  and  a  dis- 
couraged person  is  always  a  weak  person. 

The  next  day  Miss  Chadwick  was 
interviewed  by  some  newspapermen. 
They  knew  that  she  had  swum  greater 
distances  on  previous  occasions,  and 
they  wanted  to  know  the  reason  for 
her  present  failure.  In  answering  their 
questions,  Miss  Chadwick  said,  no,  it 
wasn't  the  cold  water  and  it  wasn't 
the  distance.  She  said,  "I  was  licked 
by  the  fog." 

And  then  she  recalled  that  on  the 
occasion  when  she  swam  the  English 
Channel,  she  had  had  a  similar  expe- 
rience. When  only  a  short  way  from 
shore  she  had  given  up,  and  this  time 


INGW.SILL  117 

also,  her  father  had  pointed  ahead,  and 
she  had  raised  herself  out  of  the  water 
just  long  enough  to  get  the  picture  of 
her  objective  firmly  fixed  in  her  mind. 
This  gave  her  a  great  new  surge  of 
strength,  and  she  never  stopped  again 
until  she  felt  under  her  feet  the  firm 
earth  of  victory. 

I  thought  of  this  recently  when  a 
stranger  called  me  on  the  telephone  and 
asked  if  he  and  his  wife  might  come 
and  discuss  with  me  a  great  tragedy 
that  had  recently  occurred  in  their  fam- 
ily. He  explained  that  a  speeding  auto- 
mobile had  taken  the  life  of  their  only 
daughter,  and  they  asked  me  to  try  and 
help  them  understand  something  about 
the  purpose  of  life  and  the  meaning  o£ 
death  and  what  their  relationship  ought 
to  be  with  each  other,  and  where  God 
fit  into  the  picture,  and  whether  or  not 
there  was  any  use  for  them  to  try  to 
live  on. 

This  great  tragedy  weighed  upon  them 
so  oppressively  that  they  almost  seemed 
to  be  suffocating,  and  for  three  and  a 
half  hours  I  tried  as  hard  as  I  could  to 
help  them  with  their  problem.  But 
there  wasn't  much  of  a  foundation  on 
which  to  build,  and  I  discovered  that  it 
can  be  a  devastating  thing  all  of  a  sud- 
den to  need  great  faith  in  God  and  not 
be  able  to  find  it.  It  wasn't  that  they 
were  rebellious  or  that  they  disbelieved 
in  God.  Their  skepticism  went  deeper; 
they  hadn't  given  him  a  thought  one 
way  or  the  other.  It  wasn't  that  they 
disbelieved  in  immortality;  up  to  this 
point,  they  hadn't  cared.  Then  death 
had  stepped  across  their  threshold  and 
taken  the  best-loved  personality  there. 
And  then  all  of  a  sudden,  they  needed 
great  faith  in  God  and  were  not  able 
to  find  it. 

You  can't  merely  snap  your  fingers 
and  get  great  faith  in  God,  any  more 
than  you  can  snap  your  fingers  and  get 
great  musical  ability.  Faith  takes  hold 
of  us  only  when  we  take  hold  of  it. 
The  great  psychologist,  William  James, 
said,  "That  which  holds  our  attention 
determines  our  action,"  and  one  of  the 
unfortunate  things  in  life  is  that  we 
sometimes  focus  our  attention  on  the 
wrong  things. 

I  have  been  disturbed  a  little,  as  I 
have  gone  around  and  become  more 
conscious  of  the  great  variety  of  tempta- 


118 

Wednesday,  April  6 

tions  that  we  wrestle  with  and  succumb 
to.  When  we  enumerate  all  of  the 
temptations,  we  find  that  we  often  fall 
before  some  very  small  ones,  merely 
because  we  have  continued  to  entertain 
them.  We  talk  until  we  are  weary 
about  the  "temptations  down,"  not  so 
much  about  the  "temptations  up." 

The  dictionary  says  that  to  tempt 
is  "to  arouse  a  desire  for,"  and  so  I 
assume  that  I  am  correct  in  thinking 
that  temptation  can  go  in  either  direc- 
tion, although  it  is  the  easiest  thing  in 
the  world  to  allow  our  minds  to  become 
loaded  with  the  temptations  downward 
— the  temptations  of  lethargy,  the  temp- 
tations of  sloth,  the  temptations  of 
ignorance,  the  temptations  of  sin. 

But  every  thought  tends  to  reproduce 
itself  in  an  act.  Rags,  tatters,  and  dirt 
are  always  in  the  mind  before  they  ap- 
pear on  the  body.  One  of  the  greatest 
handicaps  to  spiritual  growth,  or  any 
other  kind  of  growth,  is  to  have  a  nega- 
tive mind,  and  I  suppose  that  one  of 
the  functions  of  a  great  faith  is  to  lift 
our  thoughts  upward,  to  houseclean  our 
minds,  to  sweep  out  our  "temptations 
down,"  and  fill  our  minds  with  the 
"temptations  up." 

And  so  I  would  like  to  offer  you  the 
thought  of  some  of  the  thrilling  tempta- 
tions upward — the  temptations  of  cul- 
ture, the  temptations  of  service,  the 
temptations  of  great  industry,  the  temp- 
tations to  focus  our  minds  on  great 
spirituality,  the  temptation  to  believe 
in  God. 

I  am  certain  that  the  greatest  waste 
there  is  in  the  world  is  not  the  devasta- 
tion that  goes  with  war;  nor  is  it  the  cost 
that  accompanies  crime;  nor  is  it  both 
of  these  put  together.  The  greatest  waste 
in  the  world  is  that  human  beings,  you 
and  I,  live  so  far  below  the  level  of 
our  possibilities. 

Henry  Ward  Beecher  was  once  asked 
whether  or  not  he  believed  that  Chris- 
tianity had  failed,  and  he  said  that  so 
far  as  he  knew,  it  had  never  been  tried. 
Compared  with  what  we  might  be,  we 
are  only  half  awake.  We  have  great 
concern  that  our  lives  may  someday 
come  to  an  end,  but  the  real  tragedy 
is  that  so  many  lives  never  really  have 
a  beginning.  The  fires  in  pur  souls  need 
rekindling.    In  speaking  of  education, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Fourth  Day 

Francis  Bacon  said,  "If  you  want  a  tree 
to  produce,  don't  worry  so  much  about 
the  boughs;  fertilize  the  roots."  Then 
suppose  we  give  in  to  that  temptation 
to  stimulate  those  great  God-given 
powers  within  ourselves  which  can  lift 
us  toward  heaven. 

The  brute  creation  goes  down  on  all 
fours,  which  tends  to  throw  its  gaze  upon 
the  ground.  But  man  stands  upright  in 
the  image  of  his  Maker  that  his  vision 
may  reach  to  the  stars. 

The  mission  of  Jesus  was  up.  Even 
in  Gethsemane  with  the  awful  weight 
of  our  sins  upon  his  soul,  his  face  looked 
up  to  God.  But  whatever  may  be  the 
attitude  of  the  body,  the  spirit  should 
be  on  its  toes.  When  Jesus  was  teaching 
us  to  pray,  he  inserted  that  wonderful 
phrase  which  says,  "Thy  will  be  done." 
But  even  when  we  repeat  these  inspiring 
words,  intended  to  lift  us  up,  we  usually 
surround  it  with  a  spirit  of  martyred 
resignation.  When  we  say,  "Thy  will, 
not  mine,  be  done"  (see  Luke  22:42), 
we  may  be  hoping  for  the  best  but  we 
are  usually  expecting  the  worst. 

We  fill  our  hearts  with  too  many 
doubts  and  fears  and  negative  thoughts. 
But  try  to  imagine  what  the  great  Cre- 
ator would  have  us  do  if  we  did  his 
will.  Can  you  conceive  of  any  limits 
he  would  place  upon  our  progress? 
What  would  God  have  us  "arouse  a 
desire  for"?  Certainly  not  for  weakness, 
or  failure,  or  sinl  Certainly  he  does 
not  want  us  to  fill  our  minds  with  the 
temptations  down.  He  is  not  pleased 
when  we  become  the  problem  children 
of  God.  His  will  is  for  us  to  become 
beautiful  and  glorious  like  him. 

But  the  great  truths  of  life  become 
known  only  to  those  who  are  prepared 
to  accept  them.  So  I  would  like  to 
present  for  your  consideration  the  thrill- 
ing temptations  of  the  gospel,  the  temp- 
tations to  live  worthily  of  the  celestial 
kingdom,  to  attain  a  celestial  body,  a 
celestial  mind,  a  celestial  personality, 
to  live  with  a  celestial  family  and 
celestial  friends  on  a  celestial  earth.  The 
gospel  offers  us  the  temptation  to  accept 
the  challenge  of  Jesus  when  he  said, 
"Be  ye  therefore  perfect,  even  as  your 
Father  which  is  in  heaven  is  perfect." 
(Matt.  5:48.) 

"Thy  will  be  done,"  means  to  become 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


119 


like  God.  Now  try  to  imagine  what  the 
mind  of  the  Creator  is  like.  If  you 
should  lose  all  of  your  material  posses- 
sions, you  might  have  reason  to  be 
greatly  depressed.  But  how  poor  you 
would  be  if  you  lost  your  faith  in  God! 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  we  have 
lived  successfully  through  the  long  ages 
of  a  pre-existence.  Now  we  live  in 
mortality  which  is  very  short.  And  we 
are  very  near  the  end  of  the  race.  How 
unfortunate  are  they  who  relax  their 
efforts  when  on  the  very  verge  of  suc- 
cess, like  the  great  Roman  general, 
Cato,  who  committed  suicide  on  the 
very  eve  of  his  triumph.  If  you  some- 
times feel  that  the  water  is  a  little  cold 


and  the  way  is  a  little  foggy,  then  is 
the  time  to  look  up  and  have  faith,  for 
there  is  land  ahead. 

"All  things  are  possible  to  him  that 
believeth,"  and  so  in  our  daily  devo- 
tions we  hold  ever  closer  the  very 
foundation  of  our  faith,  God's  formula 
for  success,  "We  believe  in  God." 

May  God  bless  our  faith,  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us.  We 
shall  now  hear  from  Elder  LeGrand 
Richards  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I am  sure  as  we  come  to  the  closing 
moments  of  this  great  conference  our 
hearts  are  full  of  gratitude  to  the 
Lord  for  the  blessings  it  has  brought 
to  each  of  us  individually,  and  to  the 
Church.  We  have  had  some  wonder- 
ful counsel  and  advice  and  instruction 
given  to  us.  The  music  has  been  de- 
lightful. The  prayers  from  these  mis- 
sion presidents  have  thrilled  us,  and,  al- 
together, I  am  sure  that  we  feel  in  our 
hearts  a  re-dedication  of  our  lives  and 
our  talents  and  all  that  we  have  to  the 
building  of  the  kingdom  of  God  in  the 
earth. 

I  recall  fifty  years  ago  when  with  the 
missionaries  and  President  Grant  who 
was  then  the  president  of  the  European 
Mission,  I  attended  a  conference  in  Hol- 
land that  lasted  all  day.  There  were 
many  tears  shed  during  that  day.  At 
the  close  of  the  conference  President 
Grant  said:  "Today  we  have  feasted  on 
the  fat  things  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 
Now,  brethren,  go  out  and  give  it  away. 
The  more  you  give  away  the  more  you 
will  have  left."  That  should  be  the 
feeling  in  the  heart  of  every  member 
who  has  been  privileged  to  attend  this 
conference.  We  ought  to  carry  its  spirit 
wherever  we  go — in  our  workshops,  in 
our  businesses,  on  our  farms,  and  in  all 
our  activities  in  the  Church,  and  in 
whatsoever  we  are  called  to  do,  we 
should  carry  this  wonderful  spirit  with 
us  into  the  world. 


I  am  grateful  for  the  presence  here  of 
these  mission  presidents  and  the  great 
work  that  they  are  accomplishing.  They 
are  noble  men.  They  have  great  re- 
sponsibility. They  have  entrusted  to 
them  your  boys  and  girls,  the  youth  of 
Zion,  who  have  gone  forth  as  mission- 
aries, and  when  new  converts  come  into 
the  Church,  they  have  the  responsibility 
to  see  that  they  are  all  put  to  work,  that 
they  use  the  gifts  and  the  talents  with 
which  the  Lord  has  endowed  them  for 
the  building  up  of  his  kingdom,  and  for 
the  honor  and  glory  of  his  name,  and 
for  the  blessing  of  his  children,  that 
there  shall  be  no  wasted  manpower,  just 
as  the  bishops  in  these  wards  share  that 
great  responsibility  also. 

While  Brother  Bennion  and  Brother 
Evans  were  speaking  about  joy  and  hap- 
piness, my  thoughts  went  to  the  ex- 
periences I  have  enjoyed  during  the  past 
year.  It  has  been  my  privilege,  besides 
mingling  with  the  Saints  in  the  stakes 
of  Zion,  to  go  to  four  of  the  missions 
of  the  Church.  I  toured  two  of  them. 
Over  in  Hawaii,  with  President  Nelson, 
we  held  a  testimony  meeting  that  lasted 
from  seven  o'clock  in  the  morning  until 
five  o'clock  at  night,  and  we  had  only 
a  fifteen  minute  recess.  We  were  all 
there  fasting,  and  eighty-eight  of  us 
bore  our  testimonies,  and  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  was  manifested  in  rich  meas- 
ure. 

Then  I  toured  two  missions  and  in- 


120  GENERAL  ( 

Wednesday,  April  6 

terviewed  eighty-five  missionaries  indi- 
vidually in  one  and  sixty-five  in  the 
other.  I  was  in  another  mission  where 
one  young  man  said,  "Bishop,  why  do 
the  brethren  not  send  someone  around 
to  teach  our  parents  the  gospel  the  way 
we  are  teaching  it  to  these  people  here 
in  the  mission  field?"  I  came  to  feel 
that  if  you  wanted  to  find  the  happiest 
people  in  this  world,  and  those  who 
really  have  had  their  hearts  touched 
with  divine  joy,  you  should  go  into  the 
mission  field.  You  find  these  young 
men  and  young  women  who  are  giving 
all  their  time  to  the  work  of  the  Lord, 
and  one  by  one  they  will  testify  that  it 
is  the  happiest  time  of  their  entire  lives. 
I  have  met  for  hours  with  the  mission- 
aries in  the  mission  field,  and  they 
would  say:  "When  we  were  home,  we 
heard  the  returned  missionaries  say 
that  their  mission  was  the  happiest  time 
of  their  lives,  and  we  did  not  believe  a 
word  of  it,  and  now  we  know  what  they 
were  talking  about."  One  young  man 
said,  'There  isn't  a  corporation  or  a 
company  in  this  world  that  could  pay 
me  a  large  enough  salary  to  get  me  to 
leave  my  mission."  Another  young 
man  said:  "I  would  not  take  a  check 
for  a  million  dollars  for  the  experience 
of  my  mission,"  and  as  I  listened  to  such 
statements,  I  thought  of  the  words  of 
Alma  when  he  said  that  he  would  that 
he  had  the  voice  of  an  angel  that  he 
might  cry  repentance  to  all  the  world. 
Surely  the  Lord  is  the  best  paymaster 
in  all  the  world.  He  knows  how  to 
make  his  children  happy  when  they  are 
doing  his  great  work. 

I  have  said,  and  I  repeat  here,  that 
as  long  as  the  Lord  will  put  such  faith 
and  feelings  and  satisfaction  and  joy 
in  the  hearts  of  his  missionaries,  you 
just  cannot  stop  this  work  from  rolling 
on  in  the  earth,  and  I  thank  the  Lord 
for  the  great  work  that  is  being  done  in 
the  missionary  fields  of  the  Church,  not 
only  in  the  foreign  fields,  but  also  here 
in  the  stakes  of  Zion. 

Last  year,  according  to  reports,  18,573 
people  decided  to  cast  their  lot  with 
this  great  Church,  leaving  the  teachings 
they  had  been  taught,  because  of  the 
efforts  of  the  missionaries  in  bringing 
to  them  the  gospel  of  the  Lord,  Jesus 
Christ,  and  I  thank  the  Lord  for  each 
one  of  them  and  pray  that  they  them- 


Fourth  Day 

selves  may  become  working  units  and 
witnesses  of  the  great  truths  the  Lord 
has  established  in  the  earth. 

We  have  a  great  responsibility,  those 
of  us  who  are  privileged  to  be  here  in 
Zion.  You  remember  the  words  of  the 
Prophet  Jeremiah  of  old  when  he  said, 

Turn,  O  backsliding  children,  saith  the 
Lord;  for  I  am  married  unto  you:  and  I 
will  take  you  one  of  a  city,  and  two  of  a 
family,  and  I  will  bring  you  to  Zion: 

And  I  will  give  you  pastors  according  to 
mine  heart.  (Jer.  3:14-15.) 

Now,  when  we  are  gathered  to  Zion, 
either  here  or  in  her  stakes  or  missions, 
we  have  a  great  responsibility.  I  think 
of  the  words  of  the  psalmist,  who  saw 
our  day.  Quoting  from  the  fiftieth 
Psalm: 

The  mighty  God,  even  the  Lord,  hath 
spoken,  and  called  the  earth,  from  the  ris- 
ing of  the  sun  unto  the  going  down  there- 
of. 

Out  of  Zion,  the  perfection  of  beauty,  God 
hath  shined.  (Psalm  50:1-2.) 

Now,  I  ask  you,  how  has  the  Lord 
"shined"  out  of  Zion  the  perfection  of 
beauty?  He  has  gathered  them  one  of  a 
city  and  two  of  a  family  and  taught 
them  with  pastors  after  his  own  heart, 
and  then  he  sends  them  out  again,  call- 
ing to  the  earth  from  the  rising  of  the 
sun  unto  the  going  down  thereof,  and 
God  cannot  call  to  the  earth  crying 
repentance  to  bring  his  children  to  a 
knowledge  of  the  truth  without  instru- 
ments to  do  the  calling.  That  is  where 
our  great  responsibility  lies,  and  as  I 
have  indicated,  over  18,000  during  the 
past  year  have  heeded  that  call  and 
have  gone  down  into  the  waters  of  bap- 
tism, being  born  again,  taking  upon 
them  the  name  of  Christ,  and  as  Paul 
said, 

There  is  neither  Jew  nor  Greek,  there  is 
neither  bond  nor  free,  there  is  neither  male 
nor  female:  for  ye  are  all  one  in  Christ 
Jesus.  (Gal.  3:28.) 

That,  we  feel  as  we  travel  in  the  mis- 
sions, as  President  McKay  has  just  done, 
down  in  the  islands  of  the  South  Pacific, 
and  down  in  Central  America  where  I 
have  just  been,  I  interviewed  some  of  the 
missionaries  who  are  converts  to  the 
Church  who  have  never  been  here  in 
our  midst,  and  when  they  tell  us  that 


ELDER  LEGRA 

they  had  nothing  to  live  for  until  the 
gospel  found  them,  and  now  they  really 
have  something  to  live  for,  and  bear  wit- 
ness that  the  time  that  they  have  been 
in  the  Church  is  the  happiest  time  of 
all  their  lives,  it  makes  you  feel  grate- 
ful to  God  that  the  Church  has  grown 
to  such  proportions  that  it  can  begin 
to  reach  out  into  all  these  foreign  fields 
and  carry  to  them  the  message  of  eternal 
truth  as  the  Lord  has  revealed  it. 

I  told  those  good  people  down  in  that 
land  that  if  I  had  come  to  them  from 
the  States  with  enough  money  to  give 
each  of  them  a  million  dollars,  it  would 
not  be  worth  one  hundredth  part  as 
much  to  them  as  the  message  that  I  had 
to  bring  to  them.  That  represents  the 
importance  of  our  message.  It  is  what 
Jesus  called  the  "pearl  of  great  price." 

He  said  that  when  a  merchant  man 
seeking  goodly  pearls  found  the  "pearl 
of  great  price,"  he  went  and  sold  all 
that  he  had  and  bought  it.  (Matt. 
13:45-46.)  And  when  one  has  acquired 
it,  it  is  a  thing  that  brings  joy  and 
peace  and  happiness  and  satisfaction 
into  one's  soul,  the  like  of  which  he 
cannot  find  in  any  other  way  in  the 
world. 

I  have  great  faith  in  the  words  of  the 
prophets.  I  believe,  as  Isaiah  said,  that 
known  unto  God  are  all  of  his  works 
from  the  beginning,  and  he  has  per- 
mitted his  prophets  to  speak  of  those 
things,  and  when  you  stop  to  analyze 
what  prophecy  really  is,  no  mortal  man 
of  himself  could  catch  as  it  were  the 
intelligence  of  God  and  know  the  future 
events  of  the  world  and  portray  them 
to  the  world  except  by  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost. 

That  is  what  Peter  meant  when  he 
said, 

We  have  also  a  more  sure  word  of  proph- 
ecy; whereunto  ye  do  well  that  ye  take 
heed,  as  unto  a  light  that  shineth  in  a  dark 
place,  until  the  day  dawn,  and  the  day 
star  arise  in  your  hearts: 

Knowing  this  first,  that  no  prophecy  of 
the  scripture  is  of  any  private  interpreta- 
tion. 

For  the  prophecy  came  not  in  old  time 
by  the  will  of  man:  but  holy  men  of  God 
spake  as  they  were  moved  by  the  Holy 
Ghost.  (II  Peter  1:19-21.) 

When  you  put  the  prophecies  to- 
gether and  see  what  the  Lord  permitted 


<D  RICHARDS  121 

his  prophets  to  see,  you  realize  that  we 
are  living  in  the  Dispensation  of  the 
Fulness  of  Times  that  all  of  the  proph- 
ets have  looked  forward  to,  the  greatest 
gospel  dispensation  the  world  has  ever 
known.  In  the  words  of  the  Lord 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  we 
live  in  "the  light  of  the  noon  day  sun," 
and  you  know  that  is  the  brightest  period 
of  the  entire  day.  We  live  in  the  day 
when  the  brightest  spiritual  light  is 
available  to  all  men,  and  if  the  world 
knew  what  we  have,  I  testify  to  you 
that  there  is  not  an  honest  man,  or  an 
honest  woman,  in  all  this  world  who 
really  loves  the  Lord,  and  who  would 
be  willing  to  sacrifice  friends  and  loved 
ones  in  order  to  be  identified  with  his 
Church,  who  would  not  accept  the  gos- 
pel message  as  it  is  brought  to  them  by 
the  elders  of  this  Church,  because  it  is 
in  very  deed  God's  eternal  truth. 

Therefore,  I  said  to  the  people  in 
Central  America,  that  if  I  could  bring 
them  a  million  dollars  it  would  not  be 
worth  as  much  to  them  as  the  message 
we  have  to  bear. 

Some  years  ago,  one  of  our  great  com- 
mentators is  reported  to  have  made  this 
statement.  He  said  he  was  asked  what 
message  could  be  broadcast  to  the  world 
that  would  be  considered  of  greater 
value  than  any  other  message  that  could 
go  out  over  the  air.  He  said  after  giv- 
ing the  thought  consideration,  he  came 
to  the  conclusion  that  the  greatest  mes- 
sage that  could  be  broadcast  to  this 
world  would  be  to  say  that  a  man  who 
had  lived  upon  the  earth  and  died,  had 
returned  again  with  a  message  from 
God.  If  that  be  true,  we  have  the  great- 
est message  that  can  possibly  be  broad- 
cast to  the  world.  We  not  only  testify 
that  a  man  who  lived  upon  the  earth 
and  died  has  returned  with  a  message 
from  God,  but  also  that  God,  the  Eternal 
Father,  introduced  his  own  Son  in  his 
resurrected  body  of  flesh  and  bone,  to 
the  boy  Prophet,  Joseph  Smith,  which 
event  we  will  celebrate  next  Sunday,  it 
being  Easter,  and  from  him,  this  boy 
Prophet,  Joseph  Smith,  learned  that  he 
should  join  none  of  the  churches. 

Now,  that  is  a  hard  thing  to  say  to 
most  people  because  they  think  all  the 
churches  are  good.  And  there  is  good 
in  them,  just  as  there  is  in  the  Kiwanis 
Club  and  the  Rotary  Club,  and  the 


122 

Wednesday,  April  6 

Exchange  Club,  and  other  civic  organ- 
izations, but  there  are  no  people,  no 
organization,  nor  individual,  who  can 
take  upon  himself  or  themselves  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Priesthood,  the  power 
to  bind  on  earth  and  it  shall  be  bound 
in  heaven.  That  power  has  to  come 
from  God,  the  Eternal  Father. 

When  we  see  the  perfectness  of  nature 
and  how  marvelous  the  Lord's  works 
are,  it  is  hard  to  believe  that  he  could 
be  the  author  of  all  the  confusion  there 
is  in  the  world  today  in  spiritual  mat- 
ters. Some  of  our  greatest  leaders  have 
borne  their  testimonies  of  the  need  of 
Christianity  coming  again  as  it  was 
formerly.  I  would  like  to  read  a  few 
words  from  Dr.  Harry  Emerson  Fosdick, 
who  you  know  is  one  of  our  great  spirit- 
ual leaders  in  the  United  States.  He 
said: 

A  religious  reformation  is  afoot,  and  at 
heart  it  is  the  endeavor  to  recover  for  our 
modern  life  the  religion  of  Jesus  as  against 
the  vast,  intricate,  largely  inadequate  and 
often  positively  false  religions  about  Jesus. 
Christianity  today  has  largely  left  the  re- 
ligion which  he  preached,  taught,  and  lived, 
and  has  substituted  another  kind  of  reli- 
gion altogether.  If  Jesus  could  come  back 
to  earth  now,  hear  the  mythologies  built 
up  around  him,  see  the  creedalism,  denomi- 
nationalism,  sacramentalism,  carried  on  in 
his  name,  he  would  certainly  say,  "If  this 
is  Christianity,  I  am  not  a  Christian." 

This  is  not  a  statement  from  the  Mor- 
mons but  in  substance  is  the  same  state- 
ment the  Redeemer  of  the  world  made 
to  this  boy  Prophet,  Joseph  Smith,  when 
the  Father  introduced  him  and  the 
Savior  inquired  of  Joseph  what  he 
wanted  to  know.  He  told  him  he 
should  join  none  of  the  churches.  Presi- 
dent McKay  has  referred  here  today  to 
that  great  promise  that  a  marvelous 
work  and  a  wonder  was  about  to  come 
forth.  That  was  also  the  statement 
made  nearly  three  thousand  years  ago 
recorded  by  Isaiah,  when  he  said: 

Forasmuch  as  this  people  draw  near  me 
with  their  mouth,  and  with  their  lips  do 
honour  me,  but  have  removed  their  heart 
far  from  me,  and  their  fear  toward  me  is 
taught  by  the  precept  of  men: 

Therefore,  behold,  I  will  proceed  to  do  a 
marvellous  work  among  this  people  even 
a  marvellous  work  and  a  wonder:  for  the 
wisdom  of  their  wise  men  shall  perish,  and 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Fourth  Day 

the  understanding  of  their  prudent  men 
shall  be  hid.  (Isaiah  29:13-14.) 

I  wonder,  in  the  minds  of  the  world, 
when  they  read  such  promises  as  this, 
how  they  can  sit  idly  by  and  not  believe 
that  some  day  the  God  of  heaven  would 
fulfil  this  promise,  because  as  Peter 
said,  we  have  a  more  sure  word  of 
prophecy,  and  here  the  Lord  declared 
that  he  would  bring  forth  a  marvelous 
work  and  a  wonder.  Why  should  not 
the  world  open  their  hearts  and  be  will- 
ing to  investigate  when  we  bring  to 
them  the  announcement  that  the  God 
of  heaven  has  revealed  himself,  and 
with  him,  his  only  Begotten  Son?  Such 
a  knowledge  as  this  certainly  is  worth 
more  than  all  the  wealth  of  the  world 
and  is  the  greatest  message  that  could 
possibly  be  broadcast  to  the  world. 

Take  the  other  prophecies  of  the 
scripture.  I  think  of  the  words  of 
Jesus  as  he  walked  along  the  way  and 
met  the  two  disciples  on  their  way  to 
Emmaus,  following  his  crucifixion,  and 
as  he  listened  to  them  you  will  recall 
he  said, 

O  fools,  and  slow  of  heart  to  believe  all 
that  the  prophets  have  spoken: 

Ought  not  Christ  to  have  suffered  these 
things,  and  enter  into  his  glory?  (Luke  24: 
25-26.) 

Then  he  began  to  explain  the  scrip- 
tures to  them  and  opened  their  under- 
standing that  they  might  understand 
the  scriptures. 

So  today,  if  the  Savior  were  here 
among  us,  he  would  say  to  this  world 
in  which  we  live, 

Have  I  not  permitted  the  prophets  to 
speak  unto  you?  Have  I  not  given  them 
the  signs  of  the  times  in  the  latter  days 
by  which  you  should  know  that  there  was 
to  be  a  new  truth  revealed  to  the  earth 
in  the  day  when  men  should  teach  for  doc- 
trine the  commandments  of  men?  Why 
should  you  not  be  praying  unto  the  God 
of  Israel  that  this  great  message  that  is 
promised  by  the  prophets  should  come,  just 
as  Israel  should  have  been  praying  for  the 
coming  of  the  great  Redeemer  of  the  world 
when  he  came  in  the  Meridian  of  Time? 

Today  we  are,  as  the  prophets  of  old 
have  indicated,  speaking  of  the  world 
generally,  as  they  who  have  eyes  that 
see  not,  and  ears  that  hear  not,  and 
hearts  that  do  not  understand  and  com- 


ELDER  LEGRi 

prehend  the  marvelous  things  that  the 
Lord  has  done. 

We  have  testimony  here  today  of  the 
fact  that  the  Father  and  the  Son  are 
real  personages  with  bodies.  You  re- 
member, some  of  you,  who  read  the 
book  written  by  Senator  Beveridge,  in 
which  he  devoted  a  chapter  to  the  young 
man  and  the  pulpit.  He  told  of  his 
experience  interviewing  ministers  and 
others  during  his  vacation  time,  and 
how  people  wanted  to  believe.  They 
wanted  to  believe  that  there  is  a  God 
who  is  a  real  Personage,  and  then  he 
said  that  one  great  railroad  magnate 
said  that  he  would  give  all  the  wealth 
of  the  United  States  to  know  that  after 
he  died  he  would  live  again  with  a  con- 
scious identity,  knowing  who  he  was 
and  who  other  people  were. 

To  every  Latter-day  Saint,  through 
the  restoration  of  the  gospel,  that  be- 
comes an  obvious  common  truth  in  our 
Church,  and  yet  here  was  a  man  who 
would  have  given  all  the  wealth  of  the 
United  States  in  order  to  know  that  one 
great  truth  that  we  have  to  teach. 

I  want  to  say  a  few  words  about  the 
coming  of  Moroni,  who  brought  the 
plates  from  which  the  Book  of  Mormon 
was  translated.  You  just  cannot  believe 
the  words  of  the  prophets,  you  cannot 
believe  the  Holy  Bible,  without  knowing 
that  there  is  a  companion  volume  of 
scripture  to  go  with  it.  What  is  it 
worth?  To  some  of  us  it  has  been  a 
great  inspiration  in  our  lives. 

I  heard  a  young  serviceman,  who  re- 
turned from  the  service,  talking  in  a 
youth  meeting  not  long  ago.  He  held 
up  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  said:  "This 
book  kept  me  clean  and  brought  me 
home  clean  to  my  loved  ones.  I  read 
from  it  every  day  that  I  was  in  the 
service." 

Some  years  ago  a  story  was  told  about 
an  elderly  brother  who  was  sent  on  a 
mission.  He  wrote  letters  back  to 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  calling  his 
attention  to  this  statement  and  that 
statement  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  so 
wonderful  he  thought  the  Presidency  of 
the  Church  had  never  read  them  just 
because  he  had  not  read  them. 

I  wonder  how  many  copies  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon  there  are  in  our  li- 
braries that  never  get  read? 

A  short  time  ago  an  article  appeared 


W  RICHARDS  123 

in  the  newspaper  which  stated  that 
William  A.  Kennedy  was  here  from 
Lima,  Peru,  to  gather  money  to  estab- 
lish a  research  university  down  in  Lima, 
Peru,  to  study  the  early  inhabitants  of 
the  Americas,  particularly  dealing  with 
the  Mayan  and  Incan  civilizations.  This 
article  said  that  with  the  pledges  he 
had,  when  matched  by  the  small  Ameri- 
can countries,  as  they  had  promised,  it 
would  give  them  over  thirty  million 
dollars,  with  an  assurance  that  within 
five  years  the  amount  would  be  in- 
creased to  between  sixty  and  seventy 
million  dollars,  and  that  President 
Hoover  had  agreed  to  serve  on  that 
board. 

I  have  never  heard  what  became  of 
it,  but  this  was  the  thought  I  had.  They 
were  willing  to  contribute  sixty  to 
seventy  million  dollars  to  learn  some- 
thing about  the  early  inhabitants  of  that 
land,  and  when  they  have  spent  it  all, 
they  would  not  know  one  thousandth 
part  as  much  as  they  could  learn  by 
reading  the  Book  of  Mormon  that  they 
could  get  for  fifty  cents,  and  if  they  did 
not  have  the  fifty  cents,  we  would  give 
them  a  copy  for  nothing. 

The  Book  of  Mormon  not  only  tells 
us  the  history  of  the  people,  and  what 
they  did,  but  it  also  gives  unto  us  the 
words  of  their  prophets,  and  not  only 
that,  it  also  tells  us  that  this  is  a  land 
choice  above  all  oher  lands.  Upon  this 
land  shall  be  built  the  New  Jerusalem 
of  the  Lord  our  God,  and  they  will  not 
likely  find  that  recorded  in  any  relics 
they  find  down  in  those  mounds  in 
South  and  Central  America,  many  of 
which  I  have  recently  seen. 

I  was  thrilled  by  Brother  Hunter's 
testimony  of  these  records  that  parallel 
the  records  of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  I 
have  never  seen  this  in  print,  but  I 
heard  President  Callis  make  this  state- 
ment: that  after  the  Book  of  Mormon 
came  forth  the  Prophet  Joseph  was  ter- 
ribly worried  about  what  the  world 
would  say,  and  he  said,  "O  Lord,  what 
will  the  world  say?"  And  the  answer 
came  back,  "Fear  not,  I  will  cause  the 
earth  to  testify  of  the  truth  of  these 
things,"  and  from  that  day  until  now, 
and  only  the  Lord  knows  what  is  yet 
ahead,  external  evidences  have  been 
brought  forth  of  the  divinity  of  that 
book. 


124 

Wednesday,  April  6 

But  more  than  all  this  is  the  promise 
contained  in  the  last  chapter  by  Moroni, 
that  if  one  will  read  it  with  a  prayerful 
heart  the  Lord  will  manifest  the  truth 
of  it  unto  him  by  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost. 

When  I  was  a  boy,  I  led  our  Sun- 
day School  in  reciting  the  testimony  of 
the  three  witnesses,  and  their  words 
have  rung  through  my  heart  from  that 
day  until  this,  when  those  men  testi- 
fied that  an  angel  of  God  came  down 
from  heaven  and  brought  and  laid  be- 
fore their  eyes  the  plates  from  which 
the  Book  of  Mormon  was  translated  and 
testified  that  it  was  translated  by  the 
gift  and  by  the  power  of  God. 

I  give  you  that  witness  today.  I  wish 
there  were  time  to  discuss  other  marvel- 
ous things  the  Lord  has  given  us  in  the 
restoration  of  the  gospel.  Then  you 
would  know  why  it  is  the  greatest  mes- 
sage that  could  be  broadcast  to  the  world 
and  why  it  is  worth  more  than  all  the 
wealth  of  this  world. 

I  bear  you  solemn  witness  that  I 
know  this  work  is  of  God.  I  know  the 
greatest  joy  that  can  fill  the  human  soul 
and  breast  is  the  testimony  of  the  Spirit 
of  God,  and  I  tell  you,  brothers  and 
sisters,  we  ought  to  go  out  and  share  it 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Fourth  Day 

with  our  neighbors  and  our  friends,  and 
may  God  bless  every  effort  that  is  being 
put  forth  by  the  membership  of  this 
Church  in  that  direction  I  pray,  and 
leave  you  my  love  and  blessing,  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  LeGrand  Richards  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve,  has  just  concluded 
speaking. 

There  are  two  other  members  of  the 
General  Authorities  from  whom  we 
should  like  to  hear,  but  we  told  them 
in  the  Thursday  meeting  preceding  the 
opening  of  this  Conference  that  we 
would  excuse  them,  that  they  might 
conserve  their  physical  strength  which 
they  lost,  one  several  years  ago,  and 
one  a  few  months  ago,  in  over  exertion 
in  the  performance  of  their  duties:  Elder 
Thomas  E.  McKay,  and  Bishop  Joseph 
L.  Wirthlin. 

I  extend  to  you  their  appreciation  and 
gratitude  for  your  faith  and  prayers  and 
their  love  for  the  Church,  for  the  mem- 
bership, their  testimony  of  the  truth  of 
the  divinity  of  this  work.  God  bless 
them  both. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


Now,  in  conclusion  of  this  inspira- 
tional Conference,  we  wish  to  ex- 
press once  again  our  gratitude  to  all 
who  have  contributed  to  its  success  in- 
cluding those  who  have  furnished  these 
lovely  flowers  not  only  for  the  beauty  of 
the  flowers  themselves,  but  especially 
for  the  spirit  that  prompted  the  giving. 
The  calla  lilies  come  from  Berkeley 
Stake  and  the  daffodils,  from  the  Ta- 
coma  Stake  through  the  courtesy  of  the 
Puyallup  Daffodil  Festival  Committee 
of  Tacoma. 

We  express  appreciation  to  City  offi- 
cials for  their  efficient  care  in  directing 
traffic  during  the  Conference;  to  the  re- 
porters; to  radio  and  television  stations, 
for  the  service  in  our  own  City  and  State 
and  other  States  named  throughout  the 
sessions — this  service  has  been  the  means 
of  permitting  tens  of  thousands  to  hear 
the  proceedings  of  the  Conference: — to 
the  daily  papers,  here  in  the  City  and  in 


the  State,  we  express  appreciation  for 
their  cooperation  and  their  efforts  ac- 
curately to  report  the  proceedings  of  this 
great  Conference. 

Once  again,  we  express  appreciation 
and  gratitude  for  those  groups  who  have 
furnished  such  inspiring  music — the 
Men's  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
last  Saturday  night;  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  faithful  members,  capable,  in- 
spiring; the  Brigham  Young  University 
Combined  Choruses.  You  who  heard 
them  will  join  me  in  expressing  appre- 
ciation of  their  presence,  as  well  as  for 
their  inspiring  singing;  and  finally,  and 
how  glorious  it  is  to  have  our  Conference 
concluded  with  their  singing — we  ex- 
press appreciation  to  our  singing  Moth- 
ers. You  notice  the  Choir  seats  are 
filled,  and  also  the  two  rows  extending 
on  each  side  of  the  gallery. 

I  should  like  to  acknowledge  with 
gratitude  the  presence  of  the  Spirit  of 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


125 


the  Lord.  After  all,  that  is  what  makes 
a  Conference  inspiring.  I  felt  its  uplift- 
ing influence  last  Saturday  morning.  It 
was  about  one  hour  after  this  unprece- 
dented snowstorm  swept  over  the  valley. 
As  Sister  McKay  and  I  approached  the 
Tabernacle  to  fill  our  appointment  with 
the  Primary  Association  officers,  we  felt 
that  there  would  probably  be  many 
vacant  seats.  It  was  snowing,  in  fact  it 
was  almost  a  blizzard  as  we  entered  the 
Tabernacle.  I  shall  never  forget  the 
inspiration  that  I  felt  as  I  looked  over  an 
audience  that  completely  filled  this  his- 
toric building. 

That  morning,  two  great  impressions 
came  to  my  mind.  One,  that  this 
demonstration  of  the  Primary  Associa- 
tion is  but  illustrative  of  other  groups 
in  the  Church,  equally  active,  equally 
responsible.  There  came  to  my  mind 
the  saying  in  Ephesians:  "And  he  gave 
some,  apostles;  and  some,  prophets;  and 
some,  evangelists;  and  some,  pastors  and 
teachers  .  .  ."  and  so  forth.  (Eph.  4:11.) 
Seven  organizations,  including  two  of 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  with  273,142 
officers  and  teachers — teachers,  guides, 
inspirers,  of  the  membership  of  the 
Church,  engaged  in  perfecting  the  Saints, 
working  in  the  ministry,  edifying  the 
body  of  Christ. 

When  I  listened  to  the  Primary  work- 
ers and  heard  them  report  several  stakes 
that  have  100%  enrollment,  and  the 
officers  and  teachers  guiding  them  and 
teaching  them,  I  was  reminded  of  an 
article,  a  story  I  read  twenty  years  ago 
in  one  of  our  national  magazines.  It 
is  a  story  of  a  little  boy  who  had  wan- 
dered from  his  home  into  the  "Bad 
Lands"  of  North  Dakota. 

On  Tuesday,  July  18,  1933,  at  about 
3  o'clock  in  the  afternoon,  a  little  three- 
year-old  lad  was  lost  in  the  "Bad  Lands" 
of  North  Dakota.  He  was  bareheaded, 
barefooted  and  wore  only  a  pair  of  cov- 
eralls. The  "Bad  Lands"  are  noted  for 
their  pitfalls,  canyons,  rattlesnake  holes 
and  as  a  rendevous  for  wild  animals. 

Upon  discovering  that  the  little  boy 
was  missing,  his  parents  began  an  im- 
mediate search.  Later  in  the  evening 
neighbors  and  friends  were  notified,  an 
all-night  search  was  made.  Early  Wed- 
nesday morning  a  neighbor  rode  sixteen 
miles  to  Walford  City  to  give  the  alarm 
that  a  child  was  lost   Farmers,  house- 


wives, shepherds,  cowboys,  business  and 
professional  men,  storekeepers,  Boy  and 
Girl  Scouts,  law  officers  without  delay 
gathered  on  the  town  square  at  Schafer 
to  hear  Sheriff  Thompson's  instructions 
as  follows: 

"We  are  all  going  out  to  the  'Bad 
Lands'  to  find  and  bring  back  the  little 
Cornell  boy.  The  best  way  I  know  to 
do  this  is  for  all  of  us  to  form  into  one 
single  line  and  march  out  there.  Each 
man,  woman,  and  child  of  us  will  be 
spaced  a  few  feet  from  each  other.  Every 
hole  and  canyon  in  the  way  must  be 
searched.  Every  brush  must  be  exam- 
ined as  we  go  along.  This  line,  friends 
and  neighbors,  must  not  be  broken. 
Every  water  hole,  ravine  and  cave  must 
be  searched  thoroughly.  Every  square 
inch  must  be  scanned  by  us  as  we  go. 
It  is  the  only  way.  I  don't  know  how 
long  our  search  will  take,  but  Alfred 
Cornell  is  out  in  the  'Bad  Lands'  some- 
where and  when  we  turn  back  the  little 
fellow  will  be  with  us.  We  can  only 
hope  that  we  shall  not  be  too  late.  Now, 
let's  get  going.  I  have  appointed  some 
of  you  deputies  to  ride  on  horse  back 
so  that  there  will  be  no  slip  up,  and 
there  will  be  none  if  I  know  anything 
about  the  people  of  this  state." 

The  line  formed — at  6:30  Thursday 
evening  the  boy  was  found  kneeling  at 
a  water-hole.  His  legs  and  feet  were 
badly  bruised  and  inflamed.  His  father 
and  mother  rushed  to  him  clasping  him 
in  their  arms  and  said,  "How  did  you 
like  it,  lad?" 

"Fine,"  answered  the  plucky  little  fel- 
low and  burst  into  tears. 

When  that  ten-mile-line  of  human 
beings  saw  that  the  boy  was  found  and 
really  alive,  a  great  cheer  arose  from 
250  voices. 

They  had  found  that  which  was  lost. 
They  had  answered  the  challenge,  had 
overcome  all  obstacles  and  saved  a  life. 

Two  hundred  seventy-three  thousand, 
one  hundred  forty-two  officers  and  teach- 
ers are  assembled  in  the  Church  of 
Christ,  going  out  to  search  for  young 
boys  and  girls  who  are  in  the  Bad  Lands 
of  immoral  influence  that  surround  us. 
Let  us  pray  God  that  we  shall  not  be 
too  late,  and  we  shall  not  be  if  we  will 
honor  our  callings  and  do  our  duty  as 
urged  upon  us  through  this  great  Con- 
ference, 


126  GENERAL  ( 

Wednesday,  April  6 

I  have  time  just  to  summarize  the 
address  given  by  King  Benjamin  at  the 
conclusion  of  his  great  address  as  re- 
corded in  Mosiah: 

"I  say  unto  you  .  .  ."  if  ye  ".  .  .  hum- 
ble yourselves  even  in  the  depths  of 
humility,  calling  on  the  name  of  the 
Lord  daily,  and  standing  steadfastly  in 
the  faith  of  that  which  is  to  come,  .  .  . 

".  .  .  ye  shall  always  rejoice,  and  be 
filled  with  the  love  of  God,  and  always 
retain  a  remission  of  your  sins;  and  ye 
shall  grow  in  the  knowledge  of  the  glory 
of  him  that  created  you,  or  in  the  knowl- 
edge of  that  which  is  just  and  true. 

"And  ye  will  not  have  a  mind  to  in- 
jure one  another,  but  to  live  peaceably, 
and  to  render  to  every  man  according  to 
that  which  is  his  due. 

"And  ye  will  not  suffer  your  children 
that  they  go  hungry,  or  naked;  neither 
will  ye  suffer  that  they  transgress  the 
laws  of  God,  and  fight  and  quarrel  one 
with  another,  and  serve  the  devil,  who 
is  the  master  of  sin,  or  who  is  the  evil 
spirit  which  hath  been  spoken  of  by 
our  fathers,  he  being  an  enemy  to  all 
righteousness. 

"But  ye  will  teach  them  to  walk  in 
the  ways  of  truth  and  soberness;  ye  will 
teach  them  to  love  one  another,  and  to 
serve  one  another."  (Mosiah  4:11-15.) 

God  bless  you,  officers  and  teachers  of 
the  Church  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

May  the  love  of  our  Redeemer  be  in 
each  heart,  and  that  means  that  that 
love  will  be  expressed  in  serving  one  an- 
other, for — 

"Inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  it  unto  one 
of  the  least  of  these  my  brethren,  ye 
have  done  it  unto  me,"  said  Christ. 
(Matt.  25:40.) 

Oh,  what  love  is  in  your  heart  this 
moment  as  you  contemplate  the  great- 
ness and  goodness  of  our  Father  through- 
out this  Conference. 

May  the  Lord  continue  to  bless  these 
brethren  of  the  General  Authorities,  and 
others  who  have  spoken  to  us  during 
this  Conference.  They  represent  the 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  others  in  the 
Church.  God  bless  his  work  here  among 
mankind,  that  the  influence  of  love  and 
goodwill  may  radiate  from  this  center 
throughout  the  whole  world,  and  bring 
glory  to  our  Father  in  Heaven,  I  pray, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen, 


Fourth  Day 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  Singing  Mothers  will  now  favor 
us  with  "God  Shall  Wipe  Away  All 
Tears,"  with  Florence  Jepperson  Mad- 
sen  conducting. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  R.  Scott  Zimmerman,  President  of 
the  Western  Canadian  Mission,  after 
which  this  Conference  will  be  adjourned 
for  six  months. 


Selection  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers,  "God  Shall  Wipe  Away  All 
Tears." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Sister  Madsen,  Mothers,  a  glorious, 
inspirational  conclusion! 

The  benediction  will  be  offered  by 
President  R.  Scott  Zimmerman,  after 
which  this  Conference  shall  be  ad- 
journed for  six  months. 


The  benediction  was  pronounced  by 
Elder  Scott  Zimmerman,  President  of 
the  Western  Canadian  Mission. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


The  congregational  singing  of  the 
Conference  was  conducted  by  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall,  Conductor,  and  Richard  P. 
Condie,  Assistant  Conductor  of  the  Tab- 
ernacle Choir. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  the 
choral  singing  for  the  Sunday  morning 
and  afternoon  sessions,  J.  Spencer  Corn- 
wall conducting. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus, 
under  the  direction  of  J.  Spencer  Corn- 
wall, furnished  musical  numbers  at  the 
General  Priesthood  meeting  Saturday 
evening. 

At  the  Monday  morning  and  after- 
noon meetings,  the  choral  music  was 
furnished  by  the  Combined  Choruses  of 
the  Brigham  Young  University,  with 
John  R.  Halliday  conducting  at  the 
morning  session  and  Norman  Gulbrand- 
sen  at  the  afternoon  session. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
from  the  Jordan  Valley  and  Mount 
Timpanogos  Regions,  and  Kolob,  Nebo, 
Palmyra  and  Santaquin-Tintic  Stakes, 
with  Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen 
conducting,  furnished  the  music  for  the 


GENERAL  C 

Wednesday  morning  and  afternoon 
meetings. 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall  directed  the  sing- 
ing of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Frank 
W.  Asper  was  at  the  organ  on  the 
Church  of  the  Air  program,  and  also  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broadcast. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on 
the  great  organ  were  played  by  Alex- 


•NFERENCE  127 

ander  Schreiner,  Frank  W.  Asper  and 
Roy  A.  Darley. 


Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference 
were  taken  by  Frank  W.  Otterstrom  and 
Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson 
Clerk  of  the  Conference 


Index 

Page 

Anderson,  Elder  Joseph    84 

Authorities  and  Officers  Present    1 

Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained    90 

Bennion,  Elder  Adam  S   108 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft    45 

Brown,  Elder  Hugh  B   79 

Buehner,  Bishop  Carl  W   61 

Changes  in  Church  Officers,  Stake,  Ward,  and  Branch  Organizations    84 

Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast   20 

Christiansen,  Elder  EIRay  L   28 

Church  of  the  Air    16 

Church  Auditing  Committee  Report   90 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   33 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   10 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   90 

(Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers) 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   112 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   21 

(Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast) 

Financial  and  Statistical  Report    87 

First  Day — General  Priesthood  Meeting    2 

Fourth  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    107 

Fourth  Day— Morning  Meeting   83 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Present    1 

General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers  Sustained    90 

General  Priesthood  Meeting    2 

Hanks,  Elder  Marion  D   64 

Hunter,  Elder  Milton  R   102 

Isaacson,  Bishop  Thorpe  B   43 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R   75 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W   94 

Kirkham,  Elder  Oscar  A   51 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B   17 

(Church  of  the  Air) 

Longden,  Elder  John    57 

Matis,  Elder  Henry  A.    8 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R   115 

McKay,  President  David  O   24 

(Opening  Address) 


130  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Page 

McKay,  President  David  O   124 

(Closing  Address) 

McKay,  President  David  O.   13 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

McKay,  President  David  0  2,  3,  7,  10,  11,  13,  16,  22,  23,  24, 

28,  33,  35,  36,  37,  41,  43,  45,  50,  51,  52,  53,  54,  57,  61,  63,  69,  72,  75, 
77,  79,  82,  83,  84,  90,  93,  98,  102,  107,  108,  112,  114,  116,  119,  124,  126. 
Mendenhall,  Elder  Wendell  B   3 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Morris,  Elder  George  Q.    101 

Moyle,  Elder  Henry  D     69 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E   54 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers     90 

Priesthood  Meeting,  General     2 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand     119 

Richards,  President  Stephen  L    37 

Richards,  President  Stephen  L     11 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G   31 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting     36 

Second  Day — Morning  Meetings      16 

Sill,  Elder  Sterling  W     116 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G     41 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding      50 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma     77 

Stapley,  Elder  Delbert  L.     65 

Statistical  and  Financial  Report      87 

Sustaining  of  General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers    90 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast   20 

Third  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   69 

Third  Day— Morning  Meeting   53 

Young,  Elder  Clifford  E   72 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar    60 

Young,  Elder  S.  Dilworth    98 


Education  Lives  As  Long  As  You  Read 

GOOD  BOOKS 

Cherished  Experiences  —  From  the  Writings 

of  President  David  O.  McKay  $3.00 

Compiled  by  Clare  Middlemiss 

Israel!  Do  You  Know?  $2.00 

LeGrand  Richards 

The  Spirit  Giveth  Life  $2.00 

Lynn  McKlnlay 

Millions  of  Meetings  $2.25 

Harold  Glen  Clark 

Witnesses  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  $2.75 

Preston  Nibley 

Doctrine  and  Covenants  Commentary  $5.00 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Autobiography  of  Parley  P.  Pratt  $3.00 

J.  Golden  Kimball   $4.00 

Claude  Richards 

AIL  PRICES  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE 

DESERET   BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  STORE  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 

44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 




Books  of  lasting  inspiration  by  our  Church  leaders 


On  the  Way  to  Immortality  and  Eternal  Life....$3.50 


J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

Man,  His  Origin  and  Destiny  $4.00 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Matthew  Cowley  Speaks   $4.00 

Readings  in  L.D.S.  Church  History  —  Vol.  I  ....$4.00 

Vol.  IL..$4.75 

Alma  P.  Burton  and  William  E.  Berrett 

Teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith   $3.50 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Essentials  in  Church  History   $4.00 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Sharing  the  Gospel  With  Others  $2.50 

George  Albert  Smith 

Word  of  Wisdom   $2.75 

John  A.  Widtsoe 

Discourses  of  Brigham  Young  $3.50 

Compiled  by  John  A.  Widtsoe 

At  This  Same  Hour  $2.00 

Richard  L  Evans 

Tonic  For  Our  Times  $2.50 

Richard  L.  Evans 


ALL  PRICES  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE 


DESERET   BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  STORE  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 

44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


